Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 4585-ML 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Third Poverty Reduction Support Credit) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF MALI 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated May 30, 2009 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 4585-ML
 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT dated May 30, 2009, entered into between REPUBLIC OF MALI 
(
“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(“Association”) for the purpose of providing financing in support of the Program (as 
defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The Association has decided to provide this 
financing on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of: (a) the actions which the Recipient has already taken 
under the Program and which are described in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, 
and (b) the Recipient’s maintenance of an appropriate macro-economic policy 
framework.  The Recipient and the Association therefore hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II 
—
FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a credit in an amount equivalent to 
forty three million five hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR 43,500,000) (variously,
 “Credit” and “Financing”). 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in support of the 
Program in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
2.04. 
The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance 
shall be equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum. 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are March 1 and September 1 in each year. 
Page  3
2
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with repayment 
schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.07. 
The Payment Currency is the Dollar. 
ARTICLE III 
—
PROGRAM 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.  
To this end: 
(a) 
the Recipient and the Association shall from time to time, at the request 
of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program; 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in 
carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably 
request; and 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this 
Section, the Recipient shall promptly inform the Association of any situation that 
would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the Program or 
any action taken under the Program including any action specified in Section I of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV 
—
REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following: a situation has 
arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part of it, 
will be carried out. 
ARTICLE V 
—
EFFECTIVENESS
 
5.01 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
Page  4
3
ARTICLE VI 
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. The 
Recipient
’s Representative is its minister at the time responsible for finance. 
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
Ministry of Economy and Finance 
P. O. Box 234 
Quartier du Fleuve 
Bamako, Mali 
Facsimile: 
223-20-231654 
223-20-221914 
223-20-220793 
6.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
INDEVAS 
 248423(MCI) 
 1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
Page  5
4
AGREED at Bamako, Mali, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF MALI 
 
By /s/ Sa
noussi Touré
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Alassane Diawara 
Authorized Representative 
Page  6
5
SCHEDULE 1 
Program Actions; Availability of Financing Proceeds 
Section I. 
Actions under the Program
The actions taken by the Recipient under the Program include the following:
 
A. 
Infrastructure and Private Investment 
1. 
(a) Transfer out of the Recipient’s budget for Fiscal Year 2009 to the Mali 
Textile Development Company for the payment by the Mali Textile Development 
Company to cotton producers’ organizations of 3.7 billion FCFA of amounts owed by the 
latter to cotton producers overdue for the 2007-2008 campaign; and (b) adoption of a 
Seed Cotton Pricing Protocol setting forth a price mechanism for the 2009-2010 
campaign in line with the international lint market price. 
2. 
Appointment of the members of the council of the Recipient’s 
Telecommunications Regulatory Agency, in accordance with the Recipient’s Decree 
No. 07-143-P-RM. 
3. 
Adoption of an inter-ministerial decision establishing that the period of validity 
of import and export licenses issued by the Recipient’s National Directorate for 
Commerce and Competition is twelve (12) months. 
B. Public 
Financial 
Management 
4. 
Preparation of four additional Medium-Term Expenditure Frameworks to cover 
the following four (4) ministries:  Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Economy, Industry 
and Trade, Ministry of Domestic Security and Internal Protection, Ministry of Youth and 
Sports taking into consideration the ministries’ implementation capacity and the 
Recipient’s macroeconomic framework. 
5. 
Submission of the draft budget execution report for 2007 (
Projet de Loi de 
Règlement 2007
)
to the Recipient
’s parliament by December 31, 2008. 
6. 
(a) Establishment of the regional procurement directorates (
Directions 
Régionales des Marchés Publics et Direction
); and an independent procurement 
regulatory authority (
Autorité de Régulation des Marchés Publics et de Délégation des 
Page  7
6
Services Publics
); and (b) appointment of the directors for said directorates and of the 
members of said authority, all under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association. 
C. 
Access to Basic Social Services 
7. 
Allocation of 1.6 billion FCFA in the 
Recipient’s 2009 budget to finance its 
school feeding program for the school year 2008/09 in the poorest regions of the 
Recipient’s territory. 
8. 
Adoption by the Recipient’s Ministry of Health of the Health Human Resource 
Policy, satisfactory to the Association, with the objective to improve the availability of 
health services personnel throughout the territory of the Recipient, and with a particular 
focus on ensuring the availability of such personnel in rural areas. 
9. 
Execution of contracts between the Recipient and private operators for the 
management of five drinking water supply systems. 
Section II. 
Availability of Financing Proceeds
A. General. 
 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in 
accordance with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the 
Association may specify by notice to the Recipient. 
B. 
Allocation of Financing Amounts.
 
The Financing shall be withdrawn in a 
single tranche.  The allocation of the amounts of the Financing to this end is set out in the 
table below: 
Allocations 
Amount of the Financing Allocated 
(expressed in SDR)
 
Single Tranche 
43,500,000 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
43,500,000 
C. Deposits 
of 
Financing 
Amounts.
 
Except as the Association may otherwise 
agree:   
1. 
all withdrawals from the Financing Account shall be deposited by the 
Association into a dedicated account by the Recipient and acceptable to the Association; 
and 
Page  8
7
2.  
the Recipient shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Financing 
into this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the Recipient
’s budget 
management system, in a manner acceptable to the Association. 
D. Audit.
 
Upon the Association’s request, the Recipient shall: 
1. 
have the account and the recording of amounts of the Financing into the 
Recipient’s budget management system referred to in Part C of this Section audited by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association, in accordance with consistently 
applied auditing standards acceptable to the Association; 
2. 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than six 
months after the date of the Association’s request for such audit, a certified copy of the 
report of such audit, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably 
request; and  
3. 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the said account 
and recording of Credit amounts into the budget management system, and their audit, as 
the Association shall reasonably request. 
E. Excluded 
Expenditures
.
The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the 
Financing shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures.  If the Association 
determines at any time that an amount of the Financing was used to make a payment for 
an Excluded Expenditure, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association, refund an amount equal to the amount of such payment to the Association. 
Amounts refunded to the Association upon such request shall be cancelled.
 
F. 
Closing Date.  
The Closing Date is December 31, 2009. 
Page  9
8
SCHEDULE 2
 
Repayment Schedule 
Date Payment Due 
Principal Amount of the Credit 
repayable 
(expressed as a percentage)* 
On each March 1 and September 1: 
 
commencing September 1, 2019 to and including 
March 1, 2029 
 
1% 
commencing September 1, 2029 to and including 
March 1, 2049 
 
2% 
*
The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to be 
repaid, except as the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 3.03 (b) of 
the General Conditions. 
Page  10
9
APPENDIX 
Section I. Definitions 
1. 
“
Autorité de Régulation des Marchés Publics et des Délégation des Services 
Publics
”
means the Recipient’s entity established and operating pursuant to the 
Recipient’s Law No. 08/023 of July 23, 2008 and the Recipient’s Decree 
No. 08/482 of August 11, 2008. 
2. 
“Decree No. 07-143-P-RM” means the Recipient’s Decree of April 23, 2007 
providing for the organization, structure and operation of the 
Comité de 
Régulation des Télécommunications
,
pursuant to the Recipient’s 
Ordonnance 
No. 99-043/P-RM
 
of September 30, 1999 and the Recipient’s Law No. 01-005 of 
February 27, 2001, governing the telecommunications sector. 
3. “
Direction Régionale des Marchés Publics
”
means the Recipient’s entity 
established pursuant to the Recipient’s Decree No. 08/484 of August 11, 2008. 
4. 
“Dollar” means the currency of the United States of America. 
5. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
(a)  
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Association or the 
Bank has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or the Bank has 
financed or agreed to finance under another credit, grant or loan; 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the 
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), 
or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as 
designated by the Association by notice to the Recipient: 
Group Sub-group 
Description 
of 
Item 
112  
Alcoholic 
beverages 
121  
Tobacco, 
un-
manufactured, tobacco 
refuse 
122  
Tobacco, 
manufactured 
(whether or not 
Page  11
10 
containing tobacco 
substitutes) 
525  
Radioactive 
and 
associated materials 
667 
 
Pearls, precious and 
semiprecious stones, 
unworked or worked 
718  
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and 
parts thereof; fuel 
elements (cartridges), 
non-irradiated, for 
nuclear reactors 
728 
728.43  
Tobacco processing 
machinery 
897  
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver 
or platinum group 
metals (except watches 
and watch cases) and 
goldsmiths’ or 
silversmiths’ wares 
(including set gems) 
971  
 
Gold, non-monetary 
(excluding gold ores 
and concentrates) 
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of 
which is prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or international agreements to 
which the Recipient is a party; 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United 
Nations; and 
(f) 
with respect to which the Association determines that corrupt, fraudulent, 
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Recipient or other recipient of the Financing proceeds, without the Recipient (or 
Page  12
11 
other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to 
the Association to address such practices when they occur. 
6. 
“FCFA” means 
Franc Communauté Financière Africaine
,
the currency of the 
Recipient. 
7. 
“Financing Agreement” includes all appendices, schedules, and agreements 
supplemental to the Financing Agreement. 
8. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through October 15, 2006) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 
9. 
“Health Human Resource Policy” means the Recipients’ policy as defined in the 
Recipient’s Minister of Health letter dated April 7, 2009 confirming the adoption 
of said policy by the Ministry of Health. 
10. 
“Mali Textile Development Company” means the limited liability state owned 
enterprise known as “
Compagnie Malienne pour le Développement des Textiles
”, 
established and operating under the Recipient’s Ordinance No. 4, dated 
March 1, 1975. 
11. 
“Medium-Term Expenditure Framework” means the Recipient’s framework 
expenditure plan for three (3) to four (4) years for specific ministries, as the case 
may be. 
12. 
“Ministry of Domestic Security and Internal Protection” means the Recipient’s 
ministry in charge of domestic security and internal protection. 
13. 
“Ministry of Economy, Industry and Trade” means the Recipient’s ministry in 
charge of economy, industry and trade. 
14. 
“Ministry of Finance” means the Recipient’s ministry in charge of finance. 
15. 
“Ministry of Health” means the Recipient’s ministry in charge of health. 
16. 
“Ministry of Youth and Sports” means the Recipient’s ministry in charge of 
youth and sports. 
Page  13
12 
17. 
“National Directorate for Commerce and Competition” means the directorate 
established within the Recipient’s Ministry of Commerce, Trade and Investments 
pursuant to the Recipient’s Decree No. 03-070/P-RM dated February 11, 2003. 
18. 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or 
referred to in the letter dated April 16, 2009 from the Recipient to the 
Association declaring the Recipient’s commitment to the execution of the 
Program, and requesting assistance from the Association in support of the 
Program during its execution. 
19. 
“Seed Cotton Pricing Protocol” means the protocol known as “
Protocole 
d'Accord 
État - CMDT - Producteurs sur le Mécanisme de Détermination du Prix 
d’Achat du Coton Graine
”, dated April 13, 2009 and signed by the Recipient’s 
minister in charge of finance, the chief executive officer of the CDMT and the 
president of the cotton producers’ association aimed at determining the purchase 
price mechanism for cotton grain. 
20. 
“Single Tranche” means the amount of the Financing allocated to the category 
entitled “Single Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
21. 
“Telecommunications Regulatory Agency” means the Recipient’s regulatory 
body in the telecommunications sector, known as 
“Comité de Régulation des 
Télécommunications”
,
established and operating pursuant to the Recipient's 
Decree No. 07-143-P-RM. 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
The modifications to the 
“International Development Association General Conditions for 
Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through October 15, 2006) are as 
follows:   
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
2. 
Sections 2.04 (
Designated Accounts)
 and 2.05 (
Eligible Expenditures
)
are deleted 
in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered 
accordingly. 
Page  14
13 
3. 
Section 2.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 2 above) is modified to 
read as follows: 
“Section 2.05.
 Refinancing Preparation Advance 
 
If the Financing Agreement provides for the repayment out of 
the proceeds of
 
the Financing of an advance made by the
 
Association or 
the Bank (“Preparation Advance”), the Association shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the Financing Account on or after the 
Effective Date the amount required to repay the withdrawn and 
outstanding balance of the advance as at the date of such withdrawal 
from the Financing Account and to pay all accrued and unpaid charges, if 
any, on the advance as at such date.  The Association shall pay the 
amount so withdrawn to itself or the Bank, as the case may be, and shall 
cancel the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the advance.” 
4. 
Sections 4.01 (
Project Execution Generally
), and 4.09 (
Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits
)
are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining 
Sections in Article IV are renumbered accordingly. 
5. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 4.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above 
and relating to 
Use of Goods, Works and Services
)
is deleted in its entirety. 
6. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 4.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 
above) is modified to read as follows: 
“Section 4.06. 
Plans; Documents; Records 
…
(c) 
The Recipient shall retain all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures 
under the Financing until two years after the Closing Date. The Recipient 
shall enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records.” 
7. 
Section 4.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is modified to 
read as follows: 
“Section 4.07. 
Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
…
(c)  
The Recipient shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six months after the Closing 
Date, a report of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
Page  15
14 
reasonably request, on the execution of the Program, the performance by 
the Recipient and the Association of their respective obligations under 
the Legal Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the 
Financing.
”
8. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 
(a) 
The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as 
follows:   
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Financing is put in 
support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded 
pursuant to the Financing Agreement.” 
(b) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition as set forth in the 
Appendix are deleted in their entirety. 
(c) 
The term “Program Preparation Advance” (renamed as such pursuant to 
subparagraph 8 (c) above) is modified to read “Preparation Advance” and its 
definition is modified to read as follows:  
“‘Preparation Advance’ means the advance referred to in the Financing 
Agreement and repayable in accordance with Section 2.05.” 
(d) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is 
modified to read as follows:  
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Financing Agreement in 
support of which the Financing is made.”  All references to “Project” 
throughout these General Conditions are deemed to be references to 
“Program”. 
 
