Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB4537 
Operation Name 
Mali: Poverty Reduction Support Credit 3 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
General agriculture (10%), general industry and trade (10%) 
Central government administration (50%); General Education 
(15%); General health (15%). 
Project ID 
P113451 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF MALI 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF) coordinates the 
implementation in close association with several line ministries. 
Date PID Prepared 
January 15, 2009 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
February 12, 2009 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
March 31, 2009 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
Mali has established a strong economic management record over the past decade and a half, in the 
context of a stable democratic political environment and founded on a market-oriented policy 
framework. Mali has also been implementing its second Poverty Reduction Strategy, the Growth and 
Poverty Reduction Framework (GPRSF) covering the period 2007-11.  Notwithstanding recent 
achievements in growth (which have averaged 4.6 percent a year from 2003-
07), Mali’s economic 
prospects remain vulnerable to various exogenous shocks (climatic, pests, commodity prices, global 
financial crisis) and are hampered by deeply rooted obstacles to growth, including a poor investment 
climate and deficient infrastructure.  
 
Given its significant needs for accelerating growth and reducing poverty, Mali will require sustained 
technical and financial support of the donor community, inclusive of the Bank, in a coordinated policy 
framework. The proposed operation, an integral part of the Bank’s Country Assistance Strategy for 
Mali, would contribute to the financing of the Government’s 2009 budget aimed at pursuing the 
objectives of the GPRSF. The operation would provide support for the implementation of key economic, 
social and institutional reforms to strengthen economic growth and poverty reduction.  
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
The proposed PRSC 3 would support the Government in the pursuit of policy objectives laid out its 
Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper, of accelerating growth and improving the wellbeing of the Malian 
populations. The reform program presented in the GPRSF has three strategic orientations: (i) 
development of infrastructure and the productive sector, to improve the productive environment, ensure 
better productivity of factors of production and economic growth; (ii) pursuance and consolidation of 
public sector structural reforms, to ensure good management of public affairs ; and (iii)  strengthening of 
social sectors to improve the delivery of key social services, in particular education, health, drinking 
water and sanitation, and housing. The operation would focus its support in helping the government 
strengthen its regulatory and institutional environment for business development, strengthen public 
financial management and improve the delivery of basic social services. 
Page  2
3. Preliminary description 
The PRSC 3 supports reforms of the 
Mali’s poverty reduction strategy and is as a complement to 
ongoing or planned World Bank investment operations. The first component of the credit focuses on 
stabilizing the cotton sector, in its transition to privatization by supporting the payment of arrears to 
producers and the stabilization fund. The component also supports the institutional framework for 
telecoms, though a measure that relates to the operationalization of the regulatory body. The second 
component focuses on strengthening linkages between PRSP priorities, sector strategies and the budget, 
while supporting measures to strengthen the legal framework for procurement and external oversight.  
Finally, the third component supports measures that seek to accelerate progress towards the MDGs by 
improving access to basic services through the adoption of a policy on school feeding, the human 
resource strategy for the health sector and public private partnerships in the management of drinking 
water point. 
4. Environment Aspects 
 
The specific reforms supported by the proposed development policy grant are not likely to have 
significant negative impacts on the country’s environment, forests and other natural resources
.
The 
reforms supported aim primarily to strengthen regulatory, institutional and public finance management 
at the national, regional and local government level.  However, the operation touches on the cotton 
sector that may have very significant associated environmental risks. More broadly, the PRSC series 
covers the agriculture (cotton and ON), infrastructure (electricity and airports) and mining sectors that 
may also have significant associated environmental risks.  These sectors benefit from Bank financed 
investment operations for which specific Environmental and Social Impact Assessments were prepared. 
 
5. Tentative financing 
 
Source: 
 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
US$55 mn. 
 Total 
US$55 
mn. 
 
6.  Benefits and Risks.  
The proposed PRSC 3 (and subsequent operations in the series) is expected to have a significant positive 
direct impact on poverty reduction.  In component I, reforms are designed to improve conditions for 
stabilization of the cotton sector prior to its privatization, and for a strengthened institutional framework 
for telecommunications. The links between growth and poverty are underlined in the GPRSF. Thus, 
support for actions that accelerate economic growth and private investment, including through an 
improved regulatory and institutional environment for business development, would support 
employment creation and poverty reduction.  The PRSC 3 also supports the clearance of arrears to 
cotton producers,
1
providing incomes for consumption and future investment, directly influencing 
livelihoods and improving prospects for consolidated cotton production during the 2008/09 cotton 
season. The strengthening of public financial management is expected to enhance the efficiency and 
effectiveness of public resources in the delivery of development services.
 
Budgetary allocations giving 
1
Results from the 2006 household survey show that households deriving income from cotton are overwhelmingly rural and 
poor. 
Page  3
priority to actions for growth and the provision of social services, together with a more efficient budget 
execution, contribute to poverty reduction. Finally, by improving access and quality of services 
delivered to the poor, measures supported by the PRSC 3 would have positive impacts on poverty and 
social development. It should be noted that equitable development is an explicit objective of the GPRSF, 
and the PRSC 3 supports it through components emphasizing access to basic services for vulnerable 
groups
.
The operation faces the external and budget risks. External risks
 stem mainly from Mali’s vulnerability 
to climatic/natural shocks (drought, locust invasion), exchange rate and commodity price fluctuations 
(cotton, oil, grains). While Mali’s limited integration into international capital markets could insulate it 
from the most direct negative effects of the financial crisis, medium-term spillover effects of the 
financial crisis on global growth and investment could entail a negative impact on the Malian economy, 
notably through reduced demand and prices for cotton and gold, its main exports, and reduced ability to 
raise budget financing regionally and mobilize trade finance. Medium term implications could also 
involve reduced remittances, foreign direct and portfolio investments as well as aid flows. Mitigating 
these risks over the horizon of the proposed operation remains a challenge: it depends on the economy’s 
capacity to adjust in the wake of the shocks, and the Government’s continued ability to manage their 
impact. The operation would help strengthen both these capacities, through policy measures that 
contribute to economic growth and diversification, and further strengthen public finance management 
within a sound macroeconomic framework. Additionally, the overall country dialogue would allow for 
some budget flexibility to address crisis-related expenses within the context of a prudently managed 
budget that supports priority growth and poverty reduction programs. The introduction of predictable 
and timely support through the PRSC series, and continued progress with donor coordination, will also 
be important elements for mitigating the external risks.  Budget risk stems from ongoing financial 
difficulties facing the cotton and electricity parastatal companies (CMDT and EdM) which could 
potentially require government transfers to cover the large projected deficits in those sectors. The 2009 
budget includes provision for transfers to CMDT of about half a percent of GDP. However, the balances 
of these companies may worsen further than anticipated, requiring higher transfers than included in the 
approved budget. This risk is mitigated through strengthened management in both companies (new 
management teams have been nominated for both CMDT and EdM) and close monitoring of their 
respective financial and cash positions (with both being part of the IMF and Bank macroeconomic 
monitoring and policy dialogue with the Government). 
 
7. Contact point 
Contact: Clara Ana Coutinho Sousa 
Title: Senior Economist 
Tel: (202) 473-2558 
Fax:  
Email: cdesousa@worldbank.org
 
