Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No..      19978
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
CIRATA HYDROELECTRIC PHASE II PROJECT
(LOAN 3602-IND)
December 31, 1999
Energy and Mining Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Indonesia Rupiah (Rp)
US$ 1.0 - Rp. 8,000 (ICR)
US$ 1.0 - Rp. 2,050 (Appraisal)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
kV              -   kilovolt (1,000 volts)
kVA             -   kilovolt-ampere (1,000 volt-amperes)
MVA             -   megavolt-ampere (1,000 kilovolt-amperes)
kW              -   kilowatt (1,000 watts)
km              -   kilometer
MW              -   megawatt (1,000 kilowatts)
kWh             -   kilowatt-hour (1,000 watt-hours)
GWh             -   gigawatt-hour (1 million kilowatt-hours)
MMt             -   million metric tons
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31 (Borrower)
January 1 - December 31 (PLN)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB             -   Asian Development Bank
BAPPENAS        -   National Development Planning Agency
DGEED                Directorate General of Electric Power and Energy Development
EIRR            -   Economic Internal Rate of Return
GOI             -   Government of Indonesia
ICB             -   International Competitive Bidding
IDC             -   Interest During Construction
1PP             -   Independent Power Producer
MME             -   Ministry of Mines and Energy
MOF             -   Ministry of Finance
NGO             -   Non-Governmental Organization
PLN             -   State Electricity Corporation (P.T. PLN (Persero))
PJB 1           -   PLN Java-Bali Company I
PJI32           -   PLN Java-Bali Company 2
PPE             -   PLN's Engineering Services Center
ROR             -   Rate of Return
SAR             -   Staff Appraisal Report
USAID                United States Agency for International Development
WATSAL          -   Bank's Water Sector Adjustment Loan
Regional Vice President:              Jean-Michel Severino, EAP
Country Director:                      Mark Baird, EACIQ
Sector Manager:                        Yoshihiko Sumi, EASEG
Task Manager:                          Kurt Schenk, EASEG



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Table of Contents
Preface ...............i
Evaluation Summary ..............                                                 ii
Part I    Project Implementation Assessment
A.  Statement/Evaluation of Objectives .1
B.  Achievement of Project Objectives                     .4
C.  Major Factors Affecting the Project .10
D. Project Sustainability .13
E. Bank Perfortnance                              .15
F. Borrower Performance                             .16
G.  Summary Assessment of Outcome                        .17
H. Future Operations .17
I. Key Lessons Leamned                             .8
Part II    Statistical Tables
Table 1:  Summary of Assessments .21
Table 2:   Related Bank Loans/Credits .22
Table 3:  Project Timetable .25
Table 4:  Loan Disbursements .25
Table 5:      Key Indicators for Project Implementation .26
Table 6:      Status of Implementation of Environmental Recommendations .27
Table 7:      Studies included in the Project .29
Table 8A: Project Costs .30
Table 8B:  Project Financing .30
Table 9:      Economic Analysis of Hydroelectric Power Plant .31
Table 10:  Status of Legal Covenants .32
Table 11:     Compliance with Operational Manual Statements .34
Table 12:  Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .34
Table 13:  Bank Resources: Missions .35
Annexes
Annex A. Mission's Aide Memoire ........................................................  37
Annex B.  Borrower's Evaluation Report ........................................................  42
Annex C.  Ex-post Calculation of Economic Internal Rate of Retur ........................... 46
Annex D.  Equalizing Discount Rate - Comparison with Thermal Altemative~ ............ 48
Annex E.  PEA's Key Financial Indicators ........................................................   51
Maps:      IBRD No. 23612 and IBRD No. 24493
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






i
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
CIRATA HYDROELECTRIC PHASE II PROJECT
(LOAN NO. 3602-IND)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Cirata Hydroelectric Phase II
Project in Indonesia, for which Loan No. 3602-IND, in the amount of US$104 million equivalent were
approved on May 11, 1993 and made effective on October 28, 1993. Cofinancing of the project was
provided by Austrian Export Credits in the amount of US$149.2 million equivalent.
The loan closing date was June 30, 1999 as originally scheduled. An undisbursed balance of
US$13.9 million was canceled.
The ICR was prepared by Kurt Schenk, Senior Power Engineer, and Yuling Zhou, Operations
Officer, EASEG, and endorsed by Yoshihiko Sumi, Sector Manager, EASEG.
Preparation of this ICR was begun in April 1999 with a Bank's ICR mission to Indonesia. It
is based on materials in the project file, and on information and comments provided by the Borrower
and implementing agency, P.T. PLN (Persero). The Borrower contributed to the preparation of the
ICR by preparing its own evaluation of the project's execution and commenting on the draft ICR. The
aide-memoire of the ICR mission is attached as Annex A. The Borrower's own evaluation report is
attached as Annex B.






ii
INDONESIA
CIRATA HYDROELECTRIC PHASE II PROJECT
(LOAN NO. 3602-IND)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    PLN, the State Electricity Corporation, established by Government Regulation No. 18/1972
under the Electricity Act (Law No. 15 of 1985), is responsible for generation, transmission and
distribution of electricity in Indonesia. In 1995 two generating subsidiaries, PJB1 and PJB2, were
established in Java-Bali as a first step in the unbundling of the Java-Bali system. These two
subsidiaries were charged with supplying power to the Java-Bali system from generating plants
transferred to them by the parent company and from new plant that they might subsequently construct.
The responsibility for the operation of Cirata was assigned to PJB2.
2.    As part of the Bank's assistance program, Loan 3602-IND, in the amount of US$104 million
equivalent for civil works and technical assistance, was approved by the Bank in May 11, 1993 to
partly finance the Cirata Hydroelectric Phase II Project for PLN. The project was cofinanced by
Austrian Export Credits (US$ 149.2 million equivalent) for mechanical and electrical equipment. To
assist with lack of counterpart funding due to the economic crisis in the Region, the Loan Agreement
was amended to allow for an increase to 100 % for the cost of local financing (i.e. disbursement ratio
increased to 100 % excluding VAT) from April 1, 1997 to October 31, 1999. US$ 26 million of the
Bank loan was cancelled on August 26, 1998. An undisbursed balance of $ 13.9 million was
cancelled on October 31, 1999. No loan extensions were granted.
Project Objectives and Description
3.    As stated in the Bank's SAR, the objectives of the Cirata Hydroelectric Phase II Project, were
to: (a) provide economical and environmentally sound expansion of PLN's peaking electricity
generating capacity in Java and improve service reliability; (b) update hydro inventories and carry out
pre-feasibility studies for promising hydroelectric schemes; (c) strengthen PLN's capability in the
planning, investigation and operation of hydroelectric schemes and in environmental management of
power projects; (d) study options for enhancing the environmental conditions in the area of PLN's
existing reservoirs on the Citarum River. The institutional and sectoral objectives included: (a)
strengthening of PLN's financial position; (b) enhancing the dialogue on introducing a mechanism for
formula-based adjustment of electricity price; and (c) continuing the process of institutional
restructuring of PLN to provide for greater decentralization, delegation, and commercialization.
4.    The project comprised the following components: (a) implementation of Phase II of the Cirata
hydroelectric development; (b) consulting services for engineering and construction supervision of the
Cirata Hydroelectric Phase II Development; (c) studies to upgrade hydrological and environmental
data bases, and improve data collection practices;  (d) studies to update PLN's hydroelectric
inventories, and determine pre-feasibility of selected schemes; (e) studies to identify options to
enhance environmental conditions in the existing PLN reservoirs on the Citarum River, and training of
PLN staff in environmental management; (f) training in dam safety and instrumentation monitoring;



iii
(g) power sector institutional and regulatory studies for GOI; (h) studies aimed at assisting GOI to
determine a long-term strategy for financing power sector investments; and (i) pre-construction stage
engineering services for the Besai hydroelectric project in South Sumatra.
5.    The objectives were relevant and important, consistent with the Bank's Country Assistance
Strategy, and reflected the Government and Bank strategy for the sector, namely, in expanding
generating capacity and in meeting the expected high growth in demand in the Java-Bali system to
promote economic and industrial development, and in fostering decentralization and
commercialization of PLN operations.
Implementation Experience and Results
6.    The Project achieved its major physical objective of finalizing the development of a major
hydroelectric site. The total capacity of Cirata, Phase I (also financed by the Bank) and II (financed
under the Project), is 1000MW; it is the largest hydroelectric plant in the Java-Bali interconnected
system. It is the most important plant for meeting peak demand and for maintaining frequency and
voltage regulation in the system. It is therefore essential for system security and in improving service
reliability. Cirata II has operated at high availability since the units were commissioned.
7.    Key dates in relation to civil works and mechanical and electrical works were essentially met.
Procurement delays were only minor caused mainly by problems with the customs office and the
importation of materials and equipment due in part by a change in regulations. Other potential delays
caused by delay in signing the civil works contract and of design changes, which were deemed
necessary for project completion but were recovered during project implementation by a joint effort of
the Consulting Engineer, PLN and the Bank. Project management was exemplary. Commissioning
of Units 5&6 was almost on time but commissioning of Units 7&8 were somewhat delayed, in
February and April 1998 (SAR October 1997), due to the severe drought which affected the region in
1997, which produced very low water levels at the Cirata reservoir during the commissioning of these
units.
8.    Since the major resettlement was accomplished during Phase I, resettlement aspects for
Cirata-I1 were only minor. For the switchyard extension and for siting the transmission towers, PLN
acquired land from 17 landowner families amounting to 28,891 square meters. The land acquired did
not constitute the place of residence for the families nor was it a major source of livelihood. With the
money received from compensation (i.e. about RP 2000 per square meter or about US$ 1 at the
prevailing exchange rate) the affected people purchased alternative plots of land in the same district
that are more productive for cultivation than the land they left.
9.    The achievement of the objective of continuing the process of institutional restructuring of.
PLN was modest as sector reform has proceeded at a much lower pace than anticipated. Nevertheless,
the recommendations of the comprehensive policy and strategy studies undertaken by the Project
provided the underpinning for the Government's Power Sector Restructuring Policy, which was
launched in August 1998. The Policy Paper is serving as a blueprint for the recovery of the sector and
it is expected that the pace of reform will accelerate once a new President is appointed and a new
cabinet is installed. It is also expected that the framework will be instrumental in providing a sound
foundation of PLN's and the sector's medium and longer-term viability
10.   The objective to study options for enhancing the environment conditions in the Saguling and
Cirata reservoirs was successfully achieved. PLN is implementing many of the recommendations in
the studies but is hampered by the reality that it has no control over a group of necessary actions,



iv
namely, land use planning, land development, water pollution control and water resource management
in the reservoir catchments. Continuing pollution of the reservoirs, from domestic, industrial and
agricultural sources, will clearly affect the sustainability of the fish cage aquaculture in the reservoirs.
The environmental study outputs have also influenced lending programs within the Bank, most
notably the emphasis given to the policy changes to promote river basin management and municipal
water pollution control that are being supported in the Water Resources Sector Adjustment Loan
(Loan No. 4469-IND).
11.   The objective of strengthening PLN's financial position was not achieved. In fact, PLN's
financial position has weakened dramatically during the tenure of the project. PLN was unable at any
time during this period to comply fully with the financial covenants established for it under the
project. Two main factors contributed to this: (i) failure of GOI to implement needed tariff increases,
and (ii) lack of competitive pressure on PLN to drive costs down. The monetary and economic crisis
exacerbated these problems due mainly by a sharp depreciation of the Rupiah, and slightly less so by a
reduction in sales growth rates in Java-Bali in particular. The net result is that PLN is currently unable
to service its onlent debt to the Government or to meet its payment obligations to IPPs. The planned
technical assistance activity on 'Long-term Financial Strategy for the Power Sector", which was
designed to assist PLN on developing a financial strategy, was not initiated by the DGEED on
account, first, of a shared perception that this should logically follow the regulatory and private power
studies described above and, second, the onset of the crisis requiring a different focus and approach.
12.   The objective of enhancing the dialogue of introducing a mechanism for formula-based
adjustment of electricity prices was achieved since an Electricity Tariff Automatic Adjustment
Mechanism (ETAM) was introduced by Presidential Decree in October 1994. However, because of
deficiencies in the implementation of ETAM, and the economic and financial crisis, ETAM has been
suspended with the understanding that consideration may need to be given of introducing an improved
mechanism once the base tariff has been restored to a commercial viable level.
13.   The estimated total Project cost at appraisal was US$ 313.0 million (excluding IDC). The
actual Total Project Cost before interest during construction was US$ 193.2 million, a reduction of
38% from the appraisal estimate. The savings in Total Project Costs, of about US$ 119.8 million
before IDC, can be largely attributed to the following factors (a) reduction in Civil Works prices due
to ICB of 41% (from US$ 75 million to an actual US$ 44 million; (b) very conservative engineering
estimates particularly on civil works; (c) international inflation was lower than projected in estimates
of the price contingencies, (d) reduction in engineering and supervision due to ICB by 35% (from US$
22.8 million to US$ 14.8 million); (e) reduction in technical assistance by 50% (from US$ 14.1
million to UD$ 7.0 million) due to a reduction in the scope of technical assistance; and (f) controlled
construction schedule which allowed the plant to be commissioned with a minimum of delay and no
cost overruns. US$ 26 million was cancelled in August 1998 after a project restructuring exercise
carried in early 1998. An undisbursed balance of US$ 13.9 was cancelled.
14.   At appraisal, the Project was part of PLN's dynamic least cost expansion program for the
Java-Bali system. The EIRR calculated for the Project in the SAR was based on the incremental
economic costs and benefits associated with the entire investment time slice (between 1992/93 and
1997/8) of this least cost program. Based on PLN's projected tariffs the EIRR in the SAR was 10.6
percent, and incorporating consumer surplus the EIRR was 19.1 percent.  Using the same
methodology as the SAR, the ex-post EIRR has been recalculated as 6.6 percent including consumer
surplus. With the prevailing average tariff the net revenue is negative and hence the EIRR cannot be
obtained. The principal factors affecting the economic viability of the Project are: (i) PLN's current
average tariff (2-3 US¢/kWh), is well below the pre-crisis level of about 7-8 US¢/kWh, which would



v
allow full cost recovery and reasonable return on investment; (ii) reduced electricity sales, and (iii)
impact of IPPs with their high levelized tariffs of power purchase. Recalculating the EIRR with the
tariff prevailing in the SAR gives 15.1 percent with consumer surplus and 5.9 percent without,
reflecting the fact that the present tariff is too low to get adequate financial benefits from this project.
15.   Nevertheless, even though the Java-Bali system's current configuration is clearly not optimal,
this does not necessarily imply that the Cirata II plant per se is not economic. The SAR also presented
a deterministic analysis of the Project which found that the equalizing discount rate between Cirata II
and the next best thermal alternative was 31.8 percent. The avoided costs of operating the Cirata
complex entirely as a peaking plant are, at a minimum, the fuel and operating costs of peaking gas
turbine plants (595MW), net of the similar costs for the base load plant (95MW) which needs to
operate to compensate for the loss of previously operating Cirata I at base load. Given that: (i) fuel is
the major avoided cost component (and that this is primarily US-dollar denominated); (ii) the
construction cost of Cirata II was 38% below the value estimated at appraisal; and (iii) excepting the
small reduction in available capacity due to commissioning problems the plant is being dispatched
close to expected capacity (irrespective of the impact of the crisis on demand); the plant can still be
considered to have net positive economic benefits. The deterministic analysis based on avoided costs
has been redone with the result that a comparison of Cirata with the best thermal alternative yielded an
equalizing discount rate of 22.4 percent, indicating a preference for Cirata, which lends more credence
to the argument that Cirata has net positive economic benefits. The lower estimated value than that at
appraisal is due primarily to the lower fuel prices for the thermal alternatives.
16.    Due to the impact of the economic crisis in the region and PLN's dire financial condition, the
sustainability of the Project is uncertain. On the physical side, and since the commissioning and
commercial operation of the last unit of Cirata II, some local slidings were detected at the river bank
slope opposite the tailrace discharge tunnel. Although the result of the monitoring has produced no
sign of slope instability that will cause a disturbance of the operation Cirata, PLN has agreed to
continue the monitoring of the slope stability and take corrective actions if necessary and to report to
the Bank when an action was taken. In addition, a flow-induced noise, which exceeds the contracted
noise level, has appeared when the units are operated at power levels over 115 MVW. Corrective
actions are being taken by PLN and the Contractor. In addition, since Cirata is Y2K non-compliant,
PLN is developing a contingency plan including an emergency response for Cirata for the turn of the
millennium. The sustainability of the Project on the physical side is not expected to be impaired.
17.    Despite the economic crisis and PLN's dramatic financial downturn, Cirata is operating at
high availabilities. It is well maintained under a cost-saving predictive maintenance regime and recent
operational problems are being addressed forcefully. The expectation is high that Cirata will continue
to be well maintained and efficiently operated since it is the most important hydroelectric plant in the
Java-Bali system.
18.    Although the current low average tariff and the resulting dire financial situation of PLN, as
well as IPP commitments, militate against a reasonable financial viability of the Project, the recent
signs of the country's economic recovery bode well for the future of the Project. Outstanding issues
include PLN financial recovery and the resolution of the IPP commitments whose impact to PLN
cannot be gauged at this time. Within a policy that seeks to provide reliable and affordable electricity
to consumers, an IPP rationalization Program under the oversight of a Government Ministerial Team
(established by Keppress 139/98 of September 1998) is underway to seek a resolution to this issue.
The guiding principles of the Rationalization program require that the process be transparent, with due
consideration to the legal rights and obligations of all parties concerned. In light of the above there is



vi
still a high risk that project sustainability will be impaired if (i) PLN financial situation does not
improve, and/or (ii) the outcome of the IPP Rationalization Program fails short of expectations.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
19.   The overall outcome of the Project is unsatisfactory and sustainability is uncertain based
mainly on two factors: (i) PLN dire financial situation, and (ii) low ex-post EIRR on a Java-Bali
system basis. However, comparing Cirata Project on an avoided costs basis with a thermal alternative
gives reassurance that Cirata, considered on its own, is still the preferred alternative.
20.   Implementation of the Project was exemplary and Cirata-II was commissioned with a
minimum of delay. Cirata is one of PLN's most important plants in the Java-Bali system. It is
dispatched high in the merit order and the four 125 MW units are presently operating at high
availability, displacing thermal generation and providing environmental benefits in reduced pollution,
as well as system benefits in its system regulation capability. Peak demand is expected to increase and
the utilization of Cirata as a peaking plant is therefore guaranteed. PLN has demonstrated that it has
the technical capability to operate and maintain Cirata efficiently. The Bank's and the Borrower's
performance are deemed largely satisfactory.
21.   Although progress in institutional reform and restructuring has been slow, the policy reform
framework established by GOI in August 1998 provided the blueprint for sector recovery, particularly
in meeting the challenges posed by the current economic crisis and assisting to reverse PLN's
dramatic decline in financial viability. It will also provide for a sound foundation to its medium and
long-term development, which also increases the likelihood of the sustainability of the Project. Over
the short to medium term, PLN is faced with the challenge to cope with a difficult period of transition,
within the context of a highly uncertain environment that is beyond the control of the company. With
a view to restoring the financial sustainability of the sector, international consultants (financed under
the Second Power Transmission and Distribution Project) will assist GOI/PLN in the implementation
of the corporate and financial restructuring of PLN.
22.   Although the Bank's and Borrower's performance has been rated as satisfactory, there are
three critically important areas in which Government's performance must be assessed to have fallen
short of expectations: (a) permitting excessive commitments to new generation capacity and allowing
or requiring power purchase agreements to be negotiated on the basis of unsolicited proposals from
sponsors; (b) reluctance to increase sufficiently the base electricity tariff or to implement fully the
automatic tariff adjustment mechanism; and (c) slow progress in developing and implementing the
framework for sector reform.
23.   In view of the above, there is a high risk, that unless the financial situation of PLN improves
substantially in the short to medium term, the sustainability of the Project may be impaired through
perhaps lack of maintenance budget at PLN/PJB2, deterioration of the transmission system to
evacuate power from Cirata, and dissipation of the commitmnent to reform and restructure the sector.
Continuos dialogue will be kept with GOI and PLN on these matters and particularly in maintaining
the commitment to sector reform and restructuring of PLN to restore its financial viability.
24.    Several key lessons, which have operational and strategic implications for the design of future
power sector projects, can be drawn from this project: (i) good project management by the consulting
engineer and good coordination throughout Project preparation and implementation were key elements
in successful implementation of the physical part of the Project; (ii) rapid action by the Bank to cover
100% of local financing (excluding taxes) was critical in avoiding project delays by nonpayment to



vii
contractors due to lack of counterpart funding; (iii) environmental studies of the sort included in this
Project do not received the high priority from operating staff - it is important to obtain commitment
from senior management responsible for operations when contemplating such studies in providing
adequate budget and purchasing authority, and incorporation of responsibility for study execution in
the job description of operation managers; (iv) cost estimates should be more robust; the actual Project
cost (excluding IDC) was 38% less than the appraisal estimate; (v) close on-the-ground supervision
and willingness to be flexible in adopting the Project to the local conditions is an essential ingredient
for good project implementation.



INDONESIA
CIRATA HYDROELECTRIC PHASE II PROJECT
(LOAN 3602-IND)
PART I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.   STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
Background
1.     PLN, the State Electricity Corporation, established by Government Regulation No. 18/1972
under the Electricity Act (Law No. 15 of 1985)1, is responsible for generation, transmission and
distribution of electricity in Indonesia. In 1995 two power generation subsidiaries, PJB I and PJB22,
were established in Java-Bali as a first step in the unbundling of the Java-Bali system. These two
subsidiaries were charged with supplying power to the Java-Bali system from generating plants
transferred to them by the parent company and from new plant that they might subsequently construct.
The responsibility for the operation of Cirata was assigned to PJB2.
2.     Feasibility studies were carried out in 1981 for the optimum development of the storages3 of
the three major storage sites in the Citarum River: Jatiluhur, Saguling, and Cirata. Jatiluhur (150 MW,
820 GWh), the furthest downstream, was developed in 1964, primarily for irrigation. Saguling (750
MW, 2156 GWh), the furthest upstream, was best suited to maximize energy generation, and Cirata
Phase 1 (500 MW, 1424 GWh) and Phase II (500 MW), were to be adjusted according to the needs for
irrigation and power. Saguling and Cirata Phase I, constructed with Bank assistance, were completed
in 1985 and 1988, respectively. Cirata Phase I, consisting of four 125 MW units, has a 125 m high
concrete faced rockfill dam and spillway, four intakes and powerhouse cavern for both phases I and II,
two headrace tunnels, two surge tanks and four tailrace outlets. With Phase II the total capacity of the
Cirata development became 1,000MW, the largest and most important hydropower power plant in
Indonesia. There is however, no additional energy generated from Phase II as the entire 1000MW
would be available only for meeting peak demand during fours hours daily4.
3.     Since 1970 the Bank has been, assisting PLN in system planning, in implementing its large
power system expansion program in generation, transmission and distribution, and in supporting
institutional development and the reform and restructuring of the sector. This project was the 25th in a
series of Bank Group-financed projects for PLN for which the World Bank's Board of Directors
approved a US$104 million loan on 11 May 1993.
1   Under the Law, PLN has both the right and obligation to supply electricity to Indonesia.
2   At the time of the creation of PJBI and PJB2, their installed capacities were 5,655 MW and 5,068 MW, respectively.
According to PPAs contract obligations, the installed capacity in the Java-Bali interconnected system at the end of
1999 is expected to reach 18,307MW. This includes 2,935 MW of IPP capacity (150 MW at Cikarang; 165 MW at
Salak; 110 MW at Wayang Windu; 60 MW at Dieng; 1230 MW at Paiton l; and 1220 MW at Paiton 11).
3   These storages provide a very high degree of regulation, enabling annual energy generation of 4,400 GWh, irrigation
of about 200,000 ha of land, and supply of about 34 cumecs of water for municipal uses in and around Jakarta.
4   Without Cirata II, the operating regime for Cirata I was to provide 95 MW and corresponding 835 GWh for base load
operation, and the remaining 405 MW and 589 GWh during four hours of daily peaking operation. With the addition
of Cirata 11, the entire complex of I OOOMW would be operated as a peaking plant with a total energy production for an
average hydrological year of 1424 GWh.



- 2 -
4.    At the time the Project was conceived in the early 90's, the average annual electricity sales
growth rate in the Java-Bali interconnected system was over 10% and the expectation was high that it
would continue unabated. In addition, least-cost plans carried out by PLN established that an
additional 500 MW of peaking capacity would be needed by 1997. The Project was in line with the
Bank's country assistance strategy and formed part of an assistance program for the sector that was
designed to further strengthen planning and investment decision-making, to achieve greater
decentralization and commercialization through the restructuring and unbundling of PLN, and to
reduce the financing and managerial burden on the Government and PLN through introduction of
effective competition and expanded private sector participation. The Project focussed on institutional
reform and restructuring, improving reliability and quality of supply, and in providing needed peaking
capacity and frequency regulation to the Java-Bali interconnected system, at the time of double-digit
sales growth rates in the Java-Bali system.
5.    The Project was expected to be implemented over 45 months with a total investment of
US$398.8 million equivalent. PLN would bear the foreign exchange and interest risk, and the
Government of Indonesia would guarantee the loan. The Project was cofinanced by Austrian Export
Credits in the amount of US$ 149.2 million equivalent, with the balance of US$ 145.6 equivalent
provided by GOI/PLN. The loan was declared effective on 28 October 1993 and the closing date was
June 30, 1999. There were no loan extensions. US$ 26 million of the Bank loan was cancelled on
August 26, 1998 after a thorough restructuring exercise carried out in early 1998. US$ 13.9 million,
which remained undisbursed, was cancelled on October 31, 1999.
Project Objectives
6.    As stated in the Bank's SAR, the objectives of the Cirata Hydroelectric Phase II Project, were
to: (a) provide economical and environmentally sound expansion of PLN's peaking electricity
generating capacity in Java and improve service reliability; (b) update hydro inventories and carry out
pre-feasibility studies for promising hydroelectric schemes; (c) strengthen PLN's capability in the
planning, investigation and operation of hydroelectric schemes and in environmental management of
power projects; (d) study options for enhancing the environmental conditions in the area of PLN's
existing reservoirs on the Citarum River. The institutional and sectoral objectives included: (a)
strengthening of PLN's financial position; (b) enhancing the dialogue on introducing a mechanism for
formula-based adjustment of electricity price; and (c) continuing the process of institutional
restructuring of PLN to provide for greater decentralization, delegation, and commercialization.
7.    The above objectives were to be achieved by: (a) implementation of Phase II of the Cirata
hydroelectric development consisting of: (i) Construction of two 690 m x 8.4 m diameter headrace
tunnels, two surge shafts 80 m x 18.6 m diameter, four steel lined penstock tunnels 200 m x 5.2 m
diameter, and four tailrace tunnel 138 m x 6.4 m diameter, with associated outlet structures; (ii)
Installation, within the existing cavern of the powerhouse, of four additional units each of 125 MW,
including turbines, generators, governors, regulator and control equipment; and (iii) Installation of
transformer and switchgear for connection to the grid; (b) consulting services for engineering and
construction supervision of the Cirata Hydroelectric Phase II Development; (c) studies to upgrade
hydrological and environmental data bases, and improve data collection practices; (d) studies to
update PLN's hydroelectric inventories, and determine pre-feasibility of selected schemes; (e) studies
to identify options to enhance environmental conditions in the existing PLN reservoirs on the Citarum
River, and training of PLN staff in environmental management; (f) training in dam safety and
instrumentation monitoring; (g) studies aimed at power sector institutional and regulatory reform; (h)
studies aimed at assisting GOI to determine a long-term strategy for financing power sector



- 3 -
investments; and (i) pre-construction stage engineering services for the Besai hydroelectric projects in
South Sumatra.
Evaluation of Project Objectives
8.     The objectives were clearly stated in the appraisal report.  The physical objectives were
directed at ensuring additional economical and environmentally sound peaking capacity in the Java-
Bali system. They were achievable since they were in line with PLN's implementation capability. The
broader institutional objectives were also within PLN and GOI ability to achieve over time. The
objectives proved to be relevant and consistent with the Government's sector strategy as well as the
Bank's Country Assistance Strategy. They remained unchanged for the duration of the Project. The
expected benefits from achievement of the objectives could be measured against realistic and
quantitative and qualitative targets by means of performance indicators, which were retrofitted in
November 1996 during Project implementation. Implementation of the physical component of the
Project was neither complex nor demanding for the implementing agency. Since commercial
operation, Cirata-I1 has operated at high availabilities5, plays a critical role during system start-up and
during blackouts. It is essential in maintaining frequency regulation and improving supply reliability,
and provides the Java-Bali system with much needed peaking capacity.
9.     However, the pace of institutional restructuring and sector restructuring has been far slower
than envisaged. Prior to the economic crisis and PLN's consequent financial difficulties, commitment
to reform had clearly been waning. Following the events of May 1998, concerted efforts were made
by Government to rekindle and reinvigorate the reform effort, notably through the launch of the Power
Sector Restructuring Policy on August 25, 1998 and the adoption of the Implementation Plan in
December 17, 1998. However, further slippages have occurred during 1999, in part because of the
competing demands on the time of key decision-makers generated by the crisis. Nevertheless, the
Government and PLN remain committed to the restructuring of the sector, and are being assisted in
this effort by the ADB,6 the Bank,7 and other donors (e.g. USAID).
10.    The objective of strengthening of PLN's financial position did not have a related project
component. The idea was initiated during project preparation and was pursued as part of the Bank's
sectoral policy dialogue with GOI and PLN by the implementation of an automatic, quarterly
electricity tariff adjustment mechanism (ETAM, para. 30). Yet ETAM was not sufficient to ensure
PLN's financial viability. The improvement of PLN's financial viability is an action in the
Government's Power Sector Restructuring Policy launched in August 1998 (paras. 20-21 and footnote
7) as a result of the technical assistance carried out under this Project.
5   During 1998, Cirata units 1-8 generated 1734 GWh; compared to an expected 1424GWh during normal hydrological
years. Generation from units 5-8 was 850 GWh. Station losses amounted to only 0.4%. During 1998, availabilities
for units 5-8 were 88%, 85%, 96%, and 97%, respectively. During March 1999 Cirata 5-8 generated 54.5 GWh and
availability was 98. 1%.
6   On March 1999 the ADB approved a loan of US$ 380 million of which for a Power Sector Restructuring Program
concentrating in establishing a competitive market for electricity in Java-Bali that will increase economic efficiency of
the power sector, and associated US$ 20 million TA loan to support implementation of sector reform.
7   Utilizing project cost savings from the Bank-financed 2nd Power Transmission and Distribution Project (Loan 3978-
[ND), the Bank is providing technical assistance for consultancy services for PLN's Corporate and Financial
Restructuring with the main objective to assist the Government and PLN to implement the Power Sector Restructuring
Policy with respect to corporate and financial restructuring of PLN.



- 4 -
11.    The Loan Agreement and Project Agreement included financial perfonnance covenants
including: (i) achieving a rate of return on revalued assets (ROR) of no less than 8% for its Java
operations, and (ii) and a debt service coverage ratio of 1.5 times. In 1994, both covenants were
replaced (under Loan 3761-IND Sumatera and Kalimantan Power Project) by a single 8% rate-of-
return covenant of PLN's entire operation in Indonesia.
B.   ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
Overall Results
12.    The Project satisfactorily  achieved its primary  objective to provide economical and
environmental sound expansion of PLN's peaking capacity, and to improve service reliability.
Although total generation capacity expansion proceeded at a rate significantly faster than envisaged,
in part because of accelerated commitments to unsolicited proposals from Independent Power
Producers', most of the additional capacity was base loaded plants. Cirata is one of the most important
hydropower facilities in the Java-Bali system. The Cirata complex (Phases I and II) provides needed
peaking capacity to a mainly base-loaded system for which demand has grown at over 10% average
growth rates during the 90's. It also plays an essential role in frequency regulation of the Java-Bali
system, which improves system security as well as service reliability. Since being commissioned, it
has operated at high availability. During the heavy rains in 1998 it provided cheap electricity at a time
when PLN was trying to save costs from thermal-based electricity.
Review of Physical Objective
13.    The Project achieved its physical objective of developing a major hydroelectric site to supply
much needed peaking capacity to the Java-Bali interconnected system. This was accomplished with a
minimum of delay. Project management was exemplary and played a key role in overcoming many
obstacles including a large potential schedule overrun caused by a mismatch of interface dates
between the civil works and electro-mechanical works, necessary design changes, as well as problems
with the customs office while importing the turbine and generator equipment. Commissioning of units
7&8 was somewhat delayed by the severe drought affecting the region in 1997, which produced very
low water levels at the Cirata reservoir in late 1997 during the time the units were being
commissioned9.
14.    The renovation of the seven small hydropower plants operated by PLN in Java to recover
capacity and maximize energy output was achieved successfully"). The units are operating at high
availability and maintained effectively by PLN.
8   PLN has concluded 27 agreements for power purchase from IPPs. On December 28, 1998 PLN announced its
intention to commence a 'Rationalization of IPP Contracts' with the objectives of: "(i) achieving a contractual
structure that is commensurate with PLN's financial resources and restructuring goals; (ii) improving overall system
efficiency; (iii) meeting international standards for objectivity, openness and transparency; and (iv) maintaining
Indonesia's attractiveness to investors in the power sector."
9   Commercial operation of Units 5&6 was in August 15, 1997 (SAR: June 15, 1997) and for Units 7&8 in February 16,
1998 and April 16, 1998 (SAR: both units in October 1997).
1   This small hydropower plants which comprise an unfinished component of Loan 3097-IND, were incorporated under
the present loan with an appropriate amendment of the Project description.



-5-
Review of Technical Assistant
15.    Updating hydro inventories and carrying out pre-feasibility studies for promising
hydroelectric schemes. The objective of this technical assistance was successfully achieved. The
scope of work was subdivided into two phases: (i) hydro-inventory study, and (ii) pre-feasibility
study. The Hydro-inventory Study, completed in July 1997, identified and classified an inventory of
1,369 projects into various categories based on economic and technical viability. Of the total of
hydropower projects identified, nine of them were selected to prefeasibility". The Prefeasibility Study
was begun in August 1997 and the nine sites were examined in more detail. The selection of the nine
projects was based on PLN's favorable distribution of project sites and in line with the Government's
policy to develop the eastern part of Indonesia.
16.   The main benefits from this important technical assistance activity are: (i) collection of all
relevant hydro development data in a comprehensive database to be available on demand; (ii)
strengthening of PLN's hydro-planning group so that they are able to carry out similar work in the
future; and (iii) on the job training and transfer of knowledge through PLN's active involvement with
the Consultants.
17.   Study options for enhancing the environmental conditions in the area of PLN's existing
reservoirs on the Citarum River.  Not only has this objective been successfully achieved by
analyzing various options, but PLN's environmental staff and the two generating companies involved,
PJB1 (responsible for the Saguling reservoir) and PJB2 (responsible for the Cirata reservoir) have
gone one step further and have implemented most of the study's recommendations that are within their
control. Reservoir shoreline management has been improved. All fish cage management actions
recommended for reducing the frequency of fish kills have been taken, including trials with new
species and reductions in fish biomass. However, it is important to recognize that the reductions in the
number of cages have occurred primarily because of increases in fish food costs and diminished
domestic demand for the cultured fish rather than as results of overt action by PLN or Department of
Fisheries.
18.   There is a group of actions over which PLN has little or no control; these concern land use
planning, land development, water pollution control and water resource management in the reservoir
catchments. However, the project has had a significant and positive influence over these processes;
by conducting the environmental studies and making the results known to other agencies in report
form, through its own workshops, and by its participation in other seminars on water resources
management in the Citarum Basin. The environ-mental study outputs have also influenced lending
programs within the Bank, most notably the emphasis given to the policy changes to promote river
basin management and municipal water pollution control that are being supported in the Water
Resources Sector Adjustment Loan (Loan No. 4469-IND).
19.   Strengthening PLN's capability in  the planning, investigation  and operation  of
hydroelectric schemes and in environmental management of power projects. The objective of this
technical assistance was largely achieved. PLN has improved its capability for planning and operating
hydropower schemes. In addition, both PJBI and PJB2 have implemented all the consultant's
recommendations for modification of the routine water quality monitoring programs and most of the
recommendations for environmental data management and reporting. Some pieces of sampling
i   The nine hydro-schemes examined were: Kambera-2 (65.4MW, Region XI); Tala (52.4 MW, Region IX); Masang-3
(192 MW, Region II and IV); Tamboli (20.8 MW, Region VII); Wai Ratang (9.3 MW, Region XI); Sawangan (9.0
MW, Region VII); Talawi (21.6 MW, Region IX); Sitoto (29.6 MW, Region XI); and Tina (22.8 MW, Region IX).



-6 -
equipment recommended for analysis of rainfall and runoff effects in the reservoirs have not been
purchased because of budget limitations. To further improve and consolidate the environmental
management capabilities of PLN, it was decided to continue with the work"2 through a new technical
assistance activity attached to the subsequent Sumatera and Kalimantan Project (Loan 3761-IND).
20.    Continuing the process of institutional restructuring of PLN  to provide for greater
decentralization, delegation, and commercialization. The institutional development objective--to
continue the process of institutional restructuring of PLN to provide for greater decentralization,
delegation and commercialization--was pursued through the conduct of comprehensive policy and
strategy studies, which provided a good basis for advancing the dialogue with Government and PLN.
The studies, which were conducted by international consultants and completed in December 1996,
culminated in an integrated set of recommendations concerning sector structure, commercial
arrangements, legal and regulatory framework, privatization policy and private power projects, fuel
policy, institutional and organizational changes, and the introduction and use of competition and other
incentive mechanisms to promote sector efficiency, together with an outline action plan for their
implementation.13
21.    Following submission of the final report, Government and PLN established a number of inter-
and intra-agency working groups to further review the consultants' recommendations and to develop
more detailed plans for their implementation. Their progress was affected first by a senior
management change and shortly after by the onset of the monetary crisis.  However, the
recommendations of this work provided the underpinnings for the Government's Power Sector
Restructuring Policy, which was launched in August 1998. This serves as the blueprint for the
sector's recovery-- particularly in meeting the challenges posed by the current economic crisis and
assisting to reverse PLN's dramatic decline in financial viability--and provides a sound foundation for
its medium and longer term development. Although implementation has continued to be slower than
projected, in part due to the continuing political uncertainty, ownership of the reform agenda at the
middle management levels of Government and PLN has strengthened considerably and there are
grounds for expecting that the pace will accelerate once a new President is appointed and a new
cabinet is installed. The achievement of this objective, due to the slow pace of reform, has been
modest.
22.    Upgrading Hydrological Database.  This technical assistance activity was designed to
improve the quality and availability of the data required for hydro inventory studies by upgrading the
databases and improving data collection practices. The objectives of this activity were only partially
achieved. Work began in August 1995 and the Consultant's Final Report was submitted on January
1997. There was, unfortunately a long period of indecision on the part of PLN regarding the proper
location for the computer equipment. After the decision was finally made in mid-May 1999, to place
the database and computer equipment at PPMK (formerly PLN-LMK - Electrification Research
Center), there was not sufficient time before loan closing for procuring the equipment, installing it at
the center, debugging the software and providing training. Nevertheless, improvements have been
made in the data collection practices of PLN, which will be used to advantage at the research facility
12  The primary objective of this new consultancy assignment was to further assist PLN in strengthening the capabilities of
its existing Environmental Division and to establish environmental capabilities at corporate and plant levels.
13  Two parallel and complementary studies --Power Sector Restructuring (TAI) and Development of Private Power
(TA2)--were conducted by a single consultant consortium, with one study being financed under the Cirata II Project
and the other under the Bank-financed Technical Assistance Project for the Public and Private Provision of
Infrastructure.



- 7-
PLN-LMK. In this regard, the research facility has set up improved data collection procedures and
maintenance and has provided material needs for hydrological stations throughout PLN regions.
23.    Training in Dam Safety and Instrumentation Monitoring. This technical assistance which
began in June 1995 increased awareness and skills of PLN hydropower operators and maintenance
staff on dam safety inspections of large dams and in properly compiling, reporting and interpreting the
instrumentation results. Training for dam safety inspection was particularly useful for the Saguling
and Cirata dams, which covered the designing of up-to-date and effective dam inspection programs
for these dams. A total of twenty PLN engineers took part in the training. The objectives of this
institutional development activity have been achieved.
Review of Financial Objectives
24.   Compliance with Financial Covenants. The following financial performance covenants were
introduced for PLN under the Project Agreement: (a) a minimum of 8% rate of return (ROR) on
revalued net fixed assets on PLN's Java operations; and breakeven on PLN's outside Java operations;
and (b) a minimum debt service coverage ratio of 1.5 times. The breakeven covenant on PLN's
outside Java operations was successively rolled-over. In 1994, the covenant (a) was replaced under
Loan 3761-IND (Sumatera and Kalimantan Power Project) by a single 8% ROR covenant for PLN's
entire operation in Indonesia. Since 1994, PLN has been in non-compliance with the ROR covenant,
even though it had complied with the debt service coverage covenant until the financial crisis in 1997.
The shortfall in ROR was partly attributable to the inadequacy of the basic tariff adopted in 1994
(which was based on optimistic sales projections in the base year budget) and the automatic
adjustment mechanism could not be implemented as effectively and as timely a manner as originally
envisaged. It is apparent that the ROR target for financial performance is inappropriate for a
company/sector with very large and lumpy investment program.
25.   Strengthening PLN financial position. This objective has basically not been achieved. In
fact, PLN's financial position has weakened dramatically over the period during which the Project was
implemented, and the Company was unable at any time during this period to comply fully with the
financial covenants established for it under the Project. Prior to the onset of the crisis, PLN was
moderately profitable but nonetheless was unable to achieve the target ROR level of 8% (actuals circa
4-6%). This was due, on the one hand, to the failure by Government to implement needed tariff
increases and, on the other, to the lack of competitive pressures on PLN to drive down costs.
26.   The monetary and economic crisis greatly exacerbated this situation by superimposing two
major new problems. First, the sharp depreciation of the Rupiah greatly increased the cost to PLN of
its US$-denominated long-term payment obligations. These include debt service payments on foreign
loans on-lent by Government, take-or-pay fuel supply agreements for gas and geothermal steam
(backed by standby letters of credits issued by state banks), and take-or-pay power purchase
agreements with independent power producers (backed by "support" letters issued by Government).
Second, PLN's previously rapid sales growth, particularly on Java, slowed considerably, leaving it
with a mounting excess of baseload generation capacity as new plants came on stream. The net result
is that PLN is currently unable to service fully its debt or to meet its payment obligations to IPPs.
Technical assistance originally envisaged for the development of a 'Long-term Financial Strategy for
the Power Sector", was not initiated by the DGEED on account, first, of a shared perception that this
should logically follow the regulatory and private power studies described above and, second, the
onset of the crisis requiring a different focus and approach.



- 8 -
27.   In 1998, average revenue of Rp. 21 1/kWh was a sharp reduction (72%) from the 1996 pre-
crisis level in US dollar terms, despite a 25% increase in Rupiah terms. Consequently, with sales
increase of only 1%, PLN reported operating loss of Rp. 2.8 trillion and its rate of return on revalued
net fixed assets was negative 7%. Its working capital decreased sharply to negative Rp. 11 trillion and
debt service coverage ratio was only 0.2 times. For the same year, GOI cash subsidy of Rp. 1.9
trillion helped PLN to cover its operating cash deficit. In addition in 1998 GOI also supported Rp. 2.8
trillion for equity investment in PLN's capital expenditures. However, for the Rp. 6.5 trillion for
deferred debt service under 100 subsidiary loan agreements (for loans onlent from international
financial institutions), GOI still has not given its approval of PLN's proposal of May 1999 on debt
restructuring. The company also reported deferral of payment (about Rp. 1.1 trillion) for obligations
under IPP contracts.
28.    Based on PLN's latest financial projection for 1999, its average sales are assumed to increase
by some 2% and average revenue increased by about 14% to Rp. 241/kWh (or about US 3 cents/kWh,
at an appreciated exchange rate of Rp. 8,000), resulting in a reduction of operating loss to about Rp.
20 billion (before fixed IPP obligations). However, after taking into account PLN's increased
obligations (Rp. 4.4 trillion) under IPP contracts, GOI cash subsidy would have to increase to about
Rp. 3.7 trillion. In any event, government support would include deferral of debt service due to GOI
(Rp. 7.3 trillion) in 1999.
29.    Over the short to medium term, PLN is faced with the challenge to cope with a difficult period
of transition, within the context of a highly uncertain enviromnent that is beyond the control of the
company. With a view to restoring the financial sustainability of the sector, GOI publicly launched a
power sector restructuring policy in August 1998. International consultants (financed under the
Second Power Transmission and Distribution Project) are expected to be mobilized soon to assist
GOI/PLN in the implementation of the corporate and financial restructuring of PLN. Within the
context of GOI's restructuring policy, various remedial measures have recently been initiated by
GOI/PLN to put the company on the road to financial recovery, including: (a) debt restructuring; (b)
rationalization of IPP contracts; (c) expenditure reduction and efficiency enhancement; and (d) tariff
rationalization.
30.   Enhancing the dialogue of introducing a mechanism for formula-based adjustment of
electricity prices.  This objective was achieved inasmuch as an Electricity Tariff Automatic
Adjustment Mechanism was introduced by Presidential Decree in October 1994 (Keppres 68/94).
PLN's base tariff was increased by Presidential Decree at the same time. The formula-based
adjustment mechanism, which was designed to maintain the real value of PLN's charges between
changes to the base tariff, empowered the Minister of Mines and Energy to make quarterly
adjustments on the basis of the weighted average of changes in the prices of fuels, prices of power
purchases, local inflation, and the US$-Rupiah exchange rate. While the implementation of the
adopted mechanism did result in increases in PLN's tariffs, these were not sufficient to enable PLN to
meet its ROR target during the period prior to the crisis for three main reasons. First, the October
1994 increase in the base tariff was too low as a result of 1995 sales having been significantly over-
estimated. Second, the mechanism was designed to enable the pass-through only of those changes in
costs that outside PLN  management's control.  Third, there were some deficiencies in its
implementation, including significant lags in applying increases and adjustments made to base figures.
The use of the mechanism was suspended following the onset of the crisis when it became apparent
that the rapid depreciation of the Rupiah would trigger very large across-the-board tariff increases.
Consideration may need to be given to adopting an improved mechanism once the base tariff has been
restored to a commercially viable level.



- 9 -
Loan Disbursement and Cancellation
31.    The original loan amount was US$104 million. A partial loan proceeds cancellation in the
amount of US$26 million was effective August 26, 1998 as a part of the portfolio restructuring
program in response to the economic crisis in Indonesia. At the termination of the 4-month grace
period for disbursement on October 31, 1999, the loan disbursed US$64.1 million. An undisbursed
balance of US$13.9 million has been cancelled.
Economic Internal Rate of Return (EIRR)
32.    At appraisal, the Project was part of PLN's dynamic least cost expansion program for the
Java-Bali system. The EIRR calculated for the Project in the SAR was based on the incremental
economic costs and benefits associated with the entire investment time slice (between 1992/93 and
1997/8) of this least cost program. Based on PLN's projected tariffs the EIRR in the SAR was 10.6
percent, and incorporating consumer surplus the EIRR was 19.1 percent'4. Using the same
methodology as the SAR"5, the EIRR has been recalculated as 6.6 percent including consumer surplus,
and negative without"6. The principal factors affecting the economic viability of the Project are: (i)
PLN's current average tariff (2-3 USO/kWh), a value insufficient to cover PLN's debt commitments,
is well below the pre-crisis level of about 7-8 US¢/kWh which would allow full cost recovery and
reasonable return on investment; (ii) reduced electricity sales, and (iii) impact of IPPs with their high
levelized tariffs of power purchase. Recalculating the EIRR with the tariff prevailing in the SAR.
gives 15.1 percent with consumer surplus and 5.9 percent without, reflecting the fact that the present
tariff is too low to get meaningful economic benefits from this project.
33.    Nevertheless, even though the Java-Bali system's current configuration is clearly not optimal,
this does not necessarily imply that the Cirata II plant per se is not economic. The SAR also presented
a deterministic analysis of the Project which found that the equalizing discount rate between Cirata II
and the next best thermal alternative was 31.8 percent. The avoided costs of operating the Cirata
complex entirely as a peaking plant are, at a minimum, the fuel and operating costs of peaking gas
turbine plants (595MW), net of the similar costs for the base load plant (95MW) which needs to
operate to compensate for the loss of previously operating Cirata I at base load (see Footnote 4).
Given that: (i) fuel is the major avoided cost component (and that this is primarily US-dollar
denominated); (ii) the construction cost of Cirata II was 38% below the value estimated at appraisal
(para. 44); and (iii) excepting the small reduction in available capacity due to commissioning
problems (para. 71), the plant is being dispatched close to expected capacity (irrespective of the
impact of the crisis on demand); the plant can still be considered to have net positive economic
benefits. The deterministic analysis based on avoided costs has been redone with the result that a
comparison of Cirata with the best thermal alternative yielded an equalizing discount rate of 22.4
percent, indicating a preference for Cirata, which lends more credence to the argument that Cirata has
net positive economic benefits. The lower estimated value than that at appraisal is due primarily to the
lower fuel prices for the thermal alternatives.
4  The incorporation on consumer surplus in the evaluation of the EIRR was criticized in the SAR.
As in the SAR, the year 1992 is considered the base year; thus all expenditures are valued relative to the base year
using deflator indices.
16  The reevaluated EIRR was obtained assuming 1992 prices as the base year; thus all expenditures are valued relative to
this base year using a deflator index.



- 10-
34.   On February 1997 the scope of the Project was amended to include an unfinished component
of another loan (Loan 3097-IND: Power Sector Efficiency Project), to renovate seven small
hydropower plants operated by PLN in Java to recover capacity and maximize energy output. This
was a very successful component of the Project with an estimated 24 % EIRR.
C.    MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
Implementation Organization.
35.   PLN was the executing agency for the Project. As is common to PLN's Projects of this
magnitude, a special unit with a Project Manager was formed within PLN and a Site Project Office
was setup under the aegis of Proyek Induk'7 of West Java and Jakarta Raya. On June 9, 1994, PLN
awarded the contract for Engineering Services to a Taiwanese-foreign joint venture (although it had
already commenced work on November 1993) to include the review the detailed design of PLN's
Engineering Service Center (PPE) and for construction supervision. Competent and qualified
engineers forming various groups, namely for: Engineering Design, Construction Management;
Construction/Installation; Testing and Commissioning, and Administration and Support, supported the
site office. PPE also supervised the work of the Engineering Consultants. The contract for civil
works was awarded to a Japanese-foreign construction joint venture while the balance of plant was
undertaken by an Austrian - foreign joint venture. As the dam had been built during the construction
of Cirata I, there was no need to set up a Special Board of Consultants to review and document at
various stages of the project's implementation. PLN's environmental unit and the site office handled
resettlement aspects, which were only minor for Cirata II (paras. 45-47).
Implementation Schedule and Record.
36.   The implementation schedule established in the SAR provided for the commencement of civil
works on January 1994 and commissioning of Units 5&6 forty-two months after, that is, on June 15,
1997. Units 7&8 were to follow four months later, on October 15, 1997. Even though the Cirata dam
was already built under the Cirata I Project, the schedule was demanding and necessitated an
experienced intemational Engineer and Contractor. Units 5&6 were placed in commercial operation
on August 15, 1997; a two months delay. This was followed by Unit 8 on February 16, 1998 and Unit
7 on April 16, 1998. The delay, particularly of Unit 8, was due to low water level in the Cirata
reservoir due to the 1997 severe drought in the region.
37.   In spite of delays caused in part by a change in regulations having to do with the clearing of
imported materials as specified in a Master List and the authority under which the list needed to be
certified before the custom authorities would release the imported items under the list, the
coordination of work by the various contractors and the Engineer must be rated as outstanding. The
Engineer optimized the schedule frequently to minimize any mismatch between the schedules of the
various contractors. This kept the schedule of the Project on track.
38.   The preparatory work carried out by PLN's site office to establish a fully functional Base
Camp at the site was very important. In addition, prior to transport of large or heavy pieces of
equipment, the inland transportation and route selection was investigated carefully. Finally, after
completion of the installation of all major items, training of PLN staff, as required for operation and
maintenance of all the equipment under the various contracts, was begun on site.
17 Proyek Induk Pembangkit Hidro Jabar.



- 11 -
39.     Civil Works. After ICB, the civil works18 contract was awarded on April 15, 1994 after a
delay of about three and one half months caused during the bid evaluation stage and signing of
contract. Although this was not a large delay, it affected right at the outset the agreed revised master
implementation schedule for the other contracts so that the Project was now expected to be fully
completed by February 16, 1998. In addition, mobilization of the civil works contractor was about 3
months behind schedule. It was decided to coordinate the various efforts and tasks more intensely so
that this delay could be effectively made up during project implementation. In addition, a conscious
decision was made at the time by PLN and agreed by the Bank that Project implementation would be
expedited selectively for critical work items only and no effort need to be made to recover the lost
time if there is an additional cost to the Project. Several intensive meetings were necessary among
Contractors, Engineer and PLN site staff to carry out this selective 'accelerated' schedule at no
additional cost.
40.    Another potential source of delay was the design changes necessary for Project completion. It
was found that due to incorrect tailrace apron elevation of Phase I, the riverbed immediately
downstream of Phase I tailrace apron was scoured down by an additional 5.5m due to the operation of
Phase I since 1988. The No. 3 tailrace apron had also settled and broken which would undermine the
safety of Phase II tailrace outlet structure in the future. In addition to the above, the portals of the
inspection and ventilation adits were found to be incorrectly placed which could undermine slope
stability and interfere with each other during construction. Construction of both adits was on the
critical path of the revised master implementation schedule. In the original design, both adits could
only be started after the yards were fully or partially developed. As for the new layout, the upper yard
was eliminated and the transformer yard was made a separate construction. This allowed savings of
5-6 months of potential delay to be recovered during implementation. The matter was successfully
dealt by a joint coordinated effort of the Engineer, PLN and the Bank.
41.    PLN's Excess Reserve Capacity. In the face of double digit sales growth rates in the 90's and
apprehension of having to face power outages and the attendant high cost of interruptions of service"9,
PLN planning approach was to maintain an overexpanded system in Java-Bali, that is, one with large
regional reserve margins. This was justified on the basis that a high reserve margin was necessary to
avoid costs of power interruption to the economy, and to hedge against the risk relating to unreliability
of existing thermal plants, and the possibility of implementation delays, particularly on the
commissioning of transmission lines and substations20. Including present IPP commitments in Java-
Bali, the capacity reserve margin could reach over 60% in 199921. It is clear that committed private
18   Since the excavation and most of the first-stage concreting work for the powerhouse and construction of the power
intake for the project were completed during the first stage development, the remaining civil works to be included in
Cirata-II consisted mainly in the construction of two headrace tunnels, two surge tanks, four penstock shafts, the
remaining civil works of the powerhouse, four tail race tunnels and outlets, river bank treatment, ventilation adit for
surge tanks, inspection adits for headrace tunnels, bus duct tunnel, transformer yard, and foundation for the
intermediate transmission tower.
19  Indonesia: Economic Consequences of Power Supply Inadequacy, World Bank Report No. 15623-IND, June 1996.
The report concluded inter alia that the chronic situation of inadequate power supplies has caused delays in new
industrial development and direct cancellation of direct foreign investment. The annual private cost of poor power
supply reliability and quality and power shortages of all manufacturing establishments in Indonesia was estimated at
US$ 850 million per year.
20   About 10 months for power plants and 13 months for transmission projects.
21   Under subsequent loans, a generating capacity margin covenant was introduced to request PLN to take all such action
as shall be necessary to reduce the realized reserve margin in the Java-Bali System to 30% by December 31, 1999.
Needless to say, this covenant has not been complied with.



- 12 -
power additions, and the reduction of sales growth rates, will not allow PLN to achieve a reasonable
balance of supply and demand till the 2002-4 time frame. The annualized carrying costs of the excess
capacity have been variously estimated to vary between US$ 150 - 400 million. In light of its
financial woes, PLN has started to implement an under-planning approach based on more realistic
demand projections.
42.    Cofinanced Scope of Work. The Metal Works contract and the Turbines and Auxiliaries
contract were signed on December 3, 1993 after a limited competition according to guidelines of the
Government of Austria under the Soft Loan and Export Credit Scheme. The Generators and Indoor
Equipment contract was signed on November 30, 1993 under the same guidelines.
43.    Economic Crisis and Counterpart Funding.    During the last stages of Project
Implementation in 1997, the economic crisis and PLN financial difficulties were affecting the Project,
particularly as regards counterpart funding. The Project was restructured and the Loan Agreement
amended to allow for 100% of local financing22 (i.e. disbursement percentage to increase to 100%
excluding taxes) from April 1, 1997, and October 31, 1999. This relieved considerably the pressure
on PLN to pay the contractor's invoices and allowed the Project to be completed with no additional
delay. Fortunately, apart from the proper provision of counterpart funding at the end of the Project,
the wrenching economic and social problems caused by the financial crisis in the region did not affect
the completion of the Project.
44.    Project Costs. The estimated total Project cost at appraisal was US$ 313.0 million (excluding
IDC). The actual Total Project Cost before interest during construction was US$ 193.2 million, a
reduction of 38% from the appraisal estimate. The savings in Total Project Costs, of about US$ 119.8
million before IDC, can be largely attributed to the following factors (a) very conservative engineering
estimates, (b) international inflation was lower than projected in estimates of the price contingencies,
(c) Civil Works were 41% lower than estimates due to ICB (from US$ 75 million to an actual US$ 44
million); (d) engineering and supervision costs were 35% lower than estimates due to ICB (from US$
22.8 million to US$ 14.8 million); and (e) reduction in technical assistance by 50% (from US$ 14.1
million to US$ 7.0 million) due to a reduction in the cope of technical assistance. US$ 26 million was
cancelled in August 1998 after project restructuring carried out in early 1998. An additional
undisbursed amount of US$ 13.9 million was also cancelled on October 5, 1999.
Resettlement, Land Acquisition and Environment
45.    The major resettlement aspects for Cirata were dealt with under the Cirata-I Project and will
not be repeated here23.
46.    For the switchyard extension and for siting of the transmission towers, PLN acquired land
from 17 landowner families amounting to 28,891 square meters. The land was deemed low
productivity land. The land acquired did not constitute the place of residence for the families involved
nor was it a major source of livelihood. Compensation was paid by PLN at a rate of Rp 200024 per
22  Excluding payment of any taxes.
23  For Cirata-I the resettlement of 8,949 families was needed from the reservoir area and 2,593 families from above the
reservoir area. About 34% of the affected families were resettled throughout the Transmigration and Nucleus Estate
and Smallholder (NES) programs. Those that elected to stay were provided with training in aquaculture and industrial
skills.
24  Or about US$ I per square meter at the prevailing exchange rate.



- 13 -
square meter, which was deemed to be adequate by the families concerned. With the money received
from compensation under the Project's Rehabilitation and Resettlement measures, the affected people
have purchased alternative plots of land in the same district that are more productive for cultivation
than the land that they gave up. About 100 affected people have found work in the construction site.
PLN assisted the affected people in the costs for renovating their mosque and a school building as well
as in providing them with drinking water. The agreements for PLN land acquisition were signed on
February 13, 1992, well before Project implementation, and the payments were made during the
ensuing 12 months.
47.   Poor water quality in the reservoirs and the likelihood of its further deterioration were
correctly identified during preparation as factors that could adversely affect not only this project but
also the livelihoods of the families resettled in Cirata I who are engaged in aquaculture in Saguling or
Cirata Reservoirs. The environmental studies that had consequently been incorporated into Cirata II
confirmed that organic pollution and nutrients from their catchments adversely affect both reservoirs;
about 75% of the organic pollutant load originates in urban settlements, and 25% from industry. The
frequent fish kills observed since 1986 are caused by a combination of toxic substances washed into
the reservoirs during major rainstorms, low dissolved oxygen in bottom water which is displaced
upwards in some storms, high concentrations of ammonia, and toxic and anoxic conditions caused by
accumulation of wastes beneath fish cages.
Procurement
48.   The Project included one major civil works contract for which US$ 44 million equivalent was
disbursed, and seven smaller contracts for which were disbursed about US$ 14.8 million equivalent
for engineering services for Project supervision, and US$ 7 million equivalent for technical assistance,
for a total of US $ 65.8 million. All procurement activities for the Project were performed in
accordance with the Bank's procurement guidelines and were generally carried out satisfactorily. The
Bank-financed contract for civil works was procured subject to ICB. The Consulting services were
procured in accordance with the Bank's guidelines for the Use of Consultants. As expected, the
procurement procedures financed by confinanciers and PLN, for which contract in the amount of US$
132.2 million were disbursed, did not affect adversely the execution of the Project.  The last
disbursement was made on October 31, 1999. There was no procurement incident of note during the
Project.
D.    PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
49.   Due to the economic crisis in the region and PLN's financial situation, the sustainability of the
Project objectives is uncertain. There is a high risk that that unless the financial situation of PLN
improves in the short to medium term, the sustainability of the Project may be impaired through
perhaps lack of maintenance budget at PLN/PJB2, deterioration of the transmission system to
evacuate power from Cirata, and dissipation of the commitment for reform and restructuring.
Continuos dialogue will be maintained with PLN and GOI on these matters and particularly in
maintaining the commitment to sector reform and restructuring of PLN to restore its financial
viability.
50.   Although the current low average tariff and the resulting dire financial situation of PLN, as
well as IPP commitments, militate against a reasonable financial viability of the Project, the recent
signs of the country's economic recovery bode well for the future of the Project. Outstanding issues
include PLN financial recovery and the resolution of the IPP commitments whose impact to PLN



- 14-
cannot be gauged at this time. Within a policy that seeks to provide reliable and affordable electricity
to consumers, an IPP rationalization Program under the oversight of a Government Ministerial Team
(established by Keppress 139/98 of September 1998) is underway to seek a resolution to this issue.
The guiding principles of the Rationalization program require that the process be transparent, with due
consideration to the legal rights and obligations of all parties concerned. In light of the above there is
still a high risk that project sustainability will be impaired if (i) PLN financial situation does not
improve, and/or (ii) the outcome of the Rationalization Program is below expectation.
51.    On the institutional side, the policy framework established in August 1998 for sector reform,
which provides the blueprint for economic recovery, is expected to assist to reverse PLN's dramatic
downturn in financial viability. Moreover, it is expected that the framework will also be instrumental
in providing a sound foundation for PLN's and the sector's medium and longer-term viability.
52.    Technically, the finished hydroelectric development is of good quality and the units have
operated at high availability since being commissioned25. Two recent issues can be noted: the stability
of the slope at the opposite bank of the tailrace is being monitored because of the heavy rains in 1998
and 1999. If required, action will be taken to stabilize the slope (para. 70). Corrective actions (para.
71) have been taken regarding a flow-induced noise that is limiting the output of units 5-8 to about
110-115 MW, which is about 10% below the nominal 125 MW. The Y2K non-compliance of Cirata
is also not expected to cause any problems (para. 72). Hence these recent issues are not expected to
affect the sustainability of the Project.
53.    Cirata is well maintained under a predictive maintenance regime (as opposed to time-based
maintenance) that has been recently introduced. The new maintenance regime reduces maintenance
costs (annual inspections are now performed in 8 days instead of 20 days). The expectation is high
that the good operation and maintenance practices will be continued in the future and hence the
sustainability of the physical infrastructure is likely.
54.    Although the demand for electricity as well as the peak demand went down during the crisis --
peak demand in 1998 dropped by 144 MW to a low of 9,872 MW -- the peak demand in 1999 has
rebounded and has already surpassed the historical high of 1997 of 10,015 MW, and hence has not
affected the operation of Cirata. Recent peak demand forecast (i.e. February 1999 optimistic scenario)
calls for peak demand to increase at an average annual growth rate of 3-4 percent till 2002. Thus the
Project in this regard is likely to be sustainable and fully utilized.
55.    The environmental studies show continuing deterioration of water quality in both reservoirs.
In the absence of "a massive reduction" in pollutant inputs from domestic, industrial and agricultural
sources (listed in order of declining importance), continued deterioration is unavoidable. Over the
long term, declining water quality will jeopardize the sustainability of the fish cage aquaculture in the
reservoirs. PLN does not have the authority to carry out any of the measures to achieve pollutant
reduction, except with respect to the relatively small amount contributed by aquaculture (chiefly fish
food inputs) in excess of local carrying capacity. The studies show that such improvements in fish
cage management would improve local conditions that contribute to fish kills but would have an
insignificant impact on overall water quality and the primary causes of fish death. Both numbers of
cages and biomass per cage are now greatly reduced because of the high cost of fish feed and low
demand for fish caused by the economic situation in Indonesia. It remains to be seen whether PLN
will exert stronger control over cage numbers, consistent with reservoir carrying capacity, when
25  Availability of units 5-8 since conmnercial operation: 88%, 84%, 95% and 95%.



- 15 -
demand for fish begins to increase again. PLN had not taken such actions during the life of the
project.
56.    The resettlement of Cirata-I has been sustainable since an economic base has been established
in the cage fisheries that provided the households with a flow of annual revenue. For the additional
families that were affected under Cirata-Il (i.e. 17 families), surveys indicate that they are happy and
their livelihood has improved. They have better land for cultivation and better opportunities for
increased their livelihood (i.e. from fisheries) with the Project. However, the economic crisis has had
a serious impact on the cage operators, which is hoped to be only temporary. The number of cages in
operation is greatly reduced, perhaps to one-third of the pre-crisis level, and profits have been cut
sharply by high fish feed costs and low demand for the more expensive species of fish. Economic
recovery should bring improved conditions in this industry in the medium term, but optimism for the
longer-term has to be tempered by the immense difficulty inherent in reversing the water quality
trends described above.
E.  BANK PERFORMANCE
57.    Overall, the Bank's performance during this Project is rated as satisfactory. The identification
and preparation of the Project were carried out smoothly and capitalized on four factors: (i) the need
for dependable peaking capacity in the fast growing Java-Bali interconnected system, (ii) the high
expectation of continuing economic growth in Java-Bali and the resulting high demand growth rates;
(iii) the need for robust frequency regulatory capability and increased reliability of supply in Java-Bali
to attract more business investments; (iv) apprehension about supply interruptions and attendant cost
of interruption of service; and (v) minor environmental penalties of the Project.
58.    The project was clearly identified. Potential risks were flagged during identification and pre-
appraisal and mitigating measures introduced in Project design and implementation, particularly in
providing dam safety training and in environmental concerns associated with the reservoirs on the
Citarum river basin. The SAR identified all the major risk factors of inherent in hydrological projects,
and was justified in assigning only a small risk for cost and schedule overruns due to geological and
hydrological risk because of the knowledge gained during the construction of Cirata Phase I, and in
particular as the dam construction took place during Cirata Phase I. The justification for the Project is
deemed sound and Project preparation is deemed satisfactory.
59.    During implementation, the Bank supervised the Project regularly through one to two
missions a year. All the field supervisions were conducted in combination with other projects in
Indonesia. The Bank correctly identified the risks associated with accelerated commitments to new
generation plant-both PLN and IPP-and with negotiating private power projects on the basis of
unsolicited proposals, and communicated clearly its concerns on these matters to Government. It also
consistently stressed the importance of ensuring PLN's financial viability through the establishment of
a soundly designed base tariff. On the institutional side, the Bank played a leading role in assisting
Government to develop the framework for restructuring and reforming the sector, which formed the
basis for Government's Power Sector Restructuring Policy launched in August 1998. In addition, the
Bank played an instrumental role in Project restructuring to cover a potential counterpart-funding
deficit caused by the crisis by allowing 100 percent financing (excluding taxes) of local costs.
Although four different Bank Task Managers were responsible for the Project during implementation,
coordination problems were kept to a minimum by having some overlap of duties during the periods
of transition.



- 16-
60.   Regarding environmental issues, there was a noticeable decline in the amount of attention
devoted to the reservoir studies after the responsibility for the environmental management of the
Cirata and Saguling reservoirs fell into the hands of the two subsidiaries, PJBl and PJB2. The Bank
and PLN organized joint meetings during Project implementation with PJB1 and PJB2, to discuss
what this responsibility entails. These discussions have been partly successful; they have led to
increase environmental awareness within PFIB and PJB2 and renewed interest in the water quality
work. Clearly, both PJB 1 and PJB2 need to have a recurrent budget for improving the environmental
quality of the water in the reservoirs.
61.   The Bank was able to use the findings of the reservoir environmental studies both internally
and externally to draw attention to the condition of the Citarum River and its watershed. For increased
local awareness of the peoples whose livelihood depends on fisheries, and to awaken commitment
with Local Government of the environmental problems of the reservoirs, particularly from waste
effluents into the reservoirs and over-fishing, the Bank sponsored a National Seminar on Management
of the Citarum watershed. PLN presented study results at this Seminar, which was very successful and
led to an Action Plan. The Bank-supported WatSAL was directly influenced.
F.  BORROWER PERFORMANCE
62.   Overall, and particularly during the implementation of the Project, the performance of PLN
was satisfactory. PLN successfully implemented both Phase I and Phase II of the Cirata hydroelectric
Project.
63.   The Government and PLN took ownership of and responded satisfactorily to the Project's
various technical assistance components, including the major studies concerning sector reform and
restructuring. Close cooperation with consultant teams has helped ensure effective knowledge-
transfer, and follow-up actions have been taken or are being taken in connection with
recommendations of the technical assistance activities. While progress on sector reform and
restructuring front has been slow, the recommendations of the consultants were ultimately well
reflected in the Power Sector Restructuring Policy launched by the Government in August 1998. This
document has provided the needed framework for sector reform and PLN's restructuring, and
implementation is proceeding albeit still with some continuing delays.
64.   In accordance with the agreement reached in the loan and project agreements, PLN has
maintained and periodically inspected the Cirata dam in accordance with sound engineering practices.
PLN can also take pride in the significant and positive influence, it has already exerted over
environmental issues including water pollution control, land development, and water resource
management in the reservoir catchments. It undertook the environmental studies and training and has
made the results known to other agencies in report form, through its own workshops, and by its
participation in a seminar on water resources management in the Citarum Basin. PLN has in this way
been influential in the major water resource management policy changes which are now taking place
in Indonesia, supported by the Bank's Water Sectoral Adjustment Loan (WatSAL). However, there
are two aspects on which more could be done. First, more effort should have been expended on
improving the environmental quality of the Saguling and Cirata reservoirs and on controlling the
conditions near the cages. Second, both PJB1 and PJB2 should allocate a recurrent budget for this
purpose and become more environmentally conscious and proactive in their planning and operating
decisions.



- 17 -
65.   There are three critically important areas in which Government's performance must be
assessed to have fallen short of expectations: (a) permitting excessive commitments to new generation
capacity and allowing or requiring power purchase agreements to be negotiated on the basis of
unsolicited proposals from sponsors; (b) reluctance to increase sufficiently the base electricity tariff or
to implement fully the automatic tariff adjustment mechanism; and (c) slow progress in developing
and implementing the framework for sector reform.
66.   The Borrower's evaluation of the Project is appended as Annex B.
G.  SUMMARY ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
67.   Although Project implementation was satisfactory, the outcome of the Project is deemed to be
unsatisfactory due mainly to two factors: (i) PLN dire financial situation; and (ii) low economic
viability of the Project. Notwithstanding the above, it is noted Cirata II was constructed with a
minimum of delay under first-rate project management from both the Engineer and PLN's side.
Supply and customer reliability has shown progress, as shown by the performance indicators. Peak
demand is forecasted to increase, albeit at reduced historical rates in the short to medium term; hence
the utilization of Cirata as a peaking plant is guaranteed as it is most important economic peaking
plant in the Java-Bali system. Cirata is highest in the merit order and its operation is vital to
maintaining system security. The process of institutional restructuring which was initiated under this
project is continuing, albeit with some delays due to the crisis. Options for enhancing the
environmental conditions in the Saguling and Cirata reservoirs are being discussed and the
environmental studies have influenced lending programs within the Bank, and environmental planning
and management at PLN have improved. Finally, although currently suspended, the mechanism for
formula-based adjustment of electricity prices was introduced under the project.
68.   PLN's current financial situation is for the most part caused by factors beyond its control and
clearly beyond the control of a single Bank project. These factors include the macroeconomic
situation, the dramatic devaluation of the local currency, and the IPPs commitments which were
imposed on PLN by Government. Improving PLN's financial performance as envisaged in the project
would have not been enough to protect PLN from the financial crisis.
H.    FUTURE OPERATIONS
69.   Both Cirata I and II have been operated successfully: Cirata I since 1998 and Cirata II since
August 15, 1997 with the commissioning of units 5&6, followed by the commissioning of units 7&8
occurred in February and April 1998. During 1998, due to favorable hydrology, Cirata operated close
to the design output, in an average year with all units operating (8 units). This has saved production
costs from thermal generation at a time that PLN is facing tremendous financial challenges. PLN has
thus demonstrated that it has the technical capacity to operate Cirata efficiently.
70.   Since the commissioning and commercial operation of the last unit of Cirata II, some local
slidings were detected at the river bank slope opposite the tailrace discharge tunnel. Inclinometers
were installed on 5 April 1998 and the situation is being closely monitored. Although the result of the
monitoring has produced no sign of slope instability that will cause a disturbance of the operation
Cirata, PLN has agreed to continue the monitoring of the slope stability and take corrective actions if
necessary and to report to the Bank when an action was taken.



- 18-
71.    A flow-induced noise which exceeds the contracted noise level (i.e. 97 dBA) has appeared
when the units are operated at power levels over 115 MW26, that is about 10% lower than its nominal
level. Corrective actions taken by PLN and the Contractor27 are expected to resolve this problem. It is
therefore expected that the flow-induced noise will not affect the physical sustainability of the Project.
PLN has agreed to submit to the Bank a Report about the corrective actions taken and their effect on
the noise and power output of the units.
72.    Since Cirata I and II at both Y2K non-compliant, PLN is developing a contingency plan
including an emergency response for Cirata. As part of the contingency plan, PLN has decided to use
the backdating solution (to 197228) as an interim measure for the short time during the critical period
at the turn of the century, since a decision for corrective measures will not be made till next year29.
This backdating would solve the malfunctions encountered during testing of the event/alarm report
printing function.   In addition, PLN  has agreed to continue with the rollover compliance tests
regarding remote start-stop and operation of the units as well and event/alarm reports, and to report to
the Bank of any unusual situation that develops".
73.    PLN/PJB2 has a very capable O&M  staff and has agreed to properly operate and maintain the
new facilities. In this regard, comprehensive and well-documented operation and maintenance
procedures are in place to ensure proper operation and maintenance of the new facilities. Predictive
maintenance procedures have been introduced and PLN and PJB2 have agreed to prepare follow-up
reports regarding the experience and costs savings attained with this new operation and maintenance
regime.
74.    PLN has agreed to continue monitoring the quality of water in the reservoirs and to submit to
the Bank annual reports. The Bank will also check the monitoring program and data collected though
its ongoing dialogue with PLN. PLN, PJB1 and PJB2, have agreed to continue with the public
awareness program regarding environmental quality of the water in the reservoirs, including options
for enhancing the environmental conditions of the reservoirs, factors that lead to fish deaths during
reservoir destratification and mitigation measures. Table 6 (Part II) summarizes the environmental
management activities completed, in progress, and yet to be initiated.
I.   KEY LESSONS LEARNED
75.    Both Cirata Phases I and II were well designed and constructed. Both Projects benefited from
excellent project management by the Engineer. For Cirata-I1 in particular excellent coordination was
26   The investigation carried out by the Contractor indicated that the dominant peak vibration mode of 230 Hz was caused
by Karman vortices from the trailing edge of the stay vanes.
27   This work is being carried out at no cost to PLN since Cirata II is still under guarantee provided by the Contractor. In
fact the guarantee period has been extended by one extra year to allow for mitigation of this problem.
28   The year 1972 was selected since it offers the same characteristics for weekdays and weekends as the year 2000.
29   The Supervisory Control Equipment (SCE) needs to be upgraded. PLN is an present investigating various solutions,
ranging form a complete change of the SCE at a cost of about US$ 4.5 million, to other more modest changes not
involving replacing the present SCE.
30  PLN has conducted several rollover compliance tests and the result obtained show that remote start up and stopping
and operation of the units from the switching yard is possible.



- 19-
attained among the various contractors and PLN site and head office which allowed many difficulties
to be overcome during project implementation. ICB is still the best means of reducing costs.
76.   Environmental studies of the sort included in this project, while of interest to environmental
staff in PLN, do not receive high priority from operating staff. It is important to obtain commitment
from senior managers responsible for operations when contemplating such studies. Such commitment
must be shown in two ways: adequate budget and purchasing authority and incorporation of
responsibility for study execution in the job descriptions of operations managers. Without these, it is a
continuous struggle to keep sufficient human and budgetary resources focused on the studies, and they
come to be seen as an unimportant and a nuisance.
77.   Rapid action by the Bank to cover all of local financing (excluding taxes) was critical in
avoiding potential project delays by nonpayment to contractors due to lack of counterpart funding.
78.   Cost estimates should be more robust. The actual Project costs (not including IDC) were 38%
less than at appraisal.
79.   Close on-the-ground supervision and willingness to be flexible in adopting the Project to the
local conditions is an essential ingredient for good project implementation.
80.   As in the other Bank projects with PLN, the relationship with PLN throughout the Project was
based on mutual trust and confidence and, in fact, complementary. This has helped to solve and iron
out during procurement many problems without negative impacts on the Bank-Borrower relationship.
It was instrumental in the rapid action taken to amend the loan agreement to cover 1OOpercent of local
costs (excluding taxes) which minimized the risk of lack of counterpart funding at the time when PLN
needed it the most.






- 20 -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
CIRATA HYDROELETRIC PHAES II PROJECT
(LOAN 3602-IND)
PART IL STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1:      Summary of Assessment
Table 2:      Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:      Project Timetable
Table 4:      Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:      Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:      Status of Implementation of Environmental Recommendations
Table 7:      Studies Included in Project
Table 8A:     Project Costs
Table 8B:     Project Financing
Table 9:      Economic Analysis of Hydroelectric Power Plant
Table 10:     Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11:     Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12:     Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13:     Bank Resources: Missions



I



- 21 -
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives        Substantial       Partial         Neglible        Not applicable
Macro Policies                     E]                a               C]                l
Sector Policies                    I]               i:               C :
Financial Objectives               E                I]                                  5 E
Institutional Development   .                                                           5
Physical Objectives                                  5 a                                5
Poverty Reduction                   5                5               El                  3
Gender Issues                       5                5               El
Other Social Objectives            E                                 E a
Environmental Objectives           E                 O                a
Public Sector Management            5                                R                 Ia
Private Sector Development          5                5
Other (specify)                     5                 ]               D]
B. Project Sustainability             Likely                 Unlikely                  Uncertain
(1)        (V)                        ~~~~~~~~~(V)
5                        5
Highly
C. Bank Performance                 satisfactory            Satisfactory               Deficient
(/)                     (v')                       (V)
Identification                     5                                                   5
Preparation Assistance             5                                                   a
Appraisal                          5                                                   5
Supervision                        5                                                   5
Highly
D. Borrower Performance            satisfactory             Satisfactory                Deficient
. .          ~(a/)                   (v')                       (1)
Preparation                        5                                                   5
Implementation - Physical          a                                                   5
- Institutional       5                        5
Covenant Compliance                5                        5
Operation (if applicable)          5                                                   5
Highly                                             Highly
E. Assessment of Outcome            satisfactory    Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory     unsatisfactory
5/)            5/)              5/)                (/)



- 22 -
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit                  Purpose/Description                    Year of      Status
title                                                          approval
Loan 2506-    Comprising: (a) a distribution system for Jakarta and the  1981  Completed
IND           regencies of Bogor, Tangerang and Bekasi (Jabotabek) in         in 1988
Eleventh      West Java, involving about 450 km of kV cables, 760 km of
Power Project  20 kV overhead lines; (b) a 150 kV voltage system,
involving 5 new substations in Jakarta, 46 km of
underground double-circuit 150 kV cables and 980 MBA of
transformers; (c) engineering of the next base-load thermal
power unit (at Paiton) in Java; (d) engineering of the Extra
High Voltage (EHV) Central-East Java transmission line;
and (e) management consultancy for further improvements in
PLN's financial planning and control systems.
Loan 2214-    Comprising: (a) construction of 110 (2 x 55) MW extension  1982  Completed
IND Twelfth   of Kamojang geothermal power station in West Java; (b)           in 1991
Power Project  construction of the third 400 MW thermal generating unit at
Suralaya, including engineering services for the third and
fourth generating units; (c) distribution system improvements
in Java, North Sumatra and South Sulawesi; (d) a mini-hydro
development program in North Sumatra; and (e) training
facilities and services to assist PLN's manpower
development program.
Loan 2300-    Comprising: (a) construction of Cirata hydroelectric power  1983  Completed
IND           project (4x125 MW); (b) construction of 500 kV switchyard        in 1990
Thirteenth    and 25 km 500 kV transmission line; (c) consultant services
Power Project  for Cirata project and an energy sector support program to
support engineering and design for major thernal stations, an
information management system study, and feasibility
studies for hydro, thennal and transmission and distribution
schemes.
Loan 2443-    To construct and install the third and fourth 400 MW thermal  1984  Completed
IND           generating units at Suralaya in West Java; to extend the        in 1992
Fourteenth    distribution network in Jakarta, Bogor, Tangerang and
Power Project  Bekasi (Jabotabek), East Java and Central Java; and to
provide consulting services for engineering and construction
supervision of transmission lines and substations in Java and
for engineering and design of hydro projects.



- 23 -
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits (Cont'd)
Loan/credit                   Purpose/Description                     Year of       Status
title                                                             approval
Loan 3097-    The project included: (a) diesel power units rehabilitation  1989   Completed
IND           and relocation; (b) small hydropower renovation; (c)                in 1995.
Power Sector   distribution investment; (d) expansion of PLN's
Efficiency    telecommunication facilities; (e) training program; (f)
Project       distribution management program; (g) technical assistance
for general accounting/cash management and
financial/corporate planning; (h) institutional mechanism to
advise GOI on energy price adjustments; (i) information
system to provide costs for PLN's rural electrification
program; and (I) utilization by PLN of captive generating
capacity.
Loan 3098-    To provide for the construction of the Paiton coal-fired  1989      Completed
IND           power plant with an initial capacity of 800 MW and an               in 1995.
Paiton        ultimate capacity of 4,000 MW in East Java; associated 500
Thermal       kV and 150 kV transmission system; and technical assistance
Power Project  to strengthen capacity of Ministry of Mines and Energy in
environmental matters and train PLN personnel in power
plant technology.
Loan 3349-    The overall objective of the project was to expand,       1991      Completed
IND Power    strengthen and upgrade the transmission facilities for the           in 1997.
Transmission   Java-Bali system to supply electricity to new consumers
Project       and to meet increases in electricity demand arising from
existing and new consumers. To support this overall
objective, the project had three specific objectives: (a)
physical objective: to ensure that investments in power
transmission facilities proceed at an appropriate level to
supply electricity to new consumers and to meet increase in
electricity demand in Java, by strengthening and upgrading
the Java-Bali transmission system; (b) institutional
objective: to improve PLN's capability in long-term
planning of transmission systems, by providing technical
assistance in long-term development of the transmission
system in Java-Bali; (c) financial objective: to promote
measures for strengthening PLN's financial position by
establishing an institutional mechanism to review and
advise the Govermnent on all price adjustments in the
energy sector.



- 24 -
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits (Cont'd)
Loan/credit                   Purpose/Description                     Year of       Status
title                                                             approval
Loan 3501-    The project includes: (a) the construction of three coal-  1992     Completed
IND           fired units of 600/MW each at Suralaya, including                   in 1999.
Suralaya      associated works and a 500 kV transmission line from
Thernal       Cilegon to Cibinong, with associated substations; (b)
Power Project  consulting services for engineering, design and
construction supervision of the proposed units; (c)
feasibility study for a high voltage submarine cable link
between Java and Sumatra; (d) engineering and design of a
thermal power p-ant at Banjarmasin in South Kalimantan;
(e) consulting services for institutional development; and
(f) training of PLN's staff in public utility practices.
Loan 3761-    The main objectives of the project as stated in the Staff  1994     Implemen-
IND           Appraisal Report (SAR) are to support the first phase of the        tation
Sumatera and   Government of Indonesia's long term policy agenda for the          underway;
Kalimantan    power sector aimed at efforts to: (a) Increase private sector       loan
Power         participation to accelerate expansion of generating capacity        closing on
Development  and upgrade sector operating standards; (b) Restructure PLN          December
Project       to improve its operational performance and services                 31,2000.
efficiency; (c) Formulate and implement regulations along
with supporting administrative arrangements to promote
efficiency in Sector operations; and (d) Introduce a formula
based periodic tariff adjustment mechanism to recover cost.
Loan 3978-    To improve customer service by (a) increasing the physical  1996    Implemen-
IND           capacity, efficiency, and reliability of the Java-Bali              tation
Second        transmission system and distribution network; and (b)               underway;
Power         promoting sector efficiency, competition, and private               loan
Transmission   sector participation by implementing functional                    closing on
and           decentralization of State Electricity Corporation (PLN)             September
Distribution    operations in Java-Bali and developing effective regulatory       30, 2000.
Project       oversight and institutions. The project has two principal
components: (a) the restructuring of and investment in
PLN's operations; and (b) the development of regulatory
oversight.



- 25 -
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle             Date Planned      Date Actual/
Latest Estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)                          02/20/92
Preparation                                                         03/09/92
Appraisal                                                           06/23/92
Negotiations                                                        03/29/93
Board Presentation                                                  05/11/93
Signing                                                       .    06/25/93
Effectiveness                                                       10/28/93
Midterm review (if applicable)
Project Completion                                 08/31/98         06/30/99
Loan Closing                                       06/30/99         06/30/99
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
FY94   FY95   FY96   FY97   FY98   FY99   FY00
Appraisal Estimate         14.0    41.8    72.4    94.0   100.0   104.0
Actual                      4.3    14.1    22.8    37.2    46.5    62.3    64.1
Actual as % of Estimate    30.7    33.7    31.5    39.6    46.5    59.9
Loan Proceeds Cancellation  $26 million was canceled out of the loan effective August 26,
1998 as a part of the portfolio restructuring program for Indonesia
in responding to the financial crisis in the country.
Date of Final Disbursement October 5, 1999.
(An undisbursed balance of US$ 13.9 million was canceled.)



- 26 -
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Development Objectives and Performance Indicator                     Actual
Provide economical and environmentally sound expansion of  1.  Units 5&6 were commissioned two
PLN's peaking capacity in Java and improve service       months behind schedule in August 15, 1997
reliability as follows                                  Unit 8 was commissioned on February 16,
1998
1. Peaking capacity increased by                        Unit 7 was commissioned in April 16, 1998
(a) 2x125 MW in Units 5&6 on June 15, 1997
(b) 2x125 MW Units 7&8 by October 15, 1997              2. SAIFI:
FY 97: 9.6; FY 98: 12.4; FY99: 12.1
2. Improve service reliability in Java as follows:      (b) SAIDI
(b) SAIFI (no. of outages per customer per year) targets  FY 97 10.1; FY 98: 9.8; FY99: 12.0
FY97: 12.7; FY98: 12.1; FY99 12.0
(b) SAIDI (min of outages per customer per year) targets  3. Unit availabilities in FY98 were for Unit 5-
FY 97: 12.5; FY 98: 12.2; FY 99: 12.1                    8: 88%; 85 %; 98% and 97%.
3. Unit Availabilities over 85%
Update Hydro Inventories and carry out prefeasibility studies  Hydro inventories have been updated and 9
for promising hydro electric schemes                    prefeasibility studies have been undertaken
Strengthening PLN's capability in the planning, instigation    Hydro database was updated and a long-term
and operation of hydroelectric schemes and in environmental  strategy for hydro-resource development was
management of power projects                            finalized, including framework to carrying out
enviromnental impact assessments.
Continue the process of institutional restructuring of PLN to   Comprehensive policy and strategy studies
provide for greater decentralization, delegation and     were developed which provided a good basis
commercialization                                        for advancing the dialogue with GOI and
PLN. The recommendations of the work
undertaken provided the underpinnings for the
Government's Power Sector Restructuring
Policy, which was launched in August 1998.
Study Options for enhancing the environmental conditions of  A National Workshop was organized with the
the existing reservoirs on the Citarum basin             participation of Local Government, PLN, and
both PJBl and PJB2.
Most or the no-cost and low-cost
recommendations to improve the
environmental conditions of both Saguling
and Cirata reservoirs have been carried out.
Enhancing the dialogue on introducing a mechanism for    An Electricity Tariff Automatic Adjustment
formula-based adjustment of electricity prices.          Mechanism (ETAM) was introduced by
Presidential Decree in October 1994.
Strengthening PLN Financial Position                     PLN's financial position has unfortunately
weakened over the period during which the
project was implemented. Prior to the crisis,
PLN was moderately profitable but sill unable
to achieve the target ROR of 8% due mainly
by the failure of Government to implement
needed tariff increases.



- 27 -
Table 6. Status of Implementation of Environmental Recommendations
Recommended Action           I Status  |            Comments
Actions with immediate urgency
Homogeneity of water quality monitoring    complete  Implemented by lab contractors.
Continuity of data collection and
analysis should be covered in Cirata
II Operational Plan.
Sediment quality monitoring program    ongoing   Cirata 1997, planned for both in 1999
Strengthen laboratory capability       ongoing   Training seminar conducted; mission
recommended split samples.
Analytical quality assurance should
be covered in Op. Plan.
Continue PROKASIH in Citarum, Cimahi,  inactive   PROKASIH is not within control of
Cisokan Rivers                                   PLN, nor is it highly effective
Control agriculture in drawdown area   ongoing   Rice, corn, peanuts and peppers are
I grown, on share-cropping basis
Conduct new census in both reservoirs  ongoing   1998 completed; 1999 scheduled
Actions with short-term   enc
Computerized data storage facilities for  partially  $300,000 price precludes full
Env. Div. and hydropower plant env. units   complete  implementation, but can transfer data
between reservoirs and PJB offices.
Reliable storage and good
accessibility of all data should be
covered in the Op. Plan.
Procure water quality profiler         not       Under consideration, but $127,000
complete  price makes this difficult at present
Avoid concentration of polluting industry in  not  Not within PLN's control, but Op.
West Bandung as currently planned      complete  Plan should include mechanism for
PLN to participate in land use
planning and land development
decision-making in the watershed.
Isolation of Saguling compartments to act as not  Pre-feasibility study cost of $127,000
treatment ponds.                       complete  makes this difficult at present, but
idea under consideration. PJB 1 has
received proposal from private
developer to isolate one arm of
Saguling for recreation.
Reduce number of fish cages, with priority   complete  Restocking already done; krismon has
to remaining resettled families; restock with    already reduced operating cages by
50% Tilapia (Nila)                               85% in Saguling and 80% in Cirata.
Governor's decree has given PJB2
full authority over Cirata including
fishery. Op. Plan should provide for
same authority for PJB1.
Integrate env. monitoring unit in Env. Div.   partially   Quarterly coordinating meetings are
with necessary authority over PJB's in  complete  held, but no organizational changes



- 28 -
environmental matters.                           made. Needs attention in Op. Plan.
Constitute working group on fish pathology  complete  A group is on call at UNPAD.
Actions with short-to-medium-term urgency
Implement wastewater treatment program in not    Not within control of PLN, but PLN's
the catchment                          complete  presentation of this study's findings
has contributed to movement toward
Citarum Basin management program.
Destocking and staggering of fish mass in   complete  Economic conditions have caused
critical periods                                 reduction in fish mass. See comment
on reducing number of fish cages.
Purchase equipment for continuous      not       Purchase, staff and training deferred
monitoring at Janggari and Bongas      complete  by PJB 1.
Conduct detailed analysis during fish kills;  partially   Heavy metal analysis ongoing; quick
determine heavy metals in fish         complete  response team at UNPAD
PLN take active role in watershed      complete  PLNshould carefully track progress
management agencies                              toward Citarum Basin Authority
Watershed management agency assist W.    not     Not under control of PLN; new
Java in enforcing environmental laws   complete  agency will be created with stronger
. authority.
Promote awareness campaigns            not       PLN should disseminate study results
complete  and other information on reservoirs
Iand water quality to the public.
Actions with medium or long-term urgency
Upper Citarum riverbank management     not       PJB 1 has been replanting greenbelts
program                                complete  around reservoirs; other agencies
responsible for riverbank
Support trials for natural sustainable,  complete
plankton-feeding fish in Cirata
Achieve 80% urban sewage treatment,    not       Beyond control of PLN, but
100% sanitation and industrial wastewater   complete  BAPEDAL and PU are developing
control in catchments                           regulations and program



- 29 -
Table 7: Studies
Study             Purpose as Defined at         Status             Impact of Study
Appraisal/Redefined
Regulatory      To develop (i) a framework of     Completed.  The studies undertaken have served as
Framework       regulatory controls for the sector  Final Report  a blueprint and underpinning for the
Studies         consistent with and supportive of the   in December  Government's Power Sector
chosen private participation strategy,  1996   Restructuring policy which was
and (ii) an industry structure and draft      launched in August 19987.
laws and regulatory instruments to             Ownership of the reform agenda at
implement the necessary regulatory            the middle management levels of
changes.                                       Government and PLN has
strengthened as a result of the studies.
Hydro           To update hydroelectric and pumped    Completed.  The study allowed PLN to prepare a
Inventory &     storage inventories; to formulate long         database of hydropower projects. It
Prefeasibility    term strategy for hydro-resources  Final Report  has strengthened PLNB hydropower
Studies         development in line with Government   in October   capabilities. The comprehensive
long term objectives; to identify    1998.    information available will be of
priority schemes for preparation; to          importance to PLN and other potential
strengthen hydro-planning group               investors when planning on the next
within PLN and the capabilities of             hydropower scheme.
national consulting industry in this
field.
Environmental   To investigate the environmental  Completed.  The recommendations of the studies
Studies         conditions of the catchments and               are being implemented as much as
reservoirs of the Cirata and Saguling    Final Report  possible. In particular the
power development; to gain a better  in June    recommendation on fish cage
knowledge of the pollutant sources   1999.     management of fish kills have been
and to understand how the various              taken. PLN and the two generating
pollutants affect the reservoirs; to           subsidiaries (PJB 1 and PJB2) are now
identify options to improve the                more keenly aware, as owner and
environmental health of the existing           operators of the Saguling and Cirata
PLN reservoirs on the Citarum River;           reservoirs, of water quality problems as
and to assist the Government/PLN to            well as with the institutional needs to
improve the environmental                      mitigate the problem.
management of the Citarum River
reservoirs.
Hydro Data      To improve the quality and           Not       The analytical work of upgrading
Base Studies    availability of the data required for  completed.   hydro databases and improving data
hydro inventory studies by data base           collection practices was finalized.
upgrading and data collection      Interim     However, the acquisition of the
improvement.                       Report in   required software and computer
January    equipment was not undertaken.
1996.



- 30 -
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal Estimate (US$M)          Actual/Latest
Estimate(US$M)
Item                   Local  Foreign      Total    Local  Foreign       Total
Costs    Costs                Costs    Costs
Preliminary & Environmental            1.4       0.9        2.3      0.5       0.8       1.3
Civil Works                           17.6      57.4      75.0      19.4      24.6      44.0
Metal Works                            3.1      10.4       13.5      1.9      14.3      16.2
Electrical& Mechanical Equipment      17.3    106.5      123.8       6.5     109.6    116.1
Engineering and Supervision            4.4      18.4      23.8       4.5       7.2      11.7
Administration                         5.9         -        5.9      0.9         -       0.9
Subtotal                              49.7    193.6      243.3      33.6     156.5    190.1
OtherTeclnicalAssistance               5.2       8.9       14.1      0.9       2.2       3.1
Base Cost                             54.9    202.5       257.4     34.5     158.7    193.2
Physical Contingencies                 7.8      23.1       30.9
Price Contingencies                    6.3      18.4       24.7
Total Project Cost                    69.0    244.0       313.0     34.5     158.7     193.2
Interest During Construction*         24.0      61.8       85.8
Total Financing Required              93.0    305.8      398.8
* The actual interest during construction is not available.
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal Estimate (US$M)          Actual/Latest*
Estimate(US$M)
Source                  Local    Feign      Total    Local  Foreign       Total
Costs    Costs               Costs     Costs
GOI/PLN                   93.0      52.6     145.6      13.2       3.2      16.4
Export Credits                 -     149.2     149.2         -     112.7     112.7
IBRD                        -     104.0     104.0     21.3      42.8      64.1
Total                   93.0    305.8       398.8     34.5     158.7     193.2
* The actual interest during construction is not available.



- 31 -
Table 9: Economic Analysis of Hydroelectric Power Plant
Appraisal Estimate             Re-estimate
Economic Internal Rate of Return   19.1% including Consumer  6.6 % including Consumer
(EIRR).                         Surplus                      Surplus.
Obtained based PLN's investment   10.6% without Consumer     Not measurable since all the
program in Java for 1992/93 -   Surplus                      net benefits are negative
1997/98 of which the proposed
Cirata Hydroelectric Phase II
Project is a part as follows:
Equalizing Discount Rate based on   31.8%                    22.4%
avoided costs with thermal
alternative.
Note: For detailed calculations, see Annexes C and D.



- 32 -
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Original     Revised
Agreement  Section   Covenant  Present  fulfillment   fulfillment               Description of covenant            Comments
type     status      date         date
Loan        3.01(b)       3         C                                Subsidiary loan agreement with PLN.
3.0 1(c)      3         C                               Borrower to enforce subsidiary loan agreement.
4.02(a)      11         C                               Review annually PIN's investment plan,
4.02(b)      11         C                               Review annually PLN's development plan,
associated financial forecast and financing plan.
4.03         11         C                               Borrower shall take all actions necessary to
ensure that transfer of profits from PLN to the
Overall Development Fund (DPS) shall not
prevent PLN from implementing its annual
investment plans.
6.01          3         C                               Subsidiary loan agreement executed.
Project     2.06(a)       9         C                                PLN shall continue to have Cirata Dam
periodically inspected; and inspection by
independent experts as required by the Bank.
2.06(b)     10         c                               PLN shall continue to implement the program of
maintenance of Cirata Dam.
2.07          9         C                               PLN shall (a) by 10/31/94, submit action plans fo
creating database for service reliability and
consumer waiting lists; and improving service
reliability and reducing waiting lists; and (b)
implement action plans.
4.02          2         C                               PLN shall periodically review LRMC and Tariff
structure with Bank.
4.03          2        NC                               PLN shall not incur any debt unless reasonable
forecasts of revenues and expenditures show
projected net revenues for each FY during terms
of debt at least 1.5 times the projected debt
service on all debt.
4.04         13         C                               PLN shall (a) prepare a 10-year financial forecast
based development plan; (b) test each proposed
development plan for financial feasibility; (c)
develop financing plan for first 5 years; (d) ensure
its recommended development plan, etc. are
jointly reviewed with the borrower and the Bank
prior to their adoption by its Board.
4.05(a)(i)    2        NC                               PLN shall take measures to realize for its Java
operations, for FY92/93 and in each FY
thereafter, an annual ROR of not less than 8%.
4.05(a)       2        NC                               PLN shall take measures with respect to its
(ii)                                                    outside Java operations to produce no later than
1994/95 and in each FY thereafter, total revenues
equal to no less than the sum of outside Java
operations: (a) total operating expenses; (b)
amount by which debt service requirements
exceed depreciation provision.
4.05(b)       2        CP                               Before Dec. 31 each year, PLN shall review
adequacy of tariffs to meet requirements in Art.
4.05(a) and furnish to Bank results of such
review.



-33 -
4.06         13        C                              For FY93/94 and each FY thereafter, PLN shall
revalue its fixed assets and accumulated
depreciation.
4.08(a)      13        C                              PLN shall review annually with Bank and 001,
its investment plans for next five years.
4.08(b)      13        C                              PLN shall review annually with Bank and GOI,
its development plans, associated financial
forecasts and financing plan.
Covenant types:
I. =  Accounts/audits                                     8. = Indigenous people
2. =  Financial performance/revenue generation from       9. = Monitoring, review, and reporting
beneficiaries                                     10. = Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9
3. =  Flow and utilization of project funds              11. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource
4. =  Counterpart funding                                        allocation
5. =  Management aspects of the project or executing     12. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/ regulatory/institutional
agency                                                    action
6. =  Environmental covenants                            13. = Other
7. =  Involuntary resettlement
Present Status:
C = covenant complied with
CD = complied with after delay
CP = complied with partially
NC = not complied with



-34 -
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement Number and Title          Describe and comment on lack of compliance
There are no OMS relevant to the Project that have not been complied with and/or been acted against.
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned          Revised           Actual
Stage of
Project Cycle           Weeks    US$    Weeks   US$   Weeks    US$
Preparation to appraisal            -         -        -       -        20.3     -
Appraisal                           -         -        -       -        53.8     -
Negotiation through Board approval  -         -        -       -        13.1     -
Supervision                         -         -        -       -       43.8      -
Completion                                   -                 -         8.5     -
TOTAL                                       -                 -       139.5



- 35 -
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating
Stage of      Month    No. of    Days    Specialized           IP             DO                    Types of
Project Cycle    /Year    Persons    in        Staff Skills                                           Problems
Field    Represented
Through Appraisal   03/92      6         8     Eng., Fin.
Analyst, Env.
Spec.,
Economist
06/92       5        10    Eng., Fin.
Analyst, Env.
Spec.,
Economist
Appraisal through
Board Approval
Board Approval
through
Effectiveness
Supervision        04/94       2         5     Eng., Fin.           2
03/95       1        5     Eng.                 S              HS
09/95       1        5     Eng.                 S               S
03/96       2        5     Eng. Power           S               S
Spec.
11/96      2         5     Eng., Power          S               S         Slight implementation delays (by
Spec.                                         3 and a half months).
07/97       1        5     Eng.                 S               S         Vibration in Unit 5.
11/97      4         5     Eng., Eco.           S               S         Subsoil movement at tailrace;
Pwr Spec.,                                    noise in Units 5-8.
Env. Spec.
07/98       3        5     Eng., Power          S               U         Unsatisfactory financial
Spec., Env.                                   performance; non-compliance
Spec.                                         with financial covenants.
12/98      3         5     Power Spec.,         S              U          Technical issues (such as subsoil
Eng., Fin.                                    movement, noise); poor financial
Analyst                                       performance.
Completion         04/99        5        5     Power Spec.,         S               U         Technical issues (such as subsoil
Eng., Env.                                    movement, noise); poor financial
Spec. Op.                                     performance.
Officer, Fin.
Analyst
Note:   *   All the above missions were conducted in combination with missions for other power
projects, therefore, the days spent in the fields are only estimates.
** IP - Implementation Progress; DO - Development Objective;
S - Satisfactory; HS - Highly Satisfactory; U - Unsatisfactory;






- 36-
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
CIRATA HYDROELECTRIC PHASE II PROJECT
(LOAN 3602-IIND)
ANNEXES
ANNEX  A: ICR MISSION'S AIDE MEMOIRE
ANNEX  B: BORROWER'S EVALUATION REPORT
ANNEX  C: CALCULATION OF ECONOMIC SNTERNAL
RATE OF RETURN
ANNEC  D  EQUALIZING DISCOUNT RATE
COMPARISON WITI THERMAL ALTERNATIVE
ANNEX  E: PLN'S KEY FINANCIAL INDICATORS



I



- 37 -
ANNEX A
CIRATA HYDROELECTRIC PHASE II PROJECT
(LOAN 3602-IND)
AIDE MEMOIRE
ICR Mission
(April 1999)
Project Objectives
1.    The main objective of the project was to expand PLN's peaking electricity generation in
Java to improve service reliability through financing the second phase of Cirata Hydroelectric
Power Plant. In addition, the project also aimed at strengthening of PLN's institutional capacity
and financial position through related technical assistance activities.
Preparation for the ICR
2.    The mission reviewed with PLN the ICR process and requirements, and collected data
and information for its preparation. The mission also visited the Cirata Hydroelectric Power Plant
and followed-up on some important outstanding issues.
3.    In addition, the mission provided advice to PLN for preparing its own evaluation report,
which will be attached unedited to the ICR. The mission suggested that PLN's own evaluation
report should include: (a) an assessment of the project's objectives, design, implementation, and
operational experience; (b) an evaluation of PLN's own performance during the evolution and
implementation of the project with specific emphasis on lessons learned that may be relevant in
the future; and (c) an evaluation of the performance of the Bank during the evolution and
implementation of the project, including the effectiveness of the relationship between PLN and
the Bank, with special emphasis on lessons learned.
Overview of Physical Component
4.    General Progress and Status  The project financed four 125 MW units for the second
phase of the Cirata Hydroelectric Power Plant. Units 5&6 were put into commercial operation on
August 15, 1997 (compared to the SAR schedule of June 30, 1997). Unit 8 started commercial
operation on February 16, 1998 (compared to the SAR schedule of September 30, 1997), while
Unit 7 started commercial operation on April 16, 1998 (compared to the SAR date of September
30, 1997). The delay with Unit 7 was mainly caused by low water level in the Cirata reservoir
due to extensive drought at the time.
5.    In 1998, all Units 5-8 generated 1,743 GWh with Availabilities of 88%, 85%. 97% and
83%, respectively. The operation of these units has been outstanding and has provided electricity
at low cost and needed peaking capacity to the mainly base-loaded system in Java-Bali. Cirata
also provides an important frequency regulation function, which enhances system reliability and
quality of power supply. It is an essential plant for operation of the Java-Bali system. Thus the
physical objective of the project is deemed to have been met.



- 38 -
6.    Outstanding Issues.   Two outstanding issues were followed-up by the mission during
its field visit, namely:
(a)    Subsoil Movement at Tailrace - Opposite Bank    Monitoring of the slope
stability at the opposite bank of the tailrace area was initiated in March 1998.
During the rainy season of 1998, several local slidings were found at the
downstream  area.  According to the inclinometers installed on site, the
downward movement is about 0.3-3 cm in the upstream area since monitoring
began. However, no occurrences of recent slidings at the downstream and
upstream sliding areas were observed and no sign of slope instability that will
cause a disruption of Cirata HEPP. Its was agreed, however, that the monitoring
be continued for one more year, on a monthly basis or immediately after heavy
rains or earth tremors, and that a report be sent to the Bank immediately once a
problem is observed.
(b)    Noise in Units 5-8. Higher than expected noise levels have been observed with
all units. The matter has been under investigation by the Contractor (Voest
Alpine) and remedial work on the stayvane vibration and the removal of the
reinforcement of the aeration tripod from the draft tube cone of Unit 8 was
completed with testing initiated on April 20, 1999. As a result of the higher
noise level, the output of the units must be limited (e.g., Unit 5 has been limited
its output at 100 MW or below) at an economic cost to PLN. PLN indicated to
the mission that it may consider claiming for compensation from the contractor.
In addition, since the modifications to the stayvane may not significantly reduce
the noise levels, PLN will request the contractor to extend the guarantee period to
two years - the Contractor has suggested that they will only cover one year
extension. It was agreed that PLN will keep the Bank informed of the
development of this matter and prepare a short report to the Bank by mid-June
1999. It was also agreed that the supervision engineer (Sinotech Engineering
Consultant) prepare an addendum to the completion report and send to the Bank
directly upon completion (expected in end June 1999) to include two additional
items: (a) description and results of the works for the guarantee inspection of
Units 7&8, and (b) results and recommendations regarding the modifications to
reduce noise in Units 5-8.
Overview of TA Components
7.    Hydro-Inventory and Pre-feasibility Study.  The contract for this TA was signed on
February 6, 1997 between PLN and Nippon Koei in association with PT Indra Karya and PT
Wiratman. The hydro-inventory study, finalized in December 1997, identified 1,369 projects
consisting of 1,249 hydropower projects and 58 pumped storage projects. A classification of nine
projects followed which proceeded to the pre-feasibility study stage based on (a) generation
expansion studies; (b) favorable distribution of regions; (c) sites with easier accessibility.
Although the timing of the hydropower projects may no longer be valid (projects to be completed
up to 2018), the technical parameters were based on international experience and therefore still
valid. The pre-feasibility study will include an updated economic analysis based on current
conditions. This TA is proceeding satisfactorily and expected to be completed by loan closing
(June 30, 1999).



- 39-
8.    Upgrade of Hydrological DataBase. The contract of this TA was signed on June 28,
1995 between PLN and Sogreah Ingenierie in association with PR Pratama Widya and PT
Kwarsa Hexagon. Implementation of this TA activity is not satisfactory because of extended
delays. The technical specifications of computer hardware, which were prepared in December
1996, are now out-of-date and need to be reviewed and revised. Previous Bank missions had
requested PLN to ask the Consultant to prepare revised specifications for equipment procurement
for review by PLN and the Bank. However, the Bank has not received such revised
specifications to date. The mission advised PLN that unless the equipment is procured and
delivered before the loan closing date (June 30, 1999), the loan allocation for this purpose will
have to be canceled. A meeting was held on April 30, 1999 with a Sogreah representative to
discuss this issue. According to the contract, Sogreah is responsible for the purchase of the
computer equipment, installation and testing. (IBRD International Shopping.  Since Sogreah
could not commit time and effort to finalize by loan closing, the mission agreed in principle with
the suggestion of PLN for a last effort and contact Nippon Koei (Consultants for the Hydro-
Inventory and Pre-feasibility Study) to find out if they can take over this work. PLN will advise
the Bank about this matter by Ist week of May, 1999
9.    Environmental Studies of Cirata and Saguling Reservoirs    PLN confirmed that the
environmental consultant, Electrowatt Engineering in association with Amythas Experts and
Associates, PT., satisfactorily completed all work under the contract. The mission reviewed with
PLN (including staff from head office, PJB 1, PJB2 and the reservoir operating units) the status of
the actions recomrnended in the consultant's final report.
10.   PLN environmental staff report that all of the actions regarding modification of the
routine monitoring program have been implemented. Training in laboratory procedures to
improve accuracy and reliability has been conducted. Management of monitoring data has been
improved to the extent that PJB I and PJB2 can themselves produce reports of monitoring results
(the mission received samples), and data can be transferred electronically between the reservoir
offices and the PJB offices. However, current budget constraints have prevented implementation
of the full data management recommendation, which would among other things allow PLN
Environment Division to access data files from Jakarta. Budget constraints have also caused
other high-cost actions to be deferred, namely the purchase of profilers and continuous monitors,
and the pre-feasibility studies for using portions of Saguling as wastewater treatment ponds. A
fish pathology working group and quick response team have been set up and are on call at
Padjadjaran University
11.   All fish cage management actions have been taken, including trials with new species and
increases in the percentage of Tilapia in the cage operations. However, the dramatic reductions
in the number of operating cages and in fish biomass have occurred primarily because of
increases in fish food costs and diminished domestic demand for the cultured fish rather than as
results of overt action by PLN or Department of Fisheries.
12.   There is a group of actions over which PLN has little or no control; these concern land
use planning, land development, and water pollution control and water resource management in
the reservoir catchments. PLN can take pride in the significant and positive influence it has
already exerted over these processes by conducting the environmental studies and making the
results known to other agencies in report form, through its own workshops, and by its
participation in other seminars on water resources management in the Citarum Basin. In this
way, PLN has been influential in the major water resource management policy changes that are



-40 -
now taking place in Indonesia, supported by the Bank's Water Sectoral Adjustment Loan
(WatSAL). The mission urged PLN to remain engaged in all of these activities, for it is both a
primary stakeholder and an important contributor of data and technical advice, particularly on the
integration of water quality management into land use and water resource use decisions.
13.   For PLN to derive the full benefit of the environmental studies, it is important that the
plan for the future operation of the Cirata II project provide for continuity in monitoring and for
eventual implementation of the additional studies and other actions recommended by the
consultant.
14.   Regulatory Framework Study (DGEED).  The contract for this study was signed on
March 31, 1995. The study has been successfully carried out and provided the basis for the
power sector restructuring policy, which was launched by GOI in August 1998.
15.   Financing Strategy Study. This study was not undertaken as planned because it was
deemed unnecessary by DGEED as it was covered by other studies.
Resettlement and Land Acquisition
16.   No families were resettled as part of the project. Land was acquired from 17 owners,
amounting to 28,891 square meters. Compensation was paid at a rate of Rp. 2,000 per square
meter in all cases. The agreements were signed on February 13, 1992, and the payments were
made during the ensuing 12 months.
Recalculation of Economic Internal Rate of Return (EIRR)
17.   It was discussed and agreed that PLN will submit the re-evaluated EIRR along with the
major assumptions to the Bank by mid May 1999.
Loan Disbursement
18.   The original loan size was $104 million. $26 million was canceled in end 1998 as part of
the portfolio restructuring program for Indonesia. As of April 20, 1999, $62.1 million or 79.6%
of the revised loan amount had been disbursed. The undisbursed balance was $15.9 million. The
mission reminded PLN that the loan will be closed on June 30, 1999. Though the Bank may
normally grant a four-month period after loan closing for disbursement purpose, the balance of
the loan can only be disbursed against the expenditures associated with goods delivered or
services rendered on or before the loan closing date. Any unutilized loan proceeds will be
cancelled.
Project Sustainability and Operational Plan
19.   As a response to the economic downturn, PLN has suffered a drastic reduction in sales
growth rate in 1998 (-0.6 %) from the historic 12% levels prior to the crisis. It is expected to
reach the 10% level by 2003. Peak demand in 1998 also dropped by 144 MW from the highest
peak of 10,016 MW in 1997. However, peak demand growth is expected to resume. It has
already surpassed 1997 level in the year on April 20, 1999. Average peak demand growth rate
during 2000-2003 is expected to be over 6% per annum. The mission considers this growth rate a
realistic expectation as the economic crisis tapers off past the end of the century. However, the



-41 -
additional uncertainty regarding the elasticity of demand to possible price increases in the next
few years has not been precisely quantified in these forecasts.
20.   Cirata (i.e. both Cirata I and II) was designed as a peaking plant, in proximity to large
load centers, since the Java-Bali system is heavily base-loaded. In addition, Cirata has a very
important system frequency regulatory function and black start capability, which are essential to
maintaining system integrity. These important considerations will remain valid during the project
life.
21.   The operational plan to ensure sustainability of the outcomes achieved under the project
was discussed with PLN during the mission. Central to the operational plan is
PLN/PJB2's commitment to (a) properly maintain the new facilities; and (b) monitor
performance of the system. To this end, the mission notes that Cirata has adopted
satisfactory maintenance procedures and in particular the introduction of predictive
maintenance will ensure the project's sustainability at lower cost.
Next Steps
22.   It was agreed that PLN's own evaluation report will be submitted to the Bank by
September 30, 1999.
23.   The mission advised PLN that a draft final ICR is expected to be sent to PLN for
comments by October 15, 1999. PLN will forward its comments, if any, to the Bank by no later
than November 15, 1999. The ICR will then be finalized by end of December 1999.



- 42 -
ANNEX B
BORROWER'S OWN EVALUATION REPORT
I.   Project Objectives
The objectives of the proposed project are to:
a.   Provide economical and environmentally sound expansion of PLN's peaking
electricity generation capacity in Java and improve service reliability.
b.   Update hydro inventories and carry out pre-feasibility studies foT promising
hydroelectric schemes.
c.   Strengthen PLN's capability in the planning, investigation and operation of
hydroelectric scheme and environmental management of power projects.
d.   Study options for enhancing the environmental conditions in the area of PLN's
existing reservoir.
HI.    Achievement of Project Objective
Within the scope of work of PLN, the project success can be assessed as substantial in
that all their objectives were met within most of the imposed limitation.
mI.   Implementation Record and Major Factors affecting the Project.
Engineering, design and construction supervision of 4 x 125 MW Of the Cirata Hydro
Electric Phase II Project (Units 5, 6, 7 and 8) were conducted by the consultant Sinotech
Engineering Consultant, Ltd. in association with PT. Hasfarm Dian Konsultan financed
by Bank loan IBRD 3602 IND has been successfually complete.
All the Project phases were implemented successfully, although a review of the key
indicators for project implementation shown in Table 1 of this report shows delays
regarding scheduled key dates.
With the modifications implemented, all critical programme key dates were met and the
individual Contracts for Lots I to IV Works was completed on schedule and to required
standards. Units 5 and 6 went into commercial operation, as planned, on 15 August 1997
and Units 7 and 8 went into commercial operation on 16 April 1998, incurring delay of 2
(two) months due to low level in Cirata Reservoir, attributable to the widely reported " El
Nino " effect in 1997.
IV.   PLN's Financial and Economic Performance



-43 -
The economic evaluation of the project was carried out on actual basis of the tariff, sales
and exchange rates during crisis condition.
PLN's financial and economic performance regarding the project will now be dependent
on the maximization of the utilization of this project on the peak load time and the level
in Cirata reservoir.
V.    Bank Performance
In PLN's view, the performance of the Bank was satisfactory throughout all the phases of
the project from the preparation to completion.
VI.   Borrower Performance
The performance of PLN's was generally satisfactory and improvements were achieved
by using the experience gained in previous project.
The activity of procurement already be done follow the schedule dates from Bid Opening
till Contract Award, almost of the Packed items are performed on schedule.
The completion of the Project is on schedule for Units 5 & 6 and 2 month behind
schedule for Units 7 & 8 is caused by low level in Cirata reservoir.
VIH.  Assessment of Outcome
The project achieved most its major immediate objectives within budget. The inability to
comply with the schedule as stated in Table 1 of this report, Key indicators for project
implementation.
The actual Total Project Cost is lower than Appraisal estimate.
PLN is also set to ensure compliance with long term achievement of continuous
operation as especially on peak load time during the lifetime of the plant.
VII. Operation
a.    Initial operation
Because of the heavy rains and to save on thermal based electricity, Cirata 5-8
have generated 884.9 GWh from Jan - Dec 1998 and total generated Units 1 - 8
are 1,734.2 GWh.
b.    Future Operation
Later.
IX. Main finding and Key Lessons Learned



- 44 -
The output of the Unit 5 - 8 is limiting to be under 110 - 115 MW due to the high noise
in the turbines.
Unit 5 has been modified at site but no success.
Unit 8 has been modified on April 1999 and base on the result of the test, there was no
modification anymore on this unit.
Model test already is done at the factory.
Unit 5, 6 and 7 will be modified to follow the model test on October 31 - November 11,
1999
Base on the above matters, we have to pay attention to the design aspect, so the same
problem does not occur in the future.



- 45 -
Table 1: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
1. Procurement
Package         Bid Opening      Evaluation Complete    Contract Award     L/C
________________   _____ __   ________   _________opened
Planned   Actual   Planned   Actual    Planned  Actual
Civil Work        02-08-93  02-08-93  06-11-93  04-11-93  05-02-94  15-04-94    -
Metal Work        05-03-93  05-03-93  07-09-93  28-07-93  0 1-12-93  03-12-93  18-02-93
Turbine & Aux     01-06-93  01-06-93  07-09-93   10-08-93  01-12-93  03-12-93  18-02-93
Gen& Indoor E.E   01-06-93  01-06-93  07-09-93  21-09-93  01-12-93  30-11-93  18-02-93
2. Construction and Commissioning
Significant Key Dates
Description of               Waterway No.3              Waterway No.3
Key Dates                    Unit 5 and 6               Unit 7 and 8
Planned       Actual       Planned       Actual
Excavation for penstock complete   14-05-95      14-05-95     14-04-95     14-04-96
Tailrace structure complete        14-11-96      14-11-96     14-11-96      14-11-96
Headrace tunnel complete           14-01-97     08-01-97      14-07-97      10-07-97
Penstock complete                  31-03-97     07-01-97      30-09-97     27-07-97
Waterway complete                  31-03-97     31-03-97      30-09-97     25-09-97
Synchronize                        30-06-97     30-06-97      31-12-97     11-02-98
Commercial operation               15-08-97      15-08-97     15-02-98     16-04-98



- 46 -
ANNEX C
Cirata Hydroelectric Phase II Project (Loan 3602-IND)
Calculation of Economic Internal Rate of Return (EIRR)
on PLN's Java Investment Program (1992/93 - 1997/1998)
Costs (US$ million)
Investment                       Incr.    Fuel    Iner.   O & M      Consumer      Total
Year   Gen. a/  IPP   T&D b/   Total    Prod.    Prod.   Cost!c  Fuel cost Cost /d  Contribution e/   Cost
GWh    GWh
1989       57                       57                                                                  57
1990      124                      124                                                                 124
1991      529                     529                                                                  529
1992    1,247            589    1,836   33,900                699        0       64                   1,900
1993      953             881    1,833   37,935    4,035      816      117      109            39    2,020
1994      698           1,497    2,195   41,978    8,078      780       81      164            18    2,422
1995    1,606           1,572    3,178   48,545   14,645      850      151      244            45    3,528
1996    1,019           1,027    2,046   54,984   21,084      986      287      295            52    2,576
1997      825     83     652    1,559   62,229   28,329    1,099       399      334           139    2,152
1998       99     83     469      650   62,199   28,299    1,023       324      350            20    1,303
1999                                     62,199   28,299    1,023      324      350                    674
2000                                     62,199   28,299    1,023      324      350                     674
2001                                     62,199   28,299    1,023      324      350                     674
2002                                     62,199   28,299    1,023      324      350                     674
2003                                     62,199   28,299    1,023      324      350                     674
2004                                     62,199   28,299    1,023      324      350                     674
2005                                     62,199   28,299    1,023      324      350                     674
2006                                     62,199   28,299    1,023      324      350                     674
2007                                     62,1 99   28,299    1,023     324      350                     674
2008                                     62,199   28,299    1,023      324      350                     674
2009                                     62,199   28,299    1,023      324      350                     674
2010                                     62,199   28,299    1,023      324      350                     674
2011                                     62,199   28,299    1,023      324      350                     674
2012                                     62,199   28,299    1,023      324      350                     674
2013                                     62,199   28,299    1,023      324      350                     674
2014                                     62,199   28,299    1,023      324      350                     674
2015                                     62,199   28,299    1,023      324      350                     674
2016                                     62,199   28,299    1,023      324      350                     674
2017                                     62,199   28,299    1,023      324      350                     674
2018                                     62,199   28,299    1,023      324      350                     674
2019                                     62,199   28,299    1,023      324      350                     674
2020                                     62,199   28,299    1,023      324      350                     674
2021                                     62,199   28,299    1,023      324      350                     674
2022                                     62,199   28,299    1,023      324      350                     674
a/     Only disbursements of projects which were commissioned within the period are taken into account.
Considering that the project cycle for generation is usually 4 years, disbursements for generation
projects commissioned during 1993 up to 1998 will include disbursements from 1989 up to 1998.
b/     Transmission and distribution investment cost are derived from accounting data using the following formula:
Disbursement year I = Work in Progress year I - Work in Progress year I-l + Fixed Asset Addition year I
c/     Fuel costs according to World Bank Data
d/     O&M costs are estimated at 2.5% of the cumulative investments
e/     The willingness to pay for residential consumers is derived from the average spending for lighting from a pressurized
kerosene lamp at international kerosene price. The consumer surplus is the difference between the willingness
to pay and the residential average tariff.
The willingness to pay for industrial consumers is derived from spending for electric energy produced
from a diesel engine at international HSD price. The consumer surplus is the difference between the
willingness to pay and the industrial average tariff.



- 47 -
Cirata Hydroelectric Phase H Project (Loan 3602-IND)
Calculation of Economic Internal Rate of Return (EIRR)
on PLN's Java Investment Program  (1992/93 -1997/1998)
Benefits (US$ million)
Sales (GWh)           Total       Incremental sales (GWh)     Total Revenue   Consumer Suirplus /b    Total   Total        Net Benefits       EIRR Calculation /c
Res.  Cornlls. Public  Ind.   Sales    Res.  Commu.  Public  Ind.   Iner.  at avg.  Res.  Ind./c   Total  benefit  cost  Net Revenue  Total Net  Net Revenue Total Net
Year                                                                           sales  Tariff/a                                       at avg. tariff  Benefits  at avg. tariff  Benefits
(GWh)                                  (GWh)   (1)                               (2)     (3)     (1) - (2)    (2) - (3)
1989                                                                                                                             57         -57         -57
1990                                                                                                                            124        -124        -124
1991                                                                                                                            529        -529        -529
1992   8,574   2,471   1,704  15,089  27,838      0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0   1,900      -1,900      -1,900       -2,610   -2,610
1993   9,678   2,961   1,758  16,816  31,213   1,104    490      54   1,727   3,375   246.5    123       98    221      467   2,020      -1,774      -1,553       -1,774   -1,553
1994  10,769   3,279   1,841  18,749  34,638   2,195    808     137   3,660   6,800   465.1    215      155    371      836   2,422      -1,957      -1,586       -1,957   -1,586
1995  12,606   3,945   2,065  21,518  40,134   4,032   1,474    361   6,429  12,296   795.3    339    252    592   1,387   3,528          -2,733     -2,141       -2,733   -2,141
1996  14,406   4,851   2,305  24,374  45,936   5,832   2,380    601   9,285  18,098  1,183.3    410     229    640   1,823   2,576        -1,393       -754       -1,393     -754
1997  16,660   5,624   2,567  26,660  51,511   8,086   3,153    863  11,571  23,673  1,395.8    579    301      879   2,275   2,152        -757         123         -757       123
1998  18,070   6,281   2,637  24,090  51,078   9,496   3,810    933   9,001  23,240   474.8    802    324   1,126   1,601   1,303          -828         298         -828      298
1999  18,070   6,281   2,637  24,090  51,078   9,496   3,810    933   9,001  23,240   474.8    802    324   1,126   1,601       674        -199         927         -199      927
2000   18,070   6,281   2,637  24,090  51,078   9,496   3,810   933   9,001  23,240   474.8    802    324   1,126   1,601       674        -199         927         -199       927
2001   18,070   6,281   2,637  24,090  51,078   9,496   3,810   933   9,001  23,240   474.8    802    324   1,126   1,601       674        -199         927         -199       927
2002   18,070   6,281   2,637  24,090  51,078   9,496   3,810   933   9,001  23,240   474,8    802    324   1,126   1,601       674        -199         927         -199       927
2003   18,070   6,281   2,637  24,090  51,078   9,496   3,810   933   9.001  23,240   474.8    802    324   1,126   1,601       674        -199         927         -199       927
2004   18,070   6,281   2,637  24,090  51,078   9,496   3,810    933   9,001  23,240   474.8    802    324   1,126   1,601      674        -199         927         -199       927
2005   18,070   6,281   2,637  24,090  51,078   9,496   3,810   933   9,001  23,240   474.8    802    324   1,126   1,601       674        -199         927         -199       927
2006   18,070   6,281   2,637  24,090  51,078   9.496   3,810    933   9,001  23,240   474.8    802    324   1,126   1,601      674        -199         927         -199       927
2007  18,070   6,281   2,637  24,090  51,078   9,496   3,810    933   9.001  23,240   474.8    802    324   1,126   1,601       674        -199         927         -199       927
2008   18,070   6,281   2,637  24,090  51,078   9,496   3,810   933   9,001  23.240   474.8    802    324   1,126   1,601       674        -199         927         -199       927
2009  18,070   6,281   2,637  24,090  51,078   9,496   3,810    933   9,001  23,240   474.8    802    324   1,126   1,601       674        -199         927         -199       927
2010   18,070   6,281   2,637  24,090  51,078   9,496   3,810    933   9,001  23,240   474.8    802    324   1,126   1,601      674        -199         927         -199       927
2011   18,070   6,281   2,637  24,090  51,078   9,496   3,810    933   9,001  23,240   474.8    802    324   1,126   1,601      674        -199         927         -199       927
2012   18,070   6,281   2,637  24,090  51,078   9,496   3,810    933   9,001  23,240   474.8    802    324   1,126   1,601      674        -199         927         -199       927
2013   18.070   6,281   2,637  24,090  51,078   9,496   3,810    933   9,001  23,240   474,8    802    324   1,126   1.601      674        -199         927         -199       927
2014   18,070   6.281   2,637  24,090  51,078   9,496   3,810    933   9,001  23,240   474.8    802    324   1,126   1,601      674        -199         927         -199       927
2015   18,070   6,281   2,637  24,090  51,078   9,496   3,810    933   9,001  23,240   474.8    802    324   1,126   1,601      674        -199         927         -199       927
2016   18,070   6,281   2,637  24,090  51,078   9,496   3,810    933   9,001  23,240   474,8    802    324   1,126   1,601      674        -199         927         -199       927
2017   18,070   6,281   2,637  24,090  51,078   9,496   3,810    933   9,001  23,240   474.8    802    324   1,126   1,601      674        -199         927         -199       927
2018   18,070   6,281   2,637  24,090  51,078   9,496   3,810    933   9,001  23,240   474.8    802    324   1,126   1,601      674        -199         927         -199       927
2019   18,070   6,281   2,637  24,090  51,078   9,496   3,810    933   9,001  23,240   474.8    802    324   1,126   1,601      674        -199         927         -199       927
2020   18,070   6,281   2,637  24,090  51,078   9,496   3,810    933   9,001  23,240   474.8    802    324   1,126   1,601      674        -199         927         -199       927
2021   18,070   6,281   2,637  24,090  51,078   9,496   3,810    933   9,001  23,240   474.8    802    324   1,126   1,601      674        -199         927         -199       927
2022   18,070   6,281   2,637  24,090  51,078   9,496   3,810    933   9,001  23,240   474.8    802    324   1,126   1,601      674        -199         927         -199       927
a/ Average tariffs intUS /kW  referred to 1992 as base year are: 6.75 it 1992; 7.30 in 1993; 6.84 in 1994;                            |                                             i
6.47 it 1995; 6.54 in 1996; 5.90 its 1997; 2.04 in 1998.                                                                      IEIRR with consumer surplus             6.59%
b/ Additional ecosionsic beiiefits for residential and industrial cotisuniers are:
Residential (in USc/kWh): 11.16 ins 1992; 9.81 its 1993; 8.42 itt 1994; 7.04 it 1995; 7.16 in 1996; 8.44 in 1997; 8.78 iis 1998; 8.01 in 1999
Itidustrial (itl USOt/kWi): 5.65 its 1992; 4.25 in 1993; 3.92 in 1994; 2.47 its 1995; 2.60 in 1996; 3.60 in 1997; 6.32 in 1998; 5.01 in 1999
c/ EIRR at average tariff ttot evaluated siisee taet revenue cash-flow is all negative.



- 48 -
ANNEX D
Cirata Hydroelectric Phase II Project (Loan 3602-IND)
Calculation of Economic Internal Rate of Return (EIRR)
on PLN's Java Investment Program (1992/93 - 1997/1998)
Costs                                   Benefits
Year   Capital    0 & M     Total       Capacity Value        Energy Value        Total
Cost     Cost      Cost       Coal PP   GTPP       Coal PP      GTPP   Benefit
1992
1993
1994     4,300               4,300
1995    14,100              14,100
1996    22,800              22,800
1997    37,200              37,200
1998    46,500     1,874    48,374    -17,034    36,033      -9,922    39,542     48,620
1999    62,300     1,874    64,174    -17,034    36,033      -9,922    39,542     48,620
2000    64,100     1,874    65,974    -17,034    36,033      -9,922    39,542     48,620
2001               1,874     1,874    -17,034    36,033      -9,922    39,542     48,620
2002               1,874     1,874    -17,034    36,033      -9,922    39,542     48,620
2003               1,874     1,874     -17,034    36,033     -9,922    39,542     48,620
2004               1,874     1,874     -17,034    36,033     -9,922    39,542     48,620
2005               1,874     1,874    -17,034    36,033      -9,922    39,542     48,620
2006               1,874     1,874     -17,034    36,033     -9,922    39,542     48,620
2007               1,874     1,874     -17,034    36,033     -9,922    39,542     48,620
2008               1,874     1,874     -17,034    36,033     -9,922    39,542     48,620
2009               1,874     1,874    -17,034    36,033      -9,922    39,542     48,620
2010               1,874     1,874     -17,034    36,033     -9,922    39,542     48,620
2011               1,874     1,874     -17,034    36,033     -9,922    39,542     48,620
2012               1,874     1,874    -17,034    36,033      -9,922    39,542     48,620
2013               1,874     1,874    -17,034    36,033      -9,922    39,542     48,620
2014               1,874     1,874    -17,034    36,033      -9,922    39,542     48,620
2015               1,874     1,874     -17,034    36,033     -9,922    39,542     48,620
2044               1,874     1,874     -17,034    36,033     -9,922    39,542     48,620
2045               1,874     1,874     -17,034    36,033     -9,922    39,542     48,620
2046               1,874     1,874     -17,034    36,033     -9,922    39,542     48,620
2047               1,874     1,874     -17,034    36,033     -9,922    39,542     48,620
Equalizing Discount Rate   %              22.4



-49 -
Caracteristic of Cirata Hydro Plant
Installed     Primary      Secondary    Total           Base                 Peak
Capacity       Energy        Energy     Energy    Capacity    Energy   Capacity    Energy
(MW)          (GWh)        (GWh)    (GWh)    (MW)           (GWh)   (MW)    (GWh)
500           1191          233        1424      95.27     834.57    404.73     589.43
1000          1191          233        1424      0.00        0.00    1000.00    1424.00
Expected Annual Operation Mode of
Cirata Hydroelectric Plant
Item                                      Without    With
Cirata    Cirata
Installed Capacity    MW                                 500      1000
Energy Production   GWh
Firm                                                   1,191      1191
Secondary                                                233       233
Average                                                 1,424     1424
Expected 'peak and base portion'
[peak duration = 4 hrs]
Capacity (MW)
Peak portion                        405       1000
Base portion                         95
Energy (GWh)                                            1424
Peak portion                        589
Base portion                        835          0



- 50 -
Economic Comparison
Cirata Hydroelectric Plant
(US$/yr in thousands)
Item                                 Without   With
Cirata    Cirata
Capacity benefits
Peak portion                           24,499   60,532
Base portion                           17,034  -17,034
Energy Benefits
Peak portion                           27,927   67,470
Base portion                            9,922   -9,922
O&M cost/year              1.5% of Capital cost of Cirata II



- 51 -
ANNEX E
INDONESIA
CIRATA HYDROELECTRIC PHASE II PROJECT
(LOAN 3602-IND)
PLN - INCOME STATEMENT
(Rp. billion)
92/93            93/94              1994             1995               1996               1997               1998
SAR   Actual    SAR   Actual    SAR   Actual    SAR   Actual    SAR    Actual   SAR    Actual                SAR    Actual
Operating Revenue
Energy revenue                 4,883   4,794    6,515   5,922     9,069   5,133     10,625   8,110    12,524   9,418    14,753   10,877    16,357   13,766
Other operating revenue          143    123        163    140       201     119        229    196        261     228       294      249        329      270
Total operating revenue        5,026   4,917    6,678   6,062     9,270   5,252    10,854   8,306    12,785   9,646    15,047   11,126    16,686   14,036
Operating expenses
Fuel & lubricating oil         2,553   2,132    3,395   2,783     3,142   2,046      3,409   2,970     3,562   3,361     3,757    4,339      3,692    9,409
Power purchased                   23      20        17     47        15      58         15      77       599     183      1,354     325      2,757    1,886
Personnel expenses               450    427       562    504        624    473         735    758        868     886      1,025    1,068      1,212    1,019
R&M material & services          458    498       534    562        586    555         830    809      1,017    911       1,240     965       1,465     925
Depreciation                    1,097    712    1,215    909       1,746    899      2,210   1,567     2,653   1,887     3,141    2,251      3,611    3,074
Other expenses                   157    203        190    265       209    249         229    356        252    414        277      502        303      496
Operating expenses             4,738   3,992    5,913   5,070     6,322   4,280      7,428  6,537      8,951   7,642    10,794    9,450    13,040   16,809
Operating income                 288    925       765    992       2,948    972      3,426   1,769     3,834   2,004     4,253    1,676      3,646   (2,773)
Other income/expense
Nonoperating income              140    202        62    184        186    168         229    180        297    295        350      352        307    1,225
Nonoperating expenses            163    173        172    151       182    153         202    210        223     182       247      235        270      472
Foreign exchange loss (gain)                                                                                                       1,247               (109)
Government subsidies                                                                                                                                   1.930
Net other income                 (23)    29       (110)    33         4      15         27    (30)        74     113       103   (1,130)        37    2,792
Net income before interest       265    954       655   1,025      2,952    987      3,453   1,738     3,908   2,117      4,356     546      3,683       19
Interestchargedtooperations        412    39-1      462    443        685    398       1,041    718      1.081     950      1,279    1,124     1,371    1.282
Net income before tax           (147)   563       193    582       2,267    589      2,412   1,020     2,827   1,167      3,077     (578)    2,312   (1,263)
Corporate tax
Net income after tax            (147)   563        193    582      2,267    589      2,412   1,020     2,827   1,167      3,077     (578)    2,312   (1,263)
Rate of Return (%)                 2.1    5.5       4.3    4.6       12.0    5.4       10.8    6.2        10.1     5.2       9.5      3.5        7.1     (6.8)
Debt Service Coverage Ratio (%)    1.4    3.0       2.3    2.9        3.8    2.1        3.2    3.2         3.7     1.8       3.2      1.4        2.3      0.2
a/ Before government subsidy and debt restructuring; debt service coverage ratio would have been 0.9 times if debt were restructured in 1998.



-52-
INDONESIA
CIRATA HYDROELECTRIC PHASE II PROJECT
(LOAN 3602-lND)
PLN - BALANCE SHEET
(Rp. billion)
92/93              93/94                1994               1995               1996                1997                1998
SAR    Actual      SAR    Actual       SAR    Actual      SAR    Actual       SAR    Actual       SAR    Actual       SAR    Actual
ASSETS
Fixed Assets
Gross plant in service           24,048   17,572     30,924   22,391     41,989   19,978    50,670   28,774     62,264   33,248     72,140   48.166    82,515   57,578
Less: Accumulated depreciation    6,938    4,124      8,418    4,987     10,486      520    13,096    1,563     16,249    3,409     20,012    5,636    24,387    8,724
Net plant in service              17,110   13,448    22,506   17,404     31,503   19,458    37,574   27,211     46,015   29,839     52,128   42,530     58,128   48.854
Work in progress                  7,731    8,256      9,478    9,927      8,837   12,994     9,070   13,621      8,437   18,210      9,425   13,996     11,417   14,166
Total fixed assets               24,841   21,704     31,984   27,331     40,340   32,452    46,644   40,831     54,452   48,049     61,553   56,526    69,545   63,020
Current Assets
Cash                                604      916        652      853        448      754       431      649        494    1,653       575       897       630    4,205
Net accounts receivable             495      568        660      659        919      764      1,077     885      1,270    1,020      1,496    1,310      1,658    1,596
Net inventories                     409      563        613      773        609      782       635      728        686      646       752       599       788      771
Other current assets                227      182        238       71        250       82       262      169        275      358       289       211       303      214
Total current assets               1,735    2,229     2,163    2,355      2,226    2,382     2,405    2,431      2,725    3,677      3,112    3,017      3,379    6,786
Other Assets
Sinking funds                                                     I is                57                120                 110                 254                470
Other assets                        242      611        368      676        416      672       591      570        891      748      1,099      711       775    1,525
Total other assets                  242      611        368      691        416      729       591      690        891     858       1,099      965       775    1,995
Total Assets                     26,818   24,544     34,515   30,376     42,982   35,562    49,640   43,952    58,068   52,584      65,764   60,508    73,699   71,801
EQUITIES & LIABILITIES
Equity
Paid-in capital                   11,064   11,881    12,814   15,316     14,151   19,294    15,193   22,486     16,341   27,116     17,717   28,341     19,101   31,461
Retained earnings                  (229)   1,185       (350)   1,347      1,831      289     3,415    1,020      5,212    2,116      6,487    1,744     6,685      482
Revaluation surplus               6,281      -        7,282      -        8,527      -      10,089      -       11,897              13,963      187    16,338      187
Total equity                     17,116   13,066     19,746   16,662     24,509   19,583    28,697   23,506     33,450   29,232     38,167   30,272    42,124   32,130
Consumer contributions             1,160    1,076     1,472    1.430      1,922    1,736     2.182    2,092      2,440    2,458      2,714    2,847     3,007    2,972
Long-terns liabilities
Long-term debt(LTD)               6,208    4,731     10,327    5,265     13,184    6,030    14,565    7,631     16,209   12,915     18,71 1   15,449    21,149   18,974
Bonds                                        300                 900                 900              1,898               2,598               3,198               2,518
Consumers' deposits                 610      534        762      701        930      840     1,047    1,031      1,172    1,231      1,308    1,447      1,450    1,694
Other                                      3,113               3,706               3,347              3,975                 864               2,445               4,981
Total long-term liabilities       6,818    8,678     11,089   10,572     14,114   11,117    15,612   14,535     17,381   17,608     20,019   22,539    22,599   28,167
Current Liabilities
Currenttportion LTD                 336      448        536      467        710      540       7t5    1,227        794    1,466       849    1,607        980    1,891
Accounts payable                    692      681        727      583        763     679        801      910       842    1,077        884    2,323        928    6,048
Other Current Liabilities           374      595        393      663        412    1,907       433    1,683       455       743       477       920       501      593
Total current liabilities          1,402    1,724     1,656    1,712      1,885    3,126     1,949    3,820      2,091    3,286      2,210    4,850     2,409    8,532
Other liabilities
Contribution to DPS                 137                349                 328                954               1,436               2,356               3,233
Other liabilities                  185                 203                 224                246                 270                 298                327
Total other liabilities            322       -         552      -          552      -        1,200     -        1,706      -        2,654      -        3,560
Total equity and liabilities     26,818   24,544     34,515   30,376     42,982   35,562    49,640   43,952     57,068   52,584     65,764   60,508    73,699   71,801



-53 -
INDONESIA
CIRATA HYDROELECTRIC PHASE II PROJECT
(LOAN 3602-IND)
PLN - FUNDS FLOW STATEMENT
(Rp. billion)
92/93            93/94             1994             1995              1996              1997              1998
SAR   Actual    SAR   Actual    SAR   Actual    SAR   Actual    SAR    Actual   SAR   Actual    SAR   Actual
SOURCES OF FUNDS
Internal Sources
Net income before interest            265     954       655   1,025     2,952     987    3,453   1,739    3,908    2,117    4,356    1,793    3,683     (89)
Depreciation                         1,097    695      1,215    863     1,746     520    2,210   1,043    2,653    1,847    3,141    2,227    3,611    3,088
Deferred Consumercontributions        236      152      312    353       450      309      260    355       258      367      274      389      293     125
Consumer deposits                     160      81       152    167        168     141      117    191       125      200      136      216      142     247
Total internal sources               1,758   1,883     2,334   2,408    5,316   1,957    6,040   3,328    6,944    4,531     7,907    4,625    7,729    3,371
Debt-service
Interest charged to operations        595     307       462    393       685      238    1,041    497      1,081     950     1,279    1,913    1,371    1,244
Debt repayment                        361     323       336    453       536      160      710      79      715      736     1,094    1,522    1,749    376
Total debt-service                    956     630       798    846      1,221     398    1,751    576      1,796    1,686    2,373    3,435    3,120    1,620
Distribution of after-tax income a/    12    547         14    422         4   1,644        41    289        72       70       78                92
Others                                 27  (2,284)       87   (227)       103  (1,937)     163   (232)      478      (58)     802   (2,349)   1,147   (1,310)
Net Internal Sources                  763   2,989      1,435   1,367    3,988   1,852    4,085   2,696    4,598    2,833    4,654    3,539    3,370    3,061
External Sources
Borrowings                           2,288    936      3,554   1,025    3,093     999    1,791   1,147    2,059    4,209     3,295    4,144    3,888    6,672
Bonds                                 300     300       900    600       300      -        300    998       300    1,000      300      600      300      -
Govemmentequity                      2,100   2,730     1,750  3,434     1,337   3,245     1,042   4,477    1,148    2,028    1,376    1,666    1,384    3,120
Total external sources               4,688   3,967     6,204   5,060    4,730   4,244    3,133   6,622    3,507    7,237    4,971    6,410    5,572    9,792
Total Sources of Funds               5,451   6,956     7,639   6,426    8,718   6,096    7,218   9,318     8,105   10,070    9,625    9,949    8,942   12,853
APPLICATION OF FUNDS
Capital expenditure
Construction expenditure             5,227   6,768     6,698   6,173    8,048   6,195    6,143   8,962    6,658    8,407    8,032    9,971    7,771    9,545
Interestduringconstruction            223      76       654    316       867               806    461       996      657     1,144     733    1,458      37
Total capital expenditure            5,450   6,844     7,352   6,489    8,915   6,195    6,949   9,423    7,654    9,064    9,176   10,704    9,229    9,582
Change in working capital and other       1     112       287    (63)    (197)    (99)       269   (105)      451    1,006      449    (755)   (287)   3,271
Total Application of Funds           5,451   6,956     7,639   6,426    8,718   6,096    7,218  9,318    8,105   10,070    9,625    9,949    8,942   12,853
Increase in cash                       (200)    111        48    (63)    (204)    (99)       (17)  (105)       63    1,004       81    (756)      55    3,308
Cash at beginning ofyear              804     805       604    916       652      853      448    754       431      649      494    1,653      575      897
Cash at end of year                   604     916       652    853       448      754      431    649       494    1,653      575      897      630    4,205
Note: a/ including contributions to Overall Development Fund (DPS) and Development of Cooperatives and Weak Economic Businesses (DCWEB).






IBRD 23612
Bo.do Aceh  -ANo "°                                                                                           '          \'                                            INDONESIA                     S-
BandsAsoh                                                                                                        K                  N\                                                                                 5,~~~~oW  Chia ec
tBendoAneh .SoulSChinaer SBRUNEI   K                                   PHIUPPINES                                              PLN  REGIONS
.   I  > t      1 ~MALAYSIA  I                                                                          C>
MALAdYSIAL                                                                                                                           I                                VII PLN'o WILAYAH NUMBERS
.1<    Meda  x      KLUMAPLUA R                                                                                                                                                  -    WILAYAH BOUNDARIES
>LUMPUR                                                                            " 2     '"'                                                * e   WIlAYAH HEADQUARTERS
N                                                                                                                                                                - /  9   MALAYSIA   S   X  /  )  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
"     . 2  )   NGAPORE                                                                                                                                                                                0'
0~ ~~~~I                                                                                                                                                                                            PACIFiC OCEAN
SUMATERA   <                     PontionoIk     V                         Somorinda)                                                N L      R -  -
4 0\S 0 CEXANGKA 9 I ~~~KALIMANTAN                                                                          TA/ ; SLIW2f   )t(RR-S°X-~  Ytpr
~~ANGKA                                   VI;zl) Or
Ioe~     ~      Q V  7                                                     I                              NI \E4V  Vi/nll-                                         IRIAN JAYA
Booiormai52                             I                                     i-n
Javai Sacs'                                                    {~TN~~5
Viungpndon9g j            N)    U [ N
JAKARTA                      5B-suoi 
UBenSuua JAWA       r a   B)ALI                                 >                   _ R                              .)/JNIMBAR
Surobn AWA                                                                                                       ARafura Sea
iNDIAN  OCEAN                    JAVBALI                                  SMAAtt-fOE2                                                            5100        0      5      0       0      0
This marp hats beesn prepared by The World Bsook's stsff esnlooively fsr the             Deoparsor                                                                                                                                 0'J   !
5 10  onsrsniena2 of re2aders and is eOAClssVIh'eor fa he inteDrnal use of Th2 Wor/d                  ioDs                                             
Bonk Grosp The denomioration,seeod and rhe boundaries shown on this                               LOMBOI(                             K 'pa      TI fMOI?                 5105100 o       2aos      4a   00  sos      so
h- b  Th.                                        wonposor~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~apn
nap do not imply, -n the port af The World Bank Grasp  -ny j.d0n-ent                                           SUMBA
on the legol rtatus of any territory Dr -ny endorsement or -soeptanse of
-uch 9sd-rie.                                                                                                        120'                                    'C                            AUSTRALIA  ao
100'0                                                                                              1517                                                                             M2    19
MMARCHI 1992






IBRD 24493
pp6                                         loa                                            110'                                         '.a                                          il:       I
INDONESIA
SUMATERA                                                                                                               CIRATA HYDROELECTRIC PHASE 11 PROJECT
MAJOR POWER PLANTS AND MAIN TRNSMISSION LINES
UNDER    PROPOSED    FUTURE
.                                                                                                              EXISTIPIG  CONSTRUCTON PROJECT  DEVE[OPMlENT  TRANNTIINGON NIUNTS
OK) s. JAKARTA  Rd fldANKARTA
Th,aa,soo pPNP4yN  OP SakleerMp ,tfft,a  SPa,aK
Koyalou tI*Cermkmo 9 S   .  -  -                                                          -                             lSO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~15KVpnd70KV
pUn   l ,aNan,da,a- ,Pnd, aEdEa, pU \ TanPaslng  af Ea Wnly
Ss a?92   <  KembaWulea>gsl t ^ K sumb 9P:                                                      El                POWr R STATtONS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OWFSTAtON
&n+EtIG'aap ThaEta,,a,  A  _uFeSUa                                .                                                     An                   A       SOO SUSTATIONS
R lkssbltuns   . Ogn,d>,/d   Xuung~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ /                               9a                  *       t5hkVand7OKVSUb51AlIONS50I/ d 7KVSUMAl ON
.a Joan? anPa, atna aakay a, any eada ,,t nEN,NN y BANDUNG N
k                                                                                                                                          D nl      KILOMTERS BUSIHEADQUARTERS
NEPNaE    Na ~~~~~~~~  Pea  TPaa  EPA,  tUNa a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~aa  QUaP,   P                                      WSYAHBO NDAIE
<aJar  Na pa_ na.yJa~/  lroaa'a                                                                                                                             Nay-
~, ;9E PDaaW 
{NDI>N OWEAtf N . . . ' . . '~~~~~~~~~ya,p   Ta,na,                                  SnkmgbI rbann                 Sna
Can,,              ~~~~~                                                                                                                   ElaaaK,
BANDUNG                                                                                  Bvd~~~~~~~~~~~~~MAUAn URBY
M Ienn .--nb~  I Io                                      In         T     FRUARN 199E
ma ono mIpo h 1W  r    I.f Th. WuI Eu'1rv.ay HETn                                                                                                       .'.Jme
pah boX*adories. ~ ~  2"k          d
lafi~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ r(Td                                                          IGO                              G ae
Tclvk q ao   fiLKturmqesnrksm   P hkGnfil:Ye   ~~CirarWr                                                                            KILOMkETEKS
Septan  \ /  LSg=+ * kL7</ \0Budaorong 1s2$ | * > IISiId
<    <  k=X0-E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Bk
SEMARAN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FERAY  9



