Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFIaAL USE ONLY
Report No. 13269
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KOREA
THIRD TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2913-KO)
JUNE 30, 1994
Country Department I
Industry and Energy Operations Division
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Korean Won (W)
Value of US $1.00*
1987 - W 823
1988 - W 731
1989 - W 671
1990 - W 708
1991 - W 733
1992 - W 781
* Annual Average
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ACRONYMS
CPS     -          Currency Pooling System
FIP     -          Financial Intermediation Project
COK     -          Government of Korea
ITD     -          Industrial Technology Development
KSE     -          Korea Stock Exchange
KTB     -          Korea Technology Banking Corporation
KTDC    -          Korea Technology Development Corporation
KTIC    -          Korea Technology Investment Corporation
MOST    -          Ministry of Science and Technology
PCR     -          Project Completion Report
R&D     -          Research and Development
SAR     -          Staff Appraisal Report
SCL     -          Single Currency Loan
SME     -          Small and Medium Enterprise



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-Generml
Operations Evaluation
June 30, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:         Project Completion Report on Korea - Third Technology
DeveloRment Project (Loan 2913-KO)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Korea - Third Technology Development Project (Loan
2913-KO) prepared by the East Asia and Pacific Regional Office with Part II contributed by the Borrower.
This project was the third in a series that started in the early 1980s. Prior to the approval of the first
loan in 1982, the Bank and the Government of Korea worked closely to set up the Korea Technology
Development Corporation (KTDC). In its first ten years of operation, up to the end of 1992, KTDC assisted
nearly 3000 projects in their technology needs. Total approvals between 1988 and 1992 amounted to W602
billion (about US$830 million), with 739% going to in-house research activities, 2% to technology imports,
23% to commercialization, and 2% to purchase of research equipment.
Arguably the Bank's most successful lendings for technology development, these projects formed an
integral part of Korea's industrialization effort and were supported by a government that was intent on
expanding Korea's technological capability. During the last ten years, the Government gradually reduced
its shareholding (now at 15.19%) in KTDC and weaned the corporation away from its subsidized financing.
KTDC was transformed, at the end of 1992, from a specialized technology finance company to Korea
Technology Banking Corporation (KTBC), a broadly based financial institution with a focus on technology
finance. Since then, KTBC has intensified its efforts in raising financial resources by floating bonds in the
private capital markets and mobilizing foreign currency resources from the Bank and other sources (KTBC
is one of the beneficiaries of the Financial Intermediation Project approved by the Board in December 1993).
Over all, the project outcome is rated as satisfactory and its sustainability as likely. The project has had
substantial institutional impact.
The PCR is of satisfactory quality. An audit is planned, together with the second technology
development project.
Robert Picciotto
by H. Eberhard K6pp
Attachment
|This docunent has a restricted distribution and nsy be used by recipients only in the perforrnance of their official duties. Its contents
m ay not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KOREA
THIRD TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2913-KO)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .i
Evaluation Summary  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .ii
PART I - PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE . . . . . . . . .1
1.   Project Identity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1
2.   Project Background . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1
3.   Project Objectives and Description . . . . . . . . . . . . .                 2
4.   Project Design and Organization   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                3
5.   Project Implementation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                 3
6.   Project Results   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                4
Direct Impact of the Term Credit . . . . . . . . . . . .                4
KTDC's Transformation into KTB . . . . . . . . . . . . .                5
Institutional Development  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                5
Broadening of Operations ...  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  5
Ownership and Privatization  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                6
Resource Mobilization.                                                  6
Financial Performance.                                                  6
7. Project Sustainability.                                                        6
8. Bank Performance.                                                              7
9. Borrower Performance.                                                          7
10. Project Relationship.                                                         8
11.  Project Documentation and Data . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                 8
12.  Lessons Learned   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                8
PART II   PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE  . . . . . .                10
ART III - STATISTICAL INFORMATION  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                 24
Table 1    Related Bank Loans  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                24
Table 2    Project Timetable . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                25
Table 3    Cumulative and Actual Disbursements . . . . . . .                26
Table 4.1  List of Subprojects Finance Under the Loan  . . .                27
Table 4.2  Distribution of Subprojects . . . . . . . . . . .                33
Table 4.3  KTB's Staff Training, 1988-1992 . . . . . . . . .                35
Table 4.4  KTB Financed R&D Projects Performed by Public
Research Institutes  . . . . . . . . . . . . .              36
Table 5.1  KTB:  Estimated and Actual Amount of Financial
Support (Currency and Instrument), 1988-1992                37
Table 5.2  KTB:  Estimated and Actual Amount of Financial
Support (Collateral Conditions), 1988-1992 .                38
Table 5.3  KTB:  Estimated and Actual Resource Mobilization,
1988-1992   .   .    .    .    .    .    .   .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  39
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
[official duties. Its contents rnay not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (continued)
Table 5.4  KTB:  Estimated and Actual Financial Indicators,
1988-1992  . . . . .                              40
Table 5.5  KTB:  Estimated and Actual Income Statements,
1988-1992  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  41
Table 5.6  KTB:  Estimated and Actual Balance Sheets,
1988-1992    ...  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  42
Table 5.7  KTB:  Estimated and Actual Sources and Uses
of Funds, 1988-1992  . . . . . . . . . . . . .    43
Table 5.8  KTB:  Analysis of Conventional Loans in
Arrears, 1988-1992 . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    44
Table 6   KTB's Shareholding, Ending 1992 . . . . . . . . .    45
Table 7   Status of Covenants . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    46
Table 8.1  Use of Bank Resources:  Staff Input . . . . . . .   48
Table 8.2  Use of Bank Resources:  Missions  . . . . . . . .   48



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KOREA
THIRD TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2913-KO)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Third Technology
Development Project in Korea, for which Loan 2913-KO was approved on February
23, 1988. The US$50.0 million loan was made to foster technological
development of Korean industry through continued support for the Government of
Korea's effort to accelerate the development of industrial technology. The
loan proceeds were channeled through the then Korea Technology Development
Corporation (KTDC) which was converted into the Korea Technology Banking
Corporation (KTB) as of July 1, 1992. KTB has assumed all the assets, rights
and obligations of KTDC including the Bank loan. The loan was closed on
December 31, 1992, with about US$0.9 million of the loan amount undisbursed
and canceled. The last disbursement was made on July 30, 1992. Borrower's
repayments to the Bank are current in accordance with the amortization
schedule.
The PCR (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Part I and portions of Part
III) was prepared by the Industry and Energy Operations Division of Country
Department 1, East Asia & Pacific Regional Office. KTB provided Part II and
statistical data for Part III of the PCR.
The PCR draws on the Staff Appraisal Report; the Loan and Guarantee
Agreements; supervision reports, correspondence between the Bank and KTB,
internal Bank memoranda (including draft SAR for the proposed Financial
Intermediation Project in Korea); Operations Evaluation Departments' report:
Bank Lending for Industrial Technology Development; KTB's audited Financial
Statements, and other published reports; and the subproject data provided by
KTB.



a



- li -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KOREA
THIRD TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2913-KO)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
1.        Proiect Oblectives.  The overall objective of the project was to
continue strengthening and supporting the Korean Technology Banking
Corporation (KTB) so that its technology financing continues to play a
fundamental role in the structural transformation of Korean industry.
Specifically, the project aimed to support KTB in: (a) its efforts to expand
risk financing as well as to introduce new instruments, such as leasing for
industrial technology development (ITD); (b) its fundamental goals of
promoting ITD once KTB was privatized; (c) building its capacity to appraise
and supervise more complicated and riskier projects; and (d) its effort to
build a subsidiary, Korea Technology Investment Corporation (KTIC), which
specialized in "technology" start-ups. The project consisted of: (a) a
credit line of $49.8 million to meet the foreign exchange requirements of ITD
activities of industrial firms; and (b) $0.2 million to finance overseas
training for KTB's staff (paras. 3.1 and 3.2).
2.        Prolect Implementation.  Overall, the project was very successful,
notwithstanding several critical variances between the planned and the actual
project implementation. The project was appraised on the assumption that KTB
would continue to receive about 35 percent of its resources from the
Government of Korea (GOK) at 5.5 percent p.a. and relend them at 10 percent.
But in 1990, due to the GOK's decision to reduce policy loans in line with
interest rate deregulation, GOK's lending rate was increased to 9 percent, and
a ceiling of 1 percent on all policy loans including those for KTB spread was
also imposed. Because concessionary funds were no longer availabe, KTB had to
concentrate its operations on conventional loans in order to ensure
profitability (paras. 5.1 and 5.2).
3.        Project Results.  Under the loan, KTB approved 79 subprojects for
an aggregate loan amount of $49.9 million and aggregate project cost of
approximately W 82.6 billion. KTB succeeded in channelling almost 67 percent
of the Bank funds to small and medium enterprises (SMEs) with financing for
R&D being the principal beneficiary (para. 6.1).
4.        In 1990, in order to resolve its financial difficulties and
diversify its resource base, KTB needed to convert itself into a commercial
bank. Although the conversion was denied, an amedment to the KTDC Act,
changing KTDC into a banking corporation, was agreed upon. The change
expanded KTB's resource mobilization capability by allowing it to accept
deposits from official institutions, increasing its bond issuing capacity,
permitting issuance of prize bonds and increasing its authorized capital. KTB
has thus far made a smooth transition. KTB has become a professional and
efficient institution, and its staff is highly competent and sought after by
other institutions and industries (paras. 6.2-6.4).



- iii -
5.        Although KTB envisioned a broader role for itself as main lender to
the technology-oriented private SMEs, its focus was limited to lending
primarily at the commercial stage, when the financial risk is reduced.
However, with KTB's conversion, the Ministry of Science and Technology has
sought KTB's assistance to raise financing through the issuance of prize bonds
to fund high-risk R&D investments for new technology firms. The GOK advanced
the implementation of the second stage of interest rate deregulation to
November 1, 1993, which will allow KTB to price its loans in relation to
risks, thereby allowing it to achieve more profitable operations on its non-
equity activities. Though KTB was expected to be fully privatized by the end
of 1989, the privatization of the GOK's shareholding was deferred, mainly
because of the depressed stock market condition and KTB's inability to qualify
for listing on the KSE due to low profitability. KTB mobilized W 406.8
billion during 1988-92 to accomodate significant expansion of its financing
activities (paras. 6.5-6.8).
6.        Prolect Sustainability.  KTB's financial profitability, which is
the main factor to the project's sustainability, is assured under the
deregulated industrial financial environment of the 1990s. It is expected
that with KTB's transformation, it will meet the challenges facing it in the
1990s. The Bank's close supervision of this transformation is needed (para.
7.1).
7.        Bank and Borrower Performance.  The successful completion of the
project and the experience of KTB confirms the Bank's success at supporting
ITD in Korea. The Bank was diligent and cost-effective in completing the
project. It was also well aware that KTB's limited success in promoting risk-
sharing finance, and the building of KTIC, although specific project
objectives, were not worth pursuing as these events were overtaken by the
accelerated pace of interest rate deregulation implemented by the GOK. KTB's
performance was satisfactory throughout the project period (paras. 8.1, 8.2
and 9.1).
8.        Lessons Learned.  The important lessons learned from the
implementation of this project are: (a) successful ITD depends on a congenial
policy framework, right incentives and institutional infrastructure, and
flexible and relatively open access to foreign technology; (b) private-sector
ownership and the Government's hands-off policy are crucial factors for the
smooth functioning of an ITD financial intermediary; (c) for a newly
established ITD financing institution, the rapid expansion of risk-sharing
financial instruments should be approached deliberately and with caution;
(d) with an eye towards eventual total privatization of financial institutions
such as KTB, and given the nature of ITD, it is essential that entities be
supported with funds at preferential rates of interest for a sufficiently long
period to ensure sustainability; and (e) fluctuations of exchange rate and
complexities arising from the currency pooling system tend to dissuade private
sector subborrowers to use Bank funds (para. 12.1).



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KOREA
THIRD TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2913-KO)
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.    Proiect Identity
Project Name:    Third Technology Development Project
Loan No:          2913-KO
RVP Unit:         East Asia and Pacific Region
Country:         Republic of Korea
Sector:           Industry
Subsector:       Technology Finance
2.    Prolect Background
2.1       Korea has been among the most successful developing countries in the
post war period. Since 1960, real per capita incomes have grown almost sixteen-
fold while absolute poverty has been virtually eliminated. Korea's success lies
no just in achieving and maintaining very high rates of growth of manufacturing
output and exports, but also in diversifying and deepening of its industrial
structure into complex activities in relatively short time. Korea extensively
utilized technologies from overseas not via the "packaged" transfer of skills,
know-how and management represented by foreign direct investment, but by keeping
the ownership of industry mainly local, and depending on the ability of its firms
to absorb, adapt and improve imported technologies in the form of individual
experts, equipment, turnkey projects, licenses and the free flow of information
arising from export activity. The impressive record of industrial technology
development (ITD) is directly traceable to the range of selective and functional
interventions undertaken by the Government of Korea (GOK) since the early stages
of industrialization.
2.2       Towards the end of 1970s, a dialogue was opened between the Bank and
the GOK regarding technology policy and institutional issues. The Bank supported
Korea's approach and the first loan financing ITD was approved in 1979. In 1982
the Bank approved the first Technology Development Project (Loan 2112-KO), and
under this loan it took the strategic decision of supporting the setting up of
a new institution with the primary objective of remedying market failures in the
early (pre-market) stages of financing technological effort in Korean industry.
This project was followed by the second loan in 1984 (KTDC II, Loan 2473-KO) and
the third loan in 1988 (KTDC III, Loan 2913-KO). Each project involved lending
$50.0 million to the newly established institution, Korean Technology Banking
Corporation (KTB, formerly the Korean Technology Development Corporation, KTDC),
a joint private-public sector financial intermediary.   KTB is a participating
financial intermediary under the Financial Intermediation Project (FIP) approved
by the Board on December 23, 1993. The FIP was the vehicle for the Bank for
addressing financial sector policies in Korea (para 2.3). Under the FIP, the
Bank will assist KTB in its transformation from a specialized technology finance



-2-
company into a more broadly based financial institution with a focus on
technology finance. (See Table 1 for details.)
2.3       Historically, Korea's financial sector has been used as an instrument
of industrial policy through the use of policy loans and controlled interest
rate. However, such a policy imposes significant efficiency costs in a rapidly
growing and more complex Korean economy. Recognizing the need for reforms, the
GOK in April 1992 requested Bank's assistance in its preparation of a blueprint
for the liberalization of the financial sector and market opening. In response,
the Bank carried out a comprehensive Financial Sector Studyl which was
completed in December 1992 and has been a key input in formulating the blueprint
for financial sector reform program announced in June/July 1993.
2.4       Specific areas for reforms envisaged under the GOK's program are:  (a)
interest rate liberalization; (b) autonomy of management of banks; (c) reform of
policy loans; (d) management of monetary policy; (e) bank supervision; and (f)
capital account liberalization. Implementation of this program started in July
1993 and the second phase of the reform was implemented on schedule in November
1993. The reform program adopted by the GOK is substantially in line with the
recommendations made in the Study. Over 80 percent of lending rates and about
60 percent of deposit rates  in Korea are now market determined.   Korea's
financial sector reform program is very well received by the international
financial community.
3.   Prolect Objectives and Description
3.1       The overall objective of the project was to continue strengthening and
supporting KTB so that its technology financing continues to play a fundamental
role in the structural transformation of Korean industry.   Specifically, the
project aimed to support KTB in:
(a) its efforts to expand risk financing as well as to introduce new
instruments, such as leasing for ITD;
(b) its fundamental goals of promoting ITD once KTB was privatized;
(c) building its capacity to appraise and supervise more complicated and
riskier projects; and
(d) its effort to build a subsidiary, Korea Technology Investment
Corporation (KTIC), which specialized in "technology" start-ups.
3.2       The project consisted of two components:  (a) a credit line of $49.8
million to meet the estimated foreign exchange requirements of ITD activities of
industrial firms financed by KTB through a variety of financial instruments
during 1988-91; and (b) $0.2 million to finance overseas training and consulting
services for KTB's staff and institutional development.
I/   Korea Financial Sector Study (Report No 11373-KO), July 15, 1993.



-3-
4.        Proiect Design and Organization
4.1       The project had a clear conceptual foundation;  it was the third
project in a series of lending operations to KTB for ITD. The project design was
simple and well-balanced and the project required minimal preparation and modest
supervision.  The roles and responsibilities of the institutions and agencies
responsible for the project were clearly defined and understood. But the success
of these three ITD projects owes as much to the broader determinants of Korean
industrial success as to the design of the projects themselves.  The project
supported KTB in:   (a) introducing new instruments  (such as leasing)  for
financing ITD; (b) building KTB's capacity to appraise and supervise more complex
and riskier subprojects; and (c) expanding the subsidiary KTIC to invest in
technology start-ups.   However, the project objectives, especially regarding
expansion of risk financing and promotion of technology start-ups, were quite
ambitious. The rationale for requiring KTB to expand into riskier ventures with
a Bank loan, repayments of which were made complicated by the currency pooling
system (CPS), instead of equity finance which is the conventional instrument for
venture capital, was inappropriate. Furthermore, the project was implemented at
a time when the Bank was encouraging liberalization of interest rates which
influenced GOK's decision to reduce the volume of subsidized credits to all
financial intermediaries including KTB.
4.2       KTB was established under the Korea Technology Development Corporation
Act promulgated in December 1980. The Bank had provided extensive input, through
its dialogue with the GOK, in the formulation of the Act and its associated
Presidential Enforcement Decree that was issued in April 1981.  Based on its
experience in other countries, the Bank insisted: (a) that the legal framework
should enable KTB to operate in an autonomous manner with the efficiency of a
private company; (b) for a strong and independent management; and (c) on the
ability and means to attract and retain staff of high caliber and
entrepreneurship.   Given the risky nature of the operation, the Bank sought
commitment from GOK that it will provide KTB with necessary financial assistance
during its formative years.
5.   Project Implementation
5.1       Overall,  the project was very successful, notwithstanding several
critical variances between the planned and the actual project implementation.
The project was appraised on the assumption that KTB would continue to receive
about 35 percent of its resources from the GOK at (highly subsidized) 5.5 percent
p.a. interest rate, and relend them at 10 percent p.a., earning a spread of 4.5
percent p.a. on these government funds. But in 1990, due to the GOK's decision
to reduce policy loans in line with interest deregulation, the GOK's lending rate
was increased to 9 percent, and a ceiling of 1 percent on all policy loans
including those for KTB spread was also imposed at the same time. Furthermore,
KTB's loans were also to be made available to small and medium enterprises
(SMEs), and interest rates on its debentures were also increased.  While its
administrative expenses continued to be reasonable, KTB's overall spread thus
became negative and its net profit would have been negative had it not been for
realized capital gains from its equity investments in all the three years (1990,
1991 and 1992).



5.2       Because concessionary funds were no longer available, KTB had to
concentrate its operations on conventional loans in order to ensure the annual
profitability required for attracting private equity investment.   Hence, KTB
could not sustain providing riskier conditional loans and equity investments.
Thus, the variances were primarily caused by external factors on which KTB and
the Bank had virtually no control, and in retrospect, from a broader and long-
term perspective they were conducive to Korea's ITD.
5.3       KTB was able to obtain funds for the technical assistance component
at more favorable terms from other sources, which provided both overseas and
domestic training to its staff as detailed in Table 4.3. As a result, the amount
of $200,000 was reallocated for further subproject financing.
5.4       The project was completed and the loan was closed as planned, with the
cancellation of an undisbursed amount of $917,395. Both actual commitments and
disbursements were generally ahead of the planned schedule, notwithstanding the
difficulties caused by the Bank's CPS, which complicated the estimation of the
foreign exchange risk that had to be passed onto subborrowers. (See Tables 2 and
3.) KTB did a commendable job of convincing subborrowers to use the Bank funds
despite complexities caused by the CPSY2
6.   Prolect Results
6.1       Direct Impact of the Term Credit.  Under the loan, KTB approved 79
subprojects for an aggregate loan amount of $49.9 million and aggregate project
cost of approximately W 82.6 billion (W 39.3 billion in local currency plus $61.9
million in foreign currency). As under the KTDC II project, this loan financed
about 42 percent of the aggregate project cost. Of the final disbursed amount
of $49.1 million, $16.5 million went to 16 large enterprises and $32.5 million
to 63 small and medium enterprises (SMEs). Thus, KTB succeeded in channelling
almost 67 percent of the Bank funds to SMEs, as against only 40 percent in the
KTDC II project. The Bank approved 21 subloans amounting to $30 million, which
were above the free limit of $700,000. The loan was given to 14 machinery/metal
subprojects ($11.7 million), 36 electronics/electrical subprojects ($17.9
million), and 29 chemical/other subprojects ($19.5 million). Both in terms of
the number of subprojects as well as loan amounts, financing for R&D was the
principal beneficiary ($25.9 million), followed by improvement of manufacturing
process ($10.1 million) and technology import ($9.4 million). Almost 65 percent
of the loan amount was used by the 54 subprojects in only two regions: Seoul and
Kyung-Ki. KTB used the entire loan for conventional lending, although it was
expected to use part of the Bank loan for technology start-ups and riskier
subprojects. This limited use of loan proceeds was due to KTB's sudden lack of
access to concessionary funds (making riskier projects unattractive) prompted by
the GOK's policy of financial deregulation, and complexities from the Bank's CPS.
(See Tables 4.1 and 4.2 for details.)
/   In January  1993,  the  Bank  introduced  Single  Currency  Loans  (SCL),
designed to reduce or improve (sub)borrowers' capacity to manage
currency risks; the recently approved FIP loan will allow disbursements
and repayments in a single currency (i.e. US dollars).



-5-
6.2       KTDC's Transformation into KTB.  KTB was faced with unusual financial
hardships and experienced difficulties in making scheduled repayments to its
creditors in 1990. In order to resolve its financial difficulties and diversify
its resource base, KTB needed to convert itself into a commercial bank. Although
the Ministry of Finance denied the conversion, an amendment to the KTDC Act,
changing KTDC into a banking corporation (KTB) was agreed upon.   The change
expanded KTB's resource mobilization capability by allowing it to accept deposits
from official institutions, increasing its bond issuing capacity, permitting
issuance of prize bonds, and increasing its authorized capital. KTB has thus far
made a smooth transition.
6.3       Institutional  Development.    KTB  has  become  a professional  and
efficient institution, and its staff is highly competent and sought after by
other institutions and industries. KTB's success at institutional development
has been exemplary; it emerged as a leading financial intermediary specialized
in  innovative  technology  financing.    KTB,  continued  to  invest  in staff
development and modified periodically its organization to meet the needs of a
rapidly changing industrial and venture capital environment.
6.4       KTB  has  developed  into  an  important  enterprise  for  developing
technology, especially in the small and medium industry sector and has kept its
failed ventures and levels of arrears at a low rate.  It has also become an
important adviser to the GOK in its efforts to promote cooperative research
between public research institutions and industrial firms.  KTB's success at
institution-building is due to its commitment to employing highly qualified
staff.  At present, it has 67 professional staff, of which 21 are engineers, 6
lawyers, and 40 financial analysts or economists. KTB assigns high priority to
staff development and has implemented an extensive program of domestic and
overseas training in addition to its three-year job rotation.   KTB's project
appraisal capability is very comprehensive and regarded as more rigorous than
that of commercial banks, as the evaluation includes technical feasibility,
marketability, financial viability, technical/managerial capability, economic and
environment impact, and sponsor reliability.
6.5       Broadening of Operations.  Although KTB envisioned a broader role for
itself, as main lender to the technology-oriented private SMEs, it tended to
focus its activities on lending primarily at the commercial stage, when the
financial  risk  is reduced.    KTB's  role was  limited by  its concern  for
profitability, and because it needed to match its product with its source of
finance, which was mostly commercial borrowings. However, with KTB's conversion,
the Ministry of Science and Technology (MOST) has sought KTB's assistance to
raise financing through the issuance of prize bonds to fund high-risk R&D
investments for new technology firms. A Science and Technology Promotion Fund
was therefore formed, and KTB is expected to invest this money on a managed-fee
basis (without any credit risk to KTB).
6.6       KTB intends to continue to provide financing to its existing clientele
in the post-commercialization growth phase. It is also determined to expand its
lending activities through an increase in loan volume and quantity of larger-
sized loans. The GOK advanced the implementation of the second stage of interest
rate deregulation to November 1, 1993, which will allow KTB to price its loans
in relation to risks, thereby allowing it to achieve more profitable operations
on its non-equity activities. In response to the various needs of start-up and



on-going businesses, KTB has also started its management consulting services in
1990 advising on public stock offerings, business mergers and acquisitions, and
planning of corporate mid- and long-term strategies.
6.7       ownership and Privatization.   Though KTB was expected to be fully
privatized by the end of 1989, the GOK (including KTB) still owns 22.3 percent
of KTB's shareholdings at the end of 1992 (Table 6). The privatization of the
GOK's shareholding was deferred, mainly because of the depressed stock market
condition and KTB's inability to qualify for listing on the KSE due to low
profitability (its return remained below 10 percent until 1988).   With the
recovery of the KSE and improved profitability of KTB (its return has exceeded
10 percent since 1989 and is expected to exceed 12.75 percent in 1993 and
thereafter), it intends to reduce its public sector ownership progressively down
to  about  7-8  percent.    MOST,  who  intends  to  remain  as  the  government
representative, has indicated a desire to retain a 7-8 percent minimum
shareholding in KTB.
6.8       Resource Mobilization.  KTB mobilized W 406.8 billion during 1988-92
to accommodate significant expansion of its financing activities: W 19 billion
as equity, W 42 billion as loan from the GOK, W 261 billion as debentures in
private capital market, and $80 million in foreign currency.  KTB expects to
continue selling bonds to the Ministry of Communications at a slightly below
market rate and raise equity finance through the KSE. The listing requirement
of KSE is a minimum of 10 percent return on share capital for two consecutive
years. Although KTB has satisfied this initial requirement, it still needs to
achieve the other requirement of a 12.75 percent return by 1993 for KSE listing
by 1994. Both the Bank and KTB are confident of accomplishing this goal.
6.9       Financial Performance.   KTBC is a financially sound and profitable
institution. During 1988-92, KTBC has been consistently profitable, although the
returns on average equity in 1991 and 1992 at 8.4% and 8.7% were modest, when
compared with the rates available on one year deposit or debt instruments. Prior
to 1989, KTBC received its funding from the GOK at 5.5%, and was permitted a 4.5%
spread.  In 1990, the GOK increased the cost to 9% and limited KTBC to a 1%
spread.   Subsequently, KTBC had to raise funds by issuing debentures on the
domestic capital market which put further pressure on KTBC maturities, spreads
and profitability. Having to raise funds from commercial sources and investing
in controlled spreads, has resulted in very modest levels of profitability.
Despite tight controls on staff and administrative expenses, KTBC has been able
to achieve profitability in the last three years only through a realization of
capital gains from its equity portfolio.  As required, KTBC has maintained a
long-term debt-equity ratio below 5:1.
7.   Project Sustainabilitv
7.1       KTB's  financial profitability,  which  is the main factor to the
project's sustainability, is assured under the deregulated industrial and
financial environment of the 1990s (para 2.3).  It is expected that with the
transformation of KTB from an industrial technology financing to a banking
corporation, KTB is well prepared to meet the challenges facing it in the 1990s.
In the PCR for the KTDC II Project, it was stated that KTB's future prospects
were not clear on two main points: (a) whether KTB could develop a sustainable
strategy for resource mobilization; and (b) how well KTB could compete with other
institutions in a progressively liberalized financial sector environment.



-7-
Crucial to this transformation is the financial results of 1993 when a return of
12.75 percent on share capital must be achieved to allow a KSE listing in 1994.
Both the Bank and KTB are confident of meeting this target.   In 1994, KTB's
financial performance is expected to improve further with the profitability being
achieved without reliance on capital gains from equity portfolio.  From 1994
onwards, profits are expected to build as the portfolio and lending margins grow.
KTB expects to build its equity base through new capital issues on the KSE at
progressively higher premiums as its profitability grows. However, the Bank's
close supervision of KTB's transformation is needed.
8.   Bank Performance
8.1       The successful completion of the project and the experience of KTB
confirms the Bank's success at supporting ITD in Korea. This project, including
the three before it, met the critica. need for ITD financing in Korea over the
decade, and overcame deficiencies in the capital market that they were supposed
to alleviate. Other issues of skills, incentives, institutions and so on, were
being addressed by the COK under other projects supported by the Bank. Moreover,
the project was aimed at largely functional rather than selective government
interventions. The SAR had explicitly stated that continued Bank support to KTB
was in line with the Bank recommendations to move Korean industrial policy away
from one in which the GOK takes the lead in "picking winners" towards one which
emphasizes functional interventions in such areas as ITD and development of SMEs
and venture capital, areas where market imperfections and externalities existed.
More importantly, having gained maturity as a specialized technology finance
company, albeit with continued Bank support, KTB is now transforming itself into
a more broad based financial institution with a focus on technology finance --an
area of priority under the Five Year Plan for the New Economy, 1993-97.
8.2       The Bank was diligent and cost-effective in completing the project
(Table 8.1 and 8.2). It had accelerated the early stages of the project cycle,
and combined the missions with supervision of the KTDC I and KTDC II projects.
Bank's supervision of the project was generally adequate; the preparation and
preappraisal missions for the proposed FIP were also de-facto supervision
missions for this project, as KTB was one of four beneficiary institutions under
the project.    Specifically,  the Bank made  important contribution towards
finalization of the KTB Act, Presidential Decree and Articles of Incorporation.
The Bank was also well aware that KTB's limited success in promoting risk-sharing
finance, and the building of KTIC which specialized in technology start-up,
although specific project objectives, were not worth pursuing as these events
were overtaken by the accelerated pace of interest rate deregulation implemented
by the GOK.
9.   Borrower Performance
9.1       KTB's performance was satisfactory throughout the project period. The
collection ratio for the subloans was satisfactory, ranging between 97.6 percent
(1991) and 99.6 percent (1989) during these five years, with total arrears as
percentage of principal outstanding ranging only between 0.13 and 0.19. At the
end of 1992, KTB had no conventional loans in arrears over six months and only
three percent were in arrears under six months, affecting only 1.2 percent of the
total principal  outstanding  (W 210.5  billion).   KTB's  venture  investment



-8-
partnership program and KTIC's venture financing services for companies at their
start-up stages are further expected to strengthen KTB.
10. Proiect Relationship
10.1      Both KTB and the GOK maintained very amicable and businesslike working
relationship with the Bank during the entire project cycle. KTB maintains good
relationship with relevant government agencies and subborrowers.   KTB,  in
particular, works closely with new enterprises, providing help in planning their
financial strategies and essential funds.  KTB has been responsive to Bank's
queries and concerns as well.   It had furnished its part of the PCR in a
satisfactory and timely manner.
11. Proiect Documentation and Data
11.1      The Loan and Guarantee Agreements were appropriate for achieving the
key project objectives. The SAR provided a useful framework for the Bank and KTB
during the project implementation stage. The documents and data required for
Bank's consent to its conversion and for preparation of the PCR were by and large
available or provided by KTB expeditiously. The nonavailability of the documents
concerning the project preparatory stage (e.g., Executive Project Summary, Issues
Paper, Decision Memorandum) reflects the 1987 Bank reorganization.
12. Lessons Learned
12.1      The important lessons learned from the implementation of this project
echoes KTB's project experience and the findings of the Operations Evaluation
Department's Report on ITD (Report No. 12138, June 1993), which reviewed the
three successive loans to KTB for ITD. They are:
(a)  Successful  ITD  depends  on  a  congenial  policy  framework,  right
incentives and institutional infrastructure, and flexible and
relatively open access to foreign technology;
(b)  Private-sector   ownership   or  majority  participation   and  the
Government's hands-off policy are crucial factors for the smooth
functioning of an ITD financial intermediary, allowing the entity
speed of action and a quick response to the customers' changing needs
and environment;
(c)  For a newly established ITD financing institution, the rapid expansion
of  risk-sharing   financial   instruments   should  be   approached
deliberately and with caution. It maybe considered only as a long-
term proposition, as the successful operation of such instruments
requires a longer gestation period, more experience and capabilities
with project appraisal and supervision than for conventional loans,
and is also subject to constraints existing in the country (such as
the lack of a viable over-the-counter market in securities);
(d)  With  an  eye  towards  eventual  total  privatization  of  financial
institutions such as KTB, and given the nature of ITD, it is essential
that entities be supported with funds at preferential rates of
interest   for  a  sufficiently   long  period   to  ensure   their



- 9 -
sustainability. In the process, and as the institution develops and
matures, they should be forced to support themselves through their own
resource mobilization; and
(e) Fluctuations of exchange rate and complexities arising from the CPS
tend to dissuade private sector subborrowers to use che Bank funds.



- 10 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KORE
THIRD TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2913-KO)
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
1. KTB'S ROLE
1.1   The principal role of KTB is to promote and accelerate the technological
development of Korean industries and to foster local entrepreneurship among
industries in Korea.
1.2   To fulfill this role, KTB performs its functions through the following
instruments:
(a)   Long-term R&D Financing:  up to 10 years repayment period including a 3-
year grace period.
(b)   Venture Capital (or risks-sharing) Financing:  KTB uses venture capital
financing as a means of technology financing. This includes equity investment,
conditional lending, convertible bonds and bonds with warrants.
(c)   Investment Partnership Management:  This is a venture capital financing
program to make investment in new or existing small and medium-sized industrial
companies in the form of equity investment, convertible bonds or bonds with
warrants.
(d)   Leasing and Factoring:  These financing operations were added for flexible
financing and add-on financing to the SMI clients of KTB. KTB's leasing service
is designed to provide advanced equipment to cope with the changes in technology
and to timely supply facilities for business growth.
(e)   Management Consulting Services:  In response to the various needs of start-
up and on-going businesses, KTB gives advice on public stock offerings, business
mergers and acquisitions, and planning of corporate mid and long-term strategies.
KTB also supplies up-to-date information related to marketing technology, and
other areas.



- 11 -
(f) Center for R&D Commercialization : Drawing upon its experience and the
accumulated   know-how,   KTB  has   establishted   the   Center   for   R&D
Commercialization to expedite commercialization of R&D results and actively
support transfer of technology to and from foreign countries. Through the
Center, KTB has exerted its utmost efforts to encourage R&D activities in
industries and, to foster, for promising venture businesses, cooperative
relations with overseas companies seeking business and technological ties
with Korean companies.
(g) Comprehensive Training Institute & Exhibition Hall : KTB operates a
comprehensive training institute to develop competent manpower for its
portfolio companies and small-and medium-sized businesses.    The modern
structure, equipped with various state-of-the-art training facilities, has
comfortable accommodations for about 120 people, and a lecture hall with a
seating capacity  for 200 people.   The institute develops and provides
specialized training programs as well.   To assist sales promotion of new
technology products manufactured by KTB-financed businesses KTB has opened
a showroom at the Federation of Korean Industries bulidinq in Seoul.
2. LOAN OBJECTIVES
1.3   The main objective of the loan was to facilitate the structural
transformation of Korean industry through acceleration of industrial
technology development.   Specifically,  the project was to : (a) assist
KTB's  institutional  development  through  technical  assistance,   staff
development, and training ; (b) assist KTB's catalytic role in technology
innovation ; (c) establish the foundation for a long-term resource base for
KTB  ;  (d)  expand  KTB's  operations  involving  risk-sharing  financial
instruments   and (e) expand KTB's support to SMI.
1.4 The Loan consists of :
Part A : A line of credit to help cover costs of industry-sponsored
R&D subprojects.



- 12 -
Part B : Institutional development of KTB, comprising (i) consulting
services to support the operations of KTB and training of KTB
staff, both to further deepen their capacity to identify,
appraise, and supervise R&D projects and to enable KTB to
carry out surveys of the technological needs of Korean
industries ; and (ii) purchase of training materials for KTB
staff.



- 13 -
II. KTB PERFORMANCE
1. INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE
Legal Framework and Ownership
2.1 KTDC was established under the KTDC Act in 1981, and it transformed
itself into KTB under the KTB ACT promulgated on December 31, 1991 and the
associated Enforcement Decree issued on June 30, 1992 in order to expand
and improve its services through diversifying its financial resources and
reinforcing  its  structure.    This  special  KTB Act  and the  associated
Presidential Decree enable KTB :
(a) to operate in an autonomous manner with the efficiency of a private
company,
(b) to have a strong and independent management, and
(c) to have the ability and means to attract and retain staff of high
caliber and entrepreneurship.   All these factors are most critical to the
success of an operation of KTB.   Public  interest  in KTB,  by way  of
Government financial support, such as equity contributions, loans, loan
guarantees,   etc.   is   safeguarded   principally   through   Government
representation on KTB's Board of Directors, exercising the usual rights of
a shareholder.   To prevent KTB from being dominated by any one private
shareholder, the KTB Act stipulates that the ownership of any shareholder,
with the exception of the Government and international development
financing institutions, be limited to no more than 7% of the total shares
issued, and that in case any such shareholder's shares should exceed 7% of
the total shares issued, his voting rights would be limited to 7%.
2.2  The ownership of KTB has undergone gradual changes since 1988.  With
the acceptance of Asian Development Bank in 1988 and German Finance Company
for Investments in Developing Countries(DEG) in 1989 as a shareholder, the
ownership structure of KTB at the end of 1992 stood as shown in Annex 13.



- 14 -
Operating Policies
2.4  KTB's Operating Manual provides broad guidelines for its operations,
including  the  scope  of  loan  and  investment  activities,  criteria  for
investment  decisions,   diversification  of  assets,  promotion  of  SMI,
relations with clients,  and generation of profits.   Combined with other
operational policies (such as limiting KTB's equity investments in any
single enterprise to not more than 10% of its paid-in capital and
reserves), there are adequate safeguards to protect KTB from an undue
concentration of its assets.
2.5    Details  of  the  terms  and  conditions  of  KTB's  loan  and  equity
investment and procedures are given in the Statement of Investment and
Operational Policies. KTB has promoted and financed the following types of
projects under the Bank loan :
(a) Loans for in-house R&D costs and/or for the cost of contracts for
technological development with external research organizations ;
(b) Investments and loans for initial efforts for the commercialization of
the results of R&D ;
(c) Loans for technology import or for the adaptation and improvement of
imported technology ;
(d) Loans for engineering costs associated with the construction of
industrial facilities ;
(e) Technical advisory services to industrial enterprises with respect to
the business activities referred to in (a) through (b) above and/or
technical feasibility surveys for other R&D facilities ; and
(f) Use of foreign specialists and technical advisers, and training of R&D
personnel.



- 15 -
Proiect Supervision
2.6 KTB has established supervision systems and procedures which are more
efficient and effective than those established before the inception of the
Bank Loan. Projects encountering financial or operational difficulties are
closely monitored by the responsible department.   The systems with which
ongoing projects are classified by the degree of need for supervision have
been developed and being implemented in order to improve performance in
this regard.
Korea Technoloqy Investment Corporation (KTIC)
2.7   KTIC was established in November 1986 as a subsidiary of KTB to
operate in accordance with the Small and Medium Enterprise Inauguration
Assistance Act.  As stipulated by the Act, KTIC specializes in financing
newly established SMI through equity investments and partnership venture
fund operations.    KTB is benefited from KTIC through  ; (i) offering
subsequent financing in various forms to the SMI clients of KTIC, and (ii)
accumulating know-how on venture capital operations (equity investments and
partnership venture fund).
KTB Consultants, Inc.
2.8  KTB  Consultants,   Inc.,   a  comprehensive  management  consulting
subsidiary, was incorporated in 1990 to meet the industries' need for
comprehensive consulting services, thus contributing towards their sound
growth.   It provides first-rate consulting services in Korea,  including
mergers & acquisitions arrangements, management consulting advices, and
training services.
Organization, Management and Staff
2.9   The responsibility for the policy and general direction of KTB's
business rests with the Board of Directors headed by a Chairman, who is the
Chief  Executive  Officer  of  one  of  the  large  industry  groups.    The



- 16 -
President, who reports directly to the Board, is responsible for KTB's
overall operations.   The Board has fully delegated authority to approve
individual loans and investments to the Executive Directors' Committee
consisting of all directors that are managers of KTB.   Such delegation
enables KTB to respond quickly to private industry's changing R&D needs.
2.10 KTB's organization has changed and expanded periodically to meet the
needs of the rapidly changing industrial and venture capital environment.
KTB now has ten departments aside from five branches in Pusan, Kwang-Ju,
Tae-Gu, Tae-Jon, An-San and one representative office in the U.S.A.   The
three Project Finance Departments, which are divided by major industrial
sectors (machinery and metal, electric and electronics, and chemical and
others), are responsible for project identification and appraisal and
supervision.    The  Fund Management  Department  is responsible  for  fund
raising and investment of liquidity assets ; the Prize Bond & Fund
Department for issuance and management of prize bonds, management of
'Science and Technology Promotion Fund' which is entrusted to KTB by the
Government ; the International Business Department for international
businesses and CRDC ; the Planning Department for planning and budgeting ;
the Administration Department for personnel and other support services ;
the Business Department for the construction of KTB office building and the
management of the Training Institute ; and the Leasing Department for
leasing businesses.
2.11 At present, KTB has 67 professional staff of which 21 are engineers,
6 lawyers, and 40 financial analysts or economists.
Staff Development and Training
2.12    In consideration  of KTB's major  role  in  financing  technology
development, staff development has special significance.   Despite  its
recruitment of qualified staff with some experience, the absence of persons
with experience in technology financing or venture capital in Korea caused
KTB to immediately develop an extensive program of domestic and overseas
training in addition to periodic job rotation with 3 year time period.



- 17 -
2.13   From 1988-1992, 18 professionals participated in overseas training
(for two weeks to one year).   The programs have covered such areas as
managing   technological   innovation,   financing  R&D,   venture  capital
operations and small business management.   KTB's domestic training mainly
consists of : (a) Master of Business Administration programs at graduate
schools ; (b) on-the-job training in KTB and KTB's portfolio companies
(c) courses at a training center for bankers in Korea ; (d) two or
three-day in-house training.
2. OPERATING PERFORMANCE
Overal Operations
2.14   KTB approved 1,878 projects between 1988 and 1992, providing seed
money which had a substantial multipliers effect on industries' investments
in R&D. Total approval amounted to W602.0 billion during the period.
2.15   KTB supports projects at all stages of the technology development
process from R&D start-up to commercialization stage, 73% going to in-house
research activities, 2% to technology imports, 23% to commercialization,
and  2%  to  purchase  of  research  equipment.    The  distribution  among
industries had been made with the proportion of 42% for machinery/metal
sector,  29%  for electronics/electrical  sector,  29%  for chemical/others
sector.
Financial Support to SMI
2.16   KTB supports all industries including large-scale enterprises, but
special emphasis is placed on small and medium-sized industrial companies.
The task of KTB's preferential treatment to SMI was difficult to accomplish
during the initial period of its business operations, given the conditions
of technological development capability and early awareness of technology
of the large-scale enterprises in the industrial sector.  Most of the SMI



- 18 -
had limited in-house technological capability for developing R&D projects,
limited international exposure to identify sources of technologies or ideas
for products/processes, and financial constraints.   KTB's support to SMI
increased from less than 30% in 1981/B2 to over 97% in 1992 in terms of
total amount of financing. The results are even more highlighted in terms
of the number of projects ; 347 out of 352 projects financed in 1989 were
SMI's projects.
Venture Capital Financing Instruments
2.17 KTB employs various types of financial instruments which is one of
the factor that differentiates KTB from other financial institutions.
KTB's commitment by category of risk-sharing financial instruments
including equity investments, convertible bonds, conditional loans amounts
to W74.8 billion, or 12.4% of total approval during the period 1988-1992.
Relationship between RTB and its clients
2.18   KTB maintains a very close and cooperative relationship with its
clients.  KTB typically receives preliminary inquires from entrepreneurs,
researchers, and inventors with project idears.   A project idea at that
stage is, sometimes, neither well-conceived nor sufficiently developed to
constitute  a  bankable  project.       Through  interviews  with  potential
applicants, RTB staff also proavide advice and suggestions based on their
own   expertise.       Once   a   formal   application   is   recieved,   the
technically-trained and business-trained project appraisal officers work
together in evaluating the applications. In case that the project sponsor
is in critical need of RTB's managerial support, RTB helps the investee
company by dispatching its staff to the company for a certain period time
upon the investee company's request. A notable feature of RTB's assistance
to its portfolio companies is that RTB's wide network of industry
information and professional financial and managerial expertise may be
taken advantage of.  Based on its expertise and wide network, RTB provides
a comprehensive support for the growth of its portfolio companies, which
encompasses managerial and financial consultation, even including the



- 19 -
groundwork for going public.
2.19   As the number of KTB's client companies reached approximately 500
industrial companies, KTB has been able to act as an intermediary among
them.   Activities include complementary sourcing of components and parts
and assisting in marketing aspects, providing opportunities for the
exchange of information on technology and business trends.
Resource Mobilization
2.20    KTB  mobilized  W406.6  billion  during  the  period  1988-1992  to
accomodate the significant expansion of its financing activities.   KTB
successfully mobilized resources in the amount of W19.1 billion as equity,
borrowed  from  the  government  W42   billion  and  floated  Technology
Development Deventures in the private capital market totalling W260.9
billion during  the  same  period.    For  foreign currency  resources,  KTB
mobilized U$80.4 million including the Bank's loan of U$40.9 million.
Financial Performance
2.21  Annex 9 summarizes KTB's actual overall financial performance.   In
1992, it accomplished a remarkable net profit of W6.6 billion without the
qovernment's interest rate differential subsidies.
3. Accomplishments
2.22   KTB is now widely considered as a leading technology  financing
institution in Korea and many countries are trying to establish a similar
organization.   Venture financing and R&D financing activities draw wide
attention and the promotion of these financing activities constitutes an
important element of Korea's industrial technology development drive.   In
addition to KTB, three other venture financing corporations namely, Korea
Technology  Financing  Corporation(KTFC),   Korea  Development  Investment
Corporation(KDIC), and Korea Technology Advancement Corporation(KTAC) have



- 20
been encouraged under the New Technology Financing Support Act to promote
venture  capital  business.    Furthermore,  54  other  star-up  investment
companies in the nature of KTIC have been created up to now.
2.23 KTB's activities in the venture capital field have attracted a number
of new private venture capital companies which benefitted either directly
or indirectly from KTB's past achievements and contributions in the field
of R&D financing.   In a sense, KTB has been a pioneer in showing the way
and nurturing the climate in the technology financing area.  Also, it has
been an important institution responsible for the realization of Korea's
objectives in the field of science and technology.
2.24 Regarding its operational aspect, KTB, by and large took a prudent
investment strategy in its initial stage with emphasis on nurturing the
technology development climate in Korea's industries and slowly injected
the venture capital concept for the sound management and financial
viability of technology ventures.   After KTB earned a well-established
position, it shifted to a more aggressive financing strategy by employing
more risk-sharing instruments.



- 21 -
III. THE BANK'S CONTRIBUTION TO KTB
3.1 From 1988 to 1992, KTB approved 1,87B projects amounting to W602.5
billion, out of vhich W80.5 billion was in foreign currency. For foreign
currency resources, KTB relied mainly on the Bank Loans.
3.2 The approval of the Bank Loan to KTB encouraged both the government
and the private sector shareholders to accelerate their subscriptions to
the successive capital increase.
3.3   The Bank suggested to KTB to strengthen its supervision/follow-up
functions of venture financing to increase the weight of venture financing
and to enhance its profitability.   The suggestion helped KTB to develop
mre specific and efficient supervision/follow-up systems.
3.4 As a result of the above mentioned, the Bank's contribution to KTB,
KTB is now maintaining its leading position in the field of R&D financing
and venture capital business in Korea in spite of emergence of many
domestic companies in the same nature of business. In addition, the Bank's
and KTB's experience gained during the evolution and implementation of the
project would be useful in assisting other countries planning to establish
R&D financing institutions.



- 22 -
IV. LESSONS LEARNED FROM THE PROJECT
Several   important   lessons   have  emerged   from   the   evolution   and
implementation of the project.
4.1   The role of the government and its strategies are crucial to the
success  of  this  project.    To date,  the  government  has  initiated  an
multi-facited array of policies and administrative measures to facilitate
the development of industrial technology.   Policies  and administrative
measures have been to : (a) encourage R&D investments by industry as much
as possible ; (b) liberalize foreign technology imports : (c) increase the
linkaqe between industry and non-profit research institutes : and (d)
create suitable financing mechanisms for R&D activities and venture capital
business (including KTB), particularly for SMI. Furthermore, to complement
these measures, the government has increased education sector investments
to improve the quality as well as the quantity of technical manpower.
4.2  The government is the second largest shareholder of KTB, who is in a
most influential position.  But the government allows KTB to operate in an
autonomous manner and gives it the ability and means to attract and retain
human resources of high caliber.   This is a key to the project's success
because KTB is required to quickly respond to its customer's changing needs
and environment.
4.3 There has been an increasing number of would-be entrepreneurs who are
aspiring to begin businesses and private innovators who are dreaming of
commercializing  their  R&D  projects.    Existing  small  and  medium-sized
companies are continuously trying to improve their technology capability to
cope with severer competition in the local and international market. Their
ardent wishes and efforts are decisive to the project's success.  But, it
is true that some of Korean entrepreneurs are concerned with an erosion of
potential profits and dilution of their ownership.



PART  III    STATISTICAL  INFORMATION
TIIIRD TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2913-KO)
Table 1: RELATED BANK LOANS
Loan No.                    Title                                     Purpose                         Approval       Status                 Comments
1676      Electronics Technology               Strengthen capacity of KIET for devcloping             1979        Closed
semiconductor technologies, R&D, etc.
1800      Education Sector                     Upgrade technical and enginecring education in collegcs  1980      Closed
2112      (First) Technology Developmcnt       Support institutional development of KTDC (KTB)        1982         Closed
2215       Small & Mcdium Machinery Industry   Finance SMMI subprojects and TA & Training to          1982         Closed      Loan to IBK, CNB, KLB and
SMIPC                                                                           SM IPC
2427       Science & Technology                Improve quality of education in scicncc and enginecring  1984       Closed
2473       Second Technology Development       Continue institutional support of KTDC (KTB)           1984         Closed
2515       Small & Medium Industry             Finance SMI subprojects and TA to SMIPC                1985         Closed      Loan to CNB and SMIPC
3037       (First) Technology Advancement      Strengthen industrial development in SMIs by enhancing  1989        Closed      Loan to KIT, ITC and KERI
R&D education
3202       Second Technology Advancement       Improve R&D capacities of science, engineering,        1990       Supervision    Loan to KAIST, GERI, KIER,
_____________ __    biotechnology, ctc.                                                       KIGMM, and KRISS
3203       Universities of Sciencc & Technology   Assist seiected univcrsities in basic research programs  1990  Supervision    Loan to KAIST, GERI, KRISS and
Research                            in science and technology                                                       KIER
3315       Third Technology Advancement        Reinforce GOK's priority for industrial development    1991       Supervision    Loan to KIST, KBSC, and NIRI
technology
SMMI -   Small & Medium Machinery Industry                                                        KAIST -  Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology
KIET   -   Korea Institutc of Electronics Technology                                              GERI  -  Genetic Engineering Research Institute
IBK    -   Industrial Bank of Korea                                                               KRISS -  Korea Research Institute of Standards and Science
CNB   -   Citizens National Bank                                                                  KIER  -  Korea Institute of Energy and Resources
KLB   -   Korca Long Tcrm Crcdit Bank                                                             KIGMM    -Korea Institute of Geology, Mining and Materials
SMIPC -   SmnaU & Medium Industry Promotion Corporation                                           KIST   -  Korea Institute of Science & Technology
KIT    -   Korea Institute of Technology                                                          KBSC  -  Korma Basic Science Center
ITC    -   Industrial Technology Center                                                           NIRI  -  National Industrial Research Institute
KERI  -   Korea Eletrotechnology Rcscarch Institutc



- 24 -
THIRD TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2913-KO)
Table 2: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Item                             Date Planned                   Dae Actual
Draft Initiating Project Brief             November 1985                 November 1985
Identification Mission                  November 1985                 Nov/Dec 1985
Preparation Mission                    May/June 1986                 November 1986
Initial Executive Project Summary             February 1987                 February 1987
Pre-Appraisal Mission                      May 1987                      May 1987
Appraisal Mission                     Aug-Octo 1987                   Jun/Jul 1987
Loan Negotiations                     December 1987                 Dec. 7-10, 1987
Board Approval                         March 1988                 February 23, 1988
Loan Signature                         March 1988                   April 1, 1988
Loan Effectiveness                     June 30, 1988                  Juno 1, 1988
Project Completion /1                    June 30, 1992                August 2, 1991
Loan Closing                      December 31, 1992              December 31, 1992
The last authorization of withdrawal for a subloan was made by the Bank on August 2, 1991.



- 25 -
THIRD TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2913-KO)
Table 3: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL DISBURSEMENTS
(US Million $)
Actual as
Appraisal                                                 % of Appraisal
FiSCal Year          Estimate            Estimate              Actual             Estimate
1988
Mar. 1988
Jun. 1988                                                               5.00
1989
Sep. 1988                        5.50                3.24               8.82                   160
Dec. 1988                        6.50                6.50              12.30                   189
Mar. 1989                        9.00                9.26              15.09                   168
Jun. 1989                       12.00                12.00             20.39                   170
1990
Sep. 1989                       15.50               15.51              24.09                   155
Dec. 1989                       19.00               19.00              30.35                   160
Mar. 1990                      23.00                22.99              38.05                   165
Jun. 1990                       27.00               27.00              38.05                   141
1991
Sep. 1990                       31.00               27.00              41.03                   132
Dec. 1990                       34.50               27.00              41.03                   119
Mar. 1991                       37.50               33.75              45.48                   121
Jun. 1991                       40.50               40.50              45.48                   112
1992
Sep. 1991                      43.50                41.50              46.24                   106
Dec. 1991                      46.00                42.50              47.49                   103
Mar. 1992                      48.00                43.50              48.21                   100
Jun. 1992                       50.00               45.00              48.38                    97
1993
Sep. 1992                      (50.00)                                 49.08 /a                 98
Date of Final Disbursement - July 30, 1992.
/a     The final undisbursed amount of $917,395.01 was cancelled as of October 2, 1992.



- 26 -
Table 4.1
Page 1 of 6
THIRD TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT(LOAN 2913-KO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
LIST OF SUBPROJECTS FINANCED UNDER THE LOAN
CATEGORY           COMPANY NAME                         PROJECT NAME                 DISBURSEMENT(US)
3-A-01   DAEWOO ELECTRIC MOTOR           Manufacturing Technology Import of            1,655,723.24
Air Moving Motor & Hermetic Motor
for Compressor
3-A-02   SAM HWA CAPACITOR CO.           Development for Localization of ZnO           1,296,610.91
Varistor
3-A-03   SUN WHA METAL CO., LTD.         Co=ercialization of Alumium Foil              1,500,578.08
Manufacturing Technology
3-A-04   HANKUK-ENGELHARD                Process Improvement of Monolythic             2,000,000.00
Three-Way Catalytic Converter for
Automotive Emission Control
3-A-05   KOREA WELDING ELECTR.           Import & Localization of Flux Cored           1,009,912.11
Wire Manufacturing Technology
3-A-06   HI SUNG METAL CO., LTD.         Development of Conductive Paste               1,002,808.14
3-A-07   KOREA DENKI ONKYO CO.           Development of DY. FBT for High                 799,691.00
Resolution Monitor & High Definition
Color TV
3-A-OB   YOUNG-WOO CHEMICAL              Technology Import of Trimethylolpro-          1,605,413.26
pane Prodution
3-A-09   YUKONG LTD.                     Technology Import of a Process for            1,986,607.64
Hydrocracking, Hydro-desulfurization
of Heavy Petroleum Fractions
3-A-10   YUKONG LTD.                     Technology Import of UOP Platforming          1,005,405.36
Process with Continuous Catalyst
Regeneration
3-A-11   TAI LIM PACKAGING CO.           Process Improvement of Corrugated             1,150,708.63
Cardboard Manufacturing
3-A-12   ORIENT WATCH CO., LTD.          Development of Watch Components               2,003,607.37
Processing Technology
3-A-13   DAEWOO ELECTRIC MOTOR           Quality Improvement of Hermetic Mortor        1,198,288.49
& Motor for Home Appliances
3-A-14   KOHAP LTD.                      Purchase of R&D Equipments                    1,395,591.43
3-A-15   HI SEONG METAL CO., LTD.        Development of SnO2 Electric Contact          1,501,762.51
3-A-16   YUKONG ELASTOMER CO             Technology Import of EPDM Production          1,991,958.56
3-A-17   SIEMENS BENDIX KOREA            Development of E.F.I. System                  1,997,863.72



- 27 -
Page 2 of 6
CATEGORY           COMPANY NAME                          PROJECT NAME                 DISBURSEMENT(U$)
3-A-18   KOLON MERAK FIBER CO.           Technology Import of Polypropylene               991,958.56
Staple Fiber Manufacturing
3-A-19   SAMSUNG WATCH CO., LTD.         Development for Localization of                1,500,000.00
Mesuring Instruments
3-A-20   HI SEONG METAL CO., LTD.        Development of Cream Solder for SMT            1,000,000.00
3-A-21   SE-WHA PRECISION CO.            Commercialization of PP/PE Compounding         1,270,000.00
3-B-01   KOREA DATA SYSTEM CO.           Development of New Model SMPS                      94,839.70
3-B-02   KOSHIN ENERGY MANAGEMENT        Development of Gun Type Hydraulic                300,000.00
Actuated Burner
3-B-03   SUNKYONG ENG. & CONST.          Technology Import of Auto CAD Facet              399,940.28
3-B-04   WHA-SHIN MFG. CO., LTD.         Development of Chassis Component for             200,000.00
New Model Car
3-B-05   WOOSUNG CHEMICAL IND.           Development of Color Compound                    199,922.68
3-B-06   SONG WOUN INDUSTRIAL            Development of OBTO                              200,000.00
3-B-07   SUNG SHIN CO. LTD.              Porcess Improvement/Ouality Improvement          362,678.61
of Small Precision AC Motor
3-B-0   SHIN IL IND CO.                 Development of Material for S-Bone China         299,942.15
3-B-09   KANGNAM CHEMICAL CO.            Purchase of R&D Equipments                         61,791.12
3-B-10   FINE PLASTIC CO. LTD.           Automation of InDection Process                  249,903.49
3-B-l1   SAM WOO TELECO.MMUNIC           Development of Tester Bed for Leased Line         47,182.50
3-B-12   YANG JI CHEMICALS CO.           Localization of Nifedipine                         79,968.96
3-B-13   HAN CHANG ELECTRIC              Development/Comerclalization of Coaxial          500,805.47
Cable for High Frequency
3-B-14   DAE HA PHARMACEUTICA            Technology Import of Estradiol Patch             200,424.81
3-B-15   KIRIN SYSTEMS CORP.             Development of Circulation VAN System            170,104.71
3-B-16   SHIN IL ENTERPRISE              Development of S-Bone China Ware Manu-           250,569.03
facturing Technology
3-B-17   GOLD STAR SOFTWARE              Development of Library VAN Core                  448,255.23
Technology
3-B-18   KOREA ELECTRICAL MFT.           Development of Switching Power Supply for          97,550.00
Switching System
3-B-19   NAE WAE ELECTRIC CO.            Development of PCB Surface Mourfing              250,702.32
Technology



-28-                                         Page  3 of 6
CATEGORY           COMPANY NAME                          PROJECT NAME                 DISBURSEMENT(US)
3-B-20   KOSHIN ENERGY MANAGEMENT        Development of Low Pressurized Air               701,980.55
Injection Type Burner
3-B-21   KUKJE PHARMA IND. CO.           Development of Trimebutine Maleate               699,431.01
3-B-22   HYUPJIN PHOTO CHEMICAL          Development of Graphic Arts Film                   50,164.95
3-B-24   SAMSUNG WATCH CO.               Automation of Watch Assembling Process           699,642.37
3-B-25   SAMSUNG WATCH CO.               Development of Plating Solution &                698,748.12
Chemicals for Watch Plating
3-B-26   CHO KWANG PAINT IND.            Development of Polyisocyanate                     701,621.48
3-B-27   OTTOGI FOODS CO. LTD.           Purchase of R&D Equipments for a                    1,622.20
Laboratory Attached
3-B-28   DATACOMM CO., LTD.              Development of Computer Network System           363,812.12
3-B-29   TAE IL MAGNETICS CO.            Development of Floppy Head                        250,544.63
3-B-30   TAE IL MAGNETICS CO.            Development of Thin Flim Head for HDD             250,544.62
3-B-31   WOO SHIN TEXTILE CO.            Development of Silk Textile by Air Jet            179,269.56
Texturing
3-B-32   DONG IL TECHNOLOGY LTD.         Development of 4 Types of Noise Filter            149,905.29
including Blocking Type Noise Filter
3-B-33   KOREA ELECTRIC CO., LTD.        Development of Movable Electronic                250,386.82
Display Panel System
3-B-34   AERO SYSTEM INC.                Development of Active Speaker System             249,842.45
3-B-35   DONGBO S.C. CORP.               Development and Commercialization of             139,969.96
Ultraviolet Observer
3-B-36   LUCKY ADVANCED MAT.             Technology Import of Acetic Acid/Vinyl           702,433.40
Acetate Production
3-B-37   SUNKYONG ENGR. CONST.           Technology Import of Distillation Column         499,105.75
Manufacturing
3-B-38   YUYU IWID. CO., LTD.            Purchase of R&D Equipment/Actomation             299,780.45
of Manufacturing Process
3-B-39   SAM-SUNG CELMICAL IND.          Development of High Precision Medical             79,856.88
PVC Tube
3-B-40   JIN-SUNG ELECTRONICS            Process Improvement of Condenser Mike            249,553.04
Manufacturing
3-B-41   SAM-SUNG CHEMICAL IND.          Development of PVDC Wrap Film                    248,607.24



- 29 -
Page 4 of 6
CATEGORY           COMPANY NAME                        PROJECT NAME                 DISBURSEMENT(U$)
3-B-42   YOUNGONE COMMUNICATION         Development of High Frequency (500MHz)          250,445.70
SMPS
3-B-43   NAE WAE SEMICONDUCTOR          Development of Hard Disk Controller             699,558.63
3-B-44   YOUNG ONE COMMUNICATION        Automation of SMPS Manufacturing                349,779.31
3-B-45   KIRIN SYSTEM CORP.             Development of Medium-Sized Circulation         300,000.00
Administration System
3-B-47   THE CLOUD INC.                 Development of Korean/Chinese Processing        339,543.30
ASIC for Monochrome
3-B-48   SAMYOUNG PURE CHEMICAL         Technology Import of High-purified              287,935.31
Hydrogen Peroxide Manufacturing Process
3-B-49   HAN-WHA INDUSTRIAL CO.         Development of 386 PC Main Board/               280,000.00
Commercialization of AT Main Board
3-B-50   DONGSUNG BOILER CO , LTD.    Development of Heater Operated by Hot             300,000.00
Running Water
3-B-51   KIRA ELECTRONICS CO.           Process Improvement of PCB Manufacturing        418,990.52
3-B-52   YOUNGWOO CHEMICAL CO.          Technology Import of Half-purified              259,511.78
Hydrogen Peroxide for Semiconductor
3-B-53   BOW ELECTRONICS CO., LTD.    Development of New type Muti-function             150,000.00
Cordress Phone
3-B-54   NAE WAE SEMICONDUCTOR          Development of Video Graphic Adaptor            700,000.00
3-B-55   HYEH KONG INDUSTRY, LTD.       Development of Cellulase                        200,000.00
3-B-56   HANJIN POWER SUPPLY            Development of SMPS for PC/PABX                 160,000.00
3-B-57   OCN TECH CORP.                 Development of Cordless Phone                   239,423.18
3-B-58   NAE WAE SEMICONDUCTOR          Development SMT Version 286 PC Mother           698,849.70
Board
3-B-59   SAMBON PRECISION ELECTRONICS Development and Commercialization of              399,038.67
New Type In-ear Headphone
3-B-60   KONGSUNG COMMUNICATION         Development and Commercialization of            700,000.00
Slim Type DTS Cassete Player
Total             49,078,969.06



- 30 -
Page 5 of 6
PROJECT COST                APPROVAL AMOUNT
CATAGORY        COMPANY NAME
MIL. WON       THOU. US       MIL. WON       THOU. US
3-A-01   DAEWOO ELECTRIC MOTOR                               1,655                          1,655
3-A-02   SAM HWA CAPACITOR CO.                  310          1,300            200           1,300
3-A-03   SUN WHA METAL CO., LTD.              5,241          6,762            500           1,500
3-A-04   HANKUK-ENGELHARD                       548          2,000            450           2,000
3-A-05   FOREA WELDING ELECTR.                  236          1,100             150          1,009
3-A-06   HI SUNG METAL CO., LTD.                510          1,000            400           1,000
3-A-07   KOREA DENRI ONKYO CO.                  989            800            300             800
3-A-08   YOUNG-WOO CHEMICAL                                  2,249                          1,700
3-A-09   YUKONG LTD.                            715          8,088            500           2,000
3-A-10   YUKONG LTD.                            715          2,405             500          1,000
3-A-li   TAI LIM PACKAGING CO.                  631          1,150            500           1,150
3-A-12   ORIENT WATCH CO. , LTD.                476          1,319            450           2,000
3-A-13   DAEWOO ELECTRIC MOTOR                  561          1,200            450           1,200
3-A-14   KOHAP LTD.                             483          1,425            300           1,400
3-A-15   HI SEONG METAL CO., LTD.               550          1,500            300           1,500
3-A-16   YUKONG ELASTOMER CO.                                2,700                          2,000
3-A-17   SIEMENS BENDIX KOREA                                2,700                          2,000
3-A-18   KOLON MERAK FIBER CO.                  285          5,682                          1,000
3-A-19   SAMSUNG WATCH CO. , LTD.               230              2                          1,500
3-A-20   HI SEONG METAL CO., LTD.               568            673                          1,000
3-A-21   SE-WHA PRECISION CC.                 1,910                           500           1,400
3-B-01   KOREA DATA SYSTEM CO.                  527            100            400             100
3-B-02   KOSHIN ENERGY MANAGEMENT               639            117            400             300
3-B-03   SUNRKYONG ENG. & CONST.                170            423            130             400
3-B-04   WHA-SHIN MFG. CO , LTD.                825            200            480             200
3-B-05   WOOSUNG CHEMICAL IND.                  462            100            300             200
3-B-06   SONG WOUN INDUSTRIAL                   573            200            480             200
3-B-07   SUNG SHIN CO. LTD.                     241            400            200             400
3-B-08   SHIN IL IND CO.                        437            300            400             300
3-B-09   KANGNAM CHEMICAL CO.                    37            300             30             300
3-B-10   FINE PLASTIC CO. LTD.                  500            250            400             250
3-B-l1   SAM WOO TELECOEMMUNIC                  135             50            110              50
3-B-12   YANG JI CHE.MICALS CO                  142             80            120              80
3-B-13   HAN CHANG ELECTRIC                      67            700                            700
3-B-14   DAE HA PHARMACEUTICA                   267            457            200             200
3-8-15   KIRIN SYSTEMS CORP                     510            170            350             170
3-B-16   SHIN IL ENTERPRISE                     471            250            450             250
3-B-17   GOLD STAR SOFTWAPE                     271            447            200             447
3-B-18   KOREA ELECTRICAL MFT.                  260             97            200              97
3-B-19   NAE WAE ELECTRIC CO.                   234            250            200             250



- 31 -
Page 6 of 6
PROJECT COST                APPROVAL AMOUNT
CATAGORY        COMPANY NAME
MIL. WON       THOU. U$       MIL. WON       THOU. U$
3-B-20   KOSHIN ENERGY MANAGEMENT             1,113                           480             700
3-B-21   KUKJE PBARMA IND. CO.                  252            819            200             700
3-B-22   HYUPJIN PHOTO CHEMICAL                 104                            70              50
3-B-24   SAMSUNG WATCH CO.                                     900                            700
3-B-25   SAMSUNG WATCH CO.                                     900                            700
3-B-26   CHO KWANG PAINT IND.                   5B8            714            480             700
3-B-27   OTTOGI FOODS CO. LTD.                  597            600                            600
3-B-28   DATACOMM CO., LTD.                     233            363            200             363
3-B-29   TAE IL MAGNETICS CO.                   634                           400             250
3-B-30   TAE IL MAGNETICS CO.                   879                           450             250
3-B-31   WOO SHIN TEXTILE CO.                   133            214            100             200
3-B-32   DONG IL TECHNOLOGY LTD.                255                           100             150
3-B-33   KOREA ELECTRIC CO., LTD.               202             80                            250
3-B-34   AERO SYSTEM INC.                       616                           350             250
3-B-35   DONGBO S.C. CORP.                      251            150            200             150
3-B-36   LUCKY ADVANCED MAT.                  2,925            750                            700
3-B-37   SUNKYONG ENGR. CONST.                  586            500                            500
3-B-38   YUYU IND. CO_ LTD.                     275            150            100             300
3-B-39   SAM-SUNG CHEMICAL IND.                 550             89            450              80
3-B-40   JIN-SUNG ELECTRONICS                   319                                           250
3-B-41   SAM-SUNG CHEMICAL IND.                 500                           400             250
3-B-42   YOUNGONE COXMUNICATION                 750                           400             250
3-B-43   NAE WAE SEMICONDUCTOR                  600            710            500             700
3-B-44   YOUNG ONE COMMUNICATION                380            298            200             350
3-B-45   KIRIN SYSTEM CORP.                     345            300            200             300
3-B-47   THE CLOUD INC.                         559            340            500             340
3-B-48   SAMYOUNG PURE CHEMICAL                                340                            270
3-B-49   HAN-WHA INDUSTRIAL CO.                 255            280            200             280
3-B-50   DONGSUNG BOILER CO., LTD.              625                           300             300
3-B-51   KIRA ELECTRONICS CO.                   324            360                            480
3-B-52   YOUNGWOO CHEMICAL CO.                                                                300
3-B-53   BOW ELECTRONICS CO., LTD.              303                           100             150
3-B-54   NAE WAE SEMICONDUCTOR                   80            700                            700
3-B-55   HYEH KONG INDUSTRY, LTD.               241                                           200
3-B-56   HANJIN POWER SUPPLY                    143            160                            160
3-B-57   OCN TECH CORP.                         456            157            300             240
3-B-58   NAE WAE SEMICONDUCTOR                  561            731            500             700
3-B-59   SAMBON PRECISION ELECTRONICS           587                                           400
3-B-60   KONGSUNG COMMUNICATION                 346            700                            700
Total                   39,293         61,906         17,730          49,921



- 32 -                                           Table  4.2
Page 1 of 2
THIRD TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT(LOAN 2913-KO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
DISTRIBUTION OF SUBPROJECTS
(1) Number of Projects and Amount by Industry Sector
Industry Sector                     No. of Projects               Amount (ES)
Machinery / Metal                                     14                    11,712,746.99
Electronics / Electrical                              36                    17,877,220.81
Chemical / Others                                     29                    19,489,001.26
Total                                79                     49,078,969.06
(2) Number of Projects and Amount by Project Type
R E D Type                1      No. of Projects               Amount (Es)
Purchase of R & D equipments                           4                     2,547,696.40
R & D                                                 41                    23,396,578.78
Improvement of manufacturing process                  14                    10,123,392.46
Commercialization of new product                       9                     3,658,443.17
Technology import                                     11                     9,352,858.25
Total                                79                     49,078,969.06
(3) Number of Projects and Amount by Company Size
Company Size                      No. of Projects               Amount (ES)
Large                                                 16                    16,542,757.57
Small & Medium                                        63                    32,536,211.49
Total                                79                    49,078,969.06



- 33 -
Page 2 of 2
(4) Number of Projects and Amount by Financing Instrument
Financing Instrument              No. of Projects              Amount (E$)
Conventional Loan                                  79                   49,078,969.06
(5) Number of Projects and Amount by Subloan Size
Subloan Size                     No. of Projects              Amount (E$)
A Subloan                                          21                   29,864,489.01
B Subloan                                          58                    19,214,480.05
Total                              79                   49,078,969.06
(6) Number of Projects and Amount by Region
Region                        No. of Projects             Amount (E$)
Seoul                                              36                   20,137,572.45
Kyung-Ka                                           18                    11,908,565.37
Kyung-Nam                                           4                     3,890,349.05
Kyung-Buk                                           2                       894,530.70
Jun-Nam                                             2                    2,854,011.73
Jun-Buk                                             1                       239,423.18
Chung-Nam                                           3                       569,143.01
Chung-Buk                                            1                    1,500,578.08
Pusan                                               4                     2,111,456.27
Taeku                                                1                      200,000.00
Inchon                                              7                    4,773,339.22
Total                              79                   49,078,969.06



- 34 -
Table  4. 3
KOREA
THIRD TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 2913-RO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KTB INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE
(STAFF TRAINING FOR 1988-1992)
1. Overseas Training
1988            1989        1990         1991        1992
o Duration
- Long-term                                -            1            1           -            -
- Short-term                               2            6            2           4            2
o Field
- Financing R&D I Venture                  2            6            3           4            2
Capital Operations
- Technological innovation                              1            -           -            -
Small business management
o Destination
- U.S.A.                                   -2                        2           4            2
- Europe                                          -           -                    
- Japan                                     1           1---
- South-East Asia                           1           4            1
2. Domestic Training
1988        1989         1990        1991         1992
(1) Extenal Courses
(Short-term only)
o Finance & Investment                   6           12          19           12            6
o Capital Market (KSTI)                  5            8           -            -
o Marketinq (KMI)                        2            1           -            -
o Planning & Administration              2            2           -            6            5
(KPC, FKI etc)
o MIS                                    2            6           -            -            1
(2) Graduate School                           3           2            6           4            3
(3) OJT in portfolio companies                9           6            1           3            1
(4) New employed staffs                       6           5            2           -            4
Orientation
(5) Group Training                     1    70            -            4          15      1    14
1                                        1~~~~~~I_ _ _ __   _ _ _ _



- 35 -
Table 4.4
KOREA
THIRD TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT(LOAN 2913-KO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KTB Financed R&D Projects Performed by Public Research Institute
(Won million)
Name of the Institute No. of Projects Total Budget Amount of KTB Financing
KAIST                26            14,158             10,254
KIMM                 19             6,585              5,355
KRICT                 7             5,290              4,332
KIER                  5             1,517              1,220
ETRI                  3               994                800
KGTRI                 2               8B8                380
Total                62            29,432            22,341
* Abbreviations *
KAIST   Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology
KIMM    Korea Institute of Machinery and Metals
KRICT   Korea Research Institute of Chemical Technology
KIER    Korea Institute of Energy Resources
ETRI    Electronic 1'echnology Research Institute
KGTRI   Korea Ginseng and Tobacco Research Institute



- 36 -                                               Table  5.1
90REA
TH71-13 T7C-.NOLCOY ' Y=LCPEVENT PROJ_S7 (LOAN 23i3 - 50)
PROJECT CC.W?L7TlXON REPOR7
Estimatec and Actual AMOunt of F,nanacial Su9port(Currency and Instrument)
(ion D I I I on)
196 8               939                1990               1991               1992          To       E3lK  5a -  32)
Est     Actual    Es:       Actua      *ts    Actual    ns:        Actua,    Est      Actuai   E.         AC t.:.
Approval basis
Local Currency
-  Conventional Loan           48.0      43.7      52.0      44.5      53.6      49.9     57.3      61.6    151.5      9S.I    3a2.       294.5
-  Conditional Loan              1.8      1.6       2.6       0.0       1.0       0.4       i.0      00          .0     0.0       7         2.3
-  Leas ing                     0.0       0.0       3 2       3.3      17 7      2C.S     21.0      17.8     40.0      'a.9      69.3      59.0
-  Factoring                    S.6       8.4       0 i   12.3          9.6      12.6      i 00      8i    20.0   i9.7   s 0               6 0i
-  ECuIty
Convertible Bonds         0.0       1.4       0.0       3.5       S.9       2.9      B.0       6.8     11.0      12.9      24 9      27.5
Eauity Snares             1         S7 5.8   12.6      12.0      11.9     20.7      16.0       B.      13.0       S.7      65.2      5 33
Sub Total                II 7       7.2      12.6      1S.5      17.8     23.6      24.0      14.9     24.0      19.6      90.1      SO.S
Total                 61.5      52.5      67.2      60.0      72.4      73.9      52.3     76.5    176.5   14.7    459.9    377,6
Foreign Currency
-  Conventiona! Loan           19.8      17.0      19 8      IS.5      10.5      15.6       '.7      9.8      13.5     19.1I       1.3     77.0
-  Conditionai Loan             0.4       0.0       06        0.0       0.0       0.0       ^.C      0.0      0.0       0.0        1.0      0.0
-  Leasing                      0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      12.6      13.2     14.0      10.4      0.0       C.1      26.6      23.5
-  Equity
Convertible Bonds         0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      2.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Equity Snares             1.8       0.0       i .       0.0       0.0       1.S                I ^  1.4  0.0      C.6       _.0
Sub Total                 1.8       0.0       1.;       0.0       0 0       1.5      l.0       1.4      0.0       0.6       3.3        '
Total                  22.0      170      2 1.9      15.      23        02.4      ''.7     21.6      13.5      10.5      2.2 .-
Total
-  Convention,al Loan          67.8      63.7      71.8      60.0      6 4.1    65.5      cS 0      71.4    155.C    114.2    43. 7 3   S
-  Condoitor,al  Loan           2.2        !6       3.2       0.0       i.        0 o                0.0       10        C.0       S'.4     '.O
-  Leasing                      0.0       0.0       3.2       3.6      30.3      33.S     35.0      23.2     4 0.3     10    103.          5  5
-  Factori ng                   5.6       8.4      10.6      12.3       9.8      12.6      I.0       8.1     20.0        3.7     36.       b.I
-  Ec;uity  /a
Convertible Bonds         0.0       1.4       0.0       3.5       S.9       2.9      S.0       6.6      11.0     12.9      24.9      27.5
Ecruity Shares           13.5       S.8      i4.1      12.0      11.9      22.2     I 6.       9.5     13.0        7.3     65.5      SG.S
Sub Total                13.5       72       14.1      IS.5      i7.6      25.1    20  0      Ic.3     24.0      2C.2      93.4      54.J
Tota                   89.1      77.9    iC2 9       91.6    123.0    137.4    !35.0    124.0    250.0    171.1    700.0    632.2
Disbursement basIs
Local  Currency
-  Conventionai Loan           47.0      46.1      SC 0      48.6      54. 4     52.4    57.9       53. 6    78 9       7  S    285.     22'S.S
-  Conditional Loan              I.7       .7       2 3       0.1       2.5       0.3      2.0       0.5       2.8       1        .            i.
-  Leasing                      0.0       0.0      13.8      14.6      18.9      12.9     19.2      18.9      14.9     14.1      66.8      E  S.
-  Factoring                    2.6       2.8      20.2      19.7      25.6     35.4      02.4      53.3     55.3      47.3    1a503    IC_
-  Equity
Convertible Bonds         0.0       1.2       0.0       3.9       1.7       2.1      53        6.3      8.5      13.0       6.0      .
Equity Snares             9.3       5.2      10.3      10.5      11 .      187      12.1       6.1     12.9       8.3      06. S      ..
Sub Totai                 9.3       6.4      10.3      14.4      13.1     20.8      17.9      12.4     21.4      21.3      72.0 
Total                 60.6      57.0      96.6      97.4    114.7    121.3    I50.0    145.7    173.3    162.0    53.2   S'
Foreign Currency
-  Conventional Loan           19.3      16.4      19 9      16.6      21.2      17.2     22.8      10.9     23.2      15 .      0 O.' 71
-  Conditional Loan             0.4       0.0       0.5       0.0       0.6       0.0      06        0.0      0.6       0.0       2.7
-  Leasing                      0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       6.1       7.6      7.6       6.6      0.0       2.C      10.7      12.0
-  Equity
Convertible Bonds         0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.3       0.0      0.0       0.0       C0       J
Equity Snares             1.7       0.0       1.6       0.0       2.2       1.5      2.7       1.:      2.8       0 6      1.0
Sub Total                 1.7       0'0       I.6       0.0       2.2   I .S    ..   1          .4      2.5    3.          11.03
Total                 21.4       1 6.4    22 0       1.        2 1    26.3    2  7             9     26.6      I0 G    l   S          S
TotS.a
-  Conventior.al Loan          66.3      62.5      69.9        S.2     75 6     69 5      SC       6  04   102  1    52.S    39'6   _
-  Conditionai Lcan             2.1       I.7       2.0      C0                   0 3         .4                         :
-  Leasi ngr                    0.0       0 C            l_  S         27 0     IC0       2                  14'       .i
-  Factoring                    2.6       2.8      20.2      19 7       S 0     2         j                  55 2      4       n 1 3    ! 
- Eculty {a
COnVe-7:o!e Bonds         0.0       1 2       00 C         3 3              2 I        6       6 3' C                      .
E4u iy Snares            1.0        E.2      11.9      IC         3 c     2.2       I:           5     1.7                  EO
Sub Tota:                11.0       6. 4           S     4       !         22                          2 _       2 
Total                 82.0      73 4    118.6    114 C    I4 S.   1:9.1    0IS           166       199 9     177 6    731 n



- 37 -
Table 5.2
KOREA
THIRD TECHNOLOGY DEVELCPEUENT PROJECT (LOAN 2913 - KO)
PROJECT C0KPLETION REPORT
Estimated and Actual Arount of Finanacial Support(Collateral Conditions)
(ion DillionI
1988              1989              1990              1991              1992         Total( SS -
(Approval basis)                     Est    Actual    Est    Actual    Est    Actual    Est    Actual    Est    Actual    Est    Act.
Conventional Loans
With Collateral          -n. a.    39.8    n. a.     33.7    n. a.    53.7    n. a.    64.4    n. a.   103.2    n. a.   294
Without Collateral        n.a.     20.9     n.a.     26.3    n.a.       11.8    n.a.       7.0    n.a.      11.0    n a.      77
Sub Total               67.8    60.7    71.8    60.0    64.1    65.5    65.0    71.4   165.0   114.2   433.7   371
Leasing
With Collateral           n.a.      0.0    n.a.        0.0    n.a.      22.0     n.a.     12.7    n.a.       8.5    n.a.      43
Without Collateral        n.a.      0.0    n.a.        3.8    n.a.      11.8    n.a.      15.5    n.a.       8.5    n.a.      39
Factoring                         5.8      8.4     10.8      12.3     9.8    12.6       10.0     8.1     20.0      19.7     56.0    61
Sub Total                5.6      8.4     13.8     16.1    40.1    46.4    45.0    36.3    60.0    36.7    164.5   143
Conditional Loan                  2.2      1.6      3.2      0.0       1.0     0.4       1.0     0.0       1.0     0.0       8.4      2
Equlty Investments
Convertible Bonds
with Collateral           n.a.      0.7    n.a.        1.6    n.a.       2.2    n.a.       5.0    na.        8.7    n.a.      IS
Without Collateral        n.a.      0.7    n. a.       I.9    n.a.       0.7    n.a.       1.8    n.a.       4.2    n.a.       9
Sub Total                0.0      1.4      0.0      3.5       5.9     2.9       8.0     6.8      11.0     12.9     24.9    27
Equity Shares  /a                 13.5      5.8     14.1      12.0     11.9    22.2      16.0      9.5     13.0      7.3    68.5    SG
Total                  15.7      8.8     17.3     15.5     18.8    25.5      25.0    16.3    25.0    20.2    101.8    86
Grand - Total                      89.1    77.9   102. 9    91.6   123.0   137.4   135. 0   124.0   250.0   171.1   700.0   6C2
No. of Projects                     210      222      230       278      250      299      270      267      330      352    1. 290
Avg.Fin.Acount/ProJect              390      305      378       265      385      293      392      325      400      380    1.945   1.5
(Won million)
[Proportion(V) 1
Conventional Loans
With Collateral           n. a.    51.I    n. a.     36.8    n. a.    39.1    n. a.    51.9    n. a.    60.3    n. a.    49
Without Collaterai        n.a.     28.8    n.a.      28.7    n.a.        8.6    n.a.       5.6    n.a.      6.4    n.a.       12
Sub Total               76.1     77.9     69.8     85.5    52.1      47.7    48.1    57.6    66.0    66.7    62.0    61
Leasing
With Collateral           n.a.      0.0    n.a.       0.0    n.a.       16.0    n.a.      10.2    n.a.       5.0    n.a.       7
Wlthout Collateral        n.a.      0.0     n.a.       4.1    n.a.       8.6    n.a.      12.5    n.a.       5.0    n.a.       6
Factoring                         6.3     10.8     10.3     13.4      8.0      9.2       7.4     6.5      8.0      11.5      S.0    10
Sub Total                6.3     M0.8     13.4     17.6    32.6    33.8    33.3    29.3    24.0    21.4            23.5    23
Conditional Loan                  2.5      2.1      3.1      0.0      0.8      0.3      0.7      0.0      0.4      0.0       1.2      0
Equity Investcents
Convertible Bonds
With Collateral           n.a.      0.9    n.a         1.7    n.a.       1.6    n.a.       4.0    n.a.       5.1    n.a.       3
Witnout Collateral        n.a.      0.9    r.a.        2.1    n.a        0.5    n.a.       1.5    n.a.       2.5    n.a.       I
Sub Total                0.0      1.a      0.0      3.8      4.8      2.1      5.9      5.5      4.4      7.5      3.6
Equity Snares                     15.2      7.4     13. 7     13.!      9.7     16.2     i1.9      7.7      5.2      4.3      9.S      i
Total                  17. 6    I  3    18.8      16.9     15.3    18.6      18.5    13.1      10.0     11.8     14.5      1
Crand - Total                     100.0    100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100 0   100.0   100.0   100. 0   100.0   100.0    I03
With Collateral           n.a.     52.0     n.a       38.5    n.a.      40.7    n.a.     56.0    n.a.      65.4    n. a.    52
Without Collateral        n.a.     46.3    ru.        61.5    n.a.    59.0    n.a.    44.0    n.a.    34.6           n. a     47



- 38 -
Table  5. 3
=EA
THI.  TM       Y DrIIV a            T CF  la3 2S13 - II)
IEa= a14iN Wr^?
Ebtitad and Avuz1  =fI a    Izsti    IBM8 - 1992 /a
(MM mi LIica)
low1                 ION8                ism                   1991                   1902            Total CaS- '92)
ED3.     ACtual      at.     ActuLa      EAt.     Actual      EAL      Actu L        Est.     Actual      Est.     kt"a1
~1 PSr
SIty
tvuromt                   0    (3, 89)          0         0         0          a          0           a         0          0          0    (a ON6)
Privte                5. 000     8, 0o    a3000       2.0 so    a, o000           a    ooo0           0    2Z C000     4 158    74. XO     22.788
Sb Tota              S.000      2 A00     3.000    2510       8, 000         0     a oCo            0    22.000    [A.168    7A4000    la Co
fBrrcui3E,
Gcv*nr It                 0    27. 000          0    1l 000         0          0         0            0         0          0          0    42.000
Dbtures  fb          3a 000    30.000    1425        1EA   0 0.000    50. 000   100XO            9  42.   lo 100.0o0    73 445   282 2S0   2ea 825
O'1r irams                0       980          0       878    10, 000     1, 480    5000         1. 38         a          0 o    5000      4. AM
D0pI                          0         0          0         0          0         0          0           0    60,000      2.900    60.000      Z WC
:Miaxe & 'old=ICqw            0         0          0         0          0         0          0           0    20.000          0    20,000          0
Pr=tlc  ?jX
s    Total          38.000    57, 9o      1A. 250    30,878    40 ooo    51.480   IM      80 o3.,84    170.000    7e.343    37.260   310,313
Foroln Ras0o.rr
3Ism                    21,398    15,251    22, 1L0    12. 145    14700       7, A1     2.100        4.738     1.300      1.241    81.83W    40.880
a a  othlar sa                0    27.022          0         0    I1000       1.332    LA.  aO 9,5   S          1,700     1,542    30,800         381.48
and - Total                     36e  1oZ 33    39, 38o    4& 33   I0 700    W. 307   130.000           IO8.173   I98 000    ea 284   63, 46e8    S. 730
/a  Dia irsa t sig
/b  Wore dis=mt



- 39 -
Table 5.4
KOREA
THIRD TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 2913-Fo)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Estimated and Actual Financial Indicators 1988-1992
(Won billion)
1988               1989                1990                1991                1992
Years ending Decaebar 31
Est.   Actual       Est.   Actual      EsL.   Actual       ESt.   Actual       EBt.   Actual
Percentagse of Average Total Assets
I. Oross Inre   /a                                  I.5    11.4         12.0    II.8       Is. I    1.4       14.8    13.8        17.5   1I.1
2. Flasncisl Expences  lb                            7 1      7.7        8.8       .0       1 1.6     7.9        8.7      8.5       10.0     9.1
3. Oroas Spread (I - 2 )                             4.4      17         3.4      5.6        3.S      3.5        5.9     5.3         7.5     6.3
4. Alnlastrative Expences                            1.3      1.5        0.9      1.7        2.9      1.5        1. 4     1.4        1.2      1.2
5. Provisions for losses                             03       0.2        O.I      0.2        0.6      0.3       0.4      0.3         0.2     0.2
8. Net Incoo  before Taxes                           2.2      2.1        1. 6     2. 8       3. 8     1. 2       2. 0     1. 7       2. 1     2. 0
Net Inc ue a  S of Average Net Worth                    6.3       8.7       5.1    11.0        10.5      8.86       I.3    10.8        12.1    12.0
prpd an Average LC Conventional loans
Inoe=/Avt.LC Conventional Loans (1)  /c               12.05   12.49        n.a.    11.8o      11.00   11.10       12.70   13.80       14.so   11340
FIr. ExpenoesiAvg. LC Long- term Debt (I)   d          8 76   10. 49       n.a.    8.80       10 50   10.70       10.90   10.30       13.90   13.00
sprad (S)                                              3. 30    2.00       n. a.    2.80        . 50 O0. 40        1. 80    150        0.60    0. 40
Spread on Average FC Conventional Ioans
Incoe/Avg.FC Conventional Loans I%)                   11.40   10.49        na.    9.60        10 75   10.90       10.80   10.20       10.40   10.20
FIn. Ezp.=/Avg.  IBRS Brrovings I()                    9.90    8. 9.       FL n.    8. 86     10.20   10.00        9. 30    9.50      10.30   10.10
Spread (S)                                              1.50    1. 51      n..    0. 74        0. 55    0. 90      1.30    0. 70       0. 10    0.10
Sprud on Avg. Total ConventIonal loans
Inme/Avg.Total Conventional Loans Ix)                 11.80    11.75      14.45   10.90       10.95     11.10     11.80    12.60      12.80   12.W0
FIrn.  Cxphoe/Avg. Total Long- tare  Debt (5)          9. 22    9.92      12.64    8. 89      10.60   10.60       10.40   10. 10      12. 40   12.30
Spread ()                                              2. 68    i. 3       1. 91    2. 21      0. 35    0.80       1. 40    2. 40      0. 40    0. 20
PR  FORA  URD 910 INTEREST SUPPORT ON0
Average 12 Conventional Loans (S)                      2. 32    1.01       nea.    0.00        2. 5     0.70       2.64    0.80        2. 40    2.60
Average FC ConventIonal Loans I()                       1.29    1.49       n. a.    0.00       1. 85    1. 70      1. S     1.60       1.30    1.20
Average Total Conventional Loans (S)                    1.90    1.20       n e.    0.00        1.90     1.10       1.20     1.00       1.6o     1.70
Total Debt/Equlty Ratio (tLeeS)                        3. 70    4. 10      3. 70    3.90       4.40    4.90        4.85     S. 30      4. 70    4. 70
Long- ter Debt / Equity Ratio (times)                  3. 10    3.30       3.50    3.40        3.40    3.70        4.80    4.50        3.30    3.30
QCrrent Ratio (tlecs)                                  n a.    2.90        n. a.    430        3. 57    4.30       4. 30    3. 30      2. 10    2. 10
Provielu  / Total PortfolIo  (S                       n.s.    0.80        n.a.    0.40        0.70    0.40        0.SO    0.50        0.60    0.80
/a Total incoe - Foreign Exchange Translation Gains
/b Interest * Coiltent Fees * Amortization
/c  Irne  includes comitment feew
/d Financial Expences Include amortization of deferred charges



- 40 -
Table 5.5
THIFD  Mt=IY   VE.ff iT PR=J   (I)X 2913 - YD)
iF= amflEIiN  R
- Estl=Lca mid Actw   Irc     SLtLz-vi   M3 - 1902
(an mi i I icn)
1938               195S                 1990                1991                 1992
Years eirg eJr   31
ESL       cLwlI    E.SL       Lu'2I    Ez..    IC1 tw IcESL         Acu'I        EsL      A
Ince
1rxre ai  2nveticrol Lor
1ntmreUoaiEzt fee                              23. 116    15.901    24.357    15 601    19.913    19.7'2   2 6 1.     2ZT779    29. 102   2979
ax s iLa         t rate spt                         0     1. 03         0         0         0         0         0           0        0          0
U  Tota l                                  23.116    19.636    24.387    18,6051    I 913    19.742    21.395      22.779    29.102   21.979
L=m       mondaitiaal Lons
Rbyalty                                         1.129       841     1.4&9       Sf9     1.103     1. 03     1.165       1.345     1.471     1,504
ax's srt                                            0         0         0         0         0         0         0           0         0         0
91 Toual                                    1. 129      841     1. 43       809     1. 103    1. 0m     1,65         .345    1. 471     1. 504
Irna    a Eqity Invtmnt
Int.   t i     ai caeretible             3         E       3 8m       457       823     1. 147  L    014    1. 228     1. 124    1. 920     1, 927
Divind'f  ai eauity starm                         353       174       781       319       400       373       E48         607       693       533
CapitaI &aia an    ies of                         3S2        35     102         645     4 137    3,5S1    l0. 39        8.427    3. 376    9. 169
5ub Total                                   1. 103    1. 043    4. 540    1. 787    5. 774    4. 9S3    IZ 184     ia 158   15.934    11. 694
Ir atn Fatring                                         0        323         0     1.0       Z.614     1.904     a.431      ZMc    4,417       2.9C0
L.e RLaI                                                0         0         0         0     Z 947     1. 716    10.210      7. 03    14.424   1Z 444
Ionta-t ia on  liquid hldirns                      3874       4.136     a9.       a.630     4.013     4.154     4.1S7       6.912    IZSO07   0a645
Fmeign e,e  tzraiat.icn gains 8i                        0      (0)          0      (140)     (278)     (225)     (758)       (721)  (1. 25)    (637)
Ia   (net)
Otlr irme (net)                                         0       223         0       350     1.378       823     a970        1. 33    1653       7.367
Total Lra=                                29.227    25843    34341    25.176    3S454    34.123    a 775          51.S25    SC419    69,5S6
Finamial e     s                                   17.625    16.806    21.iS9    14.876    I9.3    2Z120    29. 63        29.694    45.794    3.934
Driticn ard  Atizatian                              1. 082      443     1. 165      563     Z 802     1. 430    3 83        Z 263    Z 875      2322
D0ritim of Le Assets                                                                        1.SS      1.167     6S 00       5.129    la 03S     q 156
Aduinistratian emmm                                 Z 203     a 306     Z 424    3.662      4.415    4. 478     5 23        5 120    5 370    5. 27
Proision fo r                                         357       528       371       SS        &2      1.0 2S     . 456      1.253    1. o0        &32
Trite-off of badddts                                1.071         0     1.6S3         0       20        237     1.393       1,850    5.440      4.222
Total B    e;                             z3a38    21.063   267S2    19.68        2S24    3a.43S   4& 073         45.m3    73547    03.34
Net l1    Before T                                     6889      4. 760    7. 559    6. 49     7. 530    a 3       7. 72       6 516    9 872    9. I 16
Tam                                                    1.404       937    1, 656       SS4       958       3>      1. 223      1. 337    2. 445   2 510
Net nm2After                                           5.4SS     0823      5.933     5636      6S72    a1301    65474          5.179     7,427    65. 0



- 41 -                                               Table  5.6
NIA
miHI TECH=Y         E        Fifl R=T ( 1ON 2S13- D)
PR=   CItETN  RET
EsLiMat2  an A-,I M   IX= 3eLts 1S  - 19S2
Ck*  cil im)
1963                 S 9               1990is             1991                 1992
Yers &tirng 0     er 31
Est     Actuai    Est       Ac.al     Es       cWal     Et      AtiaI        Est     Icual
Akets
Gas:i nd 4I iqid holdirgs                         f37 8     3 a  727   31. 58    27. 133   3. 623   21 897   63 SW     6. 700   112. 054   113 948
Intst reivable                                   9.201    3.i3       I .a     4.121    12.53      4.433     4.8        S. 53     7 956    &206
Cazventjcrai ica                                 16L999  IM=    17a451   173 124   17a 427   1O 7l5  l8697    161915   2las47  2r   767
Conitial loam                                       429     5 107     a, 2      4.00    8as2s      aEr       4.015      3o  4M215           3.873
Fr,iLy invests
Ca-ertible baxt                                   0      5.507        0    IQSA8     15023    17.337    11.069     i8s      110042    13153
EquityS                                       30.119    12.912        516    25.505    32C33    31.102    4 MS     44 23    43.723    43.522
Sub Total                                 a 119   18 419   38 516   30 971    s  225   48, 4ES   D 824         54  5s D815 Sl   3.81
Facur                                                 0     4.123         0    10.2    17.8S3    17.MS    la.c lMO      819    1l785    IS602
Lame ats                                              0         0         0     1. 67    I& 003   17. 792    M  258    a 7T    45 120   4a 536
N2  fixats                                          m7        827       259    I.4    a3.20        2. M1    2!. M4     21.057    a 35    21.434
Net frmn-md fees I defrel dwe                      2. 544     470    2.545        59i       513      373    2. 79      2 .E      2. 1S3    1. 497
Other se                                           1.31    6. =        1.932    13.251   22. 54    21.304   19.I02      21.229   17.834    17.997
Totai Assets                                      24& 33    Mc007   2ia351  267,2S3  3413 MS   =2144   42.Sr7    41a 113  4A  %4   49I.821
LiabiliLieS a  EWit
lXzrmt liabilities
OJI tU  rtim aof loa   -   t=  dt                 0    2son073        0      I.MO    Il.OM     12.332    11.35      29.348   sa 75s    94.344
Othrarrt   liabiIiti; Ll.2                              7.7ro    13.012    14.650    49. 876   S2. X2    4876      26.223    25451    24.3
a   Total                                 IQ230    35833   la012    25049    61,235   64744    61. 235         S       1I.7        1129 767
Lcr - tLe  det
B:rimpgs from garim     t                    40.       6&950   40A250   81.250    eacso0   s40s         78050      78.       74.050    74050
Dibeturi                                      44.915    33. 00    4a 165   45.0C0    74a 000   a5000   I  oc0o     13. 034   140.00   143. 2
otrEr 31Ee 0                                                          0      , 276    5 102    4. 92    S 102      19. 100    17.034    16 6.3
Bxrtuums frmDo                               I 3. GM23    57.3 MO    L 72    57.206   61. 53    Sa 153   61,53M    58a31.1  5a SW    52.699
Sb Total(gm)                             I. 48$ 8  5 Ia18   1% 117   IS4 732  21. 715   23 lo   2540 52        294M53    24 58U4   2s 581
Lem acurrt portial                            0    2ao073         0    ILass    11.3S9   1232    11. 3S        2534      sa7s58   94.344
ab TotaIl(et)                            1M 458   127.115  198.117   17.a 3    20SS   IS6723   2az73           25, 182   ga.826  1M.217
Seyraz  LiabiIitiit                                 534 eu      2       6.3     1,23    2.C83    1.973    ZS.31         Z4S4    a3512       3 z27
Total Liabilites                                 197.252   l91.833  211.767   212213   2  039   275.sz    348478      Sz 60   407.3l   4005725
Paid- incpital                                4fi979    3E602   4a 979    4Z0332   49.979    4Z3002   54.97         48357    64979    6 1.Z6
eainrneeairwis                                 4.152     7.S2     6635   la063   l3.53 M       14.30    17.5-I0 18.16    26.3W    248.AO
Total Eqjity                                     51.131    47.124    96 614    5.070   6ass59   56.32    7z247s        66513    91.35      8$.&E
Total LiabilItesand Elity                       24a 383   23. 007   26a351  267.2S3   24asss 33          144   424957l    419. 113  43.8664  4;1.53,



- 42 -
Table  5. 7
KOREA
THIRD TECHNOLOGY DEVLOPW7   PROJECT (LMAN 2913-RO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Estimated and Actual Sources and Uses of Funds 1988-1992
(Won billion)
IBM8             lma              1i3;0            1SS1             1013           Tta1 I812
Yaw  adrgD1            31
Esi   Actunl     PSiL   Ac l    isL   ACUk I    EsL    CtUmI    Eij kL Cnl             PSL     PcUI
Not blm                                       zIcB   3823 an    2AM   53S    8.572  3a3D1         8.474  5.179    7.421  8EL7O        25.02    24 M
mistlonardwtizatiac                            11.02    am     1. 168    9       1. 8    1,5 44   ZS803   ZIOS    3, fi7 I 4         1 la174   10.3im
c'imatlmd Uwe                                     0       0        0       12    1(6   1 187    6.43   S.129    9a1 2      9156      I5.2    15.64
PrtiJsi tcn    1m                               3517    En       371       0       258    3)4        3)      Is       I,      31      I1.C7        1
Prbvlan f  a yi' w1 1 a II&                      95    249        118    5W        56     842       874    MO      1 .1      0517    31047      3. V
Pasi -      i I   1trauiatiangaprsi               0    (3)         0     (86)     (43)   (319)    (893)  (719)    (83)  (am)         (I.4W)   (2.164)
ll1riw4f a( bid dfts                          1.071      0      1. e3      0        7      37    1.       1,3 s)    5r  E r    222   a    24    E.L 3
LI-(gp ai on zles d  rin rl w                     0     (41)       0      ()        12      3         0       I        0      3          12       (4l)
Inteml Ob    twatUn                           I711  iSQ32    578e7  8.719    8.918  8.82B   18.184  1I63    26.43  2E5083            6W OA      e019
IJklity
amaTminL                           ~~~~0    0        0       0         0      0         0      0         0       0          0         0
SJ1W                                        !000   z .ZD0                                 o 0)   2.16    A1112  a) 0 00)  E.3s4   2Z ODO  14,1  74700    2500
1MWTM                                           0 276 OM         0Io 15.60         0      0         0      0                0           0   43 M2
n wUa /a                                   M 000 33.0D       I 4it250  15.6   317OD  saooo   IM0001(    9Z.4)   1IMxln  73.46      26Z2sD   28 I925
OsD I ougrs21. 113  4 2M3    ZZ.110  1282                                     IQ 10.67  11.523   la K00  260. 50.413  5.715        73168   9 2"4
a.tag*I                                    63981IM233    3_3e  4as23 n          .a  7  61.523   IR 700 113a43)   C18.413 i8Rl     3)L68  .3I7W16
'31 l wtk
amtim fI                                   St u  54 s 161   ea341 ea358    46520 e 61110    A.23)  7a307   75.374  Ta 657          m4E    :8g3
CkndltIaci ku                                 9      . 1,108  1.003   1.07?      612    4%        4)3   4a1        589    66        3563      18)
tIbies                                          0   1.574        0   1. 93     7.302  e sos    Z 512   Z 413      . 97e  7. 7       1S Id    21 14
Suityiis                                      198      29     1,61     238    1.203   1.019   115.7213   137    l0.39L  .16        2 F79    21182
F     t  Ow                                                                        0      0   65863   a.MO   S1 007 61.812          1LIM978   IILSIS
Fi:luiai Lmw                                    0       0        0       0         0    1         6.3      f     2 036  1. 47C       Z.      .Z S4
%9xGI.I                                    S& I6   S1 87    6.ODI 83s57e     1a537  75.s38   1 S&37 157.173   1A. 383144 M8       47.04U   s2a 3
1am   Incumr nt Ilab I ILt i4 Z                    3.54)    z782   8.6O       r.203  6,RD       L 218   1.18     2.518  36428      1418D    21,.S4
Tau I *so                                 127,6 4 1996 OM   IIQ CX) 12Z 258  Ie 353  IM         ) DI. 497 2s9l 9    3)14M72611 3.1    1, OIQ IU1.840.31. 757
ksn       l Iwo                                26e8s  93 1 4  a e 8  B        sa 225    a 42  'A 452   la  s6e s 032   6 274  3a 04s   32 44   3)1.245
O3rditic1    0            Iwo212   1. ee                      Z 82      171      4Be    3sD       102     e7    I,U 81 1. A         7.125    a76s
oAtlbIseux                                      0o  Z274         0   59a    IZ641  11.3IL       B.53   8.121    IQ0.    131129     31,737   40,834
IWjty    u                                  0. 6ss   4 229      1. GOD  7. 84 7       1 11 e3 la 44    7.183 e. 73)   a  3)2 a  041  51.2s8  3W 4)7
P.rWlg  laws                                    0  3a S30        0    227      E 8563   844    81.23  ea73s.1      SI 849177   224  131 08   1216s
_      _ Aw                                     0      0         0 1 .479   2Q231  17.67   30215  21314   156 A78  I4.t              e152    Oa 418
Sa.aIl                                     78.478158193    8468   9 1887   12131  1231127   17T. 821 174 006   I.43)I784          6M 727   8es198
P w       I tn rbi                           4 448  741 22    24 n1  213)2    13.23)  IZ874    41.014 4,1010   27,459 3n.4          14.6M    1e8,482
Frut-q' (mIdgwm    ch                         Z e70     o)      . am     iB)    2.145  2 38    2 11  31074          712    874        8. 778    7.1tI
I.i  In (la                                      6     872         0   1.073     I. "   1.454    15.21  17.134      844    7e        17.415   21Qs6
Irm        In intnut 1relv1                   1. OM    147    Z OM         0        0o      0        0       0        0       0       48 1o       147
Qti  us  dzsx  (wt)                               0   2048        0o  1297       z86.3   a 831    Z.3))  3067   1Z512  l1t56         11.73)   37.e29
Totail sm                                   124587182.782  1Ia171 I3)149   14811 8 14 64   2S5812?4.290   22715121i.8)4    e81.194   9I& 8B9
iar         (8-e) in(b 3Ca97 0                         7.153   (z241)(12.8R3)  17,23)  6,878   82916  5ZE21    87.983  4 .581         14.1)90   113.13



- 43 -
Table 5.8
KOREA
THIRD TECHNOLOGY DEVKLOPMKEN  PROJECT (LOli 2913-4O)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Analysis of Conventional Loans in Arrears 1988-1992
(ion billion)
Y e a r                              1988        1989         1990        1991         1992
kinber or Conventional LAJs In Arrears
Nunter of ioes in arrears uder 6 mmnths                   8            9           11          14          33
- as %of total loans                                   (1.11)      (1.09)       (1.53)      (1.47)       (294)
N&mter of Ioans in arrears over 6 ntrths                   7           4            3           5           0
- as X of total loani                                  (Q 97)      (Q 48)       (Q 35)      (Q 53)       0. 00
N mnber of loRs in arrears                                15          13           14          (9          33
- as i of total loan                                   (2 09)      (1.57)       (1.63)      (1.99)       (294)
Total sumer of loens in portfolio                          719         828          859         953        1,121
Principal afteoted by arrTrs
Total principal outstandirg                         I9Z 880    1l(1 300       191 715     185 897     21Q 547
Principal affected by arrears twider 8 tnmths           467        1.146        1.352       1.256       Z 528
- as % o  total principel cutstanding                  (a 24)      (0.72)       (0.71)      (0.68)       (1.2D)
Principal affected by arrears over 6    montis        2 T77          801          752         912           0
- as % of total principaI outstnding                   (1.44)      (0.50)       (039)       ((149)       0.00
Total pricipal affected by arrears                    3.244        1,947        Z 104       2. 188       2. 528
- as % of totai principel cuttsanding                  (1.88)      (I.22)       (I. 10)     (1. 17)      (1.20)
Actual hAmts in Arrrs
Akss under B urm tfl                                      87         103          179         19          194
- as % of Principal cutstanding                       (a004)       (0.OB)       (0.09)      (a 11)       (a O9)
Arrears  oer 6 ffnths                                   200          101          138         161          142
-    % of Principal cuLstaning                         (Q 14)      (0.06)       (Q(07)      (0.Q0)       (0.07)
Total arrar                                            327          2Mi          315         347          338
- as % of Principal outstanding                        (Q 17)      (OL 13)      (OL 17)     (OQ 19)      (0. 18)
Collactiln Perfma
Arrears at begiring of year
- Prlncipal                                          442          327         287          352         3B1
- Interest                                            80          133          130         107          117
Total                                              522          4e0         417          459         478
Ahuflt  fal I Ing due during year
- Prinoipal                                       49153)       48 675      40Q756       4B 528      5(1791
- Interest                                        14,450       14.035       13.038      14.523       16.932
Total                                           133, 90      62.740      53,792       61. 051     67,B81
Collecticns durinRg year
- Principal                                       48 45       48 798      40. 49       4A 427      50.387
- Intea t                                         14.397       14 151       IZSOB       13.23 m      I.715
Total                                           64 042       62 94S      53 375       6(1050      B7. 102
hras  at ed of year
- Prinolpal                                          327          204         574          453         735
- Intarest                                            133          47         3)0        1.007         322
Total                                              430          251         834        1.480        1.057
Collection ratio / a                                   90 3         S9 6        Oa 5         97. 6       98. 4
/a The oollectionr ratio is defined as follows                    Collectians During Year
rrears  at BEegiming of Year + Pnounts Falling due Durirg Year



- 44 -
Table 6
KOREA
THIRD TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPEMENT PROJECT (LOAN 2913 - KO)
PROJECT COblPLETION REPORT
KTB's Shareholding, ending 1992
(Won million)
Shareholders                  Amount             Percentage
Government                        9,301            15.19
Yukong                           11.646             19.02
Samsung Group (5)                 4,720             7.71
Lucky Group (9)                   4,714             7.70
Hyundai Group (15)                4,702             7.68
KDB                               4. 379            7. 15
DEG                               3,919             6.40
Hyosung Group (6)                 2.495             4.07
ADB                               2. 400            3. 92
Kia Group (2)                     1,172              1.91
Daewoo Group (4)                    934              1.53
KOREA Commercial Bank               884              1.44
Sangyong Group (3)                  680              1.11
Others (180)                      9,280             15.17
Total (230)                     61.226            100.0



- 45 -
Page 1 of 2
THIRD TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2913-KO)
Table 7: STATUS OF COVENANTS
Section                       Activity                                    Remarks
Loan Agreement with KTB:
2.02 (a)  (i)   Relend loan proceeds to finance 100% of the             Complied
foreign expenditures or 60% of local
expenditures on goods and services, lease and
investments as stated in Schedules 1 and 2.
(ii)  Relend loan proceeds to meet 100% of                  Complied
consultants' services and overseas training as
stated in Schedules 1 and 2.
2.02 (b)  Maintain a special account in dollars on terms and            Complied
conditions satisfactory to the Bank and in accordance
with Schedule 6.
3.02 (a)  Unless otherwise agreed by the Bank, Subloans,                Complied
Investments and Lease will be made as stated in
Schedule 5, and the applications and requests shall be
presented to the Bank on or before September 30, 1991.
3.05       KTB shall adopt the Institutional Policy Statement,          Complied (as a
agreed upon with the Bank.                                   condition of
loan
effectiveness)
3.06       Exchange views with the Bank on its annual programs          Complied
and targets.
4.01       KTB shall maintain and cause KTIC to maintain records   Complied
to monitor and record the progress of the Project and
of each Investment Project, and to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained sound
accounting practices.
4.02 (a)  KTB shall:
(i)   Have its accounts and financial statements            Complied
audited in accordance with sound auditing
principles by independent auditors acceptable
to the Bank;
(ii)  Furnish the Bank, as soon as available but in         Complied,
any case not later than four months after the         though usually
end of each year:  certified copies of the            with some
financial statements as audited; and the report   delay LI
of such audit by the said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have
reasonably requested.



- 46 -
Page 2 of 2
Section                      Activity                                    Remarks
4.04      Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, KTB shall          Complied
maintain at all times a consolidated debt of no
greater than six times the consolidated capital and
surplus of KTB and all its subsidiaries.
Guarantee Agreement - with the GOK:
3.01      The COK shall exchange views with the Bank regarding    Complied
the transition arrangements, and the disposition of
its share holdings in KTB's equity, and KTB's interest
rate policy
3.02      The GOK shall make available to KTB during calendar          Complied
year 1988 a loan of Won 27 billion.
3.03      The GOK shall provide a guarantee for KTB's debentures  Complied /Z
for an amount of W 10 billion in 1988.
/ Audit Reports were generally received late by the Bank, and those for 1989
and 1990 should have been qualified, since KTB had not made a provision for
its non-performing loans. The impact of such loans on KTB's financial
condition was, however, quite limited.
/2 Won 20 billion worth of debentures were issued by KTB in 1988 with the
GOK's guarantee.



- 47 -
THIRD TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2913-KO)
Table 8.1: USE OF BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUT
(Staffweeks)
TASK           FY86   FY87   FY88   FY89   FY90   FY91   FY92    FY93    FY94    TOTAL
Preparation           2.9      1.6     3.4                                                              7.9
Appraisal                             14.4                                                             14.4
Negotiations                           7.3                                                              7.3
Lending Operations     .7    16.7       .6                                                             18.1
Supervision            .0               .7    10.9      1.7      3.1     1.1        .1                 17.6
Completion                                                                          .3      3.2         3.5
TOTAL               3.7    18.3    26.5    10.9        1.7     3.1      1.1       .5       3.2       68.9
THIRD TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2913-KO)
Table 8.2: USE OF BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS
Stage of         Month/   No. of    Days in           Specialization
Project          Year    Persons      Field            Represented                   Major Issues
Through Appraisal /a    12/85       4         NA
/b        11/86       2          14      Technology Development    Appraisal and supervision of
Ic        05/87       2          4       and Financial Specialists   subloans, and privatization
/b        07/87       2          8
Appraisal through         -         -          -
Board Approval                                       I
Board Approval          04/88       1         NA       Technology Development    Risk-sharing financial
through Effectiveness                                                             instrumcnts
Supervision
Mission 1             03/89        1          5                                  Risk-sharing financial
instruments
Financial Specialist
Mission 11            12J90        1          5                                  Financial profitability and
_____________________  _______  _________  _______________________ _   | privatization
Mission IH /d          12191       1 I        4      Senior Financial Specialist
Futurc role of KTDC and its
Mission rV /d         04192        2         14      Senior Financial and        conversion into KTB as a
Banking Specialists        private specialized financial
Mission V /d           10/92       3         14     _                            intermediary
/a   Mission combined with a discussion regarding a Second Electronics Project.
/b   Mission combined with the Supervision of (First) and Second Technology Development Projects.
/c   Excluding the furst week that was used to help organize and run the UNDP-financed scminar on project appraisal techniques
for the KTB staff.
/d   Mission combined with thc preparation/preappraisal of the proposed Financial Intcrmediation Project.



