Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
A/                I3
Report No. 7019-KO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KOREA
THIRD TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
January 20, 1988
Asia Regional Office
This docoment has a resbicted distrnbution and may be used by redpiet only In the performanee of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disdosed without Wodd Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of July 1987)
Currency Unit - Korean Won (W)
US$1          -   W 800
US$1 million  -   W 0.8 billion
W 1           -   US$0.00125
W 1 million   -   US$1,250
* 1 billion   -   US$1,250,000
FISCAL YEAR
Government of Korea and KTDC - January 1 - December 31
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ADB       Asian Development Bank
ETRI      Electronics and Telecommunications Research Institute
FKI       Federation of Korean Industries
IFC       International Finance Corporation
ITD       Industrial Technology Development
KAIST     Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology
KDB       Korea Development Bank
KDIC      Korea Development Investment Corporation
KFSB      Korea Federation of Small Business
KIET      Korea Institute of Electronics Technology
KTAC      Korea Technology Advancement Corporation
KTDC      Korea Technology Development Corporation
KTIC      Korea Technology Investment Corporation
LDC       Less Developed Country
MOF       Ministry of Finance
MOST      Ministry of Science and Technology
NIC       Newly Industrializing Country
R&D       Research and Development
SMI       Small and Medium Industry
SMIPC     Small and Medium Industry Promotion Corporation
TDR       Technology Development Reserve
UNDP      United Nations Development Programme



i , -                    FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
KOREA
THIRD TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan and Proiect Summary
Borrower            : Kore& Technology Development Corporation (KTDC)
Guarantor           : Republic of Korea
Loan Amount         s US$50 million equivalent
Terms               t Payable in 11 years including five years of grace at the
standard variable interest rate.
Relending Terms    : KTDC would pass on the proceeds of the Bank loan to the
final beneficiaries using the following financial
instruments: (a) conventional loans to subborrowers
with a maximum term of 10 years including three years
grace at interest rates which provide adequate spreads
to KTDC; (b) conditional loans that would provide KTDC
with a partial claim on sales revenues in the case of
successful projects but, if no sales revenues are
generated, would allow KTDC to recover only a portion
(commonly 302) of the loan; (c) equity participation in
companies set up to commercialize the results of
research and development; (d) leasing of equipment
(purchased with loan funds) for use in industrial
technolob,J development projects. For at least 80? of
loan funds, the foreign exchange risk would be borne by
the subborrowers. KTDC would, however, offer an option
to certain small- and medium-scale industries which
could pay KTDC a premium to bear the foreign risk. For
the inherently risky equity investments and conditional
loans, KTDC would bear the foreign exchange risk.
Proiect DescriDtion:  The project would build on the accomplishments of prior
Bank projects to aid Korea in fostering the transforma-
tion of its industrial structure. The project would aim
to further strengthen KTDC by helping it and its newly-
created venture capital subsidiary, the Korea Technology
Investment Corporation (KTIC), to continue expanding
their portfolio of riskier projects and to adjust to a
changing financial market and industrial environment.
Specifically, the project would consist of: (a) financ-
ing KTDC and KTIC subprojects proposed by enterprises
for the import, adaptation, creation and development of
industrial technology; (b) assistance to KTDC for staff
development particularly to upgrade its appraisal and
supervision capabilities, especially for projects
involving risk-sharing financial instruments; and
(c) assistance in the development of KTIC.
This document has at tricted distribution and may be used by reipients onlyin the performance 
of their offcW duties.lIts contents may not otherwise be disclosedwithout WorldEBank authorization.|



- ii -
Risks               t No major risks are involved in the project.
Financins Plan                                               USS million
1988-91:
Equitv
Private                                  22.0
ADB                                       3.0
Subtotal                              25.0
KTDC Internal Cash Generation              49.0
Long-Term Loans
Government                               75.0
KTDC debentures                          48.7la
IBRD loans                               61.9
Other sources                            51.7/b
Subtotal                             237.3
Collections                               322.0
Total                                633.3
Estimated
Disbursements:      Bank FY           1988     1989    1990    1991    1992
-------- us$ million -----------
Annual            5.0       7.0    15.0    13.5      9.5
Cumulative        5.0      12.0    27.0    40.5    50.0
Economic Rate of
Return:             Not applicapble
Map:                   IBRD 20234
/a Includes Bank loan proceeds remaining from the Second Technology
Development Project (Loan 2473-KO).
lb Expected local and foreign commercial borrowings.



KOREA
THIRD TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY .....  i
I.  INTRODUCTION                ..1....................... 
II.   INDUSTRIAL TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT IN KOREA               .      .        1
A.  The Nature of Industrial Technology Development (ITD) 1... 
B.  Justification and Forms of Government Intervention ......            2
C.  Technology Innovation Cycle and Financing Requirements..             3
D.  Korea's Industrial and Financial Setting ................            4
E.  Korea's R&D Spending Pattern ............................            4
F.  Policies for Industrial Technology Development ..........            6
G.  The Role of the Bank Group ..............................            7
III.   THE KOREA TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION (KTDC) .........            9
A.  Institutional Goals .....................................            9
B. Legal Framework and Ownership                  .. .                 10
C. Operating Policies and Procedures                 .       .         10
D. Organization, Management and Staff                 .       .        13
E. Staff Development and Training                  ..    14
IV.  KTDC PERFORMANCE - 1981 TO 1986               . . .15
A. Lending and Investment Operations .                 .                15
B.  Resource Mobilization ............                                  19
C.  KTZi.'s Financial Results and Conditions        .     .             20
V.   THE PROJT.CT AND LOANOAN..........                                      22
A.  Project Objectives and Scope              ..            .22
B.  Features of the Loan. ... ..          ......  ...    .             22
C.  Financial Projections          .........             . .24
D.  Procurement and Disbursement               .. .27
E.  Accounts and Audit. ..........                 .      .28
F. Project Justification and Risks             . . .28
G. Environmental Aspects             ....... .29
VI.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMNDATIONM           ...                       29
This report is based on findings of an appraisal mission consisting of
Melvin H. Goldman (Mission Leader) and Junichi Miyazaki (Financial Analyst),
that visited Korea in June-July 1987.



LIST OF ANNEXES
Page No.
1.  Selected Statistics on Research and Development in Korea .......   31
2.  Selected Incentive Schemes for R&D Activities ..................    33
3.  List of Venture Capital Companies .......      ...........          34
4. KTDC Organizational Chart              ......................................   35
5.  Selected Examples of KTDC-Supported Projects ...................   36
6. Korea Technology Investment Corporation ...............              38
7.  Financial Support provided by KTDC by Financial Instruments ....   39
8.  Financial Support provided by KTDC by Subsector .................   41
9. KTDC Funding .........................                       ... .   42
10.  KTDC Actual Financial Performance, 1981-86 .....................   43
11. Assumptions on KTDC Financial Projections, 1987-91 ............   49
12.  KTDC Financial Projections, 1987-91 ............................    57
13.  Sensitivity Analysis          ........ ........... .                62
14.  Disbursement Schedule             .      .......... . ... .    64
15.  KTDC - Operating Manual ..... . ..........................    . 65
16.  KTDC - Rules on Lending and Equity Participation ...............   74
17.  KTDC - Institutional Policy Statement.........................      77
18.  Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File ......   81



- 1 -
I. INTRODUCTION
1.1      Korea's impressive post-war industrial development has been built
upon superior labor productivity and organizational skills. Since the early
19708, the Government has adopted policies and programs to deepen Korea's
industrial base and to itimulate industrial technology development (ITD).
Science and technology infrastructure including research institutes, stan-
dards, testing and technical educational facilities were built, research and
higher-level science and engineering education were continually supported, and
a range of fiscal incentives were provided to industry for conducting its own
research and development (R&D). In 1981, following two years of study and
discussion among Korea's private sector, the Government and the Bank, the
Korea Technology Development Corporation (KTDC) was established as a mixed
private-public enterprise for filling an important gap in the capital market,
nAmely the financing of technology development of industrial firms. The Bank
followed KTDC's establishment with two loans (Loans 2112-KO and 2473-KO) in
1982 and 1984, of US$50 million each, both of which aided in building KTDC
into Korea's premier technology finencing agency. Bank involvement helped to
establish and develop the procedures, financial instruments and expertise
required for technology financing as well as to provide the needed foreign
exchange for the import component of technology projects. In addition,
building on the KTDC experience, the Government has provided incentives for
the formation of venture capital companies and for technology financing.
1.2      The Government intends to sell its 30X share in KTDC in 1989 but
wishes to offer KTDC additional stimuli (including special govern.ment loans)
and to further develop its capability before selling off its shares to the
private sector. The proposed project would aim to further strengthen KTDC's
capabilities to appraise and supervise technology projects and assist it in
making the transition to a fully private finance company. It would aim to
provide similar assistance to KTDC's recently established subsidiary, the
Korea Technology Investment Corporation (KTIC).
II. INDUSTRIAL TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT IN KOREA
A. The Nature of Industrial Technology Development (ITD)
2.1      Industrial technology development (ITD) comprises a variety of
activities ultimately aimed at the utilization of specialized technical know-
ledge for improving or developing industrial products and processes. ITD
largely takes place within the industrial firms. Building up domestic ITD
capability, and achieving a balance between foreign and local sources of tech-
nological change, are essential components in developing an industrial sector
which is efficient, can adjust to changing markets and resources, and is aile
to export. In the less developed countries (LDCs), ITD is often confined to
the selection, acquisition and operation of technology and minor improvements
in the course of operation. Technology is largely acquired from abroad,
mainly embodied in imported industrial plants, equipment and intermediate
goods. At a more advanced state, leading firms in newly industrialized



countries (NICs, e.g., Argentina, Mexico, Brazil, Indie, Korea) add consider-
able domestic value to imported technology, through local design, engineering
and pursuit of quality. For this, they utilize a mix of in-house resources
and services provided by local engineering firms, R&D organizations aId some-
times higher education centers. Technology is imported more selectively.
mainly as product and process licenses, plant and equipment designs, technical
services to solve specific problems, and quality assurance methods, instrumen-
tation and reference standards. Mastery of a technology allows the firms to
improve the acquired technology as well as to increase the firm's capability
to handle subsequent technological problems. A stock of technological know-
ledge, expertise and management skills is built up in the firms and specia-
lized institutions and gradually disseminated through subcontractor develop-
ment, personnel mobility, provision of technical services and participation in
higher education. Technology exports become significant, and technology trade
imbalances and dependence are reduced. In ma:ure industrial economies, tech-
nological capability is widely spread throughout industry and basic research
plays a large role as a source of technological innovation.
B. Justification and Forms of Government Intervention
2.2      Governments in all industrialized nations, most newly industrializing
countries (NICs) and some less developed countries (LDCs) have adopted
measures, including various subsidies, to stimulate ITD. This is justified
mainly on three grounds. First, social returns from ITD are normally higher
than private returns, because of the external benefits associated with ITD
(diffusion of specific knowledge, development of specialized manpower and
innovative management skills, and contribution to building up a competitive
business environment). Second, investments in ITD are often considerably
riskier than those for other industrial activities because of technical as
well as market uncertainties. Even where the ITD is not at the frontier of
industrial innovation, considerable risk is associated with developing new
products and processes, and achieving adequate quality and prices in large-
scale production. ITD may therefore be unacceptable to the individual firm,
despite being desirable to society as a whole in the context of a large and
more diversified investment portfolio. And third, and until most recently
most important in Korea's case, even when entrepreneurs are willing to invest
in ITD, gaps in the capital market inhibit financing these activities.
2.3      Government support for ITD comprises a mix of policy, investment and
institutional development measures. Industrial, trade, credit, foreign
investment and taxation policies, although not specifically directed to ITD.
strongly influence the firms' demand for ITD and the relative use of foreign
and domestic resources to meet these needs. Explicit ITD policies include
fiscal and financial incentives such as grants and subsidized credits for ITD
investment, public sector procurement used to promote development of domestic
suppliers, regulation of technology importation, and protection of industrial
property rights. Governments also promote ITD by investing in the R&D capabi-
lities of public and parastatal industries, developing an infrastructure of
industrial R&D and information services to support industry in general, and
establishing and funding specialized ITD financing agencies.



- 3 -
-3
C. Technoloxy Innovation Cycle and Financing Reguirements
2.4      The so-called product life cycle (or technology innovation cycle) can
be generally divided into four phases: start-up, precommercial, expansion and
maturity. The start-up phase comprises idea generation, feasibility studies
and technical R&D. The precommercial phase involves the development of proto-
types and pilot plants, preliminary production and test ma.-keting. During the
expansion and maturity phases, production and sales grow and eventually taper
off.
2.5      Each phase is associated with distinct risks and uncertainties.
Typically, during the start-up phase, the major uncertainty is of a technical
nature. Is the technology to be developed or improved within the reach of
technological capabilities available to the individual and/or the corpo-ation
involved? What are the associated costs and the time required? Would the
technology which would emerge eventually have wide commercial applications?
Generally, financial commitments initially tend to be relatively small and
increase gradually. During the precommercial phase, the nature of the techni-
cal risks gradually changes. How should the pilot-scale operation be expanded
into a commercial-scale one? How can development and production costs be
minimized? Commercial and market risks become increasingly important during
this phase. Is the market ready for this type of product? What are the
segments of the market to be targeted, and how does one communicate with and
get to them? Time also becomes a critical factor. Is this product/firm the
first in the market? What are competitors doing? During the expansion and
maturity phases, major uncertainties are focused on commercial and market
aspects. How can production expand quickly and production costs be reduced
How can new market segments be penetrated? How can the product's life span be
prolonged?
2.6      Each phase also has typical financing patterns.  In the start-up
phase, a newly launched entrepreneur usually draws on private funding sources,
i.e., his/her own savings and borrowings from family and friends; the ongoing
firm draws on internally generated funds, government R&D grants and long-term
loans, etc. In the precommercial phase, funds are drawn substantially from
the same sources as in the first phase, with greater emphasis on venture
capital and less on concessionary government financing or subsidies. The
expansion and maturity phases are normally financed by self-generated funds,
investment and commercial banks, supplemented, if necessary, by government
incentives such as preferential interest rates and tax incentives.
Traditional financial institutions such as commercial and development banks
are primarily concerned with financing the expansion and maturity phases, when
the technology is tested and proven, the market is reasonably assured and the
outcome of the project is predictable and relatively certain. Typically, the
first two phases contain major uncertainties beyond the level accepta'ble for
such financial institutions. Several factors contribute to the reluctance by
traditional bankers to finance projects in the first two phases: (a) lack of
technical and market expertise to evaluate the risk properly; (b) lack of
organizational and managerial tradition to include risky loans in their port-
folio; (c) lack of viable collateral because of software intensity and low
collateral value since the R&D equipment is highly specialized. As a result,
institutional gaps exist especially in many developing economies, which do not
allow the capital market to meet adequately specific financing requirements
for the start-up and precommercial phases of the technology innovation cycle.



- 4 -
D. Korea's Industrial and Financial Setting
2.7      Korea's remarkable industrial development over the past three decades
has been characterized by rapid growth, export orientation and diversifica-
tion. Between 1960 and 1985, Korea's manufacturing sector has grown at about
152 p.a., one of the highest rates in the world. Manufacturing grew from a
relatively insignificant level to account for 42S of total output in 1985.
This growth has been export led. Merchandise exports which accounted for
US$55 million in 1962 averaged US$25.2 billion between 1982 and 1984, of which
912 were manufactures.
2.8      Such impressive development in the industrial and manufacturing
sectors was initially based on light industrial goods such as textiles,
apparel, wood products and household goods in which Korea had comparative
advantage due to its low cost and efficient labor. However, during the past
several years the country has begun to transform its industrial structure
towards an increasingly technology-intensive one. A number of factors have
made this transformation imperative: (a) poor resource endowment; (b) a
quickly disappearing comparative advantage in labor-intensive industries;
(c) a desire for continuing gains in labor productivity through technological
advancement; and (d) a desire to secure the long-term comparative advantage of
technological and innovative capacity.
2.9      With increasing industrial maturity, Korean firms have moved into
fields of higher technological intensity such as electronics, transportation
equipment, machinery and fine chemicals, where the domestic value added is
much greater and export demand brisk. Effective policies were adopted early
enough to stimulate the successful entry into those sectors. With the need to
further broaden and deepen Korea's industrial capability, the Government and
the private sector are placing increased emphasis on technology development.
E. Korea's R&D Spending Pattern
2.10     Overall R&D Spending.  Total R&D spending in Korea has increased
dramatically, particularly in the last decade:
Table 2.1: KOREA - R&D SPENDING, 1963-86
Year          Total R&D Spending           R&D Spending/GNP
(US$ million)                   (Z)
1963                   9.5                       0.24
1970                  40.5                       0.48
1980                 320.0                       0.57
1985               1,492.0                       1.78
1986               1,756.0                       2.00
Source: MOST.



As a percent of GNP, total R&D spending exceeded 12 only in 1983 and reached
22 in 1986, a phenomenal accomplishment considering Korea's high GNP growth
rates. Korea's total R&D spending as a percent of GNP is among the highest in
the developing countries and is now comparable to the levels of .ost indus-
trialized countries in the early 19809. The highly industrialized countries
have emphasized technology development and increased their R&D spending as a
percentage of GNP in 1985 to 2.72, 2.82 and 2.52 in the United States, Federal
Republic of Germany, and Japan, respectively.l/ The ambitious target of
Korea's Ministry of Science and Technology (MOST) is to reach a 3X level of
R&D expenditure by 1991.
2.11     Unique among the nonindustrialized countries, almost all of this
enormous growths in expenditures on R&D in Korea and more broadly on technology
development has been in the private sector. In 1970, with only modest R&D
spending, more than three quarters emanated from the Government. In 1980 the
public sector still accounted for over 502, while in 1985, the private
sector's share jumped to 66Z. By contrast, in Brazil, Mexico and India, less
than 202 of R&D expenditures are carried out by firms (public and private).
Korea's proportion of privately expended R&D is now comparable to all major
industrialized countries.
2.12     Although the relative amount of Korea's R&D seems to compare favor-
ably with the industrialized countries' on a GDP basis, by various other
measures the gap is still wide. In 1985, the number of Korean researchers per
thousand population was about one-third the number in Japan and in thl. United
States, while the absolute number of Korean researchers was 11 and 52 of that
in Japan and the United States, respectively. Annex 1 provides selected
statistics on R&D in Korea and how it compares with other countries.
2.13     R&D has developed in Korea through a process similar to that of many
countries but in a compressed period of time. A number of public sector (and
publicly supported) research institutes were established from the mid-sixties
to the late-seventies. These were established to strengthen the technological
infrastructure and as centers of excellence in an effort to stimulate R&D, to
service industry and society more broadly, and to attract back to Korea
scientists and engineers who had emigrated. R&D by industry only began to
grow in the latter part of the seventies. This was stimulated in large part
by government policies including incentives (para. 2.18). In 1986, the number
of private research institutes reached 290, compared to only 43 in 1979.
2.14     In the public sector, there are currently nine research institutes
which are supervised by MOST and supported largely from budgetary resources.
These include prominent large multisectoral centers, such as the Korean
Advanced Institute of Science and Technology (KAIST), the Korean Standards
Research Institute (KSRI) and sector institutes, such as the Electronics and
Telecommunications Research Institute (ETRI) and the Advanced Energy Research
Institute.
1/ Given the difficulty of measuring the various kinds of investments in
technology development, R&D statistics are used only as indicators of
general trends and broad guides for international comparison.



- 6-
2.15     While the Korean research institutes have served a useful purpose as
the training ground for researchers vho ultimately work in industry, their
ability to meet industry's growing and complex technical needs has been
limited. Only a small percentage of industry's R&D is contracted to the
institutes, despite encouragement from the Government.
2.16     The Government considers a closer linkage between industry and non-
profit research institutes important. To strengthen this relationship, in
1982 the Government initiated a program of 'National Projects' to develop
broad technological infrastructure in priority areas (such as semiconductors,
computers, fine chemicals, mechanical industry, material science, and plant
system engineering). The National Project scheme is divided into two parts:
Government-initiated projects, and industry-initiated research projects which
are carried out jointly with research institutes. The latter emphasize joint
ventures between small and medium industry (SMI) and an institute. This
program has increased from US$25 million equivalent in 1982 to US$111 million
in 1986; nearly one half is financed by the private sector. In an effort to
improve the selection and implementation of the National Projects scheme, the
Government has, since 1984, utilized KTDC to appraise these projects. The
program has been considered relatively successful in building links between
industry and the institutes. However, further reforms are needed to develop a
closer and more functional relationship between the research community and
industry.
P. Policies for Industrial TechnoloRy Development
2.17     To date, Korea has initiated an impressive array of policies and
administrative measures to facilitate the development of industrial technology
and address some of the issues as discussed previously. Strategies behind
these measures have been to: (a) encourage R&D investments by industry as
much as possible; (b) liberalize foreign technology imports; tc) increase the
linkage between industry and nonprofit research institutes; and (d) create
suitable financing mechanisms for R.) activities (including KTDC), particu-
larly for SMIs. Furthermore, to complement these measures, the Government has
increased education sector investments to improve the quality as well as the
quantity of technical manpower.
2.18     Incentive Schemes for R&D Investments by Private Industry.  To encou-
rage R&D activities by industry, the Government has initiated various incen-
tives, including the Technology Development Reserve (TDR), tax credits for R&D
expenditures, accelerated depreciation for investments to commercialize R&D
results, and a reduced excise tax for technology-intensive products. Under
the TDR scheme, a company can set aside up to 20Z of profit before tax or 1Z
of revenues in any year for the following four years, subject to MOST approval
of its R&D program. In the case of technology-intensive industries, the
allowable percentage is 302 of net profit or 1.52 of revenues. In effect, the
TDR scheme allows companies to write off R&D expenditures up to four years
before actual expenditures are incurred. If TDR funds so accumulated are not
used within four years, however, the company must pay back taxes on the unused
balance as well as a penalty. During 1974-83, the TDR balance increased from
W 2.9 billion to W 56.5 billion while the number of participating companies
increased from 60 to 160. Specifics of other selected tax incentives are
briefly described in Annex 2. It is generally agreed that these measures have



collectively been a major contributory factor to the rapid increase in
industry's R&D activities. TDR accounts have also been the main sources of
the private sector's equity contribution to KTDC (para. 4.8).
2.19     Liberalization of ForeiRn Technology Imports.  Korea's technological
acquisitions during the 19608 and 1970s were predominantly achieved through
imports of turnkey plants and machinery rather than more direct proprietary
transfers through direct foreign investments and licensing agreements. In
fact, the Government's attitude towards direct foreign technology imports was
circumspect. Towards the end of the 1970s, however, Korea changed its orien-
tation. During the brief period of 1978-80, the Government launched a four-
stage technology import liberalization program which resulted in a major
simplification of the import approval process. Furthermore, as a result of
amendments made to the Foreign Capital Inducement Act in 1983, industry can
now import virtually any technology (except that related to defense and
nuclear safety) without prior government clearance. In a related move, the
present list of industries open to direct foreign investment is currently
being replaced with a negative list, specifying only those industries in which
direct foreign investments are prohibited or restricted. As a result, the
number of industries in which foreign investment is permitted has been
substantially increased.2/ Administrative procedures for direct foreign
investment have also been simplified. All applications by prospective foreign
investors satisfying specific criteria (including the foreign investor's share
of equity in the project and the total amount of foreign equity) are approved
by the Ministry of Finance immediately.
2.20     Recent Policy Initiatives.  Government initiatives to promote techno-
logy development continue to be forthcoming. During the past year, two new
acts were passed to spur venture capital and the establishment of new small-
scale industries, i.e., the Small and Medium Industry Inauguration Assistance
Act and the Venture Business Financial Support Act. The two acts responded to
the perceived weakness of Korea in component industries for important indus-
trial subsectors including automobiles and electronics. The first act
reflects Government's decision to build upon the successful experience of KTDC
and foster the formation of private venture capital companies to stimulate the
establishment of new industrial firms. Twelve venture financing companies now
exist (A mex 3) including Korea Technology Investment Corporation KTIC, a
subsidiary of KTDC. The second act was enacted to promote the use of new
instruments and new sources of financing for technology development.
Together, Korea's policies for technology development are perhaps the most
extensive and well-developed among NICs and LDCs.
G. The Role of the Bank Group
2.21     The Bank Group has supported Korean ITD through direct project
support in a variety of sectors as well as through an active dialogue with
Government on technology policy and institutional issues. The Bank Group's
first direct involvement in technological development in Korea was in 1979
with Bank financing for the Electronics Technology Project (Loan 1676-KO).
This project, which is nearing completion, sought to develop the capacity of
2/ A number of joint ventures involving foreign investment have been
beneficiaries under the Second Technology Development Project.



- 8 -
ETRI to support the local electronics industry through provision of specia-
lized services, manpower training, acquisition of foreign technology and the
implementation, jointly with industry, of pilot-scale production and R&D work.
ETRI successfully demonstrated the feasibility of establishing a Korean-run
advanced semiconductor processing facility without expensive licenses and
developed 8-bit microprocessors and other advanced products. Despite some
problems, its success is demonstrated by a private firm's purchase of the
facilities supported by the project. Under two projects (Loans 2215-KO and
2515-KO) the Bank has also assisted the Small and Medium Industry Promotion
Corporation (SMIPC) which provides shop-floor advice and guidance to solve
technology problems and increase the productivity of small and medium enter-
prises. SMIPC has become well regarded as a provider of technology extension.
A number of former SMIPC clients have gone on to become KTDC innovators. In
May 1983, International Finance Corporation (IFC) invested W 750 million in
the newly-created Korea Development Investment Company (KDIC), a venture
capital company which invests in, inter alia, the commercialization of new
technology. 'nally, through sector loans made in 1980 (Loan 1800-KO) and
1984 (Loan 2354-KO) the Bank is assisting in the upgrading and expansion of
higher education for science and engineering.
2.22     The most direct support of ITD are the two prior Bank loans to KTDC
(Loans 2112-KO and 2473-KO) in 1982 and 1984 which aimed to bridge a serious
gap in the Korean financial system by providing financial assistance for
typically risky technology-intensive industrial R&D projects (see Chapter IV
for assessment of KTDC's development under those projects). Related to these
projects, the Bank and the Government have engaged in periodic discussions of
R&D policies and of technology and venture capital finance. The most recent
Economic Report on Korea, entitled Manaaing Korea's Institutional Transition
(Report No. 6138-KO, July 31, 1986) has helped the Government think through
its program for trade and financial sector liberalization as well as indus-
trial policy.  Bank assistance is expected to continue in the key functional
areas of technical manpower development and ITD as Korea attempts to make the
leap to an even more industrialized society.
2.23     Continued Bank support to KTDC is in line with Bank recommendations
to move Korean industrial policy away from one in which the Government takes
the lead in *picking winners" toward one which emphasizes functional interven-
tion in such areas as ITD and development of SMI and venture capital, where
market imperfections and externalities exist. Assistance to KTDC complements
Bank involvement in science and technology education and support for SMIs,
including technology extension. The Bank can also help KTDC to manage its
transition from a mixed public-private enterprise dependent on government
support to a private finance company with limited government assistance in an
increasingly liberalized financial sector. For its part, KTDC desires
continued association with the Bank to gain advice on divestiture procedures
and to assist it in mobilizing increased private sector funds. Bank involve-
ment, although somewhat small in relation to KTDC's overall operations, will
be directed toward helping KTDC maintain its leadership role as a model ITD
financial institution. For the Bank itself, experience gained in the course
of KTDC's further development and the progress of ITD in Korea would be useful
in assisting other countries planning to embark on similar efforts.



- 9 -
III. THE KOREA TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION (KTDC)
A. Institutional Goals
3.1      KTDC was established on May 1, 1981, with strong support from the
Government and private industry. The Bank played an active role in KTDC's
conception, as well as in desigiting its ownership and organizational struc-
ture, and operational policies and procedures. KTDC's principal goals are to
promote the development of industrial technology, and to facilitate desirable
changes in the industrial structure, so as to strengthen the international
competitiveness of Korean industry.
3.2      To achieve these goals, KTDC performs several important functions as
described below.
(a) Financing R&D Proiects: One of the important institutional gaps that
existed in the Korean capital market prior to KTDC's establishment
was R&D financing for industrial technology. KTDC actively identi-
fies and appraises R&D projects initiated by industry during the
precommercial phases of the product innovation cycle. Types of
projects KTDC finances are described in Annex 5;
(b) Venture Capital (or Risk-Sharing) Operations: The Government and
private industry in Korea intend to use venture capital operations --
equity investments and conditional lending (para. 3.6 )--to stimulate
the development of industrial technology. KTDC has played a pioneer-
ing role in this area. These operations are particularly important
for ITD since KTDC can share the risk (and, consequently, the reward)
with private entrepreneurs, inventors, and technology innovators;
(c) Promotion of Industrial Technology Development among SMIs: Consider-
ing the important role that SMIs can play in industrial technology
development, and in view of their demonstrated success in more
advanced countries, the Government and the private sector are anxious
to promote technological development through SMIs. KTDC plays a key
role in this effort;
(d) Brokerage Services: KTDC's unique position and the extensive
contacts that it has developed with private industry, research insti-
tutes, and financial institutions permit it to provide brokerage
services ir. bringing together researchers, inventors, and entrepre-
neurs both in Korea and overseas. This function has been slow to
develop but can facilitate R&D activities and commercialize their
results. In this regard, discussions are under way for a possible
IFC-led group of venture capital companies to invest in KTDC and
facilitate KTDC-s international brokerage and information roles; and
(e) Information Services: With its intimate knowledge of the status of
technology development and the needs of industry, KTDC assists
industry and the Government in identifying technological trends,
market prospects, and emerging areas of focus for R&D efforts and
commercialization prospects. In addition to close association with



- 10 -
similar organizations in other countries, KTDC is affiliated with
some U.S. venture capital companies that provide KTDC with additional
avenues for such information.
In addition, based on its experience and expertise, which are unique in Korea,
KTDC is playing an increasingly important function as consultant and advisor
to various government agencies in identifying technology policy constraints
and suggesting appropriate measures. In that regard, MOST relies upon KTDC to
appraise for it annually over 300 nationally funded projects carried out
jointly by small industrial firms and public research institutes.
B. Legal Framework and Ownership
3.3      The Korean Technology Development Corporation Act approved on
December 31, 1980 and the related Enforcement Decree approved on April 22,
1981 which established KTDC enable the institution to:   operate in an
autonomous manner with the efficiency of a private company; have a strong and
independent management; and attract and retain staff of high caliber and
entrepreneurship. As of the end of 1987, KTDC was roughly 70Z owned by the
private sector and 30Z by the Government. The private sector ownership of
KTDC is broadly based, including 14 industrial groups, 189 individual firms, 5
banking institutions and 2 industrial associations (Annex 17). To avoid undue
concentration of influence, the KTDC Act limits ownership and/or voting rights
by any private shareholder to no more than 7Z. The proportion of the SMIs'
shareholding is only 1.42 (53 firms) of the total paid-in capital. Although
this proportion has grown in recent years, prospects of substantially
increasing the SMIs' shareholding is limited at present. SNI interests on the
KTDC Board, are represented by the President of the Korea Federation of Small
Business (KFSB). The KTDC Act specifically mandates its management to give
priority to SMIs by allocating not less than a certain prescribed portion of
KTDC's total financial resources to such enterprises (para. 4.2). Also, in
appraising financial applications, KTDC makes no reference to the applicants'
status in KTDC shareholdings.
3.4      The Government has already announced its intention to sell its 30Z
interest in KTDC along with a number of other mixed and public sector corpora-
tions. Since KTDC's internal operations already largely function with the
efficiency of a private sector enterprise, this is not expected to affect the
way the institution operates. The Government intends to sell off its
interests in a number of other companies during 1988; after this experience,
the Government would plan out in greater detail its divestiture program for
KTDC. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the Government will
exchange views with the Bank concerning the transition arrangements as well as
conditions under which divesture will be carried out.
C. Operating Policies and Procedures
3.5      KTDC's Operating Manual (Annex 15), previously called the Statement
of Investment and Operational Policies, provides broad guidelines for KTDC
operations, including the scope of loan and investment activities, criteria
for investment decisions, diversification of assets, promotion of SMIs, rela-
tions with clients, and generation of profits. With respect to asset diversi-
fication, KTDC will continue to apply its existing policy, which limits its



- 11 -
total financing commitment outstanding at any time to any single enterprise to
not more than 72 of its long-term portfolio. Combined with other operational
policies (such as limiting KTDC's equity investments in any single enterprise
to not more than 102 of its paid-in capital and free reserves), there are
adequate safeguards to protect KTDC from an undue concentration of its assets.
These provisions would remain after privatization. Details of the terms and
conditions of KTDC's loans and equity investments and procedures are given in
the Rules on Lending and Equity Participation (Annex 16). A draft
Institutioial Policy Statement focussing on future institutional principles
and strategy was agreed during negotiations and will serve as a basis for
KTDC's future policy. Under this Policy Statement, KTDC would emphasize its
future commitment to: (a) continue its concentration on ITD projects;
(b) continue to increase support fo- SMIs; (c) increase the proportion of
risk-sharing instruments; (d) improve profitability by maintaining adequate
spreads; (e) diversify sources of financing; and (f) expand its network and
scope of financing instruments cautiously. A condition of loan effectiveness
is the adoption of the Institutional Policy Statement by RTDC. During nego-
tiations, it was agreed that KTDC will carry out the project in accordance
with its current Operating Manual, Rules on Lending and Equity Participation
and Institutional Policy Statement.
3.6      KTDC promotes and finances the following types of projects:
(a) Loans for in-house R&D costs and/or for the cost of contracts for
technological development with external research organizations;
(b) Investments and lcins for initial efforts for the commercialization
of the results of R&D;
(c) Loans for technology import or for the adaptation and improvement of
imported technology;
(d) Loans for engineering costs associated with the construction of
industrial facilities;
(e) Technical advisory services to industrial enterprises with respect to
business activities referred to in (a) through (d) above and/or tech-
nical feasibility surveys for other R&D facilities; and
(f) Use of foreign specialists and technical advisers, and training of
R&D personnel.
In view of the different levels of risk and gestation periods involved with
the investments, KTDC offers a variety of instruments to serve the needs of
varying kinds of projects. The following are the traditional forms of
financing offered by KTDC:
(a) Conventional Loanss with or without collateral requirements;
(b) Conditional Loans: that allow profit and risk sharing with project
sponsors. Such loans are normally repaid through royalty payments
from sales revenues if projects are successful. Repayments are
calculated to include reasonably high returns on loans which



_ 12 _
compensate for those projects which do not result in sales revenues
and where KTDC recovers only a portion of the principals from the
sponsors; and
(c) Equity Investments: in companies set up to commercialize R&D
results.
A frequently used variation on equity investments is the invertible bond.
KTDC, in an effort to gain even more flexibility in meet .gsAits clients'
needs, is expanding the range of financial instruments available for leasing
and factoring. Both instruments are expected to be developed slowly so that
KTDC can measure their practicality for technology financing and gain
experience in their use.
3.7      Projects come to KTDC in various forms.  An increasing proportion of
projects come from previous clients and from national projects financed with
MOST grant funds which lead to a more advanced precommercial financing phase.
It is more common, however, for KTDC to receive preliminary inquiries from
Korean entrepreneurs or inventors with project ideas. Often a project idea at
that stage is neither well conceived nor sufficiently developed to constitute
a bankable project. At other times, the project does not have sufficient
technology content or is based on technology already mature in Korea. Through
interviews with potential applicants, KTDC staff determine whether to
encourage formal application. Once a firm applies, the probability of financ-
ing is high--802 of conventional loan applications and 502 of requests for
equity and conditional loans are approved. Appraisal is carried out
efficiently; frequently other clients and engineers in research institutions
are consulted on aspects where the KTDC appraisal staff lack specific know-
ledge. Major appraisal criteria include technical, economic and financial
viabilities, potential contribution to the advancement of Korean technology,
and the managerial capabilities of the clients.
3.8      Korea Technology Investment Corporation (KTIC).  KTIC was established
in November 1986 as a subsidiary of KTDC to operate in accordance with the
Small and Medium Industry Inauguration Assistance Act (para. 2.20). KTIC's
President is a former KTDC's senior staff, who used to manage KTDC's projects
involving risk-sharing financial instruments.  As stipulated bv the Act, KTIC
specializes in financing newly established SMIs through equity   vestments and
partnership venture fund operations. KTIC has rapidly establisne. itself as a
leader in financing new technology start-ups. Since the Act provides some
cushion for losses, KTIC's portfolio contains a larger proportion of risky
projects than KTDC's. In addition to projected high profits from a few opera-
tions, KTDC expects to benefit from KTIC through: (a) offering subsequent
financing in various forms to the SMI clients of KTIC; and (b) accumulating
know-how on venture capital operations (equity investments and limited part-
nership venture fumd operations).  To maximize efficiency, KTIC would use the
management resources of KTDC (such as the information network and administra-
tive back-up) and employ a limited number of highly skilled appraisal staff
(at present, KTIC has five appraisal staff). Currently, KTDC plans to expand
KTIC's operations very gradually.  KTIC's total investments for 1987-91 are
now projected to be about W 31 billion (Annex 11, page 1), which would be
small compared with KTDC's projected total investment commitment (W 460 bil-
lion for 1987-1991). During negotiations, KTDC agreed to exchange views with
the Bank, before the end of each fiscal year, with regard to KTIC's annual
operational and financial plans.



_ 13 -
D. Organization, Management and Staff
3.9      Responsibility for the policy and general direction of KTDC's busi-
ness rests with its Board of Directors, which currently comprises a Chairman
(normally the Chief Executive Officer of one of the large industrial groups),
the President, Executive Vice-President, two Executive Directors, and eight
outside Directors, including the Vice Minister of MOST. The President, who
reports directly to the Board, is responsible for KTDC's overall operations.
3.10     The Board, which has ultimate authority over all investment deci-
sions, has delegated authority to approve individual loans and investments to
the Executive Directors' Committee consisting of all directors who are
managers of KTDC. Such delegation enables the institution to respond quickly
to private industry's changing R&D needs. With the exception of complex
projects or risk-sharing operations (such as start-ups, equity investments,
conditional loans or technology untested anywhere), KTDC is able to review and
approve subloans in less than two months from the time of the initial inquiry.
3.11     KTDC's organization has changed periodically to meet the needs of the
rapidly changing industrial and venture capital environment.  Currently, KTDC
is divided into two subdivisions each managed by an Executive Director.  One
is concerned with project finance, appraisal and supervision, i.e., opera-
tions, and is subdivided along broad industrial sector lines. The other
covers all other matters--personnel, administration, fund management,
planning, and public relations. KTDC's current organizational chart is shown
in Annex 4.
3.12     At present, KTDC has 55 professional staff, including 15 engineers, 6
lawyers and 29 financial analysts or economists. Because of the special
nature of its function, and the need for KTDC to have staff capable of
appraising and advising firms as well as providing assistance to complicated
and problem projects, KTDC initially recruited staff with prior experience.
More than 40? of KTDC's professional staff worked previously in industry or an
R&D institution, while another 30? have prior financial sector experience.
KTDC maintains a competitive salary level and an environment with an esprit de
corps and consequently, attrition rates have been fairly low. In order to
cope with the growing volume of business as well as to be effective in its
proposed new areas of business, KTDC intends to recruit approximately five new
staff members each year between 1987 and 1991. Since it is becoming increas-
ingly difficult to recruit capable experienced staff at appropriate levels in
KTDC, the entity will increasingly have to rely on training to meet its
discipline (sectoral) and experience requirements. An appraisal team consists
normally of an engineer (appropriate to the project) and a financial
analyst/economist, at least one of whom is experienced.  Procedures for
investment approval include a presentation by the appraisal team to the
Executive Directors' Committee along with a brief appraisal report. The time
between inquiry and approval for old clients will normally take less than one
month, for new clients and conventional loans less than 2 months and for
venture financing between two and six months. The latter is a much more
involved process, with reporting requirements also more elaborate.



- 14 -
E. Staff Development and Training
3.13     As a result of KTDC's unique role in Korea as a technology develop-
ment leader and the first substantial venture-financing institution, staff
development has special significance. Despite its recruitment of qualified
staff with some experience, the absence in Korea of persons with experience in
technology financing or venture capital caused KTDC immediately to develop an
extensive program of domestic and overseas training along with well-planned
staff reassignment, generally after three years. With an increase of
inexperienced staff and the growth of competition and recent limited raiding
of KTDC's experienced staff, such training has become even more imperative.
3.14     To date, 24 professional staff have participated in extended overseas
training (for two months to one year). The programs have covered such areas
as managing technological innovation, financing R&D, venture capital opera-
tions and small business management. From 1984 to 1987, the programs have
been carried out under a UNDP-financed, Bank-executed 'KTDC Institutional
Development Project.' The most successful individualized programs seem to
have been on-the-job training with well-directed supervision and, where appro-
priate, some course work. The UNDP project funded the training of 14 staff as
well as a week-long project appraisal techniques seminar in Korea for 19
staff. KTDC's domestic training mainly consists of: (a) Master of Business
Administration programs at graduate schools; (b) on-the-job training in KTDC
and KTDC's portfolio companies; (c) courses at a training center for bankers
in Korea; and (d) three-day in-house training as well as language training.
3.15     While past training programs tended to address generic and broad
activities related to venture capital, KTDC's future staff development
programs must focus, on the one hand, on more specific areas where expertise
is required by KTDC and on the other hand, strategic issues for selected
potential managers. These would includet (a) operations and administration
of leasing and factoring; (b) formation and management of partnership funds;
(c) risk analysis; (d) supervision of riskier projects; (e) advisory and tech-
nical assistance roles of venture capital companies; (f) portfolio management'
in an increasingly complex financial environment; and (g) systems analysis and
strategic planning. During negotiations, KTDC agreed to exchange views with
the Bank, before the end of each fiscal year, with regard to its annual staff
development and training programs. To assist KTDC in further developing
effective training programs, US$200,000 equivalent of the proceeds of the
proposed loan would be used for such purposes. Under the first and second
projects, US$650,000 and US$200,000 equivalent, respectively, were earmarked
for the same purpose. KTDC opted not to utilize these funds for such
purposes, because of the availability of cost-free UNDP funds and other subsi-
dized sources of financing. If KTDC can find similar funds in the future,
funds allocated for this purpose under the proposed loan would be reallocated
to the line of credit.



- 15 -
IV. KTDC PERFORMANCE - 1981 TO 1986
A. Lending and Investment Operations
4.1      Overall Operations.  KTDC's overall operational performance summa-
rized below (and detailed in Annexes 7 and 8) has been commendable. As of
December 31, 1986, KTDC approved 849 projects amounting to W 261 billion, out
of which U 87 billion was in foreign currency. These figures substantially
exceeded the operational results projected for the period during appraisals of
the two previous Bank loans for KTDC (737 projects amounting to W 224 billion,
W 71 billion in foreign currency). KTDC supports projects at all stages of
the technological development process, from R&D start-up to first commerciali-
zation.  Of its total financing through 1986, about 68Z was for R&D activities
and 142 was for technology import or adoption/improvement of imported techno-
logy--the rest went for commercialization of R&D results (12X) and the
purchase of research equipment (6?). By industrial subsector, projects have
been more or less evenly distributed among the machinery/metal subsector
(312), electronics/electric (33?) and chemicals/miscellaneous (33?) (Annex 8).
Table 4.1:  SUMKARY OF KTDC APPROVALS 1981-86
(W billion)
1981   1982   1983  1984   1985   1986   Total
Conventional Loans            5.6   20.0   47.9  53.7   57.1   55.7   240.0
Conditional Loans             0.5    1.8    1.0   0.6    1.8    1.9       7.6
Equity                        0.0    0.3    1.0   2.7    2.5    6.8    13.3
Total                         6.1   22.1   49.9  57.0  61.4   64.4   260.9
4.2      Financial Support for Small and Medium Industry.  Under the first and
second Bank-financed projects, a major goal has been to increase KTDC's
support to SMIs. That task was rather difficult, given the dominating
influence of large-scale enterprises and groups in the industrial sector.
Those SMI that did exist generally had: (a) limited in-house technological
capabilities for developing R&D projects with good commercial prospects; (b)
limited international contacts to identify sources of technology imports or
ideas for products/processes; and (c) financial constraints which limited
these firms' ability to bear their minimum share of R&D expenses. Despite
these constraints, KTDC has exceeded expectations in financing SMIs through
timely promotional activities and technical/managerial advice which have
paralleled increased public efforts to promote the development of SMIs. The
result of these efforts has been a gradual shift from the past dominance of
larger corporations in KTDC's portfolio. As shown in Table 4.2 below, KTDC's
support to SMI increased from 29? in 1983 to 76? in 1986 in terms of the total
amount of financing. The results are even more striking in terms of the
number of companies; 174 out of 198 projects financed in 1986 were SMIs.
KTDC's total financial commitment up to December 31, 1986 is equally shared



- 16 -
between SMIs and large corporations. However, while SMIs account for 852 of
YTDC's total local currency financing in 1986 --in part a reflection of the
requirement to place the government loans with SMI (para. 4.8), SMIs' utiliza-
tion of foreign exchange, i.e., Bank financing, although increasing, has
remained somewhat low (only 362 of KTDC's total Bank financing). In large
part, this probably reflects the higher import content of large-scale R&D
activities. However, two factors reportedly contributed to low levels (as
well as low numbers of projects) in the use of Bank funds by SMI. First, sub-
borrowers bear the foreign exchange risk, which resulted in high premiums in
recent years. Second, the reporting and approval requirements of the Bank
promoted the use of Bank funds only where the size of the sub-loan justified
it. Under the proposed project, an attempt is made to reduce these biases in
the use of Bank funds (paras. 5.5 and 5.7). To ensure continued efforts by
KTDC to maintain a high percentage of its overall portfolio with SMI, assur-
ances were obtained that KTDC would review with the Bank before the end of
each fiscal year, with regard to its annual operational targets for further
promoting its support to SMIs.
Table 4.2: KTDC FINANCIAL SUPPORT BY SIZE OF BORROWER
Approved Projects            1981   1982   1983  1984   1985   1986   Total
Number of Projects
Large companies                 33    39      71    54      44     24     265
Small and medium                16    45      75   130    144    174      584
Total                           49    84    146   184    188    198       849
Total Financing (W Billion)
Large companies                4.3  16.1   35.6  31.4   28.8   15.6   131.8
Small and medium               1.8   6.0   14.3  25.6   32.6   48.8   129.1
Total                          6.1  22.1   49.9  57.0   61.4   64.4   260.9
4.3      Risk-Sharing Financial Instruments.:  KTDC has offered its clients
various types of financial instruments (conventional loans, conditional loans,
convertible bonds, and equity investments) and expects to expand the number of
instruments shortly. This is one of KTDC's advantages over other venture
capital companies in Korea which confine themselves to particular instruments.
A major goal of KTDC since its establishment has been to expand operations
involving conditional loans and equity investments, including convertible
bonds. Until recently, KTDC's actual performance in this category of instru-
ments fell short of expectations. While at appraisals of the first and second
projects, risk sharing instruments were expected to amount to W 29 billion and
132 of the total investment amount (on an approval basis) for the period
1981-86, the actual results are W 21 billion (including W 2 billion
investments by KTIC) and 8Z, respectively. These results indicate the
difficulties KTDC has experienced in expanding risk-sharing financial
instruments despite its efforts. A number of factors in the Korean
environment inherently constrain the expansion of conditional lending and
equity investments at the rate envisaged previously: (a) the kind of
innovative R&D projects sponsored by SMIs which are the types most suitable



- 17 -
for risk-sharing financial instruments are few, and time has to be allowed for
these activities to grow; (b) risk sharing is a relatively new concep. in
Korea, and Korean entrepreneurs tend to be concerned with the erosion of
potential profits or the dilution of their ownership; and (c) the legal and
organizational framework that would be conducive to the development of venture
capital (i.e., a viable over-the-counter market, etc.) has not yet been fully
developed. However, probably the most important reason has been KTDC
management's understandable initial caution towards high-risk operations.
Internal incentives and signals have encouraged lending high volumes with
certain repayment rather than risk sharing.
4.4      The actual return on risk-sharing instruments (except convertible
bonds) has been below the expected level. To date, actual royalties on condi-
tional loans paid to KTDC up to 1985 are about 50? of the projected amount.
Only 4 out of 15 companies in which KTDC invested through equity shares
between 1981 and 1985 paid dividends in 1986. In most cases, less than
expected results stem from the delays experienced during product development,
or quality improvement, perfecting large--scale production techniques and/or
market penetration. However, a current assessment of outstanding conditional
loans shows that average yields are expected to be higher than originally
projected. Evaluation of success or failure of risk-sharing projects under
implementation is initially very difficult. An example is the conditional
Zan made by KTDC to develop and market a new type of projection color televi-
sion set. For several years, the enterprise could not sell the product, and
KTDC was about to write-off the loan when the firm received a large order for
export. KTDC is accumulating experience and building up its capacity to
supervise such projects. KTDC's portfolio monitoring system including super-
vision, which was a major area of emphasis by the Bank during project
appraisal, is to be expanded, strengthened and, was agreed during negotia-
t'ons, subject to annual review by the Bank.
4.5      Over the past two years 1986-87, there has been a noticeable trend
towards expanded risk-sharing operations. The share of conditional loans and
equity investments increased from 4Z in 1983 to 13.6Z in 1986. Further, to
maintain its leadership in ITD financing in Korea, given the changing policy,
legal and economic environment (Chapter 2), KTDC hopes to increase the propor-
tion of these operations to 27? by 1991. The promulgation of the Small and
Medium Industry Inauguration Assistance Act and Venture Business Financial
Support Act (para. 2.20) is expected to offer various incentives to KTDC to
promote equity investments, mainly through its newly created subsidiary KTIC.
The establishment of the over-the-counter market in April 1987 will also be
conducive to the development of equity investments. The gap between projected
and actual royalty payments on conditional loans has become narrower in recent
years. While royalties in 1987 are expected to reach only 60X of the projec-
ted amount, total royalties on projects already well underway are expected to
exceed original appraisal estimates. The trend towards an increased propor-
tion of risk-sharing operations is expected to c itinue and forms an important
continuing goal of the proposed project.
4.6      Interest Rate Policy.  Currently, intereet rates on conventional
loans consist of base rates and surcharges. Surcharges are fixed depending on
collateral conditions. For local currency loans, base rates are either 10?
per annum for SMIs or 11.5Z per annum for large corporations; surcha:ges vary



- 18 -
from 0 to 1.5Z per annum. The current weighted average interest rate on local
currency conventional loans is approximately 11.2Z per annum (including sur-
charge), which is considered to be competitive in the market. Since 1982,
interest rates on local currency loans have been substantially positive in
real terms. For foreign currency loans, which are (and will continue to be)
funded only by Bank loans, different base rates are charged for the first and
second Bank subloans. Base rates for the subloans under the first Bank loan
wVIich is lent to KTDC at a fixed interest rate are either 10 per annum for
SMIs or 11.52 per annum for large corporations. Base rates for the second
Bank loan which is lent to KTDC on a floating rate basis are 2-2.2S over
borrowing costs. Surcharges for foreign currency loans range between 0.61 and
12 per annum. The current interest rate arrangements are satisfactory, and it
was agreed during negotiations that KTDC and the Government will 6xchange
views with the Bank, before the end of each fiscal year, with regard to KTDC's
interest rate policy.
4.7      Development Impact.  KTDC supports projects at all stages of the
product cycle up to first commercialization.  Except for first commercializa-
tion projects which account for only 12S of KTDC's operations (para. 4.1), the
aggregate development impact of KTDC's lending and investment operations is
difficult to measure. However, a preliminary assessment of the effects of
KTDC's activities was carried out by KAIST in early 1986. The study concluded
that KTDC's financing had had a significant impact on productivity, employment
and sales of improved and new production. No rates of return were calculated
but the incremental benefits appeared to be very high.



- 19 -
B. Resource Mobilization
4.8      KTDC's resource mobilization during 1981-86 was as shown below:
Table 4.3: KTDC SOURCES OF FUNDS 1981-86 /a
(W billion)
1981    1982   1983   1984  1985   1986   Total   (2)
Local Resources
Equity
Government         1.0      1.0    1.0    2.0   4.0    2.0   11.0      5.7
Private            6.5      1.3    3.9    6.2   0.6    6.4   24.9    13.0
Subtotal           7.5      2.3    4.9    8.2   4.6    8.4   35.9    18.7
Borrowing
Government         1.0      1.5    1.5    2.0   5.0   10.0   21.0    10.9
Debentures         0        0     25.5   30.0  11.0   10.0   76.5    39.8
Subtotal           1.0      1.5   27.0   32.0  16.0   20.0   97.5    50.7
ForeiRn Resources
IBRD               0        4.1    7.9   16.0  18.6   12.1   58.7    30.6
Total              8.5      7.9   39.8   56.2  39.2   40.5  192.1   100.0
/a On disbursement basis.
During 1981-86, KTDC mobilized W 192 billion, compared with W 182 billion
estimated at appraisal of the first and second projects. This successful
record owes muc:h to government support. The Government has provided direct or
indirect assistance for all forms of KTDC's resource mobilization. Domestic
debentures as well as Bank loans are all guaranteed by the Government, while
government loans are made to KTDC on favorable but restrictive terms. Even
private equity contributions are stimulated by a profit tax break
(para. 2.18). The Gover.nent has fulfilled all of its financial commitmants
by investing W 9 billion in equity, and by lending or guaranteeing debentures
for W 64 billion between 1981 and 1985. Equity investments from the private
sector during 1981-86 have exceeded KTDC's original estimates by W 3 billion.
KTDC currently receives government loans at an interest rate of 5.52 p.a. and
maturity of 15 years including 5 years of grace. As stipulated by the
Government, KTDC on-lends the funds only to SMIs and earns a minimum interest
spread of 4.52 p.a. which is the main source of KTDC's profits. Government-
guaranteed debentures have been floated at market interest rates, which are
normally above the rate that KTDC can charge its clients, with maturities of
three to five years. Prior to 1986, the Government supported a 22 p.a.
interest spread on KTDC's debentures, but now only subsidizes issuing costs
and discounts.



- 20 -
4.9      For foreign currency resources, KTDC has relied solely on the two
Bank loans which have been sufficient to meet its borrowers' demand for
foreign currency. Bank funds have been used almost entirely to finance
conventional loans. From 1983 to 1986, the Government had provided interest
rate support for the first Bank loan, which were lent to KTDC at a fixed
interest rate of 11.6Z p.a. so that KTDC could earn a 22 spread. However, the
interest rate support was reduced substantially in 1986 to the extent that
only the negative interest rate differential between lending and borrowing and
the front-end fee on the Bank loan are subsidized. Under the second loan,
there is no government subsidy.
C. KTDC's Financial Results and Condition
4.10     Financial Performance.  KTDC's financial results for the period
1981-86 are given in Annex 10 and summarized below:
Table 4.4:  KTDC SUAORRIZED FINANCIAL RESULTS 1981-86
(W billion)
Year ending December 31:            1981   1982  1983   1984   1985   1986
Net income after tax (million)        -28   -400  -955      35  1,360  1,495
Total assets                         8.6   16.4  54.8  110.7  115.7  207.7
Total investment portfolio /a        1.1   11.1  35.5   73.0  121.2  172.3
Long-term debt                        1.0    6.6  40.4   86.7  124.5  139.6
Equity                                7.5    9.4  13.3   21.5   27.5   36.8
Spread on conventional loans (Z)
Local currency                    -7.07  -0.32 -4.52   2.81   1.06   1.04
Foreign currency                   -      -5.96  1.56   3.25   4.14   0.84
Total                             -7.07  -2.76 -2.42   3.05   2.20   0.96
Net income after tax as Z of
average total assets (Z)            -1.0   -3.2  -2.7    0.0    1.0    0.8
Long-term debt/equity ratio           0.1    0.7   3.0    4.0    4.5    4.5
(times)
/a Includes conventional loans, conditional loans, convertible bonds and
equity shares.
The good past performance, including the profits in 1984 achieved one year
earlier than expected, can be attributed to: (a) the steady and significant
increase in the volume of its portfolio (para. 4.1); (b) an extremely low
level of bad debts (para. 4.12); and (c) the Governments' interest rate
support. The last factor has been significant, considering that KTDC would
have recorded net losses of about W 1.7 billion in 1985 if it had not received
any subsidies in the year. It must be borne in mind, however, that Government
interest rate supports compensate in part for the various restrictions on the



- 21 -
financial sector which the Government has maintained at different times and
the environment in which KTDC operates. While KTDC's net income after tax
increased in 1986, the average spread on all its conventional loans (which are
the main source of revenues) decreased substantially from 2.2? in 1985 to
0.96Z in 1986 vis-a-vis the covenanted level of 2.5Z under the second Bank-
assisted project. The decline was largely attributable to the Government's
reduced interest rate support in 1986 for the first Bank loan and debentures
(total subsidies declined from W 3.3 billion in 1985 to W 2.3 billion in
1986). The remaining marginal government interest support is expected to be
phased out by early 1989 when KTDC would be fully privatized. Although KTDC's
performance thus far has been excellent in terms of quality of assets, its
relatively low spread has further contributed tv KTDC's conservative approach
to its investments (para. 4.12).
4.11     Financial Position.:  As of Decembet ,1, 1986, KTDC's long-term debt-
to-equity ratio is 4.5:1, which is satisfactorily compared with the covenanted
5:1 ratio under the second project. The continuous success in raising equity
has led to such a satisfactory capital structure.
4.12     Portfolio Quality.:  KTDC's portfolio is sound, even if it is
compared with other financial institutions. In its six-year operation, only
13 projects out of 850 projects have been classified as failed projects, and
KTDC has been able to recover fully its investment in seven of these projects
so far. As of December 31, 1986, while KTDC's conventional loan portfolio
amounted to W 158.4 billion, only W 262 million was in arrears, or 0.2Z of the
total. KTDC's excellent portfolio quality can be attributed to its institu-
tional ability to identify successful ventures among the risky projects which
the other conventional financial intermediaries in Korea would not deal with.
As of December 31, 1986, conventional loans and convertible bonds with colla-
teral, including bank guarantees, amounted to W 150 billiorn, or 59? of the
total approved investment amount. KTDC charges a surcharge interest rate
ranging from 0.2? p.a. to 1.5? p.a., depending on collateral conditions of
loans (except for those with bank guarantees). As discussed in para. 4.3
above, risk-sharing instruments accounted for only 8Z of the total iivestment
amount (approval basis) as of December 31, 1986. Roughly half of the equity
investments--W 6.2 billion out of a total of W 13.3 billion--are in the form
of convertible bonds. This enables KTDC to earn fixed interest while gaining
experience with the client and having a better notion of the risks involved
before converting convertible bonds into equity. In retrospect, KTDC's
cautious approach can be justified, since KTDC has been able to meet its
overall goals of financing technology projects, including many at the R&D
phase and a great majority carried out by SMIs, while establishing a reputa-
tion for sound management. It has emerged in a relatively short period of
time as a leader for promoting ITD financing in the financial sector. How-
ever, considering that KTDC must face increased competition from the newly
established venture capital companies in financing ITD and that demand for
risk- sharing instruments is expected to grow, KTDC should make efforts to
accelerate its shift to a more aggressive financing approach by undertaking
riskier projects.



- 22 -
V. THE PROJECT AND LOAN
A. Proiect Obiectives and Scope
5.1      The principal goal of the project is to continue strengthening and
supporting KTDC so that its technology financing continues to play a fundamen-
tal role in the structural transformation of Korean industry. Specifically,
the project would support KTDC ins
(a) its efforts to expand risk financing as well as to introduce new
instruments such as leasing for ITD;
(b) ensuring that KTDC's fundamental goals of promoting ITD are further
encouraged once KTDC is privatized;
(c) helping build its capacity to appraise and supervise more complicated
and riskier projects; and
(d) its effort to build a subsidiary, KTIC, which specializes in 'techno-
logy' start-ups.
5.2      The proposed project consists of financing the ITD activities of
industrial firms and a small institutional improvement component involving
training and technical assistance. ITD financing would be accomplished
through a variety of financial instruments tailored to the needs of the
projects and firms.
B. Features of the Loan
5.3      Loan Amount.  The proposed Bank loan of US$50 million would be made
to KTDC and guaranteed by the Government. Of this amount, all but US$200,000
is expected to be passed on to KTDC clients. The US$200,000 would be used to
finance overseas training and consulting services for KTDC's staff and insti-
tutional developrent, mostly for overseas training (para. 3.15).  In the event
that KTDC obtains funds from other sources, the amount earmarked for this
purpose would be reallocated for enterprise financing.
5.4      LendinR and On-Lending Terms.  The Bank loan would be at the standard
variable Bank interest rate, for 11 years including 5 years of grace. The
amortization schedule is similar to that applicable to the second Bank loan to
KTDC. During the project implementation period, the proportion of conditional
loans and equity investments is expected to increase further. These risk-
sharing instruments are used for riskier projects, with longer gestation
periods where royalties on conditional loans or dividends (and capital gains)
only begin to materialize after 3 to 5 years and not according to any fixed
schedule. Therefore, the proposed amortization schedule better matches with
KTDC's cash flow pattern. To protect KTDC from undue risk, the on-lending
terms would reflect Bank interest rates and exchange risk along with some
spread. Conditional loans and equity investments would be passed on under
similar terms and conditions as with KTDC's local currency financing. If
desired, up to US$3 million of Bank resources could be passed on to KTIC
according to the same terms and conditions as the Bank loan to KTDC, following



- 23 -
approval procedures similar to those of KTDC to be defined in a subsidiary
agreement acceptable to the Bank. A condition of disbursement for financing
of KTIC subloans would be the signing of a subsidiary loan agreement, accep-
table to the Bank, between KTDC and KTIC.    Leasing operations would be
permitted up to a maximum of US$5 million equivalent.
5.5      Foreign Exchanie Risk.  Given KTDC's size and the fact that Bank
funds are the only source of foreign exchange to KTDC subborrowers, KTDC
generally passes on the foreign exchange risk to its subborrowers. For stan-
dard conventional subloans and leases, this practice would continue. For
conditional loans and equity investments, given the nature of repayments and
earnings, KTDC bears the entire risk including that of foreign exchange. In
addition, KTDC has agreed to set up a special fund to be used for conventional
loans to SMIs which assumed the foreign exchange risk under previous borrow-
ings and paid heavily for it. Such firms choosing not to bear the exchange
risk would pay an interest premium on their loan, thereby transferring the
risk to KTDC. In order to avoid undue exposure of KTDC, no more than US$5
million of subloans would be eligible for participation in the risk fund.
5.6      Subloan Size.  To continue to ensure that KTDC's foreign exchange
resources are open to a maximum number of firms, the ceiling of US$1.5 million
per subloan under the previous Bank-assisted operations would be maintained.
However, considering that the size of the investments carried by Korean indus-
trial firms are increasing as they undertake more sophisticated ITD projects,
not more than five subloans whose individual sizes will be between US$1.5
million and 2 million may be proposed for the Bank's approval. The total
limit of financial commitments by KTDC to a given enterprise of US$5 million
equivalent would be tightened in that the eligibility of an enterprise and its
affiliated majority-owned companies for subloans under the proposed loan would
be subject to the US$5 million limitation.
5.7      Free Limits.  The ceiling for free limit subloans would be increased
from US$500,000, as under the second Bank-assisted project, to US$700,000.
Under this second loan, the US$500,000 limit allowed the Bank to review of 372
of KTDC's subloans representing 71? of the total amount approved as of
December 1987, which indicates that the slightly increased new ceiling will
still ensure review of an adequate proportion of subloans under the proposed
loan. As under the two previous Bank loans, KTDC must obtain Bank authoriza-
tion for withdrawal of loan proceeds for these free limit subloans. However,
to facilitate the processing of very small subloans for SMIs, the proposed
loan would include an additional category of subloans up to US$250,000 for
which no authorization would be required. A record would be kept for each
subproject to be reviewed by supervision missions. In addition, KTDC would
submit quarterly report summarizing the subloans and projects under this cate-
gory to the Bank for its review. The aggregate amount available for these
automatic free limit subloans would not be more than US$5 million. This cate-
gory would automatically be eligible for disbursement under the project. The
traditional free limit subloans between US$250,000 and US$700,000 would be
operated in the same way as the second Bank loan to KTDC.
5.8      Retroactive Financing.  The second loan to KTDC is expected to be
fully committed by the beginning of 1988. Based on the likely timing of Board
presentation of the proposed loan, KTDC may need to commit up to US$4 million



- 24 -
and disburse US$2 million before loan signing. Retroactive financing of up to
the latter amount is therefore recommended.
C. Financial Proiections
5.9      Demand and Financing Requirements.  KTDC has demonstrated that it can
expand operations effectively, earn a profit and still keep to its original
mandated technology focus. With the growth of competition in venture capital
financing in recent years (para. 2.20), it is possible that the rate of growth
of demand for KTDC's resources could decline. However, given Korea's high
levels of growth and industry's increasing diversification and sophistication,
the demand for ITD financing is expected to continue growing substantially.
With KTDC's flexibility and variety of instruments, along with its reputation
and the fact that most of its competitor venture capital companies do not
specialize in technology, KTDC can be expected to continue selecting from
among good projects. Consequently, its projected 112 annual increase from
W 64.4 billion in 1986 to W 109.3 billion in 1991 is modest and would not
unduly tax KTDC's capabilities either in fund raising or operations.
5.10     Financial Instruments.  KTDC plans to increase the proportion of
risk-sharing financial instruments substantially during the project period
from 142 in 1986 to 27Z in 1991--with KTIC operations included, they would
account for 332 in 1991. Since KTDC frequently fell far short of its
programmed proportion of risk-sharing instruments in the past, this growth
would appear to be overoptimistic. However, there seems to have been a recent
surge in demand for these instruments, with YTDC meeting 1986 and exceeding
1987 targets, thus the projections are acceptable. While conventional loans
are expected to increase marginally from W 56 billion in 1986 to W 60 billion
in 1991, risk-sharing financial instruments are projected to more than triple
from W 8.7 billion in 1986 to W 30 billion, which would consist of W 9 billion
in conditional loans and W 21 billion in equity investments (including conver-
tible bonds). As discussed in para. 3.6, KTDC is only now developing its
capacity for operating and promoting leasing and factoring. During negotia-
tions, KTDC agreed to exchange views with the Bank, before the end of each
fiscal year, on its annual operational targets with regard to, inter alia,
risk-sharing financial 'r.struments.
5.11     Funding Program.  KTDC has been successful in mobilizing resources
from the Government and private sector up to now (para. 4.8). During 1988-91,
KTDC has to continue to raise sufficient funds to meet the expected increase
in the demand for ITD financing. For this period, KTDC is tentatively
planning to raise W 146.6 billion from local sources which would consist of:
(a) equity (W 17.6 billion); (b) government loans (W 60 billion); (c) deben-
tures (W 39 billion) which would fund mainly leasing operations; and (e) other
undetermined sources (W 30 billion). Foreign resources amounting to W 63.3
billion would consist of: (a) the proposed Bank loan and the remaining
disbursement of the second Bank loan (total W 49.5 billion); (b) equity
investment by ADB (W 2.4 billion equivalent); and (c) other undetermined
sources (W 11.4 billion). The ADB approved its equity investment in November
1987. KTDC expects not only to use this fund for its equity investments, but
also to attract more funds from the ADB for its limited partnership venture
funds operations. KTDC also hopes to exchange information on technology
financing with the ADB and, in the long-term, to finance projects in Asia



- 25 -
region jointly with the ADB. Both local and foreign undetermined sources are
expected to be commercial borrowings (para. 5.13). KTDC's funding program is
in Annex 11.
5.12     KTDC's future funding program is subject to several uncertainties
mainly resulting from a changing policy environment. First, in order for KTDC
to be fully privatized as intended by 1989, policies and procedures to divest
the Government's shareholding of KTDC will have to be formulated. Fortu-
nately. a handful of other mixed enterprises are scheduled for earlier dives-
titure which can help show the way for the Government. Second, KTDC projects
that government loans will be the largest source of funds for 1987-91, though
they will be available only until privatization in 1989. Their 4.52 spread is
a vital factor for improving KTDC's financial viability during the project
period. Last, KTDC is most unlikely to obtain government guarantees for its
debentures after its full privatization.
5.13     To adjust to these changing circumstances, KTDC is intensifying its
resource mobilization efforts. Its first attempt was outlined in the
Institutional Policy Statement (Annex 17). As the capital market liberaliza-
tion proceeds and KTDC's credibility is established, KTDC will plan to
mobilize more resources both in local and foreign capital markets mainly
through issuing debentures and borrowings. As an initial step, KTDC is
planning to issue debentures without government guarantees for W 20 billion in
1988 and discontinue seeking government guarantees completely thereafter, in
accordance with the Government guidance. The Government intention is to let
KTDC test the marketability of its debentures without government guarantees
prior to KTDC's privatization, which should be supported. In addition, KTDC
will invite foreign financial institutions, following the ADB, as its share-
holders as the capital market liberalization proceeds and will mobilize local
funds as much as possible for limited partnership venture funds which will be
used for equity investments. In view of the significant impact of the funding
program on KTDC's operations and financial condition, KTDC agreed to exchange
views with the Bank, before the end of each fiscal year, with regard to its
annual operational targets with respect to resource mobilization. In addi-
tion, during negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government that
it will provide KTDC with: (a) loans of W 27 billion in 1988; and (b) guaran-
tees to KTDC debentures for W 10 billion in 1988. These government financial
supports to KTPC have been already approved by the National Assembly.
5.14     Interest Rate Spread.  Under the first project, KTDC agreed to main-
tain a minimum interest rate spread of 2.25Z on Bank subloans made as conven-
tional loans. Under the second project, in addition to a spread on Bank sub-
loans, KTDC agreed to maintain the minimum interest rate spread of 2.5Z on all
local and foreign currency conventional loans. Both rates are higher than
those accorded to other development finance corporations in Korea for subloans
financed out of Bank loans. Higher spreads than those for DFCs are justified
and necessary for KTDC since KTDC's appraisal and supervision of industrial
technology projects are more costly (despite KTDC's efficiency) than for a
typical financial intermediary. Also, unlike commercial banks, KTDC does not
have access to less expensive funds, such as demand deposits.
5.15     KTDC's financial projections indicate that its average spread on all
conventional loans would improve to 3.62Z in 1991 despite the complete elimi-



- 26 _
nation of the government interest rate support. This presumes that (a) KTDC
is able to borrow in 1988 and 1989 the planned amount of Government loans and
on-lend them with a 4.5X spread as it does now, and (b) that after 1989 deben-
tures issued would be guaranteed by the Government. The projections also
indicate that KTDC will be able to achieve a satisfactory financial perfor-
mance with a weighted spread of 2.5Z-3Z on all conventional loans from 1988
onward. The expected higher spread will help KTDC to expand the use of risk-
sharing financial instruments (para. 4.12), while improving its financial
viability and thus attracting private investors, especially after divestiture.
With the liberalization of the financial system in Korea, interest rates will
be dictated largely by market conditions and fluctuate from time to time.
Under these circumstances, it is impractical to prescribe a minimum spread
that KTDC must achieve at all times. Therefore, in the proposed loan, KTDC's
interest rate policy will be set according to market conditions and will be
reviewed with the Bank on an annual basis, as agreed (para. 4.6). In addi-
tion, KTDC's Institutional Policy Statement, which would be approved by KTDC
as a condition of loan effectiveness, states general principles of KTDC's
profitability and targets for spreads it would attempt to achieve on its over-
all conventional loan portfolio (para. 3.5).
5.16     Financial Proiections.  Financial projections for the period 1987-91
are summarized below; details are presented in Annex 12 with assumptions in
Annex 11 and sensitivity analysis in Annex 13.
Table 5.1: KTDC SUMMARIZED FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS 1987-91
(W billion)
Actual                 Proiected
Year ending December 31:          1986       1987   1988    1989    1990   1991
Net income after tax (million)   1,495    2,180   3,172   4,178   5,166   6,132
Total assets                      207.7    220.9   255.2   283.8   307.3   331.4
Total investment portfolio        173.5    204.6   240.4   270.0   297.5   329.8
Long-term debt                    139.6    125.7   167.8   199.0   196.7   223.8
Equity                             36.8      46.0    54.2    63.4    73.5    84.7
Spread on conventional loans (2)
Local currency                   1.04      1.30    3.30    4.13    4.49    4.61
Foreign currency                 0.84      1.31    1.51    1.56    1.89    2.08
Total                            0.96      1.33    2.58    3.07    3.42    3.62
Net income after tax as 2 of
average total assets (2)          0.8       1.0     1.3      1.6     1.7     1.9
Long-term debt/equity ratio          4.5      2.7     3.1      3.1     2.7      2.6
(times)
5.17     KTDC's financial performance is expected to improve over the
projected period. Its net income after tax is expected to increase from W 1.5
billion in 1986 to W 6.1 billion in 1991. With this level of net profit, KTDC
would be able to pay a 52 dividend in 1991 to all shareholders with a payout



- 27 -
ratio of 51S. The improving profitability would be attributable mainly to:
(a) steady increase in total investment portfolio; (b) the increased propor-
tion of high-spread government loans in total local borrowings (21S of the
outstanding local borrowings in 1986 compared to 80S in 1991); and
(c) increased returns from conditional loans and equity investments.
5.18     In other respects, KTDC's financial position is also expected to
continue to be satisfactory. Based on continuing growth in its share capital,
KTDC's long-term debt-to-equity ratio is projected to decline from 4.5:1 at
the end of 1986 to 2.6:1 at the end of 1991. Therefore, the 5:1 ratio, cove-
nanted under the ongoing second Bank loan to KTDC, will already provide KTDC
with a substantial latitude even taking into account the rapid expansion of
its investment activities. Nevertheless, to give KTDC sufficient flexibility
to cope with the unforeseen circumstances which might arise in the medium-term
future as the Korean financial market and its economic conditions are expected
to change rapidly, it was agreed during negotiations that the covenanted ratio
will be increased from 5:1 to 6:1.
5.19     Sensitivity Anallsis.  After privatization, one of KTDC's major
challenges is to improve its financial performance so that its shareholders
can receive a fair return on their investments in KTDC after taking into
account the initial fiscal incentive to invest. Accordingly, KTDC's dividend-
payout capacity was analyzed depending on different scenarios (Annex 13). The
following changes were included in the assumptions tested: (a) a 1.5Z
increase in the borrowing rate of government loans; (b) a 1S increase in the
on-lending rates of all conventional loans; and (c) increased failure rates
for risk-sharing instrument. The analysis indicates that KTDC's profitability
is more sensitive to changes in the interest rate -on government borrowings and
conventional loans than to fluctuation in the failure rate for risk-sharing
instruments. The combination of all three risks resulted in minimal change
from the base case, with a dividend payout ratio of almost one half. If the
higher on-lending rate on conventional loans is excluded from this case, the
dividend payout ratio would increase unacceptably. These analyses lead to the
conclusion that increasing the spread on conventional loans is critical for
KTDC's improving its financial performance. To monitor closely KTDC's finan-
cial viability closely, during negotitations, KTDC agreed to exchange views
with the Bank, before the end of each fiscal year, with regard to its annual
targets on financial performance including its dividend policy.
D. Procurement and Disbursement
5.20     Since most of KTDC's subloans are relatively small (US$440,000 equi-
valent, on average) and finance many hardware and software items available
only from a limited number of suppliers, procurement under the first and
second Bank-assisted ITD projects was made through international or local
shopping in accordance with standard procedures acceptable to the Bank. This
would be continued under the proposed project and would apply to leasing
operations as well. Consulting services will be engaged in accordance with
Bank Guidelines.
5.21     The proposed Bank loan would be disbursed against:  (a) 1002 of
foreign exchange expenditure for directly imported goods and services for
subloans; (b) 10O? of total expenditures for consulting services and overseas



- 28 -
training for KTDC, and (c) 602 of local expenditures for goods and services
procured locally for subloans. Item (c) would not be available for large
corporations. All subloans below US$250,000 equivalent as well as all
contracts for procurement of consulting services and overseas training for
KTDC would be disbursed against statements of expenditures (SOEs). Related
documents would be retained by KTDC and made available for inspection by
supervision missions. Subloans for amounts above US$250,000 equivalent would
require full documentation. A special account for US$5 million equivalent
would be establishei to facilitate the disbursements process. As shown in
Annex 14, the Bank loan is expected to be fully committed by September 31,
1991 and fully disbursed by June 30, 1992. Thus, the loan closing date is
proposed to be December 31, 1992.
E. Accounts and Audit
5.22     KTDC has conformed satisfactorily to all Bank requirements regarding
accounts and audit. It prepares its accounts on a commercial basis and main-
tains them in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and
practices. KTDC's accounts would be audited by an external auditor, and
audited financial statements (including SOEs) would be submitted to the Bank
within four months after the close of each fiscal year. These arrangements
would also be applied to KTIC.
F. Proiect Justification and Risks
5.23     In its short period of operations, KTDC has emerged as a leader in
promoting ITD financing in Korea. KTDC has operated in an autonomous manner
with the efficiency of a private company which helps KTDC to respond quickly
to changing needs for ITD financing. However, given the dynamic nature of ITD
activities, it is important that KTDC's institutional environment be the
subject of continuing review.   The proposed project would continue the insti-
tutional development of KTDC under a changing regulatory, policy, economic and
financial environment. In addition, increasing ITD, especially in SMIs and
component industries in such subsectors as automobiles and electronics, is
crucial to Korea's transition to long-term industrial competitiveness.  The
project would increase the availability cf funds for ITD and thereby encourage
larger and earlier technological improvements and development in Korean firms
in those key and other sectors.  The proposed project would enic, -age the
continued testing of various instruments for supporting ITD.  SiL.- benefits
from ITD are of a long-term nature, they will accrue well beyond the project
period.
5.24     The project involves no major risks.  KTDC management and staff have
shown the resolve and entrepreneurship to develop KTDC into a prime ITD
financing organization.   Regular exchange of views with the Bank should aid
in KTDC's adjustments to the changing economic and financial environment.
After the Government's divestiture, continued KTDC leadership in ITD financing
would be safeguarded through the maintenance of KTDC's existing policies
(para. 3.5).



- 29 -
G. Environmental Aspects
5.25     The project is expected to have a positive impact on the environment.
KTDC requires the setting up of pollution control facilities for projects
where there is a potential environmental problem. In addition, KTDC has
supported the development of equipment for pollution control, including
cationic wastewater treatment chemicals for treating factory waste and ceramic
monolithic catalysts for automative emission control.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.1      During negotiations, agreements were reached on the following:
(a) the Government will exchange views with the Bank concerning the tran-
sition arrangements as well as conditions with regard to the dives-
ture of KTDC (para. 3.4);
(b) KTDC will carry out the project in accordance with its current
Operating Manunl, Rules on Lending and Equity Participation and
Institutional Policy Statement (para. 3.5);
(c) KTDC and the Government will exchange views with the Bank, by the end
of each fiscal year, on KTDC's interest rate policy (para. 4.6);
(d) KTDC will exchange views with the Bank by the end of each fiscal year
on its annual programs and targets with regard to: (i) KTIC's opera-
tional and financial plans (para. 3.8); (ii) staff development and
training (para. 3.15); (iii) support to SMIs (para. 4.2); (iv) port-
folio monitoring system (para. 4.4); (v) risk-sharing financial
instruments, (para. 5.10); (vi) resources mobilization (para. 5.13);
and (vii) financial performance including its dividend policy (para.
5.19);
(e) KTDC will adopt standards agreed with the Bank with regards to its
lending and on-lending terms (para. 5.4), foreign exchange risk
(para. 5.5), subloan size (para. 5.6), free limit (para. 5.7), and
retroactive financing (para. 5.8);
(f) The Government will provide KTDC with (i) loans of W 27 billion in
1988; and (ii) guarantees to KTDC debentures for W 10 billion in 1988
(para. 5.13);
(g)  KTDC will obtain the Bank's consent prior to contracting any long-
term debt(s), if such debt(s) would cause KTDC's debt/equity ratio to
exceed 6:1 (para. 5.18); and
(h)  KTDC and KTIC will submit audited financial statements to the Bank
within four months after the close of each fiscal year (para. 5.22).
6.2      A condition of loan effectiveness is the adoption of Institurional
Policy Statement by KTDC (para. 3.5). A condition of disbursement for financ-
ing of KTIC subloan will be the signing of a subsidiary loan agreement, accep-
table to the Bank, between KTDC and KTIC (para. 5.4).



- 30 -
6.3      Based on the above agreements, the proposed project is suitable for a
Bank loan of US$50 million equivalent for a term of 11 years, including 5
years of grace, at the Bank's standard variable interest rate. The Borrower
will be KTDC, with the guarantee of the Republic of Korea.



Annex 1
Page 1
- 31 -
KOREA
THIRD TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Selected Statistics on Research and Develovment in Korea
This annex contains selected statistics referred to in Chapter II of
the main text. Sources of these statistics include UNESCO, the Ministry of
Science and Technology (Korea), the National Sciences Foundation (United
States) and the Agency for Science and Technology (Japan).
I.       Korea - R&D Spending by Sector
(Won billion, current prices)
Government       Nonprofit
institutes       institutes         Industry           University         Total
Korea     amount       Z    amount       2    amount     2Z amount          2   a
1982      55.5       12    131.0      29    205.0       45         66.6   15    457.7 100
1983      50.5        8    130.0      21    376.9       61         64.3   10    621.7 100
1984      49.4        6    154.6      19    542.8       65         87.1   10    833.9 100
1985      48.8        4    231.4      20    756.1       66        118.8   10  1,155.1 10C
II.     R&D Spending by Sector-International Comarison (I)
Government   Non profit
Country        Year    institutes   institutes   Industry   University   Total
Korea          1985           4           20           66          10         100
USA            1986          12            3           73          12         100
France         1984          27            1           57          15         100
Germany, F.R.  1981          14            1           68          17         100
U.K.           1983          23            3           63          11         100
Japan          1985          10            4           73          13         100
III.     Proportion of Overall R&D Spending by Nature of Activity CZ)
Basic      Applied
Research   Research    Develotment   Total
Korea
1981             24           29             47         100
1984             17           29             54         100
1985             17           29             54         100
USA
1986              12          21             67         100
U.K.
1981              6           24             70         100
Japan
1985             13           25             62         100



Annex 1
Page 2
- 32 -
IV.      Korea - R&D Spending Per Researcher by Sector
(Won million, current prices)
Public sector    Universitt   Industry    All sector
1982          30.4             5.4         20.6           16.1
1983          28.6             4.9         29.9           19.4
1984          29.3             6.4         34.1           22.5
1985          39.2             7.9         39.2           27.8
V.       Ratio of Industry's R&D Expenditures to Total Sales Revenues (Z)
Korea        USA       Japan
1984    1985      1984     1985
All manufacturing:                 1.30    1.51      3.80      2.69
Foodstuffs                       0.58    0.89     N.A.       0.77
Textiles                         0.83    0.92      N.A.      1.18
Chemicals                        0.84    0.96      4.50      3.79
Metal products                   1.46    1.14      1.70      1.59
General machinery                2.22    3.06     N.A.       2.74
Electric machinery/              3.88    4.12      7.60      5.10
electronics
Transportation machinery         1.03    2.28     N.A.       2.90
Vi.                               R&D Personnel by Sector
R&D Personnel Preparation of R&D Personnel by Sector (Z)
Total R&D  per 1,000      Government Non Profit Indu- Univer-
Personnel   Population   institutes institutes stry  sitj        Total
Korea (1982)       24,468          0.72           -          22      35      43    100
(1985)      41,473          1.01           -          17      47      36    100
USA (1985)        790,000          3.20           8           4      74      14    100
France (1983)      92,682          1.70         21            2      41      36    100
Germany F.R.
(1981)         115,443          1.87          14            1     67       18    100
Japan (1985)      381,282          3.15           -           8      61      31    100



Annex 2
- 33 -
KORE
THIRD TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Korea - Selected Incentive Schemes for R&D Activities
1.       Current expenditures for R&D including personnel costs are deductible
for income tax purposes. Physical and human capital expenditures necessary
for upgrading industry's own technological capabilities, including industry's
research institutes, research equipment, and manpower development and
training, are allowed tax credit of 8-102. An accelerated depreciation
(50-902 depreciation in the first year) for R&D related capital investment is
also allowed. Furthermore, imported R&D equipment enjoys substantial reduced
import duties.
2.       To encourage the commercialization of R&D results, a 62 tax credit or
a special accelerated depzeciation (SO in the first year) for investments for
the commercialization of new and/or improved technology. To encourage demand,
reduced excise tax rates (30-90? reduction) are applicable to new products
that have significant importance for technology development and export
promotion during an introductory period of up to four years.
3.       The Government also encourages transfer of technology through tax
incentives. Transfer costs of patent rights and technology import fees are
deductible for income tax purposes. Similarly, the income generated from
technology consulting activities are exempted from income tax. Foreign
e,ngineers are also exempted from income tax.



Annex 3
- 34 -
KOREA
THIRD TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
List of Venture Capital ComDanies /a
Authorized         Paid-in       Number of
Company Name               capital          capital    staff/person
(W billion)      (W billion)
1.  Busan Investment Corp.             8                  3             7
2 Samchully Technology
Investment Corp.                  12                  3            7
3.  Korea Industry Development
Finance Corp.                     20                  5           23
4. CNB Technology Finance
Corp.                             20                 10           29
5. Wooshin Development
Finance Corp.                     12                  3           11
6. Korea Technology
Advancement Corp.                  5                2.9           15
7.  Korea Technology
Investment Corp.                   8                  3            7
8. Hanshin Technology Development
Finance Corp.                      8                  3           12
9. Korea Industry Development
Investment Corp.                   8                  3            9
10. Daishin Development &
Finance Corp.                      8                  3            7
11. Shinyung Technology
Finance Corp.                      8                  3            9
12. Korea Investment Corp.            20                  7           11
/I  These are the venture capital companies which have been established as of
September 1987 under the Small and Medium Industry Inauguration Assistance
Act. In addition, at least three other companies are being established.



- 35 -
Annex 4
KOREA
THIRD TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
KTDC - Organizational Chart
Shareholders
Board of Directors
Executive
Director
Committee
Representative Director
& President           Technology Review &
Advisory Committee
Executive Vice President    [       Auditor
Executive Director                         Executive Directorl
Planning & Administration Department        Project Promotion Department
Fund Management Department                  Project Finance Department
International Business Department        EPusan Representative Office
Ean gju Representative Office
Silicon Valley Rep. Office
Electronics      IMachinery 
Chemicals                           Metals



Annex 5
Page 1
- 36 -
KOREA
THIRD TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Selected Examples of KTDC-Supported Proiects
A. Development of Electro-Fax Master Paper and Fax Paper
KTDC financed an entrepreneur, who had developed office paper
supplies (electro-fax master paper and facsimile paper), to commercialize his
innovations. Technology related to the manufacture of the products is
sophisticated since it involves a series of technical processing skills,
especially in raw materials selection, blending, coating and finishing and has
only recently been introduced in developing countries. Paralleling the growth
of office automation, the demand for such products has been increasing. The
technology acquired would also contribute to the development of related paper
goods such as NCR paper, condenser paper and color master paper. In addition
to a conditional loan, KTDC provided the company with various managerial
services relating to accounting, management and marketing.
B. Commercialization of a Holo-sonic Hi-Fi Speaker System
A Korean national in the U.S. invented and got a patent for an 'Aero
Dynamic Base-Reflex Speaker Enclosure." KTDC helped him to introduce that
technology into Korea and to commercialize it. KTDC established a joint-
venture company and has supported the project with managerial assistance and
venture capital financing. The product is supreme Hi-Fi speaker system.
Using high technology, the product was computer designed to accurately match
each speaker unit with its cabinet for the best performance possible to meet
the demands of our time. Unlike the conventional speaker system, it does not
require subchambers and is integrated within a single enclosure with less
absorbing materials. Therefore it produces a dynamic three-dimensional
acoustical image similar to the surrounding sound system, and can handle
extraordinarily high power with less distortion compared to other speaker
systems. It has a greater dynamic range and an excellent frequency response.
C. Development of Precision Dies Used in the Semiconductor Industry
KTDC financed a joint venture business between Korean company and
Japanese one, to develop and localize tools and dies used in the semiconductor
industry. The proposed products are capillary; a wire bonding tool to connect
the electrical contacts on the silicon devices by means of fine wire, die
collect; a silicon chip handling tool to mount chip on the lead frame, mold
dies for integrated circuits encapsulation, trimming and forming dies; three
patterns are available for cutting dies only, cutting and bending, progressive
dies for lead frame stapping.



Annex 5
Page 2
- 37 -
Development of Diagnostic Ultrasonic Scanner
The Diagnostic Ultrasound Scanner is a realtime linear scanner which
renders high quality images of noving tissue such as the heart, internal
organs, unborn children in their mother's womb. This makes the equipment very
useful for abdominal, obstetrical, gynecological and pediatric diagnoses. The
basic research was originally executed by the KAIST (Korea Advanced Institute
of Science and Technology) as a national project for two years. Then the
company received the developed technology and succeeded in the
commercialization of the ultrasonic scanner, which is much cheaper than the
imported equipment and shows superior functions. Annual imports exceeded US$5
million in 1985. KTDC offered a conditional loan and equity invectment, to
finance the cost of both R&D and start-up of the company.
E. 22 Trimming System
02 trimming system, which is one of the energy saving devices, was
jointly developed by the applicant and KAIST. KTDC has financed the project
at its commercialization stage. In a boiler of furnace the sensor of the
device instantly detects the percentage of oxygen contained in the exhaust
gas. Then the analyzer computes the proper air ratio according to the
burner's loads. And the controller supplies the optimal air and fuel
necessary for the perfect combustion. The 02 trimming system can save energy
and increase the durability of boilers and furnaces. This device can also
save foreign currency by substituting imports. Furthermore, this device not
only helps to control the smoke by maintaining perfect combustion but also
brings down the cost because it does not need to be installed in the
environment protection facilities.
F. A 45 Minute Color Developing and Printing Machine
The product, which consists of about 3 thousand elemental parts, is a
combination of such high-precision technologies as photo-optics, electronics,
control, photo-chemistry, and precision-machinery. An independent expertise
is required in designing and manufacturing this product. It can also save
time and cost of facilities investment for the users, which are much less than
those in large developing laboratories. The company has not only produced the
item locally at a lower price but also contributed to substitute imports. The
product';s competitiveness in price and function will also increase its
potential for exports. KTDC has provided venture capital for the project and
has given the financial support necessary for market expansion and its
management.
G. Import of Gamma-Interferon Production Technology
by Recombined DNA Method
The project is to import technology related to recombinant DNA and
production of gamma-interferon from a U.S. biotechnology research institute.
While the project sponsor, a large foodstuff company, has been working on
biotechnology, manufacturing and quality control methods are known to be quite
complicated. In spite of the high creditstanding of the sponsors, most of
commercial banks were not willing to finance the project because of high risks
associated with the project. KTDC decided to finance the licensing fee with
IBRD funds, considering the importance of the project to Korea after a
thorough project analysis.



Annex 6
- 38 -
KOREA
THIRD TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Korea Technolosy Investment Corporation
Date of establishment              s   November 24, 1986
Capital                            I   Authorized - W 8 billion
Paid-in - W 3 billion
Shareholders                       s   KTDC W 2 billion (66.71)
SMIPC W 1 billion (33.32)
Number of Staff                    s   7
Legal Backaround
KTDC established RTIC as a venture capital company, specialized in
making equity investments in technology oriented ventures under the Small and
Medium Industry Inauguration Assistance Act.
Scope of Operations
Under the Act, KTIC is authorized to engage in equity investments
(including convertible bonds) and in the establishment and management of
partnership venture funds. The latter would aim to attract investors as
partners in venture financing. Provision of other types of financing, such as
conventional and conditional loans, is discouraged.
In addition to providing financing, KTIC offers various services,
such as project evaluation, technology transfer brokerage and management
consulting. As of the end of April 1987, RTIC made investments amounting to
W2 billion, which was the largest amount among the 12 venture capital
companies newly established under the Act. Currently KTIC plans to make
investments amounting to U 31.2 billion for 1987-1991 (details are in Annex 11
Approvals).



- 39 -
tOREA                                           A  kx7
THIRO TECIKIIO6Y DEUELOHNt PlOJECT                            Page 1
rinancial Suppot Provided by lOto by rinancial Instrwints
CURRENCY AHO INSTRUlENTS            ---------------------------------- ---------
(Uon billion)
1991          1982          1983          1991           1935          1996          OTORL
Rctual SAR I/  Actual  SSR Actual  SRR Rctual  SMR Actual  SM    Actua   SIR   Rctual  SRR
RIROURL BRSIS
LOCAL CURRENICY
Conuentional Loan        5.6    3.3    7.6    1.6   25.8    3.0   35.0   35.1   36.3   38.7   43.5   11.7  153.8  126.1
Conditiona Loan         0.5    0.2    1.2   2.1    1.0    5.2    0.6    0.9    1.8    0.9    1.9    1.5    7.0   10.8
Equity                  0.0    0.0    0.3    0.7    1.0    1.0    2.3    3.8    2.5    1.1    6.8    5.9   12.9   15.8
Sub Total               6.1    3.5    9.1    7.1   27.8    9.2   37.9   39.9   10.6   1.O   52.2   19.1  173.7  153.0
fOREI6H CURREICY
Conentional Loan        0.0    0.0   12.1    6.9   22.1   11.1   18.7   15.2   28.8   16.9   12.2   18.1   96.2   69.7
Conditional Loan        0.0    0.0    0.6    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.2    0.0    0.1    0.6    0.6
Equity                  0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.1    0.0    0.0    0.9    0.0    1.2    0.1    2.1
Sub Total               0.0    0.0   13.0    6.8   22.1   11.1   19.1   15.2   28.8   18.0   12.2   20.0   87.2   71.1
(in US nillion)         0.0    0.0   17.1   9.6   27.7   16.1   23.9   19.0   21.   22.5   13.6   25.0  107.3   92.2
TOtRL
Conventional Loan       5.6    3.3   20.0   11.t   17.9   11.1   53.7   50.3   57.1   55.6   $5.7   60.1  210.0  195.1
Conditional Loan        0.5    0.2    1.8   2.1    1.0    5.2    0.6    0.9    1.8    1.1    1.9    1.9    7.6   11.1
Equity                   0.0    0.0    0.3    0.7    1.0    1.0    2.7    3.8    2.5   5.3    6.8    7.1   13.3   17.9
Sub Total               6.1    3.5   22.1   11.2   19.9   20.6   57.0   55.0   61.1   62.0   61.1   69.1  260.9  221.4
D01580150   8RSIS
LOCRL CURRENCY
Conuentional Loan        1.1    1.7    5.3    3.9   15.8    3.2   26.6   30.1   39.7   36.9   35.8   18.2  123.3  116.3
Conditional Loan        0.0    0.1    0.9   1.1    0.9    3.6    0.1    0.9    0.8    0.9    2.9    1.2    5.9    7.8
Equity                  0.0    0.0    0.1    0.7    0.2    1.0    1.9    2.1    2.0    1.1    4.9    5.1    9.1   13.3
Sub Total               1.1    1.9    6.3    5.7   16.9    7.8   29.9   33.7   11.5   11.9   13.6   16.5  130.3  137.1
FOREI6N CURECY
Conventional Loan        0.0    0.0    3.1    3.1    9.0    9.7   15.7   16.2   17.8   18.5   25.8   16.7   70.7   61.5
Conditional Loan        0.0    0.0    0.2    0.0    0.1    0.0    0.0    0.3    0.0   0.1    0.0    0.3    0.3    0.7
Equitv                   0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0 0.0 8.0    0.1    0.0    1.1    0.0    1.5
Sub total               0.0    0.0    3.6    3.1    8.1    9.7   15.7   16.5   17.8   19.0   25.8   18.1   71.0   66.7
(in USL million)        0.0    0.0    1.8    4.9   10.0   13.7   19.6   20.6   18.5   23.8   16.1   22.6   69.3   85.5
TOTRL
Conventional Loan       1.1    1.7    9.7    7.3   23.8   12.9   12.3   16.6   56.5   SS.1   61.6   56.9  1N.O  180.9
Conditional Loal        0.0    0.1    1.1    1.1    1.0    3.6    0.1    1.2    0.8    1.0    2.9    1.5    6.2    8.5
Equity                   0.0    0.0    0.1    0.7    0.2    1.0    1.9    2.1    2.0    1.5    1.9   6.2    9.1   11.8
Sub Total               1.1    1.8    9.9   9.1   25.0   17.5   1.6   58.2   59.3   60.9   69.1   61.6  209.3  204.1
1/ SMR figures are based on the first and second project appraisal reports.



- 40 -
K 0RE A                                             Annex ?
THIRD TECHNOOG  0EUCLMHNT PRWJECT                                 Page?2
Finial SupWrt Provided by KIdC by Finncial Instrwrents
COLLATERAL COHOIlIOHS                                                                                      (Uon billion)
(Approval basis)
1981           1982           1983           198t            1995           1986           TOTRL
Retual SSx1 /  Rctual  SRR   Retual  SAR    Actual  SRR   Rctual  SAR    Rctual  SRR   Actual  SOR
___. ._ _ _ _ __---               --- -     .. ............... ......... ..........-----------.. -.      -- - ---------.. _.
Conventinal Loans
Uith Collateral           3.1   B.LR.   10.8   H.A.   1?.?   N.R.   35.2  NL.   37.6   LA.   40.3   N.R.  144.?   H.R.
Uithout Collateral        2.5   L.A.    9.2   N.R.   30.2   A.R.   18.5   N.A.   19.5   N.R.   15.1   H.A.   95.3   H.R.
Sub-total                 5.6    3.3   20.0   11.4   47.9   14.1   53.7   50.3   57.1   55.6   55.7   60.1  240.0  195.1
Conditional Loans          O.S    0.2    1.8    2.1    1.0    5.2    0.6    0.9    1.8    1.1    1.9    1.9    7.6   11.1
Equity Invennts
Convertible Bonds
Uith Collateral          0.0   N.A.    0.1   L.A.    0.4   N.R.    1.8   L.A.    0.8   R.R.    2.3   LR.    5.4   N.A.
Uithout Collateral       0.0   L.R.    0.0   R.R.    0.0   N.H.    0.1   L.A.    0.2   N.A.    0.5   L.A.    0.8   H.R.
Sub total                0.0   N.A.    0.1   N.A.    0.4    .RA.    1.9   H.R.    1.0   H.R.    2.8   N.R.    6.2   L.R.
Equity Shares 1/          0.0   L.A.    0.2   N.A.    0.6   H.R.    0.8   N.R.    1.5    .R.    4.0   N.R.    7.1     N.R.
Total                     0.0    0.0    0.3    0.?    1.0    1.0    2.7    3.8    2.5    5.3    6.8    7.0   13.3   17.8
Grand Total                6.1    3.5   22.1   14.2   49.9   20.6   57.0   55.0   61.4   62.0   64.4   69.0  260.9  224.3
Ho. of Projects 2/          49      25     8t      90    146    125    184    150    188    165    198    182  849.0  737.0
Aug.financing Anount/Proj   124    140    263    158    342    165    310    367    327    376    325    379    307    34
(IJon illion) 2/
PROPORTION()
Coentiond Loans
Uith Collateral          50.8   N.R.   18.9   N.R.   35.5   N.A.   61.8   N.H.    61.2   N.R.   62.6   N.H.   55.5   N.A.
Uithout Collateral       41.0   N.A.   41.6   H.R.   60.5   H.R.   32.5   N.H.    31.8   H.A.   23.9   N.R.   36.5  NH.R.
Sub-total                91.8   9t.3   90.5   80.3   96.0   69.9   94.2   91.5   93.0   89.7   86.5   87.1   92.0   87.0
Conditional Loans          8.2    5.7    8.1   14.8    2.0   25.2    1.1    1.6    2.9    1.8    3.0    2.8    2.9    5.1
Equity In eitnents
Convertible Bonds
Uith Collateral          0.0   N.R.    0.5   N.A.    0.8   N.A.    3.2   N.R.    1.3   N.A.    3.6   N.R.    2.1   N.R.
Uithout Collateral       0.0   N.A.    0.0   N.A.    0.0   H.R.    0.2   H.R.    0.3   N.R.    0.8   N.R.    0.3   N.R.
Sub total                0.0   N.R.    0.5   N.R.    0.8   N.R.    3.3   N.R.    1.6   M.R.    1.3   N.R.    2.4   N.H.
Equity Shares             0.0   N.R.    0.9   I.R.    1.2   N.A.    1.4   N.R.    2.4   N.R.    6.2   N.R.    2.7   N.H.
Total                     0.0    0.0    1.4    1.9    2.0    1.9    4.7    6.9    4.1    8.5   10.6   10.1    5.1    7.9
6rand Total              100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0
Uith Collateral          50.8   N.D.   49.3   N.R.   36.3   N.R.   64.9   N.A.   62.5   N.A.   66.1   H.A.   57.5   N.R.
Uithout Collateral       49.2   N.R.   50.?   N.R.   63.7   N.R.   35.1   N.A.   37.5  NH.R.   33.9   N.H.    42.5   N.R.
1/ ctual fY86 includes Uon 2 billion intestrnts in KTIC
2/SR figures are bs  an the First Project SfR
Send Project SR does not provde such infornation



- 41 -
KORER                              AnneSx
THIRD lECHOLO6Y OEUELOPENT PROIECT
fiincial Support Proided by (TOC by Subsector
Rpprouul basis
(No. of Projects)
1981   1982   1983   1981   1985   1986  TOTRL
MCHINEHETRL
Industrial Nachinery        1      10     12     12      15   N.A.   N.A.
6eneral Hachinery           0      8       8     12      1   N.H.   N.H.
Ilahanery Parts             9      11     32     33      44   N.R.   N.A.
Hetal                       1       2      6     14      14   N.R.   N.H.
Sub Total(No.of Projects)    1t    31     58     71      77   H.R.   N.HR.
Sub Total(Uon Billion)    1.0    6.9   17.4   23.4   22.5   22.7   91.7
ELECTROCS/ELECIRIC
Seniconductor               3      4       3      7      4   N.R.   NH..
Cowputer                    1      13     11     11      12   N.H.   NH.R.
Telecon. Equipment          1      2      10     i2      7   N.H.   N.R.
Electric Component          2      2       9     18      23   RH.  N.H.R.
Electric llachinery         t      3      13      4      15   H.R,   N.R.
Sub Total(No.of Projects)    14    24     46     SS      61   N.R.   N.H.
Sub Total(Uon Billion)    1.6    7.6   16.8  11.8   18.5   21.5   80.8
ChBEICRLSAISC.
fine Chenical               7      8      10     18      12   N.R.   WH.R
Petrochenical               4       7     10      8      10   N.R.   H.R.
6eneral Cheuical            6      4       5      7       8   H..   NH.R.
Textile and Others          i      10     17     25      20   .H.R  N. .
Sub Total(No.of Projects)    21    29     U2     58      SO   N. R.   H.R.
Sub Total(Ucn Billion)    2.7    7.6   15.7   18.8   20.1   20.2   85.1
6RHND tOTRL
No.of Projects             19     84    146   18       188    198    849
Uon Billion               6.1   22.1   49.9   57.0   61.4   64.1  260.9
PROPORTION(S)
No. of Projects
NACHINERY/ETOL          28.6   36.9   39.7   38.b   11.0   N.H.   N.H.
ELECTRONICS/ELECTRIC    28.6   28.6   31.5   29.9   32.1   H.   N,R.
CHEIlCRLSMISC.         42.9   31.5   28.0   31.5   26.6   N.A.   N.H.
TOTRL                  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0   N.R.   N.H.
Uon Billion
HIEHNERYIETRL           29.5   31.2   34.9   V1.1   36.6   35.2   36.3
ELECTRONICS/ELECTRIC    26.2   31.1   33,7   26.0   30.1   33.1   31.0
CHDIIERLS/HTSC.         ".3   34.4   31.5   33.0   33.2   31.1   32.7
TOTRL                  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0



- 42 -
KORER                                       AWx9
INTO tECHIOLON OEUtLWO I PRWJECT
KITC funding
R. SOURCES ff rUs
Disbursnment bais
(Uon billion)             1981   1982   1983   ill    1995   19f6  TOTAL TOTD(X)
LOCAL RESOURCES
Equity
Goermlent              1,000  1,000  1,000  2,000  1,000  2,000 11,000    5.7
Privite                 6,553  1,266  3,860  6,15S    643  6,100  24,877   13.0
Sub Total               7,553  2,266  1,860  8,155  1,643  8,100 35,877   18.7
Borrowing
GovMent                 1,000  1,500  1,500  2,000  5,000 10,00  21,000   10.9
Debentures 1/               0      0 25,500 30,000 11,000 10,000 76,500   39.8
Sub Tol                 1,000  1,500 27,000 32,000 16,000 20,000 97,500   50.8
FOMEUS RESOURCES
IBRO                       0  4,103  7,919 15,996 18,601 12,101  58,723   30.6
6rand Total              8,553  7,969 39,779 56,151  39,217 10,501 192,100  100.0
I/ Before dissout
. TERllS FM  COlNITION  f BROUIN1S RS 12/31/86
ContractOisburse  Repay Out-        orruing                Tern   Dete of
Iamunt nent      rent stading      Rate (1)                (years) Signing
LOCASOURCES Uon oil)                                 91   82   83   S1   95   96
6ornent Borrroings
1st Lean                1,000  1,000                13.5 10.0  8.0  5.5  5.5 5.5 10(5) 81
2nd Low                 1,500  1,500       0  1,500 -   10.0  8.0  5.5  5.5 5.5 15(5) 82
3rd Loan                1,500  1,500       0  1,500 -   -      8.0  5.S  5.5 5.5 15(5) 83
ith Loan                2,000  2,000       0  2,000 -  -  -  -    5.5  5.5 t,5 15(5) 81
5th Lon                 5,000  5,000       0  5,000 -  -  -  -    -    5.5  5.515(5) 85
6th Loan               10,000  10,000      0 10,000 -  -  -  -    -            5.5 15(5) 86
Oebentures 1/
1st Iss                15,500 15,500       0 15,500           12.5 13.0 13.0 13.5  5    2/25/83
2nd Issue              10,000  10,000      0 10,000           11.0 13.0 13.0 13.5  1    11/9/83
3rd Issue              11,000 11,000       0 11,000                 11.0 13.0 13.0  4    7/1/81
ith Issue              10,000 10,000       0 10,000                 11.0 13.0 13.0  1    10/25/81
5th Issue               9,000  9,000       0  9,000                 11.0 13.0 13.0  3    12/19/81
6th Issue              11,000  11,000      0 11,000                       11.0 13.0  1    1/30/85
7th Issue               5,000  5,000       0  5,000                           11.0 3    1/30/86
8th Issue               5,000  S,000       0  5,000                           11.0 3    11/20/86/
rREI6N SOUaS (US 000)
l0RD
1st Loan               50,000 16,800  1,720 12,080 11.6X flied                     11(5) 1//2
2nd Lan                50,000 23,350       0 23,350 Uariable                       11(5) 1/11/8



- 43 -
Iola WIIY Kam   UECI                           -
UlK kwtu rimalal  rmea,1w 91
YVW  odi      m ,kr 31                    1961    1962    1963    196       1S      195
1. S
LoalaCd wrv  :CNtion                    S,572   7,609  25,103  5,020  36,256  43,515
Conditional               520   1,243      90       570   1,770   1,90
CoItIle hOu                0      10       1t    1,56"   1,250   2,19
atv SW"                    0      150     I7       775   1,266   3,911
Sub ltal                   0      3       957   2,315   2,516   6,761
low                     6,092   9,147  27.730  37,113  40,542  52,176
rwup  CrriC: onwationI                      0  12,442  22,131  16,674  20,15  12.20
Conitiond                   0      574       0        0       0        0
[gnty
Cowtxblu os                0        0       0      00        0        0
Equtvllwrn                 0        0       0        0       0        0
Sub lotd                   0        0       0      I00       0        0
Total                       0  13,016  22,13   19,04   20.615  12,209
(USa 000)                   0 (17,352) (27,673) (23,843) (24,70) (13,560)
Total  pros a:C mntil                   5,572  20,046  47,94    53,702  57,071   ss.m
CondItiol                 520   1,917      970      570   1,770   1,900
Equity
ConUble ods                0      150     140   1,940   1,250   2,650
Equty Mars                 0      150     617      m75   1,266   3,911
Si lotw                    0      30Q     957   2,715   2,516   6,761
Totl                   6,092  22,163  49,969  56,967  61,35?  6,365
2. OD SOOTS
lucal Creay  :ConUentionl               1,149   5,292  16,017  26,629  30,615  46,396
Conditonal                  0      93      938      414     770   1,725
Conmvtible lds             0      ISI     1SO   1,500       9S0   2,751
Equitv SW"a                0      100     193      413   1,002   4,601
Mb low u                           50so   3li    1,913   1,952    7,431
lotw                    1,149   6,40   17,303  2I,956   41,537  57,552
roreip Cuwrrnp:Conentiwal                   0   3,315   7,760   15,734  17,823   14,176
Condtional                  0      170     140        0       0        0
Equity
Coiwertible Bonds                   0       0        0       0        0
[quityv  S                 0        0       0        0       0        0
Sub otal                   0        0       0        0       0        0
tota                        0   3,55   7,920  IS,734  17,823  14,578
(US$ 00)                    0  (4,752) (10,073) (19,64) (18,132) (16,013)
Total Otsabursemnt4oventiongl           1,149   9,677   23.7M7  42,363  56,636   62,971
Conditiul                   0   1,10    1,08        414     770    ,7M
Equity
CowurtibleBmds             0      ISO     150   1,500       9S0   2,750
Equity Sbre                0      100     I98      413   1,002   4,661
SMb loW                    0      250     349   1,913   1,952   7,431
lota                    1,149  10,035   25,223  44,690  59.360  72,130
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. .....       _..................   .... .... .. ....     .... . -



- 44 -
KIORER                                OnnexlOi
THIRO TECHNOLOGY OEELOPIIENT PROJECT
Page 2
Income Staterents 1981-1986
(Uon nillion)
............. ............................ _.- ---------  ....... ......... ....  ----.    ---- .. .. .... .  .
Years ending Oecenber 31                     1981     1982     1983     1986     1985      1986
............ -............. ---- -.. -...... -------------------.  ---  . ...  ... ..  ----  ----.  ..
INCItE
Income on LC Conuentional Loan
Interest Income                                8      348    1,323    3,361    6,115    9,172
Corwsitment fees                               4       26       62       76      105        70
6wennent's Interest Rate Support               0        0      243    1,129    2,061    2,106
Sub Total                                     12      374    1,628    t,566    8,281   11,318
income on rc Conventional Loan
Interest Incone                                0       64      707    2,018    4,388    7,718
Comittent Fees                                 0       59      178      222     11        116
Gvernment's Interest Rate Support              0        0      265      740    1,232       173
Sub Total                                      0      123    1,150    2,980    5,761    8,007
Royalty Incone on Conditional Loans             0        0       38       16      174       208
Income on Equity Inuestnent
Interest Income on Conuertible Bonds           0        6       23      130      281       480
Oividend on Equity Shares                      0        0        0        0         1        7
Capital Gain on Sales of Equity Shares         0        0        0        0         0        0
Sub Total                                      0        6       23      130      282       487
Interest Incge on Marketable Securities         1        1        1        2         2        2
Interest Incore on Oeposits/Cash              9t1      962    1,442    1,670    3,886    3,960
foreign Exchange Translation 6ains              0       13      232    1,345    2,387   14,203
Other Incoe                                     0        4       24       94      223       161
Total Incoue                                  954    1,483    4,538   10,803   20,996   38,376
EXPfliS
Interest Expenses
6oueriment Loans                              34      178      317      45?      525       895
Debentures                                     0        0    1,808    3,800    7,552    9,27'
IBRO Loans                                    0        95      868    2,306    9,295    7,766
Sub Total                                     34      273    2,993    6,563   12,372   17,934
C.,trent fees on IBRO Loans                     0      155      240      143      355       239
Depreciation and TNortization                 283      164      458      878    1,181    1,166
Rdninistration Expenses                       651    1,160    1,303    1,533    1,791    2,326
Provision for Losses                           11      109      254      364      644        32
Foreign Exchange Translation Losses             0       19      244    1,282    2,763   14,732
Urite-off of Bad Debts                          0        0        0        0       130        0
Other Expenses                                  1        0        1        2      140        90
Total Expenses                                980    1,880    5,493   10,765   19,376   36,519
.... ....                                             ---   __..................................  --  ---  .... .. .. .. . .
Net Incone before tax                         (26)    (397)    (955)      38    1,620    1,857
Taxes                                           2        0        0        3      260       362
--... ---..... -.. -------- -.. ---- --  --.. ..---..-....     ....  ----.    ----  ----    ....
Net Income after lax                          (28)    (397)    (955)      35    1,360    1,495
Prior Year Pdjustment                           0       (3)       0        0       SO        81
Increase in Retained Earnings                 (28)    (400)    (955)      35    1,410    1,576



- 45 -
KORERA                             Rnex10
THIRO TECHNOIOSY OEUELOPtENT PROJECT
Page 3
Balance Sheets 1981-1986
(Uon million)
........ -..... -- -. --   - -  -------   ----     ---      ---      ----    .. .. .
Years ending Deceiber 31                  1981    1982    1983    1981    1985    1986
...... ------                            _        _  _...................  ._. ..    ......    ... _.
RSSETS
Cash and Cash Equivalent                 6,407    3,685   15,590   32,621   28,137   28,257
Interest Receivable-6ross                  187      341    1,042    1,687    2,444   3,419
-Provision for Losses      0       0        0        0      (20)    (32)
-Net                     187     311    1,042   1,687   2,424    3,387
Conventional Loans
Local Currency   - Gross                1,149   6,U1    21,896   13,056  72,i11  91,115
- Provision for Losses    (11)    (61)   (219)   (430)   (720)  (590)
- Net                   1,138   6,377   21,677   12,626  71,690   90,625
Foreign Currency - Gross                    0   3,397  11,392   26,001   13,256  67,069
- Provision for Losses      0     (34)   (114)   (261)   (4032)   (510)
- Net                       0   3,363   11,278   25,740   42,824   66,529
Total           - Gross                 1,149   9,838   33,288  69,057  115,670 158,484
- Provision for Losses    (11)    (98)   (333)   (691) (1,156) (1,130)
- Net                   1,138   9,740  32,955  68,366  111,514 157,354
Conditional Loans
Local Currency   - Gross                    0      938   1,754   2,077   2,382    3,730
- Provision for Losses     (0)    (19)    (35)    (42)    (47)    (7)
- Net                       0     919   1,719   2,035    2,335    3,656
Foreign Currency -Gross                     0      170      327     272      292      273
- Provision for Losses     (0)     (3)      (6)      (5)      (6)     (6)
- Net                       0     16?      321      267     286      267
Total           -6ross                      0   1,108   2,081    2,349   2,6?4   4,003
- Provision for Losses      0     (22)    (41)    (47)    (53)    (80)
- Net                       0   1,086    2,010   2,302   2,621    3,923
Equity Inuestnents
LC Convertible Bonds-6ross                  0      150      300   1,748    2,400    4,700
-Proay  for Losses      (0)      0        0        0      (24)    (13)
-Net                     0      150     300   1,748   2,376   1,657
Local Currency Equity Shares                0      100      198     611    1,698   6,377
Total                                       0      250      498   2,359   4,074  11,034
fixed Assets    - 6ross                    176      182     339      220      433      514
- Accuw. Depreciation      (29)    (71)    (94)   (122)   (160)   (219)
- Net                      147     111      245       98     273      295
front-end Fees    Gross                      0      519      549     549      653      653
- Rcculm  Depreciation      (0)    (22)    (62)   (102)   (152)   (202)
- Net                        0     527      487      447      501     451
Deferred Charges - Gross                   334      390     832   1,570    1,895   2,122
- Rcw,. Depreciation      (254    (350    (519)   (931) (1,433) (1,863)
-Net                        80      36      313      639     162      259
Other Assets                               641      658   1,627   2,143   2,372   2,707
TOTAL ASSETS                             8,600  16,434  54,797  110,662  155,678 207,667
aSlt             =Xt      #2m     %Sam    4



fRnex 10
-46                               Pape
Yrs ending Oecier 31                     1981    1982    1983    198t    1905    1986
LIMILITIES R  EQUITY
Current Liabilities
Curmet Portion of Long-tern Debt           0       0       0        0       0  26,724
Other Current Liabilities                 36     341      94t   2,231    3,292   4,017
Total                                     36     341      944   2,231    3,292  30,741
Lon-tern Debt
orAings from o0rent                    1,00    2,500   4,O0Q    6,000  11,00   21,000
Oebentures                                 0       0  24,135  53,724  65,164  15,756
Bwrrouirgs fro  18RD                       0   4,122  12,285  26,93?  48,304  69,538
Sub total (6ross)                      1,000   6,622  40,420  06,661  124,468  166,294
LessCurrent Portion                       0       0        0       0       0  26,724
Sub total (Net)                        1,000   6,622  40,420  86,661  124,468  139,570
Seeae Liabilities                          39      go      136     283     378      515
TOIRL URDILItIES                        1,075   7,043  41,500  89,175 128,138 170,826
Equity - 6fvmnt                         1,000   2,000   300    5,000   9,000  11,000
- Private                        6,553   7,819  11,679  17,834  10,477  24,2M2
Retined Earnings                          (29)   (429) (1,382) (1,347)      63   1,639
TOTAL EQUIT                             7,525   9,391   13,297  21,487  27,540  36,841
TOtRL LIURIUTIS I EQUITY                8,600  16,434  s4,797  110,662 155,678 207,667
s#sa3sEugs3auuauu*~3sutu8tzXal uui               *#i2~ RU                    a     g,a



- 47 -
tlllll IW ISY OCILORUK    PIUttC                ---
PapeS
Ca  nw, Stat_mts 1561-1s16
IOn r411on)
Yuers ending  ceber 11                    1911    112       163    19H       1NS      1996    l1f
_. .  __..... ........ .          . _ _.. ._...... ...
Net Iwo                                    (23)   (37)  (O5)          35    1,360   1,95    1,511
Depretiation ad hwrtlzation               2M3       164     45 I            111    1,166   4,129
Prevsion fw Low                             11      10i     255      364      6"        32   1,111
Prosion for Erplyees' S erce Lia.           3        f       59      169       96     152      564
foreip ldange  Trouslotion lains             0      (13)   (232) (1U315) (2,39?) (1,203) (19,1U)
forip Ecdap Translation Los                  0       19     241   1,232   2,763   14,732   19,010
Urit-ftofbt   Ddebts                         0        0       0        0      130        0     138
Lossesea6) on Satls of ried Assets           0        0       0      (12)      (1)      1      (12)
INT[E. CASHEWATIM                     3D       (69)   (172)  1,371    3,786   3,375    9,596
Equity   -6overnment                     1,000   1,000   1.000   2.000   4,000   2,000  11.000
Priwte                         6,5S3    1,266   3,60   6,155       643   s,m    21,202
-Sub Totel                     ?,553   2,266   1,60   I,155    4,643   7,2    35,202
lorrowngs-a ment                         1,000    1,500    1,500   2,000   S,OOO   10,     21,000
-Obentures                         0        0  23.515  29,191   10,517  10,       ?3,563
-l0                                0   1,103    7,919  15,956   18,604   12,101   50,723
-Sb total                      1;00    5,603   33,334  47,197   34,461   32,101  153,696
tollectiou-L   Comtinonud Loan               0       0      56Z   S,469   9,457   29,395  44,813
-fC ConuentiodLoan                0        0        0      95   2,79    4,971    7,892
-LC Conditional Lon               0        0      122      91      465      37    1,O55
-fC Conditional Lon               0        0        0      64        0        9      73
-LC Couertible Bonds              0        0        0      52      213      450     715
-Ltt uty Shares                   0        0      100       0        0        2     102
-Sub Total                        0        0      789   5,761   12,931   35,204   54,690
Increase in Cumnt Liabilities               36      35      603   1,297    1,061      725   4,017
TOTRL                                    S,O91    9,105   39,409  63,761   S6,682  79,130 256,191
aemss                                     m.    ee          gs      gg       ma      ggg       ag
USES
Oisbusements-LC Convticona  Lo n         1,119   S,292   16,017  26,6Z9  38,815   4,396  136,290
-rc Conventional Loan           0   3,365    7,7R0   15,734   17,823   14,57    59,300
-LE Conditional Lw              0      938      938     414      770    ,725   4,795
-rc conditiondl Lon             0      170      110       0        0        0     310
-LUConCwrtble Bonds             0      ISO      150   1,500      950   2,750   5,500
tC Equitv Sres                  0      100      199     413   1,002   4,601    6.394
-Sub Total                   1,149  10,035   25,223   4,690  59,360  72,130 212,597
Repwents ef  orrof angs                      0       0        0        0        0   5s,m     5,599
front-end fe                                 0      549       0        0      104       0      653
Deferred Chrges 1/                         334      56      442      730      325     227   2,122
Increase in rixe  Assets                   176       6      172       34      222     161      771
Incrme in Interest  etivables              197      154     701      645      757     97S   3,419
Sewrma PcPnent                               0       9        3       22        1      1 s      9
Other  sesot funds (Net)                   641       19     963      601      29?     203   2,724
TOTAL                                    2,497   10,897   27,504  16,73    61,066  79,310 227,924
mggeegagseaeegegsegggsga.gm.eggsggsg      us ...    e        s      .Se      am      .me      mm
INHCREA(OECEASE) IN CASH                 6,407  (2,722) 11,94S  17,031   (4,1864    (180) 23,257
1/ conpany forntion costs,stock/debentures lassue costs



- 48 -
K OREA                              h mn II
THIRD TECIIS65  KUEPIU  PIOECI
Pap 6
lndcators 1901-1%66
Yeas ending Oecober 31                     1981    1912    1963    1961    1965        1916
...................................... .................................   ....     ....    ....     ....    ... .. .... . ......
Percentage of Owerage lotal Assets
I.Gross Incone a/                        33.3    11.a /1.0    11.3    13.6    13.2
2.Funanical Expenses b/                   1.2      3.7    10.3      9.1     10.4    10.6
3.6ross Spread (1-2)                     32.1    '8.0      I.e      2.2      3.4      2.6
4.dministrative Expenses                 22.?     9.3      3.7      1.9      1.3      1.3
S.Promison for Losses                     0.3      0.9     0.7      0.4      0.5       .0
6.Net Incue before (axes                 -0.9    -3.2    -2.7        .0      1,2      1.0
7. laxe                                   0.1      0.0     0.0       .0      0.2      0.2
8. Net Incone after Taxes                -1.0    -3.2    -2.7        .0      1.0      0.8
kt Income as I of Rverage Net Ihrth        -1.1    -9.?    -8.4       0.2      5.5      4.6
Sprad on Average LC Conventional Loars
Incme/Ayg.LC Conventional Loans(Z) c/      3.13    9.86    11.t9    11.06    14.34   13.65
fn.Jxpenses/Rvg.LC Long-term Debt(2) d/  10.20    10.17    16.01    11.25    13.28    12.81
Spread (I)                                -7.07    -0.32    -4.52    2.81     1.06     1.04
Spread on Average FE Conventional Loans
Incont/AvglFC Conmentional Loans(l)        n.a.    7.24    15.55    15.94    16.64   14.52
Fin.Expenses/Avg.t8R0 Sorr.nngs(Z.         n.a.   13.20    13.99    12.69    12.49    13.6?
Spread (S)                                 n.a.   -5.96     1.56    3.2       4.14     0.8t
Spread on Rvg. Total Conventional Loans
Incume/Rug.Total Conventional Loans(')     3.13    9.05    12.88   14.75    15.20    14.12
Fin.Expenses/Avg.lotal Long-tern Debt(Z)  10.20    11.81    15.31    11.69    13.00    13,16
Spread (Z)                                -7.07    -2.76    -2.42    3.05     2.20    0.%
Spread on Rug.total Investment Portfolio
Incone/Avg.total Inu.Portfolio(I)          3.13    8.15    12.06   14.03    14.78    13.55
Fin.Expenses/Avg.otal Long-tern Debt(Z)   10.20   11.81    15.31    11.69    13.00   13.16
Sprewd 'S)                                -7.07   -3.66    -3.24 . . 34       1.78     0.39
PRO FOuR SPRERD Uig INtEREST SUPPORT
Spread on Avwrage LC Coventonal Loans
Incone/Rvg.LC Conventional Loans(lS        3.13    9.86     9.78    10.58    10.77   11.28
Spread (2)                                -7.07    -0.32    -6.23   -0.67    -2.51    -1.53
Spread on Overage ft Conventional Loans
Income/Aug.FC Conventional Loans(l)        n.a.    7.24    11.9?   11.9    13.00    14.20
Spread (1)                                 n.a.   -5.96    -2.03    -0.71     0.59     0.53
Spread on Rug Total Conventional Loans
IncomeRug.lotal Conventional Loans(S)      3.13    9.05    10.53    11.09    11.64    12.46
Spread (S2                               -7.07   -2.76    -4.78    -0.60      1.36    -0.70
Spread on Avg.Iotal Inestnent Portfolio
Income'Avg.lotal Inv.Portfolo(z)           3.13    8.15     9.91    10.62    11.42    12.01
Spread (1S                               -7.07    -3.66    -S.40   -1.07    -1.58    -1.15
Total Debt/Equity Ratio                    0.1      0.?      3.1      t.2      4.7      4.6
Long-ter  ODebt/Equity Ratio                0.1     0.7      3.0      4.0      4.5      4.5
Current Ratio                             163.2    11.8    17.6    1S.4        9.4      1.0
...........................-------         ----.  . ................. .... ..  .... . ..  ....
a/ total Incone-Other Incone-Foreign Exchange Translation Gains
b/InterestEomitment feestAnortization
c/Income includes coytnient fees.d/fitancial Expenses include awortization of charges



- 49 -
TIS IE JILW   M MUD    PROECT
lOttZ~~~~~~~~~Pg 1
ksswiptims r K fiscial Projections,l997-1991
I.t S      n illimn):
Y mn eiqgkcAr 31                         1915    196    197    1998    1969    1990   1991  87-91
LcalCa,reec: Cutiol                    16,256  13,515  49,546   9,289  43,616  47,814 53,600213,865
CdiUtirou               1.770   1,900   3,600   1,500   6,090   7,500  9,000 30,600
Covewrt.bod            1,250   2,850    5,880   7,350   9,800  12,250 14,700 49,9g0
SWres                  1,266   3,911   2,520   3,150   1,200   S,250  6.300 21,120
5th total              2,516   6,761   8,10   10,500  11,000  17,590  21,000 71,100
lota                   40,512  52,176  61,56  61,289  63,616  72,61i 83,600 35,865
areiop Cumwrw:Cwut.                    20,815  12,209   8,151  10,711  16,381  12,186  6,t0 51,135
(in a1 a090)          (24,780) (13,560) (10,56?) (13,389) (20,180) (15,232) (8,00)(6,669)
Total:         Coatiuaul               57,071  55,721  58,0    60,000  60,000  60,000 60,000298,000
Condtliml               1,770   1,900   3,600   1,SO    6,000   7,510   9,000 30,600
'                   d~~~~~qty
Cuvet,b.od             1,258   2,850   S,880   7,350   9,800   12,250 14,700 19,980
Sar                    1,266   3,911   2,520   3,150   4,200   5,250  6,300 21,420
Sub total              2,S16   6,761   8,40   10,500  14,000  17,500 21,000 71,100
loW                    61a,3?  61,35   70,000  75,MO  80,000  85,000 90,000 00,000
LO:            Loal Cwrmc                               2,000   5,180   6,720   8,750 11,110 31,060
Iwerted Equip.                                   2,220   2,880   3,750  1,890 13,740
rt Portion                                      1,776   2,301   3,000  3,912 10,992
(Ito aSMU)                                     (2,220) (2,880) (3,750) (4,890)(13,740)
LCUPon Ie                                                  576    750    978  2,718
Total                                    2,000   7,100   9,600  12,500 16,300 17,800
ectorin:                                                2,200   2,100   2,600   2,800  3,000 13,000
gad Total:                             61,357  61,385  71,200  84,800  92,200 100,300109,300160,600
ITIC  RP901
Cuve't.bond                                             300   1,200   1,500   2,000  2,200  7,200
Shres                                                 1,700   2,000   2,800    3,300  3,500 13,300
Sub total                                             2,000   3,200   4,300   5,300  5,700  20,500
Partr Uetare fund
Conwrt.bod                                                      500      500     790  1,000  2,700
SMes                                                           1,500   2,000   2,000  2,500  8,000
Side tota                                                      .,000   2,500   2,700  3,500 10,700
TtIC Total
Convert.bnd                                             300   1,700   2,000   2,700  3,200  9,900
Saves                                                 1,700   3,500   4,800   5,300  6,000 21,300
St total                                             2,000   S,200   6,800   8,000  9,200 31,200
ekigh of risksrq  Kint. (only ktK)(Z)              13      16      18       22      25     27     22
Ugiet of risk-srig fin.int.(KTO4ICH)(Z)            13      18      22       27      30     33      27



- 50 -
B.DISUS tS(Uon eillion):                                                     ARmex 11
Pag 2
RCTURL                      roREC9si
Years ending 0ecemiber 31               1995    1986    1987    18       19989    1990   1991
.... ....  ....................................          ---       ---   ----        ----........... ....
0IS8UISEENTS
Local Currency: Conmtional             38,815  48,3%   t6,832  49,404  t6,169  45,925 50,9%
Conditional               770   1,725   2,750   4,050   5,250   6,750  8,250
Equity
Conuert.hond             950   2,750   5,2    7,056   9,310  11,760 14,210
Shares                 1,002   1,681   3,076   2,898   3,780   4,830  5,880
Sub total              1,952   7,431   0,350   9,951  13,090  16,590 20,090
1otad                  11,537  57,552  57,933  63,409  64,509  69,265 79,336
roreign Currency:Coventonal            17,823  14,579  11,X97  15,219  16,368  14,285  9,293
(in U5$ 000)          (18,532) (16,013) (14,946) (19,023) (20,460) (17,856)(11,616)
Total          Coaetional              56,638  62,974  58,789  64,623  62,536  60,210 60,289
Conditional               770   1,725   2,750   4,050   5,250   6,750  8,250
Equity
Conuert,bond             950   2,750   5,m2    7,056   9,310  11,760 14,210
Shares                 1,002   4,681   3,076   2,898   3,780   4,830  5,980
Sub total              1,952   7,4     8,350   9,954  13,090  16,590 20,090
Total                  59,360  72,130  69,889  78,627  80,876  83,550 98,629
LeJs:        Local Currency                             1,000   4,885   6,335   8,243 I0,745
Inworted Equip.                                 1,110   2,550   3,315  4,320
rc Portion                                       NO   2,040   2,652  3,156
(in USI 000)                                  (1.110) (2,550) (3,315) (4,320)
LC Portion                                       222      510     663    864
Total                                   1,000   5,995   8,985  11,558 15,065
factoring:                                              2,200   2,400   2,600   2,800  3,000
Srand Total:                          59,360  72,130  73,089  87,022  92,361  97,907106,69"
VUU6   PIRIW on aillion):
RCiURL              MORECRST
UNMiN6                                  1985    1986    1987    1991   87-91
Equity - 6vmAt                         4,000   2,000   2,000       0   2,000
- Prvate/fl8                       643   5,725   5,000  20,000  25,000
- lotal                          4,643   7,725   7,000  20,000  27,000
Dorrwings - 60o   nt                   5,U0  10,000  20,000  60,000  80,000
- ODebentures               11,00   10,000   3,000  39,000   2,000
- I8R0                       18,604  12.101  11,668  49,460  61,128
(U19)                     (19,002) (15,510) (14,585) (61,925) (76,410)
- Others-Lo Currency             0       0       0  30,000  30,000
-f,Currency               0       0       0  11,400  11,400
- Total                      34,604  32,101  34,668 189,860 224,528
Total                                  39,247  39,826  41,668 209,860 251,5298



Annex 11
Page 3
- 51 -
D. Lending Terms
1. Conventional Loans
Local currency          Foreign currency
(a)  Interest:                11.22 p.a. (1987)   11.7Z p.a. (lst Bank loan)
11.02 p.a. (1988)   10.5? p.a.
(2nd. 3rd & Revolving Fund)
10.8Z p.a. (1989-90)
10.72 p.a. (1991)
(b)  Commitment Fee:          0.5? p.a.            0.75? p.a.
Ic)  Maturity:                4 years              8 years (let)
7 years (2nd, 3rd)
(d)  Grace Periods            1 year               3 years (lst)
2 years (2nd, 3rd)
1.       Interest rates are projected based on the current KTDC interest rate
policy, taking into account collateral conditions and distribution of
borrowers by size. Interest rates consist of base rates and surcharges. Base
rates are projected to be: (a) 10? p.a. for SMIs and 11.5? p.a. for large
companies for both local currency loans and the first Bank loan; and (b) 2?
p.a. spread for the second and third Bank loans and Revolving Fund loans.
Surcharges are projected to vary between 0 and 1.5? p.a. depending on
collateral conditions.
Foreign currency revolving fund loans with maturities up to two years
are made to utilize the gap in the grace period between subloans and IBRD
borrowings.
2.       Conditional loans:  Conditional loans do not have a fixed repayment
schedule. The return on such loans is in the form of negotiated royalty
payments (about 5? of sales) from successful subprojects. It has been assumed
that:
(a) 20? of the subprojects fail, while 80? succeed;
(b) for failed subprojects, KTDC will recover only 30X of the principal
(recovery assumed in the seventh year);
(c) for successful projects, KTDC will recover principal and interest in
the form of royalty payments as follows:



Annex 11
Page 4
- 52 -
Years   0      1    2     3      4    5     6    7     Total
Principal   (100)  5    20    20    24   27      4    0    100
Royalties   -      -    -      10    16   18    41   35    120
Total   (100)  5    20    30    40   45    45   35    220
The imputed ex ante rate of return for a successful subproject is 19? while
that of the overall portfolio of conditional loans (including failures) is
13S, compared with 232 and 152, respectively, estimated at the second project
appraisal.
3.       Convertible bonds:  For the period 1987-91, convertible bonds and
equity shares are expected to account for 70S and 30? respectively of the
total equity investments. It has been assumed that convertible bonds will be
issued at 122 p.a. with a maturity of 5 years (lump sum repayment).
Conversion into equity is not taken into account.
4.       Equity Shares:  It has been assumed that:
(a)  15? of the subprojects fail, while 85? succeed;
(b)  for failed subprojects, KTDC will recover no original investment; and
(c)  for successful subprojects, KTDC will be able to sell out its equity
investment with a capital gain of 20? in the eight year in addition
to modest dividend receipts as shown below:
Year:     0      1    2     3      4    5     6    7     8
Investment    (100)  -    -      -     -    -     -    -     100
Dividends     -      -    -      5     5    10    10   10     10
Capital Gain  -      -    -      -     -    -     -    -     200
Total     (100)  0    0     5      5    10    10   10    310
The imputed ex ante rate of return for a successful subproject is 18? while
that of the overall portfolio of equity investments (including failures) is
15?, compared with 27? and 18? estimated at the second project appraisal.
5.       Leasing:  It has been assumed that 70? of the approval amount will be
for local currency leasing. Imported equipment will account for 30?, out of
which 20? will be in local currency to finance the local cost portion. The
rentaltal fee for local currency leasing is projected to be 13.4? p.a. to
yield a 2? spread over its funding cost of 11.4? through issuance of deben-
tures. The rental fee for foreign currency leasing is projected to be 9? p.a.
to yield a 2Z spread nver its funding cost of 7? p.a. The leasing term will
be six years. A 3? guarantee deposit is assumed.



Annex 11
Page S
-53 -
6.       Factoring:  It is assumed that factoring will be a short-term finan-
cial instrument with a one-year maturity. The interest rate on factoring is
projected to be 14Z p.a., which is slightly lower than the current market rate
in Korea.
E. Disbursement Patterns
The disbursement patterns shown in B. above were based on the
following assumption:
Year                                     0                    1
Conventional loans
local currency                              552                  452
foreign currency                            50?                  50S
(3rd loan and Revolving Fund)
Conditional loans                                50?                  50?
Convertible bonds                                80?                 20?
Equity shares                                    602                  40?
Leasing
local currency                              75?                  25X
foreign currency                            50?                  50?
Factoring                                       100?                  0?
F. Borrowing Terms
1.       Government loans:  It has been assumed that new government loans will
be lent to KTDC at 5.5? p.a. with maturity of 15 years including 5 year grace
period, which are the same terms and conditions for the outstanding loans.
2.       Debentures:  Terms of KTDC debentures including outstanding and new
issues will be as follows. New issue except the 10th issue will be used to
finance leasing operations. The interest rates on new issues are projected to
be 11.4? p.a., equivalent to 1.4 times of the current one-year time deposit
rate of 10? p.a. New issue will have flat issuing costs of 1.3? of face
values, but no discount is expected.



Annex 11
Page 6
- 54 -
Face    Discount   Issue Cost          Interest
value     (I)          (2)        Period   Rate (2)    Date
1st Issue       15,000       7.00        1.30       2/25183    12.50    2/25/88
2/25/84    13.00
2/25/86    13.50
2nd             10,000       5.00        1.30       11/9/83    11.00    11/9187
7/4/84    13.00
11/9186    13.50
3rd             11,000 ,    1.50         1.80        714184    11.00      714/88
7/4/85    13.00
7/4187    13.50
4th             10,000       5.00        1.80      10/25/87    11.00   10/25/88
10125/85    13.00
10/25/87    13.50
5th              9,000       1.60        1.80      12/19/84    11.00   12/18/87
12119/85    13.00
6th             11,000       1.30        2.03       4/30185    11.00    4/30/89
4/30/86    13.00
4/30/88    13.50
7th              5,000       0           2.05       1/30/86    12.20    1/30/89
1/30/87    12.50
1/30/88    12.50
8th             5S000        0           2.05      11/20/86    11.40   11/20/89
11/20/87    11.40
New issues
9th (leasing)    3,000       0                                 11.40      1/1/90
10th            10,000       0                                 11.40      1/1/91
11th (leasing)   5,000       0                                 11.40      1/1/91
12th (leasing)   6,000       0                                 11.40      1/1/94
13th (leasing)   8,000       0                                 11.40      1/1/95
14th (leasing)  10,000       0                                 11.40      1/1/96



Annex 11
Page 7
- 55 -
3.       Bank loans:  The first Bank loan had a fixed-interest rate of 11.6X.
The interest rate on both second and third loans are projected to be 7.922
p.a.
4.       Other borrowings:
Local Currency            Foreign Currency
Interest                         102 p.a.                    8  p.a.
Maturity                         10 years                     7 years
Grace period                      5 years                     2 years
Other borrowings in foreign currency will finance the foreign currency lease
operations.
5.       Equity:  No dividend payment has been assumed.  A flat stock issuing
cost of 0.58Z is assumed.
6.       The government interest rate support:  As a result of the 1986
reductions, only the following interest rate support mechanisms are in effect
now. It is expected that they will be eliminAted at the end of 1988, assuming
that KTDC will be privatized in 1989.
(a) Debentures (only applicable for the 1st - 6th issues)
Interest rate support - interest rate - lending rate +
(issuing cost + discount)/maturity
Debentures are used to finance only conventional loans. A base rate
(see C.1 above) is applied as a lending rate to calculate the support
amounts. For this purpose, the base rate is projected to be 10.6Z.
(b) lst Bank loan
Interest rate support - interest rate - lending rate + front end
fee/maturity.
A base rate on conventional loans of 11.252 is applied as a lending
rate to calculate the support amount.



Annex 11
Page 8
- 56 -
G. Provision for Losses
1.       Conventional loans:  1Z of disbursed amounts
2.       Conditional loans:  22
3.       Convertible bonds:  1S
4.       Factoring advances:  1S
H.  Depreciation/Amortization Rates (on straight line method)
1.       Front-end fee:  11 years (11 years for the 1st loan)
2.       Fixed assets:  10 years
3.       Bonds/stock issuing costs:  3 years
4.       Discount on bonds:  3-5 years
5.       Lease assetss  6 years
I. Others
1.       Cash and cash equivalent is projected to yield 12.5  p.a. return.
2.       Administrative expenses are based on the FY86 average expense per staff.
The average expenses per staff are projected to increase 52 p.a.
3.       Foreign exchange gains and losses are recorded in 1987.
4.       Taxes are calculated at a rate 40S of net income before taxes.



- 57 -
KelO                                       km 12
tlO iwinuw IEEllt NIIUt                               -
Ilk rimal   i ,1 7
PreW  mluow  Statmt 17-1991
Yens endin   ecer 31                        15N    19         156 7    13      1569    1996  11
IN"'
lm an LE Cnermd Loun
Inteest Inm                               6,115   ,172   11,131   12,378   12,751   12.69"  12,03
Cmdatrmfees                                1is        7       6        p        81       79 
Intrt Sqort on  emktes                    2,061    2,106    2,511    1.051       0        0       0
STotal                                    3,281   11,318  13,155   13,S63   12,632   12,m   12,m
Inc    on FC Cn tuiu  Loon
Interest Icm                              4,388    7,18    7,621    7,992    8,162    8,175   7,122
itne ot re                                  141      116      Ice      79       61       SI      3
6oL's Interest  te Siport                 1,232      173      100      160       0        0       0
Su  TOlW                                  5,761    8,087   7,910   8,230   8,529    9,529  7,957
Royalty on Conditien Lowas                   17       200      331     633      960      909  1,293
law  oa Elipty Inuestret
Interest on Conurtible lno                  291      00      082   1,113   2,319    3,t0I  t,677
Dividend epa ty 9res                          1        7       31       5      302      t75    789
Cltal 6hn on Saes of Equity                   0        0       0        0        0      170    333
Sub ToW                                     292    417       862    1,       2,651    4,953  5,799
Lsem  Ral                                      0        0       63   1,743    3,929   6,773  10,160
Interet on ractoriq ldmes                     0        0     15t      322      350      378    t06
Intrest a Depositsush                      3,1886   3,960    3,53    1,21    1,223   1,106   1,4
Foreip Exch. Tration kins                  2,387   11,203    5,219      (0)      (0)      (0)    (O)
Othr Inmwe                                   225      163     163      163      163      163    163
Total Income                              20,996   35,376   32,018   27,535   35,632  35,116 10,215
Interat iensa
&werment Leons                              525      895    1,710    3,33t   1,961    5,m8   5,26
Debntres                                  7,552   9,m      9,899   6,075    3,164    2,850  2,166
131 Loas                                  4,295    7,766    6,966    6,900   7,192   7,210   6,869
Others-Locl Currency                          0        0       0        0      250      750  2,010
-roreip Cuwrmc                                           0       10      196      t26    6X
Sub loW                                  12,372   17,931   18,565   16,358   16,052   16,71t 17,151
Cwittot Fea on lI   Low                      355      239     129      191      227      128      t7
Oqwciation and hrtizatimA                  1,181    1,166    1,167   1,608   2,731   4t,39   6,829
l*diAdstratiop Eese                        1,711   2,326    2,655    3,012    3,      31,096   4,38
Provision frLosses                           641       32     718      a        825      857    912
foreip Exch Translation Lmes               2,763   11,732    5,026      (0)      (0)      (0)    (0)
Uite-off of Red Debts                        130        0      125     151      216      311    526
OtlterEens                                   110       9O      99      109      120      132    115
lota Exenses                              19,376  36,519   20,381   22,297   23,669   26,537 29,995
Ikt Inme before Tax                        1,620   1,857    3,634    5,287    6,963   8,609 10,220
Taes                                         260     362   1,159    2,115    2,785    3,11    4,U8
Net Incme after Tax                        1,360    1,995    2,160    3,172    1,179    S,166  6,132
PriorYerl djustrent                           So       e1       0        0        0        0       0
Increae in Retained Earnings               1,110    1,S76    2,110    3,172    4,178    5,166  6,132



- 58 -
I          O RIE I A                           h      12
eted hm   eSt 19g 7-1991
(go million)
Vwrs  ndiing Oc_ir 31                     1965    19 17    111    159                15    1991
dandt aCq uvlent                      26,137   21.257  10,252   9,765  11.905   11,552  9.626
Interot Ienulrss                        2,44    3,119   4,504   S,011    5,568   6,346  7,214
-Fr.f  Lose s          (20)    (32)    (32)    (32)    (32)    (32)   (32)
-At                  2,12    3,36?   1,72   5,009   5,536   6,314  7,182
Curnt eset                              30,561  31,614,724   11,7"   17,14    17,865  16,810
C     *ONIl Loa
Loa  Wrec                              72,414  91,415  107,402 117,648 118,185  116,5956120,467
!*r. for Le               (724)   (5S0) (1,058) (1,552) (2,011) (2,473) (2,983)
-MIt                    71,690  90,02S  106,31  116,0%  116,411  114,125117,183
Fg'eip   rnCy-Gr                       43,256  67,069  66,977  75,455   79,348  77,340 68,462
-Pr.  for Loss            (432)   (510)   (660)   (912)   (975) (1,119) (1,211)
-let                    42,824  66,529  68,218  74,643  78,373  76,221  67,2SO
total          -Gross                 115,670 158,484  176,279 193,103  197,833  193,938 13,928
-r. for Lossms          (1,156) (1,130) (1,718) (2,364) (2,989) (3,592) (4.194)
-et                    114,51  157,354 1?4,561  150,739 191,84  150,346 184,734
Conditional LOW
Locd Curreny  -rs                       2,382   3,730   S,619   8,702   12,520  17,009 21,905
-Prou. for Losss           (47)    (7)   (129)   (210)   (315)   (450)  (616)
-let                     2,335   3,656   S,SS    8,492  12,20S  16,5S9 21,20
erwip Curruncy-Iros                       292      m        9 1 5 156       156      156    156
-Prov. for Lose             (6)     (6)      (6)      (6)     (6)      (6)    (6)
-lt                        256     267      188      150     150      150    150
total    d      G0os                    2,674   4,003    S,872   8,858   12,676  17,165  22,061
-Prov. for Lo              (53)    (80)   (135)   (216)   (321)   (456)  (621)
-liit                    2,621    3,923   s,m      9,642  12,35S  16,709 21,440
Eqity Imestnts
LC Covetle  onds-Gross                  2,100   4,700   9,824  16,728  24,480  35,298 46,759
rovAion                (21)    (4)    (96)   (166)   (259)   (377)  (519)
-Ikt                 2,376   4,657    9,728  16,562  21,229  34,921  46,239
Loal  urrcy Equity Sbas                 1,698   6,377   9,4S3  12,351   16,131   20,861  26,545
Total                                   4,074   11,034  19,102  29,913  40,360  5S,782  72,784
ratoring   ms-6roms                                       2,200   2,400   2,600   2,800  3,000
-Provision                                 (22)    (24)    (26)    (28)   (30)
-het                                     2,171   2,376   2,574   2,772  2,970
Leas Equpment-6res                                        1,000    6,99   15,890   27,438 42,503
-cm.  eOrecIation                            (150) (1,199) (3,581) (7,697)(14,072)
Ikt                                           950   5,716   12,299  19,?41  28,430
fixe  Wets -ross                           433     511      744      997   1,275   I,581   1,919
-Accum.  Depreciation        (160)   (219)   (301)   (409)   (545)   (1    (911)
-let                          273     295      443     599      731     67  1,008
frcnt-e   ues-6ros                         653     653      653      653     653      653    653
-kicmi. DralRtio             (152)   (282)   (252)   (313)   (374)   (435)  (496)
- Net                      501     451               310     279      218    157
Ofwred  aws  - Gross                     1,895   2,1U2   2,224   2,561    2,713   2,906  3,140
- ACI. Dsp.             (1,433) (1,863) (2,081) (2,303) (2,500) (2,596) (2,799)
-h t                       462     259      143      258     213      310    351
Oier  ssets                              2,372   2,70     2,707   2,707   2,70      2,707  2,707
~~~~~~~~.                      _ .......  _.__ .......................  .. ......  -. -- . ----
TOTAL 95505                            1SS,678 207,667 220,925  255,1S2 2093,02 307,321 331,390
_ass    sas      55"    sa*&    sas        sa   sas



- 59 -
&Mrx 12
Pape 3
VCTIR.                       fOIKS?
Years eing Ocier 31                       156    1916    1957    196        190    1i5    1551
Current Liabilities
Current Portion of Lotern ODet              U  26,724   4,240  28,278  16,t20  31,192 16,269
Oter Current Liabilities                3,292   4,017   4,256   3,936   3,59   4,11  41,345
Total                                   3,292  36.741   46,530  32,216  20,170  35,372 20,614
Lng-tern Debt
Owrrouings fron 6o0emnt                11,000  21,000  40,00    0,45090 5555    5,5  91,050
Debentures                             65,164  75,756  60,323  36,591   24,000  29,011  24,U00
Bwrrmings from IWO                     48,304  69,538  68,165  75,474  62,556  62,6"  77,642
Others-Local Currency                       0       0       0        0   5,000  10,000 30,060
-foreip Currency                      0       0        O   1,200   3,700   6,60 10,420
Totu(Erouss)                          124,468 166,294  169,91  196,115 215,206 227,90t240,112
Less Current Portion                       0  26,724  44,240  28,278  16,202  31,192 16,269
Total(Uet)                            124,468 139,570  125,747 167,837 15,004  1f,712 223,9
Swm    Liabilities                         378     515     567      623     685      754    829
wranteeeposit onLase                         0       0       60     282     570      54S  1,434
Total Labilitie                        128,138 170,826 174,904 200,958 220,430 233,763 26,721
E-uity - Gumvent                         9,000  11,00 1 ,000  13,00   13,000  13,00  13,010
- Private                        18,477  24,202    ,202  34,202  35,202         4  4,202
Retained Earnnp                             63   1,639    ,819   6,552  11,170  16,335 22,167
Total Equity                            27,540  36,641    ,021   54,19t  63,372  73,537  4,669
TOTRL ULIUTISI a EWOTY                 155,678 207,667    ,925 255,152 283,602 307,321 331,390
_arm m m a rzm m                            a     am       aa       -      mma        a     r



-60 -
K0 I E A                                          ones 12
THIRD 1CllY EE M       OI PROlEtT                             -- ---
Page 
Projected Csh flow Stata,ets 1967-I991
.. -.-.-....---..-............                       (Uon milion)
OCTUL                        roueRCS;
Yers ending December 31                   1985    1966    I987    1998    1969    1990   1991   87-91
Net Incoe                                1,360   1,955    2,1E0   3,17Z   4,178   5,166  6,132  Z0,828
Depreciation ond Pmrtzatid n             1,181    1,166    1.067   1,609    2,7t4  4,439   6.829 16,729
roreign  ich. Trnslation  ains           (2,387) (11,203) (5,248)      0       0        0       0 (5,249)
foreip ECch,translation Losses            2,763  14,732    5,026      (0)      (0)     (0)    (0) 5,026
Other Ncah  Chirges 1/                     870      i8S     89t   1,007    1,104   1,266  I,SI   S,7,95
INIERS. CRSN  IKRATION               3,7M7   3,375   3,920   5,787   8,066  10,971  11,475  43,119
Equty   -oernment                        4,0B    2,000   2,W0         0       0        0       0  2,000
-Private                          643   s,72s 5,000  5s,00   s.000   5,000  5,000  25,000
-Sub lot                       4t,613   7,725   7,000   5,000   S,000   5,00   5,000  27,000
Borroangs-,Ermnent                       5,000  10,000   20,000  40,000  20,000         0       0 90,000
-Oeentw'es                     10,957  10,000   3,000  15,000   6,000   8,000  10,000  42,000
-IBRO                          18,604  12,101   11,669   14,000  13,860  12,400   9,200  61,128
-Others-Local Currencv              0       0        0       0   5,000   5,0   0,000  30,000
-foreign Currency            0       0        0   1,200   2,500    3,500  4,200  11,400
-Sub lotal                     34,461   32,101   34,068   70,200  47,360   28,900 43,400 224,528
Collections-LC Cvmtional Loan            9,457   29,395   30,845  39,159 4S,332  47,812  47,128 210,275
-rc Conventional Loan          2,796   4,971    S,122   9,641   12,474  16,294 18,171  60,702
-LC Conditionrl Loan             465     377      6t9     683   1,231    1,944   2,884  7,632
-c Conditional Loan                0       9       68      33        0        0      0    101
-LC Convertible Donds            213     4SO      !49      150   1,535      941  2,723   S,496
-LC Eqsty Shers                    0       2        0       0        0       85    167    252
-factoring Adances                 0       0        0 2,200    2,400   2.600  2,800  10,000
-Sub Total                    12,931   35,204  36,874  51,065  62,972   69,675 73,972 2914,4S
Inre    in CJrrent Liabilities          1,061      725     273    (352)       31     211    165    328
6rntee Oeposit on Le                         0        0      60      222     298      375    489   1,434
TOIRL SOWRS                             56,883  79,130  82,794  131,923  123,717  115,032 137,402 590,868
Disbursemnts
LC Conuetional Loan                    38,815  48,3%   46,832  49,404   46,169  41,925  50,996 23q,327
rc Conventional Loan                   17,823  14,578   11,957   15,219   16,368   14,285   9,293  67,120
LC Conditionol Loan                       770    ,725   2,750   4,050    S,250   6,750  8,250  27,050
LC Comertible Bonds                       950   2,750   5,274   7,056   9,310   11,760  14,210 47,610
LC Equity Shres                          1,002   4,681    3,076   2,898    3,780   4,830   S,880  20,464
Leae                                        0        0   1,000   5,995   8,85  11,558  15,06'   503
factoring Advns                                           2,200   2,400   2,600   2,800   3,b0 
Sub total                               9,360  72,130  73,089  87,022  92,361   97,907 106,69  457,074
Repawpents of Borromings
60oerment                                   0        0     200      ISO      SOO     700  1,200 2,950
Debentures                                  0        0  19,000  36,500   21,000   3,0O0  15,000 914,5O
19R0                                        0   6,599    7,094   7,390   b,7?8   12,262  14,252  47,776
Others-foreign Currency                     0        0       0        0       0      240    740    980
Sub Total                                   0   5,599   26,294  44,240  28,278  16,202  31,192 146,206
Deferred Charges I front-end fee           429      227     102      337      152     193    234  1,018
Increse in fised Rssets                    222      161     230      263      278     306    337  1,404
lncrea  in Receivble                       757      97s   1,085      537     527      m       868  3,?95
Other Uses                                 299      218       0        0       0        0       0      0
....-. .. .-- .......--..-..---.. ....--.....-..--.,s ..   ....    ... ..-  ----    --- . ..   ----   ----
IOIRL USES                              61,067  79,310  100,800  132,389  121,597  115,385 139,325 609,497
INCREASI(EECtEASE) IN CSSH              (4,184)   (180) (18,005)   (466)  2,120    (353) (1,923)18,629)
I/Prov.for Losses * Seance La.4nrite-off



- 61 -
K O a E a                                    ........
INIRD TEIECIO   KEUENLNI PROWECI                          hp   5
Indicators IU-1991
inCuLm.                         rooEcust
. . . .. .... ........ ..............    ... .......  ... ..............................
Yewrs endng December 31                        1985      19       198w      1988     1989      1990    1991
.........................................    ....         ....    ----       ----             ....         .... .. .... .... ....
Percentage of RAvrage Total Rssets
I.bross Inco. a/                              13.8     13.2      12.4      11.     11.3     11.8    12.5
Z.inancial Expenses b/                       10.1     10.6       9.1      7.1       6.1      5.8      5.S
3.6ross Spreod(1-2)                            3.1      2.6       3.3      .14       5.2      6.1      7.1
1.10dinistration Expenses                      1.3       1.3      1.2       1.3      1.3       1.3     1,1
S.Provision for Losses                         0.5      0.0       0.3      0.3       0.3      0.3      0.3
6.1et Incom  before Taxes                      1.2       1.0      1.7      2,2       2.b      2.9      3.2
7.Iaxes                                        0.2      0.2       0.7      0.9       1.0      1.2      1.3
8.11tt income after lases                      1.0      0.8       1.0       1.3      1.6      1.7      1.9
Net Income as S of Overage Net Uerth            S.S      1.6       5.3      6.3       7.1      7.5      7.8
Spred on Awrage LE Conventwinl Loans
Incwow&g.LC Centionatl Loans(1) c/            11.34    13.S    13.84    12.05    10.87    10.87   10.78
fin.Expensesivg.L( Long-tern M      Mbts(Z)d/    '3.28    12.81    12.53   8.75      6.74     6.37    6.16
Spread(l)                                      1.Ob     1.04      1.30      3.30     1.13     1.19    1.61
Spreta on Average rc Conventlonal Loans
incone/ovg.fC Conventional Loans(t)           16.64    11.52    11l.      11.40    11.01    10.89   10.78
Vn.Expensesivg.T8160 florromings(l)          12.49    13.67    10.32      Q. l0     9.15     8.99    8.70
Spread(Z)                                      4.14     0.84      1.31      1.SI     1. Sb     1.89    2.08
Spread on Avg.Iotal Conventional Loans
Incone/OAg.lotal Convwntional Loans(S)       I.20    11.12    12U94    11.80    10.93    10.87   10.78
Fin.Expenses/Rvg.lotal Long-ter" Oebts(Z)   13.00    13.16    11.62        9.22      7.85     7.46    7.16
Spead(S)                                       2.20     0.96      1.33     2.58      3.07     3.42    3.62
Spread on AOg. Total Investnent Portfolio
InconerAug.lotal Inv.Portfolio(Z              14.78    13.55    12.20    11.72    11.7    11.81   12.31
fm.finp.eisRvg.lotal Long-term Oebts(2)   13.00    13.16    11.61          9.28      8.05     7.69    7.46
Spread()                                       1.78     0.39      0.59     2.4       3.42     4.13    4.85
PRO              WO1 PREAD U/0 INTEESI SI PPOR I
Spread on Average lE Conveitional Loans
Incone/g.LC Conventional Loansit)             10.77    11.28    11.28    11.08    10.87    10.87   10.78
Spread(?)                                     -2.5:   -1.53    -1.25        .32      1.13     4.49    1.61
Spred on Rverage fC Conventionl Loans
Incowie/Ag.rC Conventional Loans()            13.08    14.20    11.37    11.18    11.01    10.89   10.78
Spreod(Z)                                      0.59     0.53      1.05     1.29      1.56     1.89    2.08
Spread on Avg.Total Conentional Loans
Inconeifvg.lotal Conventional Loansui)        11.64    12.46.   11.32    11.12    10.93    10.87   10.78
Spread(?)                                     -1.36    -0.70    -0.30      1.90      3.07     3.42    3.62
Spread on Rvg.lotal Inveatnent Portfolio
lnconve0ug.Total Inv.Portfolio(Z)             11.42    12.01    10.76    11.16    11.47    11.d1   12.31
Sproad(W)                                     -1.58    -0.70    -0.85      1.88      3.42     4.13    1.85
fatal Debt/Equity Ratio                         .7       4.6       3.8      3.7       3.5      1.2     2.9
Long-term Debt/Equity Ratio                     4.5      4.5       2.7      3.11}    3.1        .7      2.6
---------I............. .............    ........ .......... . ----         ----.   .-         ---     . .... ..... . .... .....
a/lotal Income-Comitmnnt ree-foreign Excang  6ains            b/InterestKormitnent Feensmortization
c/Includes Ctmitnent fees,Interest Support d/Includes Rnortization,exclude debentures for lease



Annex 13
Page 1
-62 -
KOREA
THIRD TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Summary of Sensitivity Analysis
1.       A sensitivity analysis was conducted to focus on projecting KTDC's
dividend-payment capacity depending on different scenarios. Six scenarios
were developed based on combinations of assumptions of:
(a) an increase in the borrowing rate on government loans from 5.52 p.a.
to 7.02 p.a.;
(b) an increase in the lending rate on all conventional loans by 12 p.a.;
and
(c) an increase in failure rates for risk sharing financial instruments
(from 202 to 302 for conditional loans, from 52 to 102 for
convertible bonds, from 152 to 252 for straight shares).
2.       Sensitivities of these scenarios on KTDC's net income after tax,
average spread on all conventional loans and dividend-pay out ratio in 1991
are shown below: a 52 cash dividend is assumed for calculation.
KTDC's Net Income in 1991
Increased            Increased           Combination
government         conventional               of
loans rate           loans rates           (A) & (B)
(A)                  (B)
Increased failure
rates for              (a)  4,608           (a)  7,082            (a)  6,039
risk-sharing             (b)   2.89           (b)   4.62            (b)   3.89
instruments              (c)     67           (c)     44            (c)      52
No change in failure    (a)  5,164            (a)  7.637            (a)  6,594
rates                    (b)   2.89           (b)   4.62            (b)   3.89
(c)     60           (c)     41            (c)     47
Base case                (a)  6,132
(b)   3.62
(c)     51
(a) Net income (W billion)
(b) Average spread on all conventional loans (2)
(c) Pro forma dividend payout ratio (dividendlnet income)



Annex 13
Page 2
- 63 -
3.       It should be noted that the sensitivity on a change in failure rates
for risk-sharing instruments will be much smaller than those for changes in
interest rates. The analysis indicates that KTDC would be able to pay a 52
dividend with dividend-payout rates between 41-52? except the case where an
increase in government loans rate is not covered by an increase in interest
rates on conventional loans. With an increase in government loans interest
rate alone, the dividend-payout ratio would be too high to justify paying
dividends.



- 64 -
I O  R E A                         &M14
1IlR0 lEClblOlO6Y DWElORE11 PROJECT
Oisburst Schedle
I0Ro risca Year              Ccmitment                    Disburs.ewnt              Profile 1/
iurt    Ending        Wrterly        Cumulative    Quarterly      Cwulative       Disb.   I
rYa
larch 31,198             0.00           0.00          0.00           0.00          0.00   0.00
June 30,1988             3.50           3.50          5.00          5.DO           4.12   9.24
rye
5e.ot&er 30,1989         3.50          7.00           0.SO          5.5O           5.74  11.48
ec"br 31,1908            1.00          11.00          1.00          6.50           6.97  13.94
Ibrch 31,1989            4.00          15.00          2.50          9.00          12.39  21.79
June 30,1989             1.01D         19.00          3.00         12.00          12.39  24.78
MO
SeptenbIr 30,1989        4.00          23.00          3.50          15.50         16.57  33.14
Oaaber 31,1999           4.00          27.00          3.50         19.00          21.18  42.36
tarch 31,1990            3.75          30.75          4.00          23.00         23.35  46.70
June 30,1990             3.75          34.50          4.00         27.00          28.65  57.30
ml
Septeber 30,1990         3.75          38.25          4.00         31.00          33.28  66.56
Oeceiber 31,1990         3.75          42.00          3.50         34.50          35.98  71.96
tlrch 31,1551            3.00          45.00          3.00          37.50         38.68  77.36
June 30,1991             2.50          47.50          3.00         40.50          41.48  82.96
ns52
Septe&ber 30,1991        2.50          50.00          3.00         43.50         K4.28  88.56
Deceiber 31,1991                      50.00           2.50         46.00          47.08  94.16
Hhrch 31,1992                          S0.00          2.00         49.00          49.88  59.76
Jwue 30,1992                           50.00          2.00         50.00          50.00 100.00
1/ Actual and estimated disbursteents of the second project.



Annex 15
Page 1
- 65 -
KOREA
THIRD TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
KTDC - Operatinh Manual
Anproved at the Board of Director's Meeting on November 19. 1987
Chapter 1. General Provisions
Article 1.  Obiective.  The objective of this Operating Manual shall be
designed to stipulate basic matters related to the business of
investments and/or loans and other businesses of the Korea
Technology Development Corporation (hereinafter called sKTDCu)
whose object is to promote technological development of enter-
prises thereby contributing to the development of the national
economy through the improvement of the nation's industrial struc-
ture and the strength of international competitiveness.
Article 2. Scope of Business. The scope of business which is to be performed
by KTDC shall be as follows:
(1) Loans for in-house R&D costs and the cost of technological
development contracts with external research institutes;
(2) Investments and/or loans, investigation and arrangements
related to initial efforts for the commercialization of the
results of research and development;
(3) Loans for technology import, adoption and improvement of
imported technology;
(4) Loane for engineering costs associated with construction of
industrial facilities;
(5) Technical advisory services to the industrial enterprises with
respect to the business activities pursuant to the provisions
from item 1 through item 4 and/or technical feasibility
surveys for other R&D activities;
(6) Loans for procurement and installation of domestic R&D facili-
ties;
(7) Loans for invitation and utilization of foreign specialists
and technical advisers, and for training of R&D personnel
domestically and abroad;
(8) Investment in New Business Investment Partnership and/or the
other organizations and corporations related to other techno-
logical development, and operation and management of such
funds;
(9) Leasing for technological development and/or its conmerciali-
zation project promoted by the venture business entrepreneurs;
(10) Purchasing of accounts receivable attendant upon the transac-
tion of technological development products and other products
of the venture business entrepreneurs;
(11) Investigation and arrangement for the purpose of promoting the
development of technology;



Annex 15
Page 2
- 66 -
(12) The business in connection with technological development
committed by the Government, local self-governing body and
other public organizations, and the international institu-
tions; and
(13) Other business activities incidental to those stated in the
Provision of items 1 through 12.
Article 3. Priority to Qualified Industries. KTDC shall give high priority
to the following industries considering the overall technological
development policy of the Governments
(1) Industries contributing to the improvement of technology;
(2) Export industries;
(3) Import-substituting industries;
(4) Industries which contribute to development and utilization of
domestic resources and have a great potential for reducing the
use of imported resources; and
(5) Industries promoting international economic cooperation by
developing technologies.
Article 4. Priority to Small and hedium Sized Enterprises. KTDC shall
provide priority of financial supports to the small and medium
sized enterprises for the purpose of technological development of
such enterprises every year by a ratio determined by resolution of
the Board of Directors.
Article 5. Diversification of Assets
(1) KTDC shall diversify its assets in order to meet capital needs
of as many enterprises for development of technology as
possible, with not to extend excessive investments and/or
loans and other financial supports to one industrial field or
business group.
(2) KTDC shall not commit, in whatever form including investments
and/or loans, etc., to any single enterprise more than twenty
percent (20Z) of KTDC's paid-in share capital and free
reserves.
(3) In undertaking large size projects or the projects which are
regarded important by policy, KTDC shall seek cooperation with
other financial institutions, both domestic and foreign.
Chapter 2. Types and Methods of Business
Section 1. Business of Investments and/or Loans
Article 6. Types of Financing. Financing activities shall be done as
following items:
(1) Technology development loans;
(2) Conditional loans; and
(3) Equity investments.



Annex 15
Page 3
- 67 -
Article 7.  Definition of Technology Development Loans.  Technology develop-
ment loans mean a financing scheme to be repaid on interest and
principal according to the contracted period after financing.
Article 8.  Definition of Conditional Loans.  Conditional loans mean a financ-
ing scheme to be repaid through royalty payments from sales
revenues instead of repayment on interest and principal while the
minimum royalty, defined in the Principle of Handling investments
and/or Loans, shall be repaid with exemption from the repayment on
its loans when the proposed project falls into failure.
Article 9.  Definition of Eauity Investments.  Equity investments mean the
subscription of shares (including convertible debentures and
debentures with warrant) and/or securities in kind issued by the
investee company.
Article 10. Financing Assistance Ratio.  The financing assistance ratio of the
total project cost for the proposed project shall be applied as
following items:
(1) Not exceeding ninety percent (902) of local currency and one
hundred percent (1002) of foreign currency for technology
development loans;
(2) Not exceeding seventy percent (70?) of local and foreign
currency irrespectively for conditional loans; and
(3) For equity investments, KTDC shall not purchase more than
fifty percent (502) of the voting stocks and/or capital stocks
issued by investee enterprises except the venture enterprises
Who shall be needed to be managed by KTDC in complete.
Article 11. Restriction on Enterprises. KTDC shall not, in principle, invest
in enterprises where foreigners hold more than fifty percent (502)
of the voting stocks or capital stocks except in exceptional and
meritorious cases with the special approval of the Board of
Directors.
Article 12. Basis of Selectint Financing Assistance.  KTDC shall make its
decision on its financial assistance by the basis of contributions
of the project to the technologibal development, as a main basis,
together with the broad considerations on feasibility and quali-
fication of management etc.
Article 13. Exposure Limits of Financing. The exposure limits of financing
shall be applied as following items:
(1) KTDC shall extend investments and/or loans to a single project
for more than 500,000,000 Won in exceptional cases with the
specific approval by the Board of Directors; and
(2) KTDC shall extend financial exposure more than 102 of KTDC's
paid-in capital and free reserves in the form of equity
investment in any single enterprise in exceptional cases with
the specific approval by the Board of Directors.



Annex 15
Page 4
- 68 -
Article 14. Financing Period
(1) The period of technology development loans shall not exceed
ten (10) years from the date of initial disbursement made.
(2) The grace period may be placed within three years in the
period state in the provision of item 1.
(3) The royalty repayment period of conditional loans, in
principle, shall be equal to the life cycle of the proposed
products and it also shall be determined independently by the
nature of the project.
Article 15. Interest and Fee Rate on Technoloxa Development Loans. Interest
rate, management fee and commitment charge on the technology deve-
lopment loans shall be determined as prescribed in the Principle
on Handling InvestmeLts and/or Loans within the range of the
following items:
(1) Interest rate of local currencys More than or equal to ten
percent (102) and less than or equal to twenty percent (20S)
per annum, and this range shall be subjected to change upon
its changes related to the article 4 of the Enforcement Decree
of the Korea Technology Development Corporation Act;
(2) Interest rate of foreign currency: Less than or equal to five
percent (5Z) over the KTDC's borrowing rate;
(3) Management fee: Less than or equal to five percent (5S) per
annum;
(4) Commitment charge: Less than or equal to two percent (2Z) per
amnum; and
(5) Interest rate on defaults Less than or equal to the maximum
interest rate on the loan pursuant to the Interest Restriction
Law in Korea.
Article 16. The Princival Withdrawal and Interest Collection Scheme on
Technologv Development Loans. The principal withdrawal and
interest collection scheme on technology development loans shall
be determined as prescribed in the Principle on Handling
Investments and/or Loans.
Article 17. Basis for Royalty Imposition. Royalty Rate and Minimum Royalty and
so on. Basis for royalty imposition, royalty rate, minimum
royalty, and other related measures on conditional loans shall be
determined as prescribed in the Principle on Handling Investments
and/or Loans.
Article 18. Interest Rate of Debentures. Interest rate on debentures shall be
determined as prescribed in the Principle on Handling Investments
and/or Loans within the five percent (5) over the local
currency's interest rate on technology development loans.



Annex 15
Page 5
-69 -
Section 2. Leasing
Article 19. Definition. 'Leasing, shall be the Material Financing which means
that a leasing company may, by way of newly acquiring or leasing
the specified objects selected by lessees, allow them to utilize
such objects without any direct responsibilities of maintenance
and management of them for the fixed period, and shall receive a
payment by installments periodically through that period as the
fixed price thereof. And it also means that there shall be a
mutual agreement between the parties regarding the disposal of the
objects after the end of that period.
Article 20. Restriction on Lessees. KTDC shall restrict the lessees according
to the provisions prescribed in the related laws.
Article 21. Period. The period of leasing shall be, in the case of an object
whose legally useful life as set forth in the Corporation Tax Law
according to the specified objects is less than or equal to five
years, a period equivalent to seventy percent (702) of such life
and in the case of an object whose legally useful life concerned
is more than five years, a period equivalent to sixty percent
(602) of such useful life, according to a mutual agreement between
the parties considering the quality and economically useful life
of the object.
Article 22. Security Deposit. In principle, KTDC shall receive in cash for
the security deposit which cannot exceed five percent (5X) of
acquisition cost of the specified objects at the time of signing
on lease agreement.
Article 23. Acauisition Cost of Specified Obiects. The acquisition cost of
the specified objects which is to be a calculation factor of lease
payments shall be the total of the following costs stated as below
directly required by KTDC to obtain the specified objects:
(1) The price ex work or the import price;
(2) Costs required to open an import letter of credit;
(3) National taxes, local taxes and customs duties;
(4) Warehouse charges and wharfages;
(5) Costs of loading, unloading, transportation and delivery;
(6) Taxes, public charges and insurance premiums;
(7) Trade agents' fees and customs clearance fees;
(8) Interests which accrue on the amount paid before the commence-
ment of the period of the leasing to obtain the specified
objects. In this event, the interest rate shall not exceed
the interest rate on general loans of Banking Institutions;
and
(9) Other expenses actually borne by KTDC.
Article 24. Determination of Interest Rate on Leasing. KTDC shall determine
the interest rate per annum on leasing, considering the market
environment and lessee's credit status, within the upper limit
prescribed in the Article 25.



Annex 15
Page 6
- 70 -
Article 25. Upper Limit of Interest Rate on Leasing. The interest rate per
annum for the calculation of interest added in computing the lease
payments should not exceed the maximum of five percent (OX) over
the following basic interest rates
(1) The interest rates on guaranteed corporate debentures for
local currency funds;
(2) Standard international interest rate as is decided by the
Minister of Finance for foreign currency funds; and
(3) The interest rate applied to KTDC at the time of leasing from
overseas for leases of specified objects which are leased from
overseas.
Article 26. Calculation Method for Lease Payment. The lease payments shall be
calculated by means of multiplying the acquisition cost of rele-
vant specified objects pursuant to the Article 23 by the rate
(percent) prescribed in the Principle on Handling Leasing.
Article 27. Indemnity for Delay. The indemnity for delay against lessee's
default of obligations which may occur in agreements of leasing
shall be determined by the parties pursuant to the Principle on
Handling Leasing within the maximum interest rate on the loan
applied to the Interest Restriction Law.
Section 3. Factoring
Article 28. Definition. 'Factoring' means purchase, management and withdrawal
activities of accounts receivable for enterprises together with
factoring advance for accounts receivable and other relevant sub-
sequent activities.
Article 29. Restriction on Enterprises. KTDC shall restrict enterprises
according to the provisions prescribed in the related laws.
Article 30. Scone of Business. The scope of business shall be as following
items:
(1) Purchase, management and withdrawal activities of accounts
receivable;
(2) Factoring advance; and
(3) Other business activities incidental to those state in the
provisions of items 1 and 2.
Article 31. Period. In principle, the contract period of factoring shall be
one year, but it can be extended unless there is a special reason.
Article 32. Fee. KTDC shall receive the factoring fee within five percent
(5Z) per annum prescribed in the Principle on Handling Factoring
for the activities in the provisions of item 1 and item 3 in
Article 30.



Annex 15
Page 7
- 71 -
Article 33. Interest Rate. Interest rate on the business defined in the
provision of item 2 in article 30 shall be determined as
prescribed in the Principle on Handling Factoring by applying the
item 1 in article 15.
Section 4. Activities of the New Business Investment Partnership
Article 34. Definition. 'The activities of the New Business Investment
Partnership (hereinafter called 'Partnership")' means that KTDC,
as the executive partner, shall manage and operate the
Partnership's assets as well as establishment of the Partnership
by co-contribution from the KTDC and other persons/companies for
the purpose of investment in the new business entrepreneurs.
Article 35. Matters necessary for organization. KTDC shall establish the
Partnership according to the following items:
(1) Total amount of contribution: More than or equal to
1,000,000,000 Won;
(2) Number of partners: More than or equal to five (5)
personsIcompanies;
(3) Amount of one account: More than or equal to 1,000,000 Won;
(4) Limit of KTDC's contribution: Less than or equal to fifty
percent (50Z) of the total amount of contribution; and
(5) Term of existence: Within ten (10) years, but the term of
existence shall be extended according to the Partnership
Agreement.
Article 36. Business Plan of Partnership. The Business Plan, including
sutuary of business, matters necessary for organization, invest-
ment policy and distribution policy on the assets of Partnership,
shall be drawn up in case of having a desire of establishing the
Partnership.
Article 37. Operation and Management of the Assets of Partnership.
(1) The assets of Partnership shall be invested in stocks, conver-
tible debentures and debentures with warrant or securities in
kind issued by the promising small and medium sized enter-
prises, while KTDC, as the executive partner, shall operate
non-invested assets of partnership with a full power by
purchasing and/or deposit to any other marketable securities
except investment stocks.
(2) In principle, Partnership shall not extend investments over
than twenty percent (20?) of the total amount of contribution
to a single enterprise and shall not extend more than fifty
percent (50?) of the voting stocks or capital stocks issued by
the investee enterprises.
Article 38. Accountina
(1) The accounting of Partnership shall be maintained indepen-
dently by a single unit of each Partnership separately from
KTDC's accounttno.



Annex 15
Page 8
- 72 -
(2) The fiscal year of Partnership shall be determined as
prescribed in the Partnership Agreement.
Article 39. ExDenses and Remuneration
(1) The main expenses and management remuneration accrued by the
activities of Partnership shall be charged to Partnership's
account.
(2) Management remuneration shall be determined within the limits
of three percent (32) of Partnership's assets.
(3) KTDC, the executive partner, shall receive its successful
revenues within the limits of twenty percent (202) of the
investment revenues of Partnership, and KTDC may pay a speci-
fied amount as a benefit of efforts to management staffs
and/or staffs who have contributed to creation of the revenues
within the limits of fifty percent (502) of the stated
successful revenues.
Section 5. Consultancy Services
Article 40. TyDes of Services. KTDC shall bear the following services:
(1) Consulting services for commercialization of the R&D results;
(2) Advisory services for management, financing and technology;
(3) Brokerage services and feasibility studies for technology;
(4) Studies and brokerage services for technology promotion; and
(5) Other services incidental to those stated in the provisions of
items 1 through 4.
Article 41. Service Fee.
(1) The Service fee shall be determined in the related principle
or existing agreement by considering its types, time required
and expenses.
(2) KTDC shall exempt the service fee for consultancy services
related to the financial assistance such as investments and/or
loans and other relative activities thereon.
Chapter 3. Fund Raising
Article 42. Fund Raising. KTDC shall raise its funds by the following items:
(1) Paid-in share capital, reserves and retained earnings;
(2) Loans from the Government, all kinds of Funds, domestic and
foreign banking institutions, foreign governments and inter-
national institutions; and
(3) Issuing debentures.
Article 43. Limit of Borrowings. The Total borrowings of KTDC shall not
exceed twenty (20) times of its net worth, but the liabilities
guaranteed by the Government and other banking institutions shall
not be included in the limit.



Annex 15
Page 9
- 73 -
Article 44. Limit of Issuing Debentures. KTDC may issue debentures within the
limits of five (5) times of the aggregate amount of paid-in share
capital and the reserves.
Chapter 4. Miscellaneous
Article 45. Relationship with Financed Enterprises
(1, KTDC shall take suitable measures to obtain adequate security
and, at the same time, have the borrowers ke o records and
accounts in accordance with sound accounting practices, and
shall take the right to inspect the enterprises it finances as
well as their operations and accounts.
(2) KTDC shall maintain confidentiality of informations and shall
not disclose business secrets and/or other informations beyond
the purposes, furnished by the applicants or clients in the
course of undertaking its activities, by considering KTDC's
distinctive characteristics of operation.
Article 46. AccountinA.
(1) KTDC shall keep accounting records which reflect KTDC's opera-
tion in accordance with the generally accepted accounting
practices and standards adequately.
(2) KTDC shall execute the accounting audit by receiving the
services of the external qualified certified public accoun-
tants annually.
Article 47. Revenues and Their Distribution.
(1) KTDC shall seek to develop earnings sufficient to cover
expenses and taxes, to provide reserves adequate to the size
and risks of its assets and to protect its equity against
erosion and to pay satisfactory dividends within the limits
provided by the laws related to KTDC.
(2) KTDC shall build and maintain reserves including statutory
reserves etc., and shall also accumulate other reserves as
considered prudent by the Board of Directors.
Article 48. FosterinQ of Employees.
(1) KTDC shall build up a technically qualified staff capable of
carrying the responsibilities which KTDC's objectives create,
and able to provide the services to clients for which those
objectives apply.
(2) The employees shall not be reprimanded for the results of the
tasks carried out except by deliberate actions or by serious
negligence.
Addendum
(1) ERiective Date. This operating manual shall come into force
on the day of November 19, 1987.



Annex 16
Page 1
- 74 -
KOREA
THIRD TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
KTDC - Rules on Lending and Equity Participation
Chapter I - General Provisions
Article 1 (Purpose)
The purpose of the Rules is to provide the terms and conditions of
loans and equity investments and the appraisal and approval
procedures thereon.
Article 2 (Principles of application)
1)   Lending and equity participation shall be conducted pursuant to the
provisions of the Rules.
2)   The provisions of the KTDC Act, the Presidential Decree thereof, the
Articles of Incorporation and the Statement of Investment and
Operational Policies shall prevail over the provisions of the Rules
when the former provisions are in conflict with the latter ones.
3)   The application of the Rules may be waived when there is a special
decision to the contrary of the Executive Directors' Committee.
Article 3 (Eligible projects)
Projects eligible for KTDC financing are as follows:
a.   Research for the development of a new product or the improvement of
an existing product.
b.   Commercialization of the results of R&D.
c.   Technology import and technical training.
d.   The improvement of the manufacturing process and the engineering for
the construction of plants, etc.
e.   Purchase of equipment and materials for research activities.
f.   Other technology development projects.
Article 4 (Limitation of financing)
Following applicants shall not be eligible for KTDC financing.
a.  A foreign-investment company. However, a foreign-invested company
with foreign interests of less than 50 may be eligible if the
nrni -t morvtt  fin ncr4na.



Annex 16
Page 2
- 75 -
b.   Those on the black list (Red or Yellow classified) of the banking
group.
Article 5 (Forms of financing)
Financing shall be extended in one the following forms.
a.   Conventional loan
b.   Conditional loan
c.   Equity investment
d. Mixture of the above forms
Article 6 (Financing ratio)
The ratio of financing to the project cost shall be as follows, provided
that, in case of purchasing domestic equipment and materials by the IBRD
loan, the ratio shall not exceed 602 of purchasing cost;
a.   Conventional loan:  up to 902 in local currency and up to  OOS in
foreign currency.
b.   Conditional loan:
(1) Up to 702 regardless of local or foreign currency to an existing
company.
(2) Up to 302 regardless of local or foreign currency to a new
company.
c.   Equity investments
In principle, KTDC's share of equity participation in a new project
which needs close follow-up operation shall be more than 50Z,
provided that the same shall not be applied when the project does not
need close follow-up or when KTDC cannot be a major shareholder in
the nature of the project.
Article 6-2 (Use of fund)
Foreign currency loan shall be used for the project costs prescribed in
Article 3 (eligible projects) and shall not be used for the following
expenditures;
a.   The expenditures made more than 90 days prior to the date on which
IBRD shall have received the application for approval of the project
or the request or authorization to make withdrawals.
b.   The expenditures on goods and services which are not manufactured in
or procured from the member countries of IBRD and Switzerland.



Annex 16
Page 3
- 76 -
c.   The incidental cost to importing goods and services including customs
and other duties.
Article 7 (Financing Criteria)
General criteria in lending and equity participation shall be as follows:
a.   Feasibility of the project
b.   The possibility of commercialization of the outcome of the project
c.   Capability of the applicant in terms of funding, technology and
management.
Chapter II - APpraisal and Approval Procedures
Article 8 (Appraisal procedure)
Appraisal procedures shall be divided into the preliminary appraisal and
the main appraisal.
Article 9 (Preliminary appraisal)
The purpose of the preliminary appraisal shall be to determine the basic
eligibility of the project for financing and the decision shall be made
with the approval of the Director in charge.
Article 10 (Main appraisal)
1)   The Application for Financing shall be received for only those
projects that have been found eligible through the preliminary
appraisal. The Application shall contain detailed project
description and other necessary documents.
2)   A Loan Appraisal Report shall be prepared for those projects that
have been found viable in every respect.
3)   In case of foreign currency loans, the Appraisal Report in English
shall be presented to IBRD after the approval pursuant to the Rules.
However, a summary of the Appraisal Report in English together with a
request for authorization to make withdrawals shall be presented to
IBRD when the amount of a subloan or an investment is within the
free-limit.
Article 11 (Approval and Notice)
Vhen the approval has been obtained for a project pursuant to the approval
procedures stipulated in relevant provisions, the application shall be
given the Notice of Approval so that he can take the contracting
procedures.



Annex 17
Page 1
- ~71 -
KOREA
THIRD TECHNOLOGY DEVFLOPMENT PROJECT
KTDC - Institutional Policy Statement
(To be adopted by KTDC)
I. Backaround
Given the dynamic nature of industrial technology development activi-
ties, it is essential for the institution to reviero policy and institutional
environment continuously. In the years ahead, KT!YG will have to face a
changing regulatory, policy, economic and financi&.  environment, and accord-
ingly, its policies and strategy for adjusting to t.hese changes must be care-
fully formulated. This document is intended as a statement of policy as well
as a strategy, by which KTDC can, inter alia, deat with this new and changing
environment. The following changing circumstances are expected to have a
substantial impact on KTDC's future operations.
A.  The Small and Medium Industry Inauauration Assistance and Venture Business
Financial Support Acts
The former Act, promulgated in May 1986, aims at promoting the estab-
lishment of new small and medium sized firms (SMI), especially in rural areas.
Under the Act, 15 new venture capital companies including KTDC's subsidiary,
KTIC, have been established. These companies will concentrate on financing
newly established SMIs. The latter Act was enacted in December 1986 to
promote the use of new financial instruments, such as leases, factoring and
limited partnership venture funds, by venture capital companies as well as to
ensure new sources of financing for them. Four existing venture capital
companies including KTDC have been registered under this Act. As a result of
these Acts, KTDC must face increased competition. At the same time, the two
Acts open new avenues for the expansion of- KTZC's activities. Despite an
increase in the number of venture capital companies, KTDC is unique, compared
with other companies, in that it finances all stages of the technology
development process and offers a range of financial instruments to its
clients.
B. Amendment of Anti-Trust and Fair Trade Act
The Act was revised in December 1986 so that the total of equity
investments by a subsidiary belonging to selected large industrial groups are
riot allowed to exceed 40? of its net worth. While the extent to which this
amendment will affect KTDC is still not clear, the new regulations are likely
to cause constraints for these large group companies to subscribe in new stock
:qsues by KTDC in the future.
C. Privatization of Public Sector Companies
The Government plans to privatize or reorganize a number of public
sector companies within three years. According to the current action program,
the Government plans to sell its interest in KTDC by end-1989.



Annex 17
Page 2
- 78 -
D. Liberalization of the Financial Sector
The liberalization of the financial sector is progressing rapidly in
line with the growth of the Korean economy. Steps taken (or to be taken) by
the GLternment which are considered to have an impact on KTDC's future activi-
ties include: (a) gradual decontrol of interest rates; (b) reduction of
directed credit; (c) commercial bank liberalization; (d) development of equity
markets, in particular, the establishment of the over-the-counter (OTC) market
in April 1987; and (e) the internationalization of the capital market through
reduced restrictions on foreign investment in Korea. In addition, in line
with its policy of financial and capital liberalization, it appears that the
Government is gradually reducing interest rate subsidies and, eventually,
lending to institutions like KTDC>
II. INSTITUTIONAL POLICIES
KTDC will be guided by the institutional policies set forth below so
that it can continue to contribute to Korea's industrial technology develop-
ment by adjusting its strategy to the changing circumstances.
A. Reinforcement of its Role
KTDC will continue to concentrate its activities on promoting the
development of industrial technology, especially for SMIs. To achieve this
goal, KTDC will seek to ensure that the relevant provisions of its Article of
Incorporation, Operating Manual and Rules on Lending and Equity Participation
will remain unchanged.
B. Expansion of Business Scope
(a) KTDC will continue to increase the weight of risk-sharing finan-
cial instruments (conditional loans and equity investments) by fully utilizing
its accumulated experience in venture financing, unparalleled by other finan-
cial institutions in Korea. In particular, KTDC will endeavor to strengthen
its equity investment operations by taking advantage of: (i) the above two
Acts through limited partnership vent-re fund operations and KTIC and (ii) the
OTC market, through realizing capital gains on its portfolio.
(b) KTDC will engage in leasing operations related to industrial
technology development projects. KTDC will expand leasing and factoring
operations gradually so that the speed and volume of the expansion are manage-
able.
(c) KTDC will strengthen its intermediary role in promoting techno-
logy transfer from and to other countries, especially technology import from
advanced countries and technology export from Korea to development countries.
KTDC recognizes that such activities will become more crucial as the Korean
economy attracts more overseas investors and Korea companies' technological
base improves.



Annex 17
Page 3
- 79 -
(d) By expanding its business scope, KTDC will aim to provide 3one-
stop" integrated financial services to its clients. Through expansion of
various financial services, KTDC will not only pursue more efficient services
to its clients, but also will meet the diverse needs of its clients.
C. Strategy Vis-a-Vis Increased Competition
KTDC will endeavor to complement other venture capital companies
rather than compete with them, though competition cai'ot be avoided
completely. This can be accomplished, because KTDC finances all stages of
technology development by offering various types of financial instruments,
while other venture capital companies tend to concentrate on certain types of
investment projects not necessarily with technology content and with limited
variety of financial instruments.
D. Expansion of the Bases for Resource Mobilization
(a) In view of the coming divestiture by the Government and Amendment
of the Anti-Trust Act, KTDC plans to raise additional capital as much as
possible from SMIs and large corporations which are not restricted by the
amended Anti-Trust Act by taking advantage of the technology development
reserves incentive. At the same time, KTDC will invite foreign financial
institutions, in addition to the Asian Development Bank, as shareholders as
the capital market liberalization proceeds. In addition, KTDC will mobilize
local funds as much as possible for limited partnership venture funds which
will be used to equity investments.
(b) While KTDC intends to borrow from the Government as much as
possible until the divestiture takes place, it will endeavor to diversify its
financial resources. As the capital market liberalization proceeds and KTDC's
credibility is established, KTDC will plan to mobilize more resources both in
local and foreign capital markets mainly through issuing debentures and
borrowings.  KTDC will plan to start to issue debentures without Government
guarantees in 1988 so that its resource mobilization capabilities will be
strengthened even before the divestiture by the Government.
E. Profitability
KTDC recognizes that improved profitability will be a key to mobiliz-
ing private and foreign financial resources and to increasing the weight of
risk-sharing financial instruments involving risk projects after the divesti-
ture. Accordingly, KTDC will seek to ensure profitability sufficient to cover
expenses and taxes, to provide reserves adequate to the size and risks of its
portfolio, to protect its equity against erosion and to pay satisfactory divi-
dends after the divestiture by the Government. To achieve this goal, while
seeking to be competitive in the financial market, it will also aim to ensure
that it obtains on average adequate spreads on conventional loans and to
improve returns on conditional loans and equity investments through
strengthening its follow-up of projects involving such risk-sharing
instruments.



Annex 17
Page 4
- 80 -
F. Avvraisal/Suvervision
Given the challenge of increasing the weight of risk-sharing instru-
ments and of SMI clients, particularly new clients, vhile ensuring reasonable
profitability, KTDC will continue to strengthen its appraisal and supervision
capabilities in order to maintain the quality of its portfolio as well as to
provide substantive assistance to its clients. In the future, KTDC will
endeavor to improve its supervision system for projects generally, but
particularly for risk-sharing instruments.
G.  Staffina
To further enhance its appraisal capabilities, KTDC will continue to
recruit a reasonable number of experienced staff in addition to recent univer-
sity graduates and will seek to increase the weight of appraisal staff in its
total professional staff.
H. Office Networks
Given its current limited management resources and financial condi-
tions, KTDC will consider, if necessary, further expansion of its office net-
work carefully after reviewing the initial performance of its Pusan, Kwangju
and Silicon Valley offices.



ANNEX 18
- 81 -
KOREA
THIRD TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Proiect File
A.   KTDC - Roster of Shareholders
B.   Korea Technology Development Act and Enforcement Decree
C.   KTDC - Articles of Incorporation
D.   'Introduction to Science and Technology, Republic of Korea, 1986',
MOST
E.   Small and Hedium Industry Inauguration Assistance Act
F.   Venture Business Financial Support Act
G.   'A Study on the Effect of KTDC's Financing Activities', KAIST,
February 1986



MAP SECTION
I
I
i
i
I
I
I
I
I



IBRD 20234
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .                         ,                      .                      I 
'% USSR                                                   28                     21                      131*
t - __DEMOCRATIC  PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC                       1
CH INA    S                                  OF KOREA                         -
J  ,,   /-3   ULLUNG DO
PEI u KREA                                                                                     -7t                 '3;
;CA     JAPAN               PImun                         %\                                                   3' 
.                      '.                                                               S.Ic_  d
12S-                . 6          I____3K       G  I
37.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3-
~~~~~~                W0~~~~~~~~~~~~
-36
.CON                                  4  KYONGStNBK
3e
g {CH~~OLLXN1"ABU
-35.
<                         ~~~~REPUBLIC OF KOREA
Primary Roads
-                                                 -*-----  Railroads    C      o
_34.                                     s >                                         --   Railroads Under Construstion
Rivers
44    Airports
Special Cities
- --  Province Boundaries
Chow u                                             - -  International Boundaries
E20  40   60 .      0 i  .    120   1 0   160
0      _20      IT 4     i o    so      00
MILO!0R
125.                    120-                     1                       12                      12-
MARCH 1987



