Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                               LOAN NUMBER 2913 KO
              (Third Technology Development Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                                and
             KOREA TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
                        Dated April 1, 1988
                                               LOAN NUMBER 2913 KO
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated April  1,  1988,  between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and KOREA TECHNOLOGY
DEVELOPMENT  CORPORATION   (the   Borrower),   a   statutory  body
established and operating under the laws of the Republic of Korea.
     WHEREAS  (A)  Republic  of  Korea  (the  Guarantor)  and  the
Borrower, having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority
of the Project described  in  Schedule  2  to this Agreement, have
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
     (B)  by an agreement (the  Guarantee  Agreement) of even date
herewith between the  Guarantor  and  the  Bank, the Guarantor has
agreed to guarantee the obligations  of the Borrower in respect of
the Loan and to undertake  such  other obligations as set forth in
the Guarantee Agreement; and
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan  to  the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
Page  2
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set  forth  in  Schedule  4  to  this Agreement (the
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth, and the  following  additional terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "Act" means the Korea Technology Development Corporation
Act of the Guarantor dated  December  31,  1980 (Law No. 3312), as
amended to the date of this Agreement;
     (b)  "Decree"  means  the  Enforcement  Decree  of  the Korea
Technology Development Corporation Act,  promulgated on April 22,
1981, by Presidential Decree No. 10292,  as amended to the date of
this Agreement;
     (c)  "By-laws" means  the  Articles  of  Incorporation of the
Korea Technology Development Corporation, dated April 28, 1981, as
amended to the date of this Agreement;
     (d)  "Operating  Manual"  means  the  manual  of  operational
policies approved by the  Board  of  Directors  of the Borrower on
November  19,  1987  relating  to  the  business  of technological
development  of  the  industrial  sector  through  investments and
loans;
     (e)  "Institutional  Policy  Statement"  means  the statement
referred to in Section 3.05 of this Agreement;
     (f)  "Lending Rules" means  the  Rules  on Lending and Equity
Participation adopted by the Borrower on June 20, 1981;
     (g)  "KTIC" means Korea  Technology Investment Corporation, a
subsidiary of the Borrower;
     (h)  "Sub-loan" means a loan made  or  proposed to be made by
the Borrower or  KTIC  out  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan to an
Investment Enterprise for an Investment Project;
     (i)  "free-limit Sub-loan" means  a  Sub-loan, as so defined,
which qualifies as  a  free-limit  Sub-loan  pursuant  to the pro-
visions of paragraph 2 (b) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
     (j)  "unqualified free-limit Sub-Loan"  means  a sub-loan, as
so defined, in accordance with  the  provisions of paragraph 2 (c)
of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
     (k)  "Investment" means an investment, other than a Sub-loan,
made or proposed to be  made  by  the  Borrower or KTIC out of the
proceeds of the Loan in an Investment Enterprise for an Investment
Project;
     (l)  "Lease" means a lease operation referred to in Article 2
(4) of the Decree;
     (m)  "Investment Enterprise" means an enterprise to which the
Borrower or KTIC proposes to  make  or  has  made a Sub-loan or in
which it proposes to make or  has made an Investment or with which
it proposes to enter or has entered into a Lease arrangement;
     (n)  "Investment  Project"   means   a  specific  development
Page  3
project to be carried  out  by  an Investment Enterprise utilizing
the proceeds of a Sub-loan or Investment or Lease;
     (o)  "Conditional  Loan"  means   a   loan   made  under  the
Borrower's conditional lending  authority  specified  in Article 3
(2) of the Act;
     (p)  "Conventional  Loan"  means   a   loan  made  under  the
Borrower's conventional lending  authority  specified in Article 3
(1) of the Act;
     (q)  "Small and  Medium  Company"  means  an enterprise which
meets the criteria  set  forth  or  referred  to  in the Small and
Medium Industry Basic Act (Act No. 1840 dated December 6, 1966) of
the Guarantor, as amended to the date of this Agreement;
     (r)  "Large Company" means a  company  other than a Small and
Medium Company;
     (s)  "Subsidiary" means any  company  of  which a majority of
the outstanding  voting  stock  or  other  proprietary interest is
owned or effectively controlled by  the  Borrower or by any one or
more subsidiaries of the Borrower  or  by  the Borrower and one or
more of its subsidiaries;
     (t)  "W" and "Won" mean the currency of the Guarantor;
     (u)  "Foreign currency"  means  any  currency  other than the
currency of the Guarantor; and
     (v)  "Special Account" means  the  account  to  be opened and
thereafter  maintained  pursuant  to  Section  2.02  (b)  of  this
Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth  or  referred to in the Loan Agree-
ment, an amount in various  currencies equivalent to fifty million
dollars ($50,000,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The  amount  of  the  Loan may be withdrawn
from  the  Loan  Account  in  accordance  with  the  provisions of
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement  for:  (i)  amounts paid (or, if the
Bank shall so  agree,  to  be  paid)  by  the  Borrower or KTIC on
account of withdrawals made  by  an  Investment Enterprise under a
Sub-loan, Investment or a  Lease  to  meet  the reasonable cost of
goods and services required for  the Investment Project in respect
of which the withdrawal  from  the  Loan Account is requested; and
(ii) for expenditures made (or, if  the Bank shall so agree, to be
made) in respect  of  the  reasonable  cost  of goods and services
required for Part B of the  Project  and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
open and  maintain  in  dollars  a  special  account  in the Korea
Exchange Bank on terms  and  conditions  satisfactory to the Bank.
Deposits into, and payments out  of,  the Special Account shall be
made in accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Schedule  6 to this
Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The  Closing  Date  shall  be December 31, 1992
or such later date  as  the  Bank  shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of  the Loan not withdrawn from time
to time.
Page  4
     Section 2.05. (a)  The  Borrower  shall  pay  interest on the
principal amount of the  Loan  withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a  rate  per  annum  for  each Interest Period equal to
one-half of one  percent  per  annum  above  the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for the last Semester  ending prior to the commencement
of such Interest Period.
     (b)  As soon as  practicable  after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the  Guarantor  and the Borrower of the Cost
of Qualified Borrowings for such Semester.
     (c)  For purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "Interest  Period"   means   the  six-month  period
               commencing on each  date  specified in Section 2.06
               of this Agreement, including the Interest Period in
               which this Agreement is signed.
         (ii)  "Cost of Qualified  Borrowings"  means  the cost of
               the outstanding borrowings  of  the Bank drawn down
               after June 30, 1982,  expressed as a percentage per
               annum, as reasonably determined by the Bank.
        (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the second
               six months of a calendar year.
     Section 2.06. Interest  and  other  charges  shall be payable
semi-annually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower  shall  repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project;
             Management and Operations of the Borrower
     Section 3.01. The  Borrower  declares  its  commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to  this  end,  shall  carry  out  the Project and
conduct  its  operations  and  affairs  in  accordance  with sound
financial standards and  practices,  with qualified management and
personnel, and in accordance  with  the  Act,  the Decree, the By-
laws, the Operating Manual, the Institutional Policy Statement and
the Lending Rules.
     Section 3.02. (a)  The  Borrower  undertakes that, unless the
Bank shall otherwise agree,  Sub-loans, Investments and Lease will
be made in accordance  with  the  procedures  and on the terms and
conditions  set  forth  or  referred  to  in  Schedule  5  to this
Agreement.
     (b)  The Borrower shall  exercise  its  rights in relation to
each Investment Project  in  such  manner  as  to: (i) protect the
interests of the  Bank  and  the  Borrower;  (ii)  comply with its
obligations under this Agreement;  and  (iii) achieve the purposes
of the Project.
     Section 3.03.  For  the  purpose  of  relending  by  KTIC for
Investment Projects  the  Borrower  may  make  available  from the
proceeds of the Loan  an  amount  not  exceeding the equivalent of
$3,000,000 to KTIC on terms  and conditions identical to the terms
and conditions on which the  Bank  has  made the Loan available to
the Borrower.
     Section  3.04.  The  Borrower  shall  duly  perform  all  its
obligations in agreements  under  which  funds  have  been lent or
otherwise put at the disposal of  the Borrower by the Guarantor or
its agencies or  others  for  relending, investment or management.
The Borrower shall promptly  inform  the  Bank of any action which
would have the effect of  assigning, or of amending, abrogating or
Page  5
waiving any material provision of, any such agreement.
     Section 3.05.  The  Borrower  shall  adopt  the Institutional
Policy Statement agreed upon between the Bank and the Borrower.
     Section 3.06. The Borrower shall,  not  later than the end of
its fiscal  year,  exchange  views  with  the  Bank  on its annual
programs and targets with particular reference to:
        (i)    KTIC's operational and financial plans;
       (ii)    the  Borrower's  staff   development  and  training
               programs;
      (iii)    portfolio with Small and Medium Companies;
       (iv)    portfolio monitoring system;
        (v)    risk-sharing financial instruments;
       (vi)    resource mobilization;
      (vii)    financial  performance,  including  the  Borrower's
               policy on dividends; and
     (viii)    the Borrower's interest rate policy.
     Section 3.07.  The Bank and  the Borrower hereby agree to the
deletion of paragraphs (c)  and  (d)  of  Section 2.10 of the Loan
Agreement (Second  Technology  Development  Project)  dated Novem-
ber 1, 1984 between the Bank and the Borrower.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. The Borrower  shall  maintain and cause KTIC to
maintain, records adequate to  monitor  and record the progress of
the Project and of each Investment Project (including its cost and
the benefits to be derived from  it), and to reflect in accordance
with  consistently  maintained   sound  accounting  practices  the
operations and financial condition of the Borrower and KTIC.
     Section 4.02. (a) The  Borrower  shall,  and shall cause KTIC
to:
          (i)  have the records  referred  to  in  Section 4.01 of
               this  Agreement  and  the  accounts  and  financial
               statements (balance  sheets,  statements  of income
               and expenses  and  related  statements) and records
               and  accounts  for  the  Special  Account  for each
               fiscal  year  audited   in  accordance  with  sound
               auditing   principles   consistently   applied,  by
               independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank,  as  soon  as available but in
               any case not later  than  four months after the end
               of each such  year,  (A)  certified  copies of said
               financial statements for  such  year as so audited,
               and (B) the report of  such audit by said auditors,
               of such scope and in  such detail as the Bank shall
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish  to   the   Bank   such  other  information
               concerning  said  records,  accounts  and financial
               statements and the audit  thereof as the Bank shall
               from time to time reasonably request.
     (b)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account  were  made  on  the  basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
Page  6
          (i)  maintain, in accordance  with  Section 4.01 of this
               Agreement,  records  and  accounts  reflecting such
               expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least one  year after the Bank has
               received the audit  report  for  the fiscal year in
               which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was
               made,  all  records  (contracts,  orders, invoices,
               bills,  receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Bank's  representatives  to examine such
               records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (a) of
               this Section  and  that  the  report  of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during  such   fiscal   year,   together  with  the
               procedures and internal  controls involved in their
               preparation, can  be  relied  upon  to  support the
               related withdrawals.
     Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take such steps satisfactory
to the Bank as shall  be  necessary to protect itself against risk
of loss resulting from  changes  in  the rates of exchange between
the currencies (including the  currency  of the Guarantor) used in
its operations.
     Section 4.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, after
periodic  reviews  of  the   Borrower's  financial  position,  the
Borrower shall not incur  or  permit  any  subsidiary to incur any
debt if, after the incurring  of  such debt, the consolidated debt
of  the  Borrower  and  all  its  subsidiaries  then  incurred and
outstanding would  be  greater  than  six  times  the consolidated
capital and surplus of the  Borrower and all its subsidiaries. For
the purposes of this Section:
     (a)  "debt" means any debt  incurred  by  the Borrower or any
subsidiary maturing more than one year  after the date on which it
is originally incurred;
     (b)  debt shall be deemed  to  be  incurred: (i) under a loan
contract or agreement (including the  Loan Agreement and any prior
Loan Agreement) on the date  and  to  the extent the amount of the
loan is drawn down and  outstanding pursuant to such loan contract
or agreement; and (ii)  under  a  guarantee agreement, on the date
the agreement providing for  such  guarantee has been entered into
but only to the extent that the guaranteed debt is outstanding;
     (c)  whenever in connection  with  this  Section  it shall be
necessary to  value  in  terms  of  Won  debt  payable  in foreign
currency, such valuation shall  be  made  at the prevailing lawful
rate of exchange at which such foreign currency is, at the time of
such valuation, obtainable  by  the  Borrower  for the purposes of
servicing such debt;
     (d)  "consolidated  debt  of   the   Borrower   and  all  its
subsidiaries" means the total amount  of  debt of the Borrower and
its subsidiaries, excluding: (i) any  debt owed by the Borrower to
any subsidiary or by  any  subsidiary  to  the  Borrower or to any
other subsidiary; and  (ii)  the  debt  guaranteed by the Borrower
pursuant to the Act or the Decree; and
     (e)  "consolidated capital and  surplus  of  the Borrower and
its subsidiaries" means  the  aggregate  of the unimpaired paid-up
capital,  surplus  and  free  reserves  of  the  Borrower  and its
subsidiaries  after  excluding  therefrom  such  amounts  as shall
represent equity interests of the Borrower in any subsidiary or of
any subsidiary in the Borrower or any other subsidiary.
Page  7
                             ARTICLE V
                       Remedies of the Bank
     Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  any part of  the  principal  amount  of  any loan to the
Borrower having an original maturity of one year or more shall, in
accordance with its terms, have  become due and payable in advance
of maturity as provided  in  the relative contractual instruments,
or any security for any such loan shall have become enforceable;
     (b)  a change shall have been made  in the Act, the Decree or
the  By-laws  which  would  materially  and  adversely  affect the
operations or the financial condition of the Borrower;
     (c)  a change shall have  been  made in the Operating Manual,
the Institutional Policy  Statement  or  the Lending Rules without
the Bank's consent; and
     (d)  a resolution shall have  been passed for the dissolution
or liquidation of the Borrower.
     Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions the following additional  events are specified, namely,
that any event specified in  paragraphs  (a),  (b), (c) or (d)  of
Section 5.01 shall occur.
                            ARTICLE VI
                   Effectiveness; Miscellaneous
     Section  6.01.  The  following   event  is  specified  as  an
additional condition to  the  effectiveness  of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions,
namely, that the Institutional  Policy  Statement has been adopted
by the Borrower.
     Section 6.02. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this Agreement is  hereby  specified  for  the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
     Section 6.03. The President of  the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower  for  the purposes of Section 11.03
of the General Conditions.
     Section 6.04. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
               Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                  Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                     440098 (ITT)
               Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
                                              64145 (WUI)
     For the Borrower:
          Korea Technology Development Corporation
          FKI Building 9th floor
          28-1 Yoido-Dong, Yongdungpo-Ku
          Seoul, Korea
          Cable address:                  Telex:
Page  8
               KTDC                          K 22911 KTDCO
               Yongdungpo-Ku
               Seoul
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF the  parties  hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                           RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                        By /s/ S. Asanuma
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                              Asia
                        KOREA TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
                        By /s/ Sun-Sup Chang
                                         Authorized Representative
                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds  of  the  Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of  the  Loan  to  each  Category  and  the  percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                           Loan Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
    Category             Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Goods and services       49,800,000        100% of foreign
     for Sub-Loans, Lease                       expenditures,
     and Investments                            and 60% of local
                                                expenditures
(2)  Consultants'                200,000        100%
     services and
     overseas training
                              __________
     TOTAL                    50,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "foreign  expenditures"  means expenditures in
the currency of any country  other  than that of the Guarantor for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Guarantor; and
     (b)  the term "local expenditures"  means expenditures in the
currency of the Guarantor or  for  goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Guarantor.
3.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraph  1  above, no
withdrawals shall be made:
Page  9
     (a)  in respect of a  Sub-loan,  a Lease or Investment unless
the Sub-loan, Lease or Investment has been made in accordance with
the procedures  and  on  the  terms  and  conditions  set forth or
referred to in Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
     (b)  in respect of  payments  made  for expenditures prior to
the  date  of  this  Agreement,  except  that  withdrawals,  in an
aggregate amount not exceeding  the  equivalent of $2,000,000, may
be made in respect of Category (1) on account of payments made for
expenditures before that date but after January 1, 1988;
     (c)  in respect  of  Investment  Projects  under Category (1)
through KTIC, until  the  Borrower  and  KTIC  have entered into a
Subsidiary Loan Agreement on  terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Bank; and
     (d)  in respect of Large Companies, for local expenditures to
be financed under Category (1).
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project  are (i) to assist in financing
such productive facilities and resources  in the Republic of Korea
as will contribute to the  economic  and social development of the
country,  and  (ii)  to  continue  institutional  support  to  the
Borrower.
     The Project consists of the  following Parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Bank  and the Borrower may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
     The financing  through  the  Borrower  and  KTIC  of specific
development projects through Sub-loans,  Leases and Investments in
private enterprises within the technology sector.
Part B:
     Utilization of consultants'  services  and  staff training to
strengthen the Borrower's operational capacity.
                           *     *     *
     The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1992.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                       Amortization Schedule
                                          Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                         (expressed in dollars)*
On each January 15 and July 15
     beginning July 15, 1993
     through July 15, 1998                     4,165,000
On January 15, 1999                            4,185,000
*    The  figures  in  this  column  represent  dollar  equivalent
     determined as  of  the  respective  dates  of withdrawal. See
     General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                      Premiums on Prepayment
     The following  premiums  are  specified  for  the purposes of
Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions:
Page  10
     Time of Prepayment                         Premium
                                         The  interest  rate  (ex-
                                         pressed  as  a percentage
                                         per annum)  applicable to
                                         the  balance  outstanding
                                         on the Loan on the day of
                                         prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than two years                            0.18
     before maturity
More than two years but                            0.36
     not more than four years
     before maturity
More than four years but                           0.64
     not more than seven years
     before maturity
More than seven years but not                      0.82
     more than nine years
     before maturity
More than nine years before                        1.00
     maturity
                            SCHEDULE 4
              Modifications of the General Conditions
     For the purposes  of  this  Agreement,  the provisions of the
General Conditions are modified as follows:
     (1)  The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
     (2)  The words "the Bank may,  by  notice to the Borrower and
the  Guarantor,  terminate  the  right  of  the  Borrower  to make
withdrawals with respect to such  amount.  Upon the giving of such
notice, such amount of the  Loan  shall be cancelled" set forth at
the  end  of  Section  6.03  are  deleted  and  the  following  is
substituted therefor:
               "or  (f)  by   the   date  specified  in  sub-para-
          graph 5 (d) of  Schedule  5  to  the Loan Agreement, the
          Bank shall, in respect of any  portion of the Loan:  (i)
          have received  no  applications  or  requests under sub-
          paragraphs (a) or (b)  of  said  paragraph; or (ii) have
          denied any such applications  or requests. The Bank may,
          by notice to the  Borrower  and the Guarantor, terminate
          the right of the Borrower to submit such applications or
          requests or to make  withdrawals  from the Loan Account,
          as the case  may  be,  with  respect  to  such amount or
          portion of the  Loan.  Upon  the  giving of such notice,
          such amount or portion of the Loan shall be cancelled."
                            SCHEDULE 5
              Procedures for and Terms and Conditions
                of Sub-loans, Investments and Lease
1.   Terms and conditions:
     (a)  in respect of Conventional Loans and Leases, the foreign
exchange risk will be borne by the sub-borrowers;
     (b)  in respect  of  Conditional  Loans  and Investments, the
foreign exchange risk will be borne by the Borrower or KTIC; and
     (c)  not  withstanding  the   foregoing  provisions  of  this
paragraph 1, the Borrower may  make  available to other than Large
Page  11
Companies,  Conventional  Loans  up  to  an  aggregate  amount  of
$5,000,000 on terms and  conditions  which shall include an option
that the  Investment  Enterprise  may  pay  an  additional foreign
exchange risk fee and  pass  on  the  foreign exchange risk to the
Borrower.
2.   No  expenditures  for  goods  or  services  required  for  an
Investment Project shall  be  eligible  for  financing  out of the
proceeds of the Loan unless:
     (a)  the Sub-loan, Investment  or  Lease  for such Investment
Project shall have been approved by the Bank and such expenditures
shall have been made  not  earlier  than  ninety days prior to the
date on which the  Bank  shall  have  received the application and
information required under  paragraph  3  (a)  of this Schedule in
respect of such Sub-loan or Investment; or
     (b)  the Sub-loan for such Investment Project shall have been
a free-limit Sub-loan  for  which  the  Bank  has authorized with-
drawals from the  Loan  Account  and  such expenditures shall have
been made not earlier than ninety  days prior to the date on which
the Bank shall have received  the request and information required
under paragraph 3 (b) of  this  Schedule  in respect of such free-
limit Sub-loan. For the  purposes  of this Agreement, a free-limit
Sub-loan shall be  a  Sub-loan  for  an  Investment  Project in an
amount to be financed out of  the proceeds of the Loan which shall
not exceed the sum of $700,000 equivalent;
     (c)  the Sub-loan for such Investment Project shall have been
an unqualified  free-limit  Sub-Loan  for  which  the expenditures
shall have been made not earlier than 90 days prior to the date of
withdrawal from the  Special  Account.  For  the  purposes of this
Agreement, an unqualified free-limit  Sub-Loan shall be a Sub-Loan
for an Investment Project in an  amount  to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan which  shall  not  exceed the sum of $250,000
equivalent; and
     (d)  except as the Bank  shall  otherwise agree, no Sub-loan,
Lease or Investment  shall  exceed  the  equivalent of $1,500,000,
provided, however, that upto  five  Investment Projects may exceed
said amount but not  the  equivalent  of $2,000,000, and no single
Investment  Enterprise,  including  its  subsidiaries  and  parent
companies shall be eligible to receive more than the equivalent of
$5,000,000 by way of Sub-loans, Leases  and Investment.
3.   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree:
     (a)  the aggregate  amount  for  Lease  operations  shall not
exceed the equivalent of $5,000,000; and
     (b)  the aggregate amount for unqualified Sub-loans shall not
exceed the equivalent of $5,000,000.
4.   (a)  The amortization  schedule  applicable  to each Sub-loan
made as  a  Conventional  Loan  shall  provide  for an appropriate
period of grace,  and,  unless  the  Bank  and  the Borrower shall
otherwise agree, shall  not  extend  beyond  10 years (including a
maximum grace period of 3 years)  from the date of approval by the
Bank of such Sub-loan or, in the case of a free-limit Sub-loan, of
authorization by  the  Bank  to  make  withdrawals  from  the Loan
Account in respect thereof.
     (b)  Except as the Bank  shall  otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall charge interest on amounts withdrawn and outstanding on Sub-
loans made as Conventional  Loans  which, when taken together with
other charges  levied  by  the  Borrower  on  such Sub-loans, will
provide the Borrower with an adequate differential.
5.   (a)  When presenting a Sub-loan (other than a free-limit Sub-
loan or an unqualified free-limit  Sub-loan) or an Investment or a
Lease operation  to  the  Bank  for  approval,  the Borrower shall
furnish to the Bank  an  application,  in form satisfactory to the
Page  12
Bank, together with (i) a description of the Investment Enterprise
and  an  appraisal   of   the   Investment  Project,  including  a
description of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan;  (ii)  the  proposed terms and conditions of
the Sub-loan, Lease    or  Investment,  including  the schedule of
amortization of the Sub-loan or  of  repayment  to the Bank of the
amount of the Loan to be  used  for the Investment; and (iii) such
other information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
     (b)  Each request by the  Borrower  for authorization to make
withdrawals from the Loan Account  in respect of a free-limit Sub-
loan shall contain  (i)  a  summary  description of the Investment
Enterprise and the Investment  Project, including a description of
the expenditures proposed to  be  financed  out of the proceeds of
the Loan, and  (ii)  the  terms  and  conditions  of the Sub-loan,
including the schedule of amortization therefor.
     (c)  Each withdrawal  by  the  Borrower  for  the unqualified
free-limit Sub-Loans from the Special Account shall be accompanied
by such information as the Bank and the Borrower shall agree.
     (d)  Applications and requests  made  pursuant  to the provi-
sions of sub-paragraphs (a)  and  (b)  of  this paragraph shall be
presented to the Bank on or before September 30, 1991.
6.   Sub-loans, Leases  and  Investments  shall  be  made on terms
whereby the Borrower shall  obtain,  by  written contract with the
Investment Enterprise or by  other appropriate legal means, rights
adequate to protect the  interests  of  the Bank and the Borrower,
including, in the case of any  Sub-loan and, to the extent that it
shall be appropriate, in the case of any Leases or Investment, the
right to:
     (a)  require  the  Investment  Enterprise  to  carry  out and
operate the Investment Project  with  due diligence and efficiency
and in accordance with  sound  technical, financial and managerial
standards and to maintain adequate records;
     (b)  require that: (i) the goods  and services to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be purchased at a reasonable
price under procurement procedures acceptable to the Bank, account
being taken  also  of  other  relevant  factors  such  as  time of
delivery  and  efficiency  and   reliability   of  the  goods  and
availability of maintenance  facilities  and spare parts therefor,
and, in the case of services,  of their quality and the competence
of the parties rendering  them;  and  (ii) such goods and services
shall be used exclusively  in  the  carrying out of the Investment
Project;
     (c)  inspect, by itself  or  jointly  with representatives of
the Bank if the Bank shall  so  request, such goods and the sites,
works, plants and construction included in the Investment Project,
the operation thereof, and any relevant records and documents;
     (d)  require that: (i)  the  Investment Enterprise shall take
out and maintain with responsible insurers such insurance, against
such risks and in such amounts,  as shall be consistent with sound
business  practice;  and  (ii)  without  any  limitation  upon the
foregoing, such  insurance  shall  cover  hazards  incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery  of goods financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan to  the place of use or installation, any
indemnity thereunder  to  be  made  payable  in  a currency freely
usable by the  Investment  Enterprise  to  replace  or repair such
goods;
     (e)  obtain all such information as  the Bank or the Borrower
shall reasonably request  relating  to  the  foregoing  and to the
administration, operations and financial  condition of the Invest-
ment Enterprise  and  to  the  benefits  to  be  derived  from the
Investment Project; and
     (f)  suspend  or  terminate  the   right  of  the  Investment
Page  13
Enterprise to the use of the  proceeds of the Loan upon failure by
such Investment Enterprise  to  perform  its obligations under its
contract with the Borrower.
7.   In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Part B of the
Project, the Borrower  shall  employ  consultants whose qualifica-
tions, experience and terms and  conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Bank.  Such  consultants  shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank
on the basis of  the  "Guidelines  for  the  Use of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers and  by  the  World Bank as Executing Agency"
published by the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 6
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories"  means Categories (1) and
(2) set forth in the table  in  paragraph  1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be  financed  out  of  the proceeds of the Loan
allocated  from  time  to  time  to  the  eligible  Categories  in
accordance with the provisions  of  Schedule  1 to this Agreement,
provided,  however,   that   notwithstanding   the  provisions  of
paragraph 2 (b)  of  Schedule  5  to  this Agreement, payments for
expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of free-limit Sub-
loans may be made out of the Special Account before the Bank shall
have authorized  withdrawals  from  the  Loan  Account  in respect
thereof. Such  expenditures,  however,  shall  qualify as eligible
expenditures only if  the  Bank  shall subsequently authorize such
withdrawals; and
     (c)  the  term  "Authorized   Allocation"   means  an  amount
equivalent to $5,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited in the Special  Account  pursuant  to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, payments out of the
Special  Account   shall   be   made   exclusively   for  eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received  evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special  Account  has  been  duly  opened,  withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent  withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account may be made as follows:
     (a)  On the basis of  a  request  or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which  add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized  Allocation,  the  Bank  shall,  on  behalf  of the
Borrower, withdraw  from  the  Loan  Account  and  deposit  in the
Special Account such amount or  amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
     (b)  The Borrower  shall  furnish  to  the  Bank requests for
replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank
shall specify. On  the  basis  of  such  requests,  the Bank shall
withdraw from  the  Loan  Account  and  deposit  into  the Special
Account such amounts as shall be required to replenish the Special
Account with amounts not exceeding the amount of payments made out
of  the  Special  Account  for  eligible  expenditures.  All  such
deposits shall be  withdrawn  by  the  Bank  from the Loan Account
under the respective  eligible  Categories,  and in the respective
equivalent amounts, as shall  have  been justified by the evidence
supporting the  request  for  such  deposit  furnished pursuant to
paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Page  14
Account for which the  Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of  this  Schedule,  the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, prior to or at  the time of such request, such documents
and other evidence as  the  Bank shall reasonably request, showing
that such payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.   (a)  Notwithstanding the provisions  of  paragraph  3 of this
Schedule, no further  deposit  into  the  Special Account shall be
made by the Bank  when  either  of  the following situations first
arises:
          (i)  the Bank  shall  have  determined  that all further
               withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
               from  the  Loan  Account  in  accordance  with  the
               provisions of Article  V  of the General Conditions
               and  paragraph  (a)   of   Section   2.02  of  this
               Agreement; or
         (ii)  the total unwithdrawn amount  of the Loan allocated
               to the eligible Categories, minus the amount of any
               outstanding special commitment  entered into by the
               Bank  pursuant  to  Section  5.02  of  the  General
               Conditions with respect  to  the  Project, shall be
               equal to the equivalent of  twice the amount of the
               Authorized Allocation.
     (b)  Thereafter, withdrawal  from  the  Loan  Account  of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures  as the Bank shall specify
by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made
only after  and  to  the  extent  that  the  Bank  shall have been
satisfied that  all  such  amounts  remaining  on  deposit  in the
Special Account as of the date  of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
payment  out  of  the  Special   Account  (i)  was  made  for  any
expenditure or in any amount  not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this  Schedule,  or  (ii)  was  not  justified  by the evidence
furnished pursuant to paragraph  4  of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly  upon  notice  from  the  Bank,  deposit  into the
Special Account or, if the  Bank  shall  so request, refund to the
Bank an amount equal to the  amount of such payment or the portion
thereof not so eligible  or  justified.  No further deposit by the
Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has
made such deposit or refund.
     (b)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special  Account will not be required to
cover further  payments  for  eligible  expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount for crediting to the Loan Account.
