Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 6766
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
SECOND SMALL SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
(CREDIT 825-BD)
May 6, 1987
Industrial Development and Finance Division
South Asia Projects Department
This document has a restricted distribution n%nd may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authcrization.



ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BHMC     -  Bangladesh Handicraft Marketing Corporation
BSCIC    -  Bangladesh Small and Cottage Industries Corporation
CI       -  Cottage Industries
GOB      -  Government of Bangladesh
ICD      -  Industrial Credit Division
SCI      -  Small and Cottage Industries
SSI      -  Small Scale Industries
SSI I    -  First Small Scale Industry Project
SSI II   -  Second Small Scale Industry Project
SSI III  -  Third Small Scale Industry Project
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
At appraisal, the Bangladesh Taka (Tk) was officially valued at
Tk 15.50 to the US dollar. Currently, the external value of the Tk is fixed
in relation to a basket of reference currencies, with the US dollar serving
as intervention currency. In November 1986, the official exchange rate was
about Tk 30.30. In this report the following rate is used, which is the
average exchange rate during project implementation.
US$1          =  Tk 18.30
Tk 1          =  US$o.0546
FISCAL YEAR (FY)
GOB             :  July 1 - June 30
BSCIC           :  July 1 - June 30
Commercial Banks:  January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFCA^L USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, DC 20433
U.S A
Offmle M O.tevCOG..AW
Op.atmm Evt
May 6, 1987
MEMORANDUM TO 'HE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS A1lD THE PRESIDEN 
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Bangladesh - Second Small Scale
Industry Project (Credit 825-BD)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Bangladesh - Second Small Scale Industry Project (Credit
825-BD)" prepared by the South Asia Projects Department. Under the modified
system for project performance auditing further evaluation of this project by
the Operations Evaluation Department has not been made.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may bX, ed by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclos without Worid Bank authoriation.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH - SECOND SMALL SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
(CREDIT 825-BD)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Basicgh ata Shet......... ........................................           ii
I .  INTRODUCTION 1.............. . ..1
II.  SECTORAL BACKGROUND ......                 . ..                        2
A. Economic Setting                                                    2
B. The Industrial Sector                                               2
C. Financial Environment ..         ..........3
D. Small Scale Industries Sector .                                    4
III.  PROJECT DESCRIPTION ....        ........       ........... .           4
A. Origin                                                              4
B. Project Objectives                                                  5
C. Project Components .                                                7
IV.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION 7...*.......... .7
A. Subloan Component                                                   7
1. Preparatory Work                                                7
2. Subproject Appraisal                                            9
3. Supervision and Collection Performance                          9
4. Reporting Performance ...............                          10
B. Technical Assistance Components ....11
1. SSI Promotion and Extension Services                           11
2. Cottage Industry Component                                     12
V.  PROJECT IMPACT  3      ...............13
A. Institution Building                                               13
1. Nationalized Commercial Banks ....13
2. Bangladesh Small and Cottage Industries Corporation..    15
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Page No.
B. Subproject Financing ..         .................................    16
1. Subloan Characteristics           .............................    16
2. Subproject Characteristics            .........................    17
3. Economic Impact of Subprojects Financed          .............    18
VI.  ROLE OF IDA .............  ,  .........                            19
VIl.  CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS LEARNED ...... .,,..............            20
ANNEXES
1     Projected and Actual Cumulative Disbursements .........           22
2     Characteristics of Subprojects Financed ...............           23
3     Cumulative Collection Performance of Participating Banks    25
4     Portfolio Classification According to Operating
and Repaying Status .......... ...    ................ ...     26
ATEACHMENTS
1     Comments from Bangladesh Bank .......         ..................  27
2     Comments from Sonali Bank .............................           31



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH - SECOND SMALL SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
(CREDIT 825-BD)
PREFACE
This report reviews the implementation of the Second Small Scale
Industry Project (Credit 825-BD) in Z-tladesh. It assesses the performance
of the main project implementing agencies, namely, the two nationalized
commercial banks, Janata Bank and Sonali Bank, and the Bangladesh Small and
Cottage Industries Corporation (BSCIC), and discusses the economic impact of
the small and cottage industry (SCI) subprojects financed. The US$7.0 mil-
lion credit was approved on June 8, 1978 and was declared effective on
September 15, 1978. By April 4, 1985, the day of the last disbursement,
US$4.85 million had been disbursed. The undisbursed amount of US$2.15 mil-
lion was cancelled on June 28, 1985. A third lending operation for SCI was
approved on September 16, 1980 and closed on December 31, 1986. This Project
Completion Report was prepared by the Industrial Development and Finance
Division of the Projects Department, South Asia Regional Office, based on
data prepared by Janata and Sonali Banks and BSCIC. Some information was
also provided by the Office of Foreign Aided Projects Audit, Government of
Bangladesh.
Comments received from the Borrowers have been taken into accounc in
finalizing the report and are reproduced as Attachments 1 and 2.
This project has not been audited by the Operations Evaluation
Department.



-il-
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH - SECOND SMALL SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
(CREDIT 825-BD)
BASIC DATA SHEET
(Amounts in US$M)
CREDIT STATUS
As of February 1987
Original   Disbursetd  Cancelled   Repaid   Outstanding
Credit 825-ED          7.00       4.85          2.15      0.00         4.85
CUMULATIVE CREDIT DISBURSEMENT
FY79    FY80    FY81    FY82    FY83    FY84    FY85
ti)   Planned           0.75    3.35    6.05    7.00    7.00    7.00    7.00
(ii)  Actual             -      0.26    2.50    3.64    4.00    4.49    4.85
Percentage of
(ii) over (i)     0        8       41       52      57       64      69
OTHER PROJECT DATA
Actual
Board Approval                                         06/08/78
Credit Agreement                                       06/16/78
Effectiveness                                          09/15/78
Credit Closing                                         09/27/84
Borrower                              People's Republic of Bangladesh
Executing Agencies                    Sonali Bank, Janata Bank. and Bangladesh
Small and Cottage Industries Corporation
Project Components
Subloans                           US$6.52 million
Technical Assistance                US$0.48 million



-iii-
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH - SECOND SMALL SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
(CREDIT 825-BD)
MISSION DATA
Month     Number of        Number of        Staff       Date of
Year        Weeks           Persons         ieeks       Report
Appraisal         8/77         3               4             12         05/26/78
Supervision       7/78        3 1/2             3            10 1/2    09/14/78
Supervision       6/79        2 1/2            3              7 1/2    07/24/79
Supervision       8/79        1                 1             1         09/21/79
Supervision       il/79       2                 1             2         NA
Supervision /a   2/80         2 1/2            4             10         08/13/80
Supervision 7i   7/81          1 1/2            1             1 1/2    09/14/81
Supervision       6/82        2                2              4         NA
Supervision       11/82        1                1             1         NA
Supervision       8/83        2                2              4         10/27/83
Supervision /c   8/84         2                2              4         09/01/84
.3upervision      5/85        2                 1             2         NA
Completion       10/85         1 1/2           3              4 1/2    11/30/86
/a  Part of appraisal of 8SI III.
7T Supervision missions from here on were for both SSI II and IIJ-
Tc Part of preappraisal of SSI IV.



-iv-
STAFF INPUT
(manweeks)
FY77  FY78  FY79  FY80  FY81  FY82  FY83  FY84  FY85  FY86  Total
Preparation      1.0                                                            1.0
Appraisal             24.0                                                     24.0
Negotiations           6.0                                                      6.0
Supervision     _           18.0  13.0  1.5   4.0   1.0   4.0   6.0   4.5   52.0
Totals       1.0  30.0  18.0  13.0  1.5   4.0   1.0   4.0   6.0   4.5   83.0
FOLLOW-ON PROJECT
Third Small Scale Industry Project, Credit 1065-BD, approved on September 16,
1980 in the amount of SDR 26.7 million (US$35 million).



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH - SECOND SMALL SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
(CREDIT 825-BD)
HIGHLIGHTS
1.      Credit 825-BD, which financed the second SSI project in Bangladesh,
was designed taking into account the lessons learned from the first SSI
project (Credit 353-BD).  The roles of institutions providing financial and
ttchnical assistance to SSI needed to be clarified and rationalized. The
institutions themselves needed assistance to improve their capability to
perform their respective functions effectivelv. Finally, lending criteria
needed to be sharpened to ensure the financing of economically sensible SSI
subprojects.
2.      Accordingly, the second SSI project aimed at achieving the following
specific objectives: (a) to introduce reforms in the institutional framework
for assisting small and cottage industries (SCI) by strengthening institu-
tions and redefining their roles; and (b) to provide finance for fixed
investments and permanent working capital requirements in the establishment,
expansion, balancing and modernization of viable SCI subprojects, and for
technical assistance. In practical terms, the institut!onal objectives of
the project meant rationalizing the institutional set-up by assigning the
financing role to the banks and the technical assistance role to the
Bangladesh Small and Cottage Industries Corporation (BSCIC), the government
agency responsible for SCI promotion. The project also included technical
assistance for these institutions to build their capability to play their
roles effectively (paras. 3.04-3.06).
3.      Overall, the project objectives were only partially achieved.  The
project was able to delineate the roles between the banks and BSCIC, after
the agreed transition period, but BSCIC gave up its financing role very
reluctantly and only for IDA funds. Up to now, BSCIC still attempts to
regain its previous role in SSI financing by proposing new financing schemes
for support by GOB and other donors and by trying to influence the Government
to reverse the arrangements initiated under the project (paras. 5.06-5.08).
Since its major concern has been in regaining its former role in financing,
BSCIC only half-heartedly carried out its assigned tasks in promotion and
extension. Thus, the impact of the promotion and extension services com-
ponent on SSI development was marginal (paras. 4.13-4.20).
4.      The project assisted the banks in building their capability for
project lending by organizing small industry departments within the banks, by
training staff in appraisal and supervision, and by developing appropriate
systems and procedures for loan processing, procurement and disbursement,
loan administration and end-use monitoring. As a result, the banks have



-vi-
created some capacity for project appraisal and loan processing
(paras. 5.01-5.05). However, they have not yet developed sufficient
capability for project supervision and loan collection. The collection
performance of the banks has not reached a satisfactory level and has only
marginally improved over time. The proposed fourth SSI project was dropped
from the lending program since the banks could not achieve minimum collection
targets, which were conditions for negotiations (paras. 4.08-4.10).
5.      Despite these weaknesses, the banks were able to finance 175 SSI
units and 760 CI units, only a little fewer than the appraisal estimates of
200 and 1000 units, respectively. These projects resulted in investments
of about Tk 130 million (US$7 million). The SSI investments generated
employment for about 3,150 persons at a cost per job of about US$2,000. The
cottage industry subprojects are estimated to have generated 2,000 part-time
jobs at a cost per job of about US$100. These economic benefits, however,
are clouded by a possible adverse impact on income distribution and overall
financial discipline arising from the poor repayment of subloans. About 601
of the subborrowers are considered to be wilful defaulters who are not
repaying their loans despite operating reasonably profitable businesses
(paras. 5.10-5.18).
6.      In summary, the project results have been mixed.  The lending
component has resulted in some economic impact by generating employment,
output and some exports, but with possible negative social side effects on
credit discipline and income distribution. Institution building objectives
were partly achieved within the banks but hardly in BSCIC. The delineation
of roles between BSCIC and the banks was achieved but has continued to be
challenged by BSCIC.
7.      Specific lessons learned under the project include the following:
(a) Among the financial institutions in Bangladesh, the large commercial
banks appear to be the right channels for a broad-based lending
program for SSI, considering their wide branch network, their tradi-
tional banking relationships with industry and commerce and their
resource mobilization capability. However, for them to become effec-
tive in this activity, they need to strengthen their staff through an
on-going training program, reduce staff turnover to retain the
expertise developed, and improve their project supervision and
collection procedures (para. 5.05).
(b) Beyond institution building aspects for the commercial banks, the
Government needs to address the problem of credit and financial
indiscipline among borrowers through clear and consistent policy,
determined support for the financial system in enforcing contracts
and an efficient legal systew. Unless these basic problems of the
credit environment are resolved, the viability of lending programs
as well as financial institutions themselves will be undermined
(para. 2.06).



-vii-
(c) The lesson to ba learned from IDA's relationship with BSCIC is quite
obvious. Unless there is clear agreement with the implementing
agency and consequent strong commitment by it to its role, no legal
covenant will ensure acceptance of roles and effective project
implementation according to the objectives spelled out at appraisal
(para. 5.08).
(d)  Supporting marketing activities by government corporations in
Bangladesh, such as BHMC, should be avoided since government policies
and procedures make it difficult for government operations to respond
efficiently to rapid market developments; it might be more difficult,
but more fruitful, to develop mechanisms to assist the private sector
in this area. This approach would also conform with current govern-
ment policy of expanding the role of the private sector in industrial
activity (para. 4.20).



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH - SECOND SMALL SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
(CREDIT 825-BD)
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01    In June 1978, IDA aoproved a credit of US$7.0 million in support of
the Second Small Scale Industry Project (SSI II) in Bangladesh. The project,
which was appraised in August 1977, aimed at (i) reforming the institutional
framework for SCI development by redefining roles and strengthening
institutions, and (ii) providing finance for fixed investments and permanent
working capital for SCI unitsg and for technical assistance. The Credit was
disbursed until April 4, 1985, after a two-year extension, but only US$4.85
million, or 70% of the Credit was utilized. Although the Credit was fully
committed by August 1983, only 70% of the total was finally disbursed due to
the depreciation of the Taka over the project life, lack of serious commit-
ment on the part of some subloan applicants, lack of attention by .he par-
ticipating banks in cancelling their subloans and replacing them with other
applications and lack of interest by BSCIC in completing the components for
SCI promotion and extension.
1.02    A total of 175 small scale industry (SSI) units and 760 cottage
industry (CI) units were financed which resulted in total investments of
about US$7.0 million and direct employment of about 3,150 full time and 2000
part time workers at a fixed cost per job of about US$2,000 and US$100,
respectively. The average subloan size for SSI units was US$26,000 compared
with the maximum allowable amount of US$110,000, indicating that adequate
attention was given to smaller units. Many of the subprojects are based on
indigenous or locally fabricated inputs. A third of the subprojects are
located in the main districts of Dhaka and Chittagong but the remaining two
thirds are quite evenly distributed among the other 16 districts. The lend-
ing program, however, suffers from a very poor collection performance, with
about 60% of subborrowers suspected to be willful defaulters.
1.03    In the course of project implementation, the problem of overlapping
functions between the Bangladesh Small and Cottage Industries Corporation
(BSCIC) and the participating nationalized commercial banks, Janata and
Sonali, was resolved when the banks were made fully responsible for the SSI
lending function, 14 months past the date of effectiveness, and BvCIC was
directed to focus on promotion and extension services.   BSCIC, however, gave
up its credit function only reluctantly and has made repeated attempts to
influence policy to regain its credit sanctioning function. Institution
building objectives of the project were only partially achieved for the banks
due to high staff turnover but hardly at all for BSCIC due to the basic
disagreement about its role as proposed under the project. Credit indis-
cipline among borrowers, resulting in high arrears, has undermined the
viability of this lending program.



-2-
II. SECTORAL BACKGROUND
A. Economic Setting
2.01    During the Second Five-Year Plan period (FY81-85), Bangladesh had
to cope with several adversities, most of which were beyond the country's
control. In the first two years of the Plan period, Bangladesh's terms of
trade deteriorated due largely to the decline in jute export prices and to
high oil import prices. At the same time, aid inflows decreased in real
terms, requiring cutbacks in public inve3tment. In addition, in FY82,
drought conditions reduced agricultural output and incomes. In FY83,
agricultural production recovered significantly due to more favorable
weather conditions and increased use of agricultural inputs; but most non-
agricultural sectors, especially industry, remained depressed, largely due to
an unavoidable reduction in private disposable income, consequent on the
Government's far-reaching adjustment measures in the FY83 budget in response
to the deteriorating economic and financial situation.
2.02    Economic performance in FY84 and FY85 were again affected by severe
floods which caused large foodgrain losses and necessitated large food
imports. On the positive side, FY84 witnessed a gradual recovery in the
non-agricultural sectors, which accelerated in FY85. Industry, in
particular, rebounded sharply from the weak performance of the preceding
years due to further liberalization and privatization measures, easier access
to imports during a period of less restricted foreign exchange resources,
increased output of non-traditional exports (especially garments) and
increased demand generated by a sharp expansion of private credit. Given its
formidable structural constraints and its high vulnerability to national
calamities and adverse external developments, the achievement by the economy
of an average growth of about 4% p.a. during the Second Five-Year Plan period
is remarkable.
B. The Industrial Sector
2.03    The manufacturing sector in Bangladesh is small and accounts for
about 12% of GDP and 8% of total employment. The most important subsector is
textiles which include jute, cotton, and synthetic textiles and contribute
about a third of industrial value added. Next come food processing (25%) and
chemicals (20%). Between FY79 and FY85, manufacturing value added grew at
about 5% p.a., with growth accelerating in FY84 and FY85. Higher growth in
the last two years has been mainly in the food processing, paper, chemicals,
basic metals and mach;nery subsectors. Progress in industrial development
has been mainly with respect to import substitution, particularly in
fertilizer, steel and pharmaceuticals manufacture. Export development has
been significant almost exclusively only in garment manufacture as East Asian
companies located themselves in Bangladesh which up to recently was exempt
from textile quotas.



-3-
2.04    Industrial growth during the Second Five-Year Plan period, and par-
ticularly in the last two years, can be attributed to increased internal and
external demand for manufactured goods, the expansion of financing for the
private sector and the initial policy reforms embodied in the New Industrial
Policy. These reforms respond to GOB's strategy of promoting the role of the
private sector. Over a hundred public enterprises were divested. Investment
approval procedures were relaxed and price control mechanisms were removed in
some instances. The trade and industrial incentive regime is undergoing
review and foreign exchange and import restrictions were liberalized through
the operation of a large secondary foreign exchange market. The most
important task facing Government is to ensure that the growth momentum is
maintained and enhanced by ensuring that sufficient investment funds are made
available and allocated to the most eff4cient activities. This entails
resolving the problem of credit indiscipline (para. 2.06), further reforming
the system of protection and tariffs and pursuing greater efficiency of
public sector enterprises.
C. Financial Environment
2.05    The financial system in Bangladesh is relatively underdeveloped in
range and diversity of instruments and institutions. The Bangladesh Bank,
the central bank, regulates the system but the Government plays the dominant
role not only in policy formulation but also in ownership of financial
institutions and, consequently, in their management. Four nationalized
commercial banks dominate the financial sector controlling about 65% of total
assets. Other important players are 8 private domestic banks, 7 foreign
banks and four development banks, three of which are government-owned. Other
financial institutions include an investment corporation, one housing finance
company, three insuirance companies, a relatively inactive stock exchange and
post office savings banks.
2.06    The system has performed satisfactorily in deposit mobilization, with
deposits growing atI18X p.a. in the past five years; in increasing credit to
the private sector in response to the change in Government policy; and in
providing finance for industry in terms of traditional working capital
facilities and fixed capital loans. The financial system, however, is
experiencing a deep financial crisis caused by a high level of non-performing
assets and, in the case of development banks, precipitated by very poor loan
recovery performance. A recent Banking Commission Report estimates that
overdues amount to about 25% of total advances of the public financial
institutions.
D. Small Scale Industries Sector
2.07    GOB currently defines an SSI unit as an industrial enterprise with
up to Tk 5 million (US$165,000) in fixed assets, excluding land and



-4-
buildings. I/ At the time of appraisal, an SSI unit was defined as an
industrial establishment with up to Tk 2.5 million (equivalent to US$160,000
at that time) in fixed assets, including land and buildings. While the
definition has hardly changed in nominal dollar amounts, the exclusion of the
costs of land and buildings in the definition has not totally compensated for
inflationary effects so that, under the current definition, the coverage has
been reduced. Despite this reduction in coverage, SSIs are estimated to
contribute about 43% of industrial value added and provide full and part-time
employment to about five million persons, or 82% of the industrial labor
force. Small enterprises account for over 20% of manufactured exports with
garments, leather and handicrafts being the major SSI export items. About
425,000 units (including handlooms) comprise the sector and are distributed
throughout the country, although with heavy concentrations in and around the
urban districts of Dhaka, Chittagong, Khulnat Comilla and Sylhet.
2.08    Small scale industrial activi-ty has been mostly in food processing,
powerloom and handloom weaving, light engineering and wood products. More
recently the manufacture of ready-made garments for export and pharma-
ceuticals for the domestic market are acquiring importance. SSIs compare
favorably with large firms on efficiency measures in most subsectors in which
SSIs are active. In these major groups, SSIs have lower capital-labor ratios
and higher value added per unit of labor and capital cost. The data,
however, on which these comparisons are made contain a significant margin of
error due to weak accounting and statistical practices; nevertheless they
indicate that SSIs compare favorably with large firms in financial and
economic performance.
III. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
A. Origin
3.01    First SSI Project.  In December 1972, a US$3 million IDA credit
(Credit 353-BD) was made for the First Small Scale Industry Project (SSI I)
in Bangladesh. The Credit, made right after Bangladesh's iIlependence,
reactivated the Small Scale Industry Project in East Pakistan (Credit
192-PAK), which had been approved in June 1970. No new appraisal report was
issued for Credit 353-BD since it was considered fundamentally the same as
Credit 192-PAK, with objectives and institutional arrangements unchanged.
1/  There has been a recent revision in the definition of an SSI unit as
"an industrial undertaking engaged either in manufacturing process or
service activities, within a total investment of up to Tk 15 million
(US$495,000) and investment in machinery and equipment not exceeding
Tk 10 million (US$330,000) excluding taxes and duties." This new defini-
tion appears not only to restore, but to expand somewhat, the coverage of
SSI compared with that at the time of appraisal.



-5-
The US$3 million was provided to finance the foreign exchange requirements of
small enterprises and a consultant to assist the Bangladesh Small Industries
Corporation (BSIC) in project appraisal. Under the project, BSIC, which
later became the Bangladesh Small and Cottage Industries Corporation (BSCIC),
a semi-autonomous government corporation under the Ministry of Industries,
was responsible for screening, appraising and supervising subprojects, while
,participating commercial banks were responsible for assessing creditworthi-
ness of clients and disbursing and collecting subloans. Keeping in mind the
major changes in economic conditions, the industrial structure, and small
industry institutions which took place after independence, the Credit, which
was disbursed by March 1978, achieved only modest results due to overlapping
institutional arrangements which resulted in conflicting responsibilities,
vague accountabilities and friction between institutions. In addition, lack
of focused subproject selection criteria resulted in the financing of highly
import-dependent, capital-intensive subprojects located mainly in urban areas
and concentrated in two subsectors, with marginal impact on employment,
regional development and linkage with agriculture.
3.02    In 1975, the Bank made a conscious decision to increase lending to
small enterprises since it was believed that the SSI sector had benefited
little from previous lending in support of industrial development. Earlier
studies showed that, in the absence oi explicit support programs, SSI's
access to credit, technology and markets was not adequate enough. to allow
them to achieve their growth potential. Discussions in the Bank during the
1975-77 period focused on how the Bank could help small and medium
enterprises overcome these handicaps. The discussions culminated with the
publication in February 1978 of a policy paper entitled, "Employment and
Development of Smal'l Enterprises," which laid down the formal basis for Bank
lending to small enterprises. SSI II was one of the first projects financed
by the Bank in accordance with the policies laid down in this policy paper.
3.03    General principles in the policy paper as well as lessons learned
from Credit 353-BD were the basis for the design of the Second Small Scale
Industry Project:. With the help of a consultant who looked into the special
issue of BSCIC's role, project appraisal was urdertaken in August 1977. The
US$7 million credit, which was approved and signed in June 1978 and became
effective in September 1978, was designed to provide both local and foreign
financing to be more responsive to SSI needs, define subproject eligibility
criteria more sharply to direct lending to economically desirable activities
and initiate the process of delineating institutional responsibilities, with
the commercial banks (Sonali and Janata Banks) ultimately to be made fully
responsible for credit operations and BSCIC to focus on the provision of
technical and marketing services to SSI.
B. Project Objectives
3.04    As stated in the appraisal report, the objectives of the project
were: (i) to introduce reforms in the institutional framework for assisting
small and -ottage industries by strengthening institutions, redefining their



-6-
roles, and initiating programs to tackle problems constraining SCI
development; and (ii) to provide finance for fixed investment and permanent
working capital requirements of new, expansion, balancing and modernization
SCI subprojects, and for technical assistance.
3.05    Under the first SSI project, the SSI financing function was under-
taken jointly by BSCIC and the banks. BSCIC performed project appraisal and
supervision while the banks were involved in assessing client creditworthi-
ness and in disbursing and collecting loans. This arrangement was cumbersome
and resulted in overlapping responsibilities, institutional friction, delays
in loan processing and poor loan recovery performance. The second SSI
project aimed at delineating the roles of BSCIC and the banks by making the
banks fully responsible for the financing function and assisting BSCIC
redirect its efforts towards SSI promotion and extension services. This
arrangement was expected not only to resolve the problem of overlap and the
consequient lack of responsibility and accountability but also allow BSCIC to
focus on technical assistance and build its capability in this area.
3.06    In order to direct lendirg away from subsectors which are import-
dependent, capital intensive and burdened with over-capacity, and into
subsectors which are export-oriented, labor intensive and economically
viable, several eligibility criteria were established for project selection:
(a)  Exports.  A subproject has to be a net foreign exchange earner with
strong assurances of export sales or local sales at competitive
prices.
(b)  Local Raw Materials.  At least 60% of the value of raw materials and
other inputs were to be local with sufficient regional availability
established during appraisal.
(c)  Labor-Intensive Methods.  Fixed investment per job created should not
be greater than US$3,000.
(d)  Relative Efficiency.  A subproject should have a profit and value
added to fixed investment ratios at least as high as the averages for
large-scale firms in the same product line.
(e)  Capacity Utilization.  A subproject should be expected to have a two
shift production schedule, taking into account markcts, raw materia'l
availability, and operations of other units in same subsector.
(f)  Decentralization.  Production sites should be located outside the
cities of Dhaka, Chittagong or Khulna.
(g)  Agricultural Links.  A subproject should be related to agricultural
productivity/earnings either in processing crops or providing inputs
or services to agriculture.



-7-
(h) The maximum amount of subloan should not exceed US$110,000, and the
total size of the project should not be higher than US$160,000.
C. Project Components
3.07    To achieve the above objectives, the project had the following
components:
(a) a credit line to Janata Bank and Sonali Bank for on-lending to SCIs
to finance both local and foreign costs of subprojects, including
permanent working capital, up to a maximum of 70% of the total sub-
project costs (US$6.3 million); a special capital fund which would
provide part of the equity resources, up to 15% of project costs, in
cases in which the entrepreneur is unable to make the normal 30%
contribution (US$200,000);
(b) a cottage industry component to provide credit, product development
assistance and specialized extension services to producers of jute,
cane and bamboo handicrafts (US$130,000); and
(c) assistance to BSCIC to improve its capability for SSI promotion and
extension work (US$350,000).
3.08    The total project costs and financing plan were as follows:
IDA      GOB/BSCIC       Sponsors       Total
(In US$ Million)
Subloans                         6.32       0.17            2.74          9.23
Special Capital Fund             0.20        -               -            0.20
Cottage Industry Component       0.13       0.02            0.12          0.27
BSCIC                            0.35       0.15             -            0.50
Total                    7.00       0.34            2.86        10.20
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Subloan Component
1. Preparatory Work
4.01    After the Credit became effective in September 1978, the next nine
months were devoted mainly to establishing the SSI organizational structure
within the banks, training of staff and developing appropriate procedures and
torms for subloan processing. By June 1979, the Industrial Credit Divisions
(ICD) of the participating banks were nearly fully staffed except that both
banks experienced difficulties in attracting project engineers. At that
time, there were many employment opportunities for engineers overseas, espe-



-8-
cially in the Middle East. Also, engineers found it difficult to see them-
selves integrated into the regular career stream of commercial bankers. Lack
of engineers continued to plague both banks throughout the project life and
was reflected in weak technical appraisals of subprojects. A proposal by
the banks to hire engineers as consultants to assist in technical appraisals
and to train SrD officers in the process was not implemented due to lack of
follow-up by the banks. Under SSI III, consultancy funds were provided for
this purpose, among others, but were not utilized again due to difficulties
in locating and employing suitable consultants.
4.02    Training of SSI officers of the participating banks started in late
1978. Eight key officers of the ICDs were sent on an intensive on-the-job
training with commercial banks in India; this was completed in December 1978.
Other SSI officers were sent to local training courses with the two local
development banks and with local training institutes. Subsequent training of
other SSI officers in the ICDs as well as major branches was undertaken
regularly and closely monitored through the banks' quarterly reports to IDA.
A total of 70 bank officers were trained under the project. The provision of
staff training under the project was therefore quite adequate. The general
staffing problem was not due to lack of trained staff but due to the constant
transfer of trained staff out of the SSI operations of the banks.
4.03    During this preparatory period, the banks and BSCIC started promoting
the credit program among prospective SSI applicants. The banks resorted to
newspaper and radio advertising as well as direct contacts with chambers of
commerce and industries in the main industrial centers. Brochures on the
credit program were prepared and distributed. A series of circulars were
sent to the banks' regional and district branches to inform them of lending
policies and procedures, eligibility criteria, processing formats and pre-
screening requirements. Promotion and advertising focussed especially on
smaller units with assets of less than Tk 1 million since the initial
response was mainly for larger projects. The banks were required to ensure
that 401 of the credit went to smaller projects. At several points during
project implementation, further processing of larger subloans had to be
interrupted to allow the required ratio to be restored.
4.04    Preparatory work in launching the credit program under the project
was generally adequate. Despite the delay of about nine months in subloan
processing due to the preparatory work, subloan processing quickly
accelerated after that such that in a little over one year the subloan
component was fully committed. The appraisal of SSI III was advanced and
was undertaken in February 1980 to ensure continuity with SSI II. Later
developments, however, proved this expectation to be too optimistic as can-
cellations and the local currency devaluation released previously committed
funds under SSI II. Due to lack of attention by the participating banks and
the availability of funds under SSI III, these funds were not recommitted to
new applications resulting in a large cancellation of 30% of the Credit.



-9-
2. Subproject Appraisal
4.05    As envisaged at appraisal, two subproject appraisal procedures were
established, one for small subprojects with fixed assets of up to Tk 1 mil-
lion (US$65,000) and another for larger subprojects with fixed assets above
Tk 1 million. For small subprojects the appraisal reports were simplified
and were patterned after the commercial banks procedures for financial
analysis of loan applications. In addition, the banks had to use the
eligibility criteria (para 3.06) in screening subprojects to ensure selection
of economically desirable investments. For larger subprojects, the appraisal
reports were more detailed and were supposed to include economic analysis.
4.06    In general, the subproject appraisals by the participating,banks were
weak. Since many of the SSI officers were new to project appraisal methods,
there was a tendency to generalize the approach according to the general
terms and conditions of the credit program. This was true especially with
regard to subloan maturities, grace periods and capital structuring. Almost
all subloans of Sonali Bank were given a standard maturity of 10 years and a
grace period of 12 months, regardless of cash flow projections and the
specific nature of subprojects submitted. Similarly, Janata subloans were
given a standard maturity of 12 years and a grace period of 36 months. The
minimum equity requirement of 30% was made the rule in most cases by both
banks. There was also weakness in assessing existing capacity for a given
activity, e.g., rice milling, especially in a given market area. Appraisals
tended to quote national figures when the data requirement for decision
making was obviously for a given local market. There was also a tendency
to standardize the appraisal of the technology of a given activity.
Fortunately, considerating the simple technological nature of most sub-
projects financed, this did not develop into a serious problem.
4.07    Based on the most recent portfolio analysis of the banks in December
1985, despite weaknesses in appraisal reports, the subprojects financed have
been generally sound. Of the total 175 SSI subprojects financed, only eight
were operating with serious problems, 12 had been closed and two had been
delayed. The balance of 152 subprojects of 87% were operating profitability
without problems or with minor, controllable problems. However, of these,
110 were in arrears and were therefore considered to be willful defaulters
(Annex 4).
3. Supervision and Collection Performance
4.08    More significant than weak appraisals were the weak procedures and
system of project supervision and end-use monitoring of _he participating
banks. While much attention was given to organizing the project appraisal
and loan sanctioning process, hardly any attention was given to setting-up
effective end-use monitoring, project supervision and subloan collection
systems. It was only much later in project implementation that concern over
poor collection performance by IDA supervision missions signalled to the
banks the need to strengthen this aspect of the lending program. Within the



-10-
ICDs, the banks organized separate cells for project supervision. At the
branch level, the branch managers were made directly responsible for achiev-
ing collection targets. Close coordination between the supervision cells and
the branches was maintained through visits by ICD officers to the branches
and by regular reporting by the branches on collection performance to the
ICDs.
4.09    In the beginning, the poor collection performance of the participat-
ing bar.ks was mainly due to a lack of concern over the absolute amount of
arrears which was very small in relation to the banks' total portfolio, and
an attitude that "eventually" these loans would be repaid (in the meantime,
interest is compounded and penalties are assessed). This laid-back attitude
resulted in unclear accountability for non-performance, with collections
given low priority by branch personnel whose performance was assessed on the
basis of many other functions.
4.10    Since pressure started to be exerted on the banks by GOB to improve
performance in view of IDA actions in this regard, 1/ there has been some
change in attitude of upper management levels of the banks. Internal collec-
tion target setting, frequent reporting and frequent visits to branches by
ICD staff have been used to impress on branch personnel the importance of
this problem. The managements of the participating banks have started to
consider performance in this area as an important determinant for personnel
reward or penalty (e.g, place of assignment). However, improvement has been
very slow since borrowers, who have been used to sloppy collection efforts in
the past, have acquired bad habits and translating management resolve into
branch action is a slow process in Bangladesh. Collection performance has
only slowly improved from a collection ratio of 24% in June 1984 to about 35%
in June 1986 (Annex 3).
4. Reporting Performance
4.11    The DCA had required that the banks submit quarterly progress reports
on subloan commitments, disbursements, recoveries, and arrears as well as on
staffing levels and training of staff. In general, the banks regularly
submitted the required reports to IDA although usually about two months late.
The reports contained the information as required but usually did not include
any analysis of the data given. Moreover, the reports were prepared somewhat
perfunctorily to meet a requirement, rather than to be used as a management
tool to monitor project implementation, identify problems and propose
solutions. Thus, despite regular quarterly reporting, the reports were not
used to identify the problem of cancellations of subloan applications and
their replacement by new applications. This shortcoming was principally
1/ Improvement of collection performance was made a condition for the
processing of the Fourth SSI Project and the Industrial Sector Credit and
for the extension of the closing date of SSI III.



-11-
responsible for the large cancellation under the credit. The staffing and
training reports were not used to identify the staff turno?er problems and
propose solutions.  This was the main reason why the institution building
efforts did not achieve as much as envisaged at appraisal. The report on
collection and arrears were hardly used to improve collection performance.
4.12    Audit reports of the banks were submitted regularly but usually about
six months late due to problems with auditors, the long approval procedures
and problems of printing. The audit reports which were prepared by the
regular auditors of these banks were generally satisfactorily. However, on
hindsight and in view of the poor collection performance of the banks under
the credit and the overall problem of credit indiscipline in the country, the
reports could have signalled the potential liquidity and solvency problems of
these banks. A financial sector studv is currently being undertaken in
Bangladesh to look into this problem, among others, more closely and
conclusively.
B. Technical Assistance Components
1. SSI Promotion and Extension Services
4.13    Objectives.  One of the objectives of the project was to reorient
BSCIC to, and strengthen its capabilities in, SSI promotion and extension.
The project provided consultancy funds to BSCIC to allow it to employ a
promotion advisor for 12 months; an industrial engineer to assist and guide
BSCIC in building up a unit to collect, analyze and publish information in
machinery and production processes suitable for SSIs i.k Bangladesh; and
short-term consultants (totally 24 person months) to assist in the prepara-
tion of subsector studies, area potential studies and project profiles to be
used in BSCIC's promotion and extension program.
4.14    Implementation.  Under the project, BSCIC expanded its promotion and
extension department at headquarters by converting it into a full-fleged
division under a director and creating two separate departments within this
new division, one responsible for promotion and the other for extension.
BSCIC also prepared subsector and area potential studies as agreed and, on
the basis of these studies, prepared and published project profiles which
were disseminated to private entrepreneurs. In spite of these useful steps,
BSCIC, however, never moved from completion of these tasks into the develop-
ment and implementation of a systematic promotion and extension program for
which these tasks were only preparatory. Contacts with private entrepreneurs
were done on an ad hoc basis and were principally with occupants of BSCIC's
industrial estates, rather than a systematic effort based on the subsector
and area studies completed.
4.15    After an 18-month delay, BSCIC located and employed a promotions
advisor for a 12-month period. Although he was highly qualified, especially
in training of extension officers and in entrepreneurship development, BSCIC
hardly utilized his services. He was pla'ed in an office and practically



-12-
forgotten. His recommendations, which were reviewed by an IDA supervision
mission and found to be relevant to BSCIC's needs, were ignored. His contact
with regional staff was limited by lack of a program to utilize his services.
The impact of this advisor on BSCIC's promotion program was practically nil.
BSCIC employed this consultant merely to comply with a project requirement,
rather than to utilize his services in building up its promotion and exten-
sion capability.
4.16    After a two and a half year delay, BSCIC employed the second advisor
who was supposed to assist in the training of extension officers. This
occurred, however, after BSCIC management hod changed and the new management
had modified the priorities of the organi.ation. Under this management,
cottage industries became a priority and Whe advisor was used to assist in
developing a strategy for CI development. this advisor appeared to have more
success within BSCIC since he had access to BSCIC's management. However,
right after the compLetion of his assignment, BSCIC's management and
priorities again changed and the advisor's recommendations for CI development
were set aside.
4.17    Aside from a numerical expansion of BSCIC's promotion and extension
staff, the preparation and completion of some subsector studies, area poten-
tial studies and project profiles and the employment of two advisors, one of
whom was practically unutilized, the project component did not achieve what
was envisaged at appraisal, namely, the development of an effective and
systematic promotion and extension program for SSI in support of the financ-
ing program. Only US$84,000, or 24% of the US$350,000 IDA funds made avail-
able for this component was utilized, indicating, in money terms, the non-
completion of this component.
2. Cottage Industry Component
4.18    Objectives.  The cottage industry component, which was to be
supported by US$130,000 of IDA funding, consisted of assistance to the
jute, cane and bamboo handicraft industry in market development, design
consultancy, training and extension services. Cottage industry units were
also eligible for financing under the subloan component and a total of 760 CI
units were financed with loans amounting to US$160,000 (paras 5.10-5.18).
BSCIC, through its wholly-owned subsidiary, the Bangladesh Handicraft
Marketing Corporation (BHMC), was also responsible for this component. BHMC
is a public sector company actually engaged in the export trading of hand-
icraft products but has a broader mandate of performing a catalytic role for
the promotion of private marketing agencies. The US$130,000 funding for BHMC
consisted of US$30,000 for market development activities and US$100,000 for
design consultancy activities.
4.19    Implementation.  Under the project, BHMC expanded its extension
service program to increase its coverage of primary producers of jute, cane
and bamboo handicrafts who were expected to supply the products for BHMC's
trading activities. The extension service organized artisans into groups in



-13-
order to achieve scale economies in training, extension se.-vices, quality
control, product collection and warehousing. Under the project, BHMC also
participated in trade fairs in London, New York and Los Angeles to promote
the new products developed with the help of expatriate design and training
consultants. Two consultants in cane, bamboo and jute handicrafts were
employed for six months each.
4.20    Achievements under this component were modest.  About 1,500 hand-
icraft producers were reached by the extension program, compared with the
appraisal estimate of 6,000. Some export sales were obtained (about
US$20O,OOO) but the share of BHMC in handicraft exports declined as private
traders expanded their operations in the handicraft export "boom" of the
early 1980s. The direct achievements, therefore, of this component in export
sales, design and market development for BHMC were small. However, it stimu-
lated the private sector into exploiting more fully the potential of this
activity. Currently, several private export traders of handicrafts are much
larger than BHMJ. Indicating the modest achievement of this component, only
half of the IDA funds provided, or about US$70,000 of the US$130,000, were
utilized for design consultants and marketing events.
V. PROJECT IMPACT
A. Institution Building
1 Nationalized Commercial Banks
5.01    It was understood from the beginning that, although the commercial
banks had adequate experience in banking, lending for commercial purposes,
and assessing client creditworthiness, they lacked experience in project
lending and appraising project viability. SSI II included elements to assist
the two participating banks in building project lending capacity by develop-
ing their capability to analyze subproject proposals, assess procurement
alternatives, supervise disbursements and monitor project implementation.
It was also agreed with GOB that, for the first eighteen months of project
implementation, BSCIC was to be involved in project appraisal while the banks
were building up their capacity for this function.
5.02    The plan was to establish specialized departments within the banks,
recruit staff, train them adequately, and make the banks completely respon-
sible for small-scale industry lending, after the agreed transition period.
As envisaged at appraisal, the two commercial banks, Janata and Sonali,
established industrial credit divisions (ICD) at their head office and
staffed them initially with officers who were transferred from other depart-
ments in the banks. By the time the Credit became effective in September
1978, there were six full-time officers in Janata Bank's and 11 in Sonali
Bank's ICD. Eight key ICD officers were trained in Indian commercial banks
for about five weeks. Other ICD officers and SSI loan officers in major



-14-
branches were given training in project appraisal and supervision in local
training institutes and local development banks.
5.03    A year after project effectiveness, Sonali's ICD had expanded to 13
officers, headed by a deputy general manager, while Janata's ICD had 10 full
time officers, with another 8 officers available on request. Although both
ICDs were headed by deputy general managers, in practice, only an assistant
general manager (a fourth level manager) was in charge of the day-to-day
operations. In the context ot the overall structure of the banks, this was
considered adequate. Janata's ICD had 6 MBAs, 2 HAs and 2 graduates in
accounting, all with prior experience in credit activities. On the other
hand, many of Sonali's officers were new recruits from the universities, with
1 engineer, 4 MBAs, 2 MAs in economics, and 6 graduates in accounting. Both
banks had difficulties in recruiting and retaining engineers since there were
many opportunities for overseas employment at that time. Moreover, engineers
were not easily integrated into the regular career stream of commercial
bankers.
5.04    By June 1980, at the time of appraisal of the Third Small Scale
Industry Project, Sonali had expanded its ICD comprising 24 officers, all
trained in SSI operations and industrial appraisal methods. There were also
35 small industry loan officers, assigned to district branches, who had
already completed local courses in project financing. However, the branch
level appraisal capabilities remained weak. District branch managers,
responsible for appraisal of subprojects of up to Tk 100,000, had not been
trained in SSI operations and were too pre-occupied with their normal commer-
cial banking activities and therefore could not effectively support their SSI
loan officers. Janata bank's SSI operations had expanded to 25 officers in
ICD, and 28 SSI officers in the branches, all of whom had received training
in SSI financing.
5.05    In summary, the organizational arrangements were established in both
banks under the project, as envisaged at appraisal. In quantitative terms,
the objectives were met, with both industrial credit divisions fully staffed,
branch SSI officers appointed, and with overseas and local training
completed. However, the capability for SSI financing in the ICDs and the
branches did not reach satisfactory levels as evidenced by weak appraisals
and an even weaker collection performance. The main stumbling block to
institution building was lack of continuity due to frequent transfers of
trained officers out of SSI operations. Also, turnover through resignations
was high, at a time when the private industrial sector was expanding and,
later on, when private banks were allowed to operate. Salaries offered by
the new private banks were several times higher than those in the NCBs.
Despite adequate staffing levels in the industrial credit divisions, staff
turnover continued to weaken them throughout the project life. In the
branches the same problem was evident as new officers with only two to three
weeks of training were assigned to replace more experienced ones. These



-15-
officers lacked practical skills to appraise subprojects and were too junior
to be effective in collecting repayments from more influential borrowers. 1/
2. Bangladesh Small and Cottage Industries Corporation (BSCIC)
5.06    Like other government agencies in Bangladesh, BSCIC has had difficul-
,ties in attracting and retaining good caliber staff. Salary scales have been
improved from time to time, but the improvements were never large enough to
correct the basic disadvantage v's-a-vis private employers. At the start of
project implementation, BSCIC ha about 300 professional staff, and another
1000 support staff. Obviously, lack of staff was not a problem. In fact, in
some areas, BSCIC was overstaffed. Also, there was an excessive proportion
of c..pport to professional staff. BSCIC, which in the past financed some
projects through joint financing with the nationalized commercial banks, had
a poor loan portfolio, with most loans in arrears over 8 years. Moreover,
auditors were unable to establish whether BSCIC's provisions for doubtful
debts were adequate. These were some of the reasons why further involvement
by BSCIC in lending activities was considered inappropriate under the
project.
5.07    Under the project, BSCIC was supposed to undertake organizational
changes to redirect its efforts into SSI promotion and extension and to
strengthen its promotion and extension departments. Credit 825-BD provided
consultancy funds to help BSCIC establish these departments and develop a
program for technical assistance to SSI. The plan for BSCIC specifically
included: (a) developing separate organization, staffing and schemes for
SSI and cottage industries promotion; (b) assigning local staff and the
expatriate advisors specific responsibilities and timetables for completion
of subsector and area studies to be used in promotion and extension work; and
(c) implementing integrated schemes for specific cottage industries (jute,
cane, and bamboo handicrafts). A total of US$350,90o was allocated for
technical services to be administered by BSCIC.
5.08     While BSCIC agreed in principl  to the arrangements whereby it was
to relinquish its project appraisal role in favor of the banks and to focus
on promotion and extension, in practice, BSCIC tried, right from the start,
to reverse this decision and to regain its role in SSI financing. As a
result, BSCIC only halfheartedly tried to implement the components of the
project assigned to it. BSCIC did expand its project promotion and extension
1/ More recently, Sonali Bank has taken several measures to address these
weaknesses. It has revised its personnel policy to reduce staff turnover
and improve skills matching; increased efforts to recruit qualified
professionals; and expanded its staff training program. To address its
loan recovery problem it had decided to create a new unit within the
Industrial Credit Department to look exclusively after recovery of
industrial loans.



-16-
services and employed new extension office2s for its district offices.  BSCIC
also prepared and completed subsector and area potential studies, as agreed.
However, there was little management commitment to move from these
preparatory work into developing and implementing an integrated program of
promotion and extension.
5.09    Of the US$350,000 made available to BSCIC, only about US$84,000 or
24% was utilized. BSCIC hired two promotion and extension advisors who were
hardly utilized. These advisors were hired more to meet project requirements
rather than to benefit from their expertise. In summary, given its basic
disagreement with the institutional roles proposed under the project, BSCIC
not only failed to carry out its role in promotion and extension but has not
stop attempting to regain its role in loan sanctioning.
B. Subproject Financing 1/
1. Subloan Characteristics
5.10    The subloan component of the project financed 175 SSI units and 760
cottage industry units, about 13% and 24% fewer than the appraisal estimates
of 200 and 1000 units, respectively. While the average subloan amounts of
US$26,000 for SSI units and US$210 for CI units were lower than the appraisal
estimates of US$30,000 and US$1,300, respectively, cancellations amounting
to about 30% of the subloan component reduced the overall coverage of the
Credit. Although cancellations of this magnitude are not abnormal in SSI
projects (e.g. cancellations under the First SSI Project in Pakistan was
about 20%), the participating banks did not properly plan for it by overcom-
mitting the subloan component in anticipation of cancellations. Unlike the
Pakistan SSI Project, however, the institutional set-up under this project
did not provide for a coordinating agency which could, among others, provide
an overview of the whole credit program, including overall credit
utilization. Under SSI III, this weakness was corrected with the inclusion
of the Bangladesh Bank (Be) as the coordinating or apex institution. This
modification in institutional arrangements was especially important under
SSI III since the number of participating banks had increased to three, with
the addition of Agrani Bank.
5.11    To ensure access to the credit program by smaller SSI units, the DCA
required that each participating bank maintain a minimum portfolio of 40% of
subprojects with fixed costs of not more than Tk 1 million (US$65,000). With
difficulty, both banks achieved this ratio. On several occasions during
implementation, the banks had to slowdown sanctioning of larger sublans in
order to maintain the required ratio. This contributed to slower project
implementation. Still, this requirement ensured lending to smaller
1/ Annex 2 provides tables detailing the characteristics of the sub-
projects financed under this Credit.



-17-
stbprojects. The average subloan size of US$26,000 is not only lower than
the appraisal estimate of US$30,000 but also much lower than the maximum
allowed of US$110,000, indicating that sufficient attention was given to
smaller units.
5.12    Subloans by Sonali Bank had a maturity mean and mode of 10 years and
a grace period mean and made of 12 months; subloans of Janali Bank had
12 years and 36 months, respectively. The reason why the means and the modes
were equal in both banks was the blanket practice of giving almost all sub-
projects the same loan maturity and grace period regardless of the nature
of the subproject and expected cash flow. This weaknesses was pointed out
time and time again by IDA through the subproject review process. In
response to these comments, subloan maturities and grace periods were short
ened but the practice of giving almost the same maturities and grace periods
to all subloans continued. This shortening of maturities, and especially of
grace periods, contributed to the subsequent high arrears levels and low
collections ratios, as loan amortizations fell due even before the projects
started operations. To resolve this problem, the banks were later allowed to
reschedule loans based on a review of the merits of each case.
5.13    The subloans generated investments totaling Tk 130 million (US$7
million). Despite the 30% cancellation, this was only slightly lower than
the appraisal estimate of Tk 140 million due to the Tk devaluation. The
average equity contribution of project sponsors was about 321, a little
higher than the minimum equity requirement of 30%. Again, this reflects the
practice of the participating banks to require only a minimum equity con-
tribution rather than structuring the subprojects on a case to case basis
and based on factors such as the capacity of sponsors, availability of
securities, the nature of the subproject, etc.
2. Subproject Characteristics
5.14    Subsectoral Distribution.  Except in 6 cases, the subloan component
financed the establishment of new subprojects, indicating that the banks were
willing to take greater risks than expected in this regard. There is no
information, however, on whether the sponsors of these new projects were new
or existing clients of the banks. The subsector distribution of subprojects
show that the banks financed somewhat traditional projects such as rice and
flour milling (30%), saw milling (18%), metal workshops (11%) and food
processing (e.g. ice cream making, bakeries, biscuit manufacturing - 10%),
which balanced off the risks of their being new projects. This distribution
also indicates that the project sponsors were mainly traditional businessmen
with close ties to the agriculture sector.
5.15    Geographic Distribution.  The project aimed at a greater geographic
distribution of subprojects than was achieved under the first SSI project
which financed subprojects of which 88% were located in Dhaka and Chittagong.
Under this project, Dhaka (21%) and Chittagong (12%) together still took 33%
of the credit, but the balance was more evenly distributed among the remain-



-18-
ing 16 districts. The concentration in Dhaka and Chittagong reflects popula-
tion concentration, availability of raw materials and skilled labor,
proximity to major markets and local entrepreneurship. Also, urban branches
of the participating banks were more equipped to deal with the procedures and
requirements of the credit program.
5.16    Size of Subprojects.  Most of the lending was for smaller subprojects
with total assets below Tk 1.0 million (US$65,000). Only about a quarter of
the subprojects had total assets over Tk 1.0 million. Despite the size
ceiling of Tk 2.5 milLion in line with the official definition of SSI, 6
subprojects exceeded the ceiling. This was, however, due to the devaluation
of the Tk in the course of project implementation, rather than a deliberate
violation of this lending criterion. The skewing of the project size towards
smaller projects was due principally to the requirement to maintain the 60:40
ratio. In general, there was a tendency to utilize the credit for the targer
subprojects such that, from time to time, sanctioning of larger subprojects
had to be suspended to restore the ratio.
3. Economic Impact of Subprojects Financed
5.17    The 175 SSI subprojects and 760 CI units financed under the subloan
component have generated about 3,150 full-time and 2,000 part-time jobs,
respectively, or about a third of the appraisal estimates of 8,000 and 6,000
jobs respectively. This was due partly because, with cancellation, fewer
projects were financed and partly because the cost per job in SSI units were
higher than expected, i.e. US$2,000 vs. US$1,500. Still, the average cost
per job in SSI units was lower than the maximum ratio allowed of US$3,000 per
job created and much lower than the ratio under SSI I (US$5,000). In CI
units it was much lower than the appraisal estimate of US$500. The labor
intensity criterion was therefore met. The subprojects financed under the
project were heavily dependent on local raw materials; about 87% of the value
of raw materials is estimated to be of local origin, which is significantly
higher than the minimum of 60% required under the credit. The subprojects
are strongly linked to agriculture as they represent the first stages of
agro-processing, i.e., flour/rice milling, raw-milling, food processing and
cold storage, and engineering and repair services for agricultural
implements. Exports constitute an insignificant portion of the output of
subprojects since most of them are oriented not even to the dumestic national
market but to local market6. The information relating to ex-post financial
rates of return of the subprojects are considered unreliable and have not
been used in this report. However, the most recent portfolio review of the
banks indicate that most projects are operating profitability and only about
15% have experienced operating problems. Nevertheless, the collection ratio
in all subloans have been poor, indicating that many subborrowers (63%) are
willful defaulters. This has fed from, and is feeding into, the general
problem of credit indiscipline in the country. The effect on income dis-
tribution due to this problem is probably negative.



-19-
5.18    Compared with the subprojects financed under SSI I, the activities
financed under this project appear to make more economic sense. They are
more labor-intensive, more dependent on local raw materials, have more links
with agriculture and are more geographically dispersed. Except for the
?n1bprojects in handicraft production and exports, the subprojects were prin-
cipally oriented to the local market. This project objective, as reflected
in the lending criteria, was therefore not achieved to any significant
degree. Still, it appears that the practice of using simple eligibility
criteria was useful in directing the lending program to investment areas that
make some economic sense. 1/
VI. ROLE OF IDA
6.01    Credit 825-BD was among the first SSI projects developed following
the elaboration of the Bank Group's policy on lending to the SSI sector.
Bank policy towards assistance, to small scale enterprises was spelled out
in the 1978 policy paper entitled, "Employment and Development of Small
Enterprises". This project benefitted from the discussions within and out-
side the Bank which culminated in the publication of this sector policy
paper. The establishment of clear eligibility criteria for SSI lending as a
means to directing investments to economically sensible activities without
involved project by project economic analysis, helped redirect SSI lending
from import-dependent, capital intensive, urban and larger projects under
SSI I to more labor-intensive, local raw material-dependent, more regionally
dispersed projects under SSI II. Allowing the financing of local costs and
working capital requirements, as proposed in the policy paper, made this
project more responsive to the needs of SSI. Using commercial banks, as
recommended in the policy paper, has resulted in a more wide reaching credit
system for SSI.
6.02    To ensure that this project would be designed in accordance with
Bank policy recommendations, IDA devoted considerable amount of direct and
indirect staff and consultant effort_ to project development. IDA coor-
dinated closely with GOB in preparing the project and devoted greater effort
than usual in appraising and supervising the project. IDA employed consult-
ants in project supervision to assist the agencies in implementing their
project components, especially in the more difficult areas of SCI promotion
and extention.
6.03    IDA provided assistance in institution building, both for the
participating banks and for BSCIC. While more time and effort was given to
assisting BSCIC, the results were relatively much better with the banks than
1/ Detailed information on the financial and economic performance of each
subproject in available in the project file.



-20-
with BSCIC. The basic reason for failure with BSCIC was its being a
reluctant, sometimes an antagonistic, client. IDA's expectation of being
able to influence BSCIC appears to have been not well founded.
VII. CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS LEARNED
7.01    Following on the First SSI Project which was considered to have made
a limited impact on the SSI sector in general and on SSI support institutions
in particular, SSI II aimed at reforming and strengthening institutions and
ensuring that investment financing supported the right SSI subsectors. The
greatest weakness in the institutional set-up was considered to be the over-
lap of responsibilities for SSI financing between the banks and BSCIC which
not only confused responsibilities and diluted accountability, but also
diverted BSCIC from focussing on crucial non-credit assistance for SSI.
Second, due to lack of clear lending eligibility criteria, the first credit
financed mostly more capital-intensive, import-dependent, urban and larger
SSI units, with limited impact on expanding employment, regional development
and linkage with the agricultural sector.
7.02    Guided by the lessons learned from SSI I and the recommendations of
the 1978 Bank policy paper on SSI assistance, SSI II had more ambitious,
though clearer, objectives than SSI I. The institutional objectives of the
project, while theoretically straightforward, proved to be difficult to
achieve. BSCIC's tenacity at retaining its role in SSI financing was
stronger than expected. With this basic disagreement between BSCIC and IDA,
the assistance provided by the project to build BSCIC's capability in SSI
promotion and extension work was only perfunctorily accepted. The two
advisors employed were not fully utilized and had little impact on the
organization. BSCIC did complete some of the subsector and area potential
studies which were to be used for a more systematic promotion and extension
program. BSCIC also expanded its staff for promotion and extension.
However, the studies were poorly prepared and were not utilized for the
purpose they were prepared. The quality of staff recruited or transferred to
perform the promotion and extension function was weak, with many of them very
junior staff members who could not inspire confidence among potential SSI
clients.
7.03    The objective of financing economically sensible SCI subprojects was
generally achieved. Not only were 175 SSI units and 760 CI units financed,
but these units were more labor-intensive, more geographically dispersed, had
closer linkage with the agricultural sector and smaller than the units
financed under the first SSI project. This favorable result was principally
due to the establishment of clear eligibility criteria for lending which
directed investments into economically desirable activities.
7.04    The institution building objectives for the participating banks were
only partially achieved. Small industry departments were created at the



-21-
headquarters of these banks, SS loan officers were recruited and trained in
project-based lending methodology, operating systems and procedures were
established and subloans for 175 SSI units and 760 CI units were processed by
these banks. Still, the appraisal skills remained weak, project supervision
system and procedures were only partially established, and the collection
performance is still poor and hardly improving. This is due principally to
high staff turnover, inadequate systems and procedures, and unclear sharing
of accountabilities between the headquarters and the branches.
7.05    Specific lessons learned under the project include the following:
(a) Among the financial institutions in Bangladesh, the large commercial
banks appear to be the right channels for a broad-based lending
program for SSI, considering their wide branch network, their tradi-
tional banking relationships with industry and commerce and their
resource mobilization capability. However, for them to become effec-
tive in this activity, they need to strengthen their stafi through
an on-going training program, reduce staff turnover to retain the
expertise developed, and improve their project supervision and
collection procedures.
(b) Beyond institution building aspects for the commercial banks, the
Government needs to address the problem of credit and financial
indiscipline among borrowers through clear and consistent policy,
determined support for the financial system in enforcing contracts
and an efficient legal system. Unless these basic problems of the
credit environment are resolved, the viability of lending programs
as well as financial institutions themselves will be undermined.
(c) The lesson to be learned from IDA's relationship with BSCIC is quite
obvious. Unless there is clear agreement with the implementing
agency and consequent strong commitment by it to its role, no legal
covenant will ensure acceptance of roles and effective project
implementation according to the objectives spelled out at appraisal.
(d) Supporting marketing activities by government corporations in
Bangladesh, such as BHMC, should be avoided since government policies
and procedures make it difficult for governmenL operations to respond
efficiently to rapid market developments; it might be more difficult,
but more fruitful, to develop mechanisms to assist the private sector
in this area. This approach would also conform with current govern-
ment policy of expanding the role of the private sector in industrial
activity.
December 1986
Revised: April 198T



- 22 -
ANNEX 1
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH - SECOND SMALL SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
(CREDIT 825-8D)
Projected and Actual Cumulative Disbursements
(US$ in millions)
IDA Fiscal Year                         Appraisal              Actual
and Quarter                            Amount       X        Amount      X
FY79    Third quarter                     0.25        4           -        -
Fourth quarter                    0.75       11          -         -
FY80    First quarter                     1.25       19           -        -
Second quarter                    1.85       27         0.03       1
Third quarter                     2.55       37         0.26       4
Fourth quarter                    3.35       49         0.26       4
FY81    First quarter                     4.15       60          0.78     11
Second quarter                    4.85       70         1.04      15
Third quarter                     5.45       79          1.74     25
Fourth quarter                    6.05       87         2.50      36
PY82    First quarter                     6.55       94          2.80     40
Second quarter                    6.75       97         2.97      42
Third quarter                     6.85       99         3.28      47
Fourth quarter                    7.00      100         3.64      52
PY83    First quarter                      -         -           3.85     55
Second quarter                     -         -          3.90      56
Third quarter                      -         -          3.91      56
Fourth quarter                     -         -          4.00      57
FY84    First quarter                      -         -           4.00     57
Second quarter                     -         -          4.15      59
Third quarter                      -         -          4.49      64
Fourth quarter                     -         -          4.49      64
FY85    First quarter                      -         -           4.71     67
Second quarter                     -         -          4.84      69
Third quarter                      -         -          4.85      69
Fourth quarter                     -         -
Source: IBRD, Disbursements Division



-  3 -                            ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 2
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH - SECOND SMALL SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
(CREDIT 825-BD)
Characteristics of Subprojects Financed
(Tk in million)
1.  Distribution by Bank                             No.      Amount       X
Janata Bank                                    94       47.78      54
Sonali Bank                                    81 a/   41.22       46
Total                                       175       88.90     100
2.  Type of Subproject                                No.     Amount       Z
New                                           169       84.32       95
Existing                                        6        4.58        5
Total                                       175       88.90     100
3.  Subsectoral Distribution                          No.                  %
Rice/Flour Milling                             52                   30
Saw Milling                                    31                   18
Light Engineering                              20                   11
Food Processing                                17                   10
Ice Plant and Cold Storage                     12                    7
Chemical Products                              11                    6
Tobacco Crushing                                8                    5
Textile and Garments                            7                    4
Poultry/Dairy/Fishing                           5                    3
Printing and Packaging                          5                    3
Jute                                            4                    2
Coconut Oil                                     3                    1
Total                                       175                 100
4. Geographic Distribution
District                                       No.                   X
Dhaka                                        37                   21
Chittagong                                   21                   12
Bogra                                        16                    9
Rangpur                                      15                    9
Noakhali                                     14                    8
Comilla                                      12                    7
Barisal                                      10                    6
a/ A later report by Sonali Bank indicated that it had 82 subprojects with
subloans amounting to Tk 42.03 millions. Review of files revealed that a
small industry subproject was misclassified as a cottage industry
subproject.



- 24-                                   ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 2
4. Geographic Distribution (cont'd)
District                                         No.                   X
Faridpur                                        7                    4
Khulna                                          7                    4
Pabna                                           7                    4
Mymemsingh                                      6                    3
Jessore                                         5                    3
Kushtia                                         5                    3
Rajshahi                                        5                    3
Sylhet                                          4                    2
Jamalpur                                        2                    1
Tangail                                                             -
Patuakhali                                      -
Total                                       175                 100
5. Size of Subprojects
a)  Total Project Costs                            No.                   X
Tk 100,000 and less                            12                    7
Tk 100,001 - 500,000                           89                   51
Tk 500,001 - 1,000,000                         30                   17
Tk 1,000,001 - 2,500,000                       38                   22
Tk 2,500,001 and more                           6                    3
Total                                      175                  100
b)  Subloan Size                                   No.                   X
Tk 100,000 and less                            73                  42
Tk 100,001 - 500,000                           38                   22
Tk 500,001 - 1,000,000                         40                   23
Tk lOOOOOl - 1,750,000                       13                    7
Tk 1,750,001 and more                          11                    6
Total                                       175                 100
6.  Maturity of Subloans                               No.
Less than 5 years                               1                    1
5 to 7 years                                   53                   30
8 to 12 years                                 121                   69
Total                                       175                 100



-25 -                          ANNEX 3
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH - SECOND SHALL SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
(CREDIT 825-BD)
Cumulative Collection Performance of Participating Banks
(Tk in millions)
Janata Bank                Sonali Bank                  Total
Due   Collected  Z b/   Due    Collected   %        Due   Collected  Z
Jun 1984       25.18     4.60    18      15.88      5.30    33      41.06    9.90   24
Dec 1984       33.18     5.94    18      26.21    10.71    41       59.39   16.65   28
Jun 1985      26.70 a/  7.35    28       30.67    13.16    43       57.37   20.57   36
Dec 1985      37.19    10.04    27       35.58    16.01    45       72.77   26.05   36
Jun 1986      41.80    11.34    27       42.32    18.48    44       84.12   29.82   35
a/ After rescheduling.
b/ Collection ratio = Cummulative cash collections as of given date
Cummulative due as of given date
Source: Monthly collection performance reports by Bangladesh Bank.



- 26 -                               ANNEX 4
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH - SECOND SMALL SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
(CREDIT 825-BD)
Portfolio Classification according to Operating and Repaying Status
as of December 1985
(Tk in million)
Cumulative
Cumulative     Amount            Amount
Status                             No.    X   Amount Due   Collectetd           in Arrears
Not in arrears                     23    13       7.56           7.78      103    (0.22)
Subloans not yet due                1      1      0.00           0.00        0     0.00
Subloana with above 501
collection                       13      7      3.93           3.30      84      0.63
Delayed subprojects                 3      2      1.79           0.04        2     1.75
Operating profitably but in
arrears (wilful default)        110    63      42.71          13.90       33    28.81
Operating with problems and
in arrears                        8      5      5.96           0.63       11     5.33
Closed subprojects                  12     7      9.64           0.31        3     9.33
Others                              5      2      1.18           0.09        8     1.09
Total                           175   100      72.77          26.05       36    46.72
Source:  PCI veports on portfolio analysis.



- 27 -                       AMTACHNENT I
Page 1 of 4
BANGLADESH BANK                     NUSRUZL> CDIT
HEAD OFFICE SDA&W3
Rqf .IC /1 5-                                          Dated 0          .1! ;9870
)COMENTS RECEIVED FROM THE BANGLADESH BANK
The Ohief of Mission
World Beak Resident Mission
in Bangladesh                                       1   APR 1987
222 New Eskaton Roa
Dhk.
-     Si,        Project Completion Report on Bangladesh
neat St, Second Small soale In4ustry 1rojeat
(Cr-edit 825-BD).
Please refer to the letter dated February 27, 1987
of Mr. Alexander Nowiokit Division Chief, Operations Evaluation
Department of your Headquarters addressed to us on the above
subjects
Bangladesh Bank's oomments on the draft PCR regarding
2nd SSI Projeot are sent herewith, as requested* Kindly forward
the same to your headquarters for necessary actions at their
end.
With regards.
YOr  2sosrely,
Enolo t 3(s ()
( 11d.MJustsF
Deputy Director.
FROM WORLD BANK DHAKR    04/15/87 09:11   P.21



- 28 -                         ATTACH)T I
Page 2 of 4
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT D3PARTMT
BANGIADBSH BANK
HEAD OPPICE
UA OIDPIT 825-3D
SEO0ID  SMALLCA.LS   _DU     P
Proleot 0ompletion. ARegrt 
IDA, Washington have prepared a draft project Completion
Report (POE) dated December 5, 1986 on the 500Cd 8SI ProJeot
under IDA Credit 825-BD; and sent a copy thereof to us, among
others, inviting comments on the report,
2,     This TS$ 7.00 million Credit was ln opeation for fiSncing
oT Small Scals and Cottage Industry Projects through Sonali Bank
and Janata bank with a subloan component of US$ 6.52 million. The
Credit was made eTfective !n Septembebr 1978 aM  disbursawet was
closed -.n April.* 1985,
3,     Bangladesh Bank had no uignifidant role to play In the loan
operation/administration under the 2nd 551 Programme except that
at a very later stage, the Industrial Credit Department(Bangladesh
Bank) started to monitor the colloetion performance of the parti-
cipating credit institution 'PCI) under this Credit. Benco, we have
very limited soope to comment on the various lisues di8ouseed In the
report. However, Bangladesh Bank does not have a   specific comments
on the views expressed by IDA in the report on overall achievemenlt
of the desired objectives of the ProJectp *peo,ally thome concerning
institutional reform for lending to SCIc; and appraisal, supervision,
monitoring and collection standad of the OXIs.
46     The commercial banks are continuing their efforts toward.
developing their operational standard and oapabilities for haling
industrial finance, specially for SS loMing; and signifioant
improvemerts could be demonstrated in the subsequently hundlod
*:oadi\progs,am95s  although it in true that the systems for proj.ot
Contd.. ,P/2
M WORLD BANK DHAKA    04/15/87 09:12   P.22



ATAGW4ENT I
- 29-                      Page 3 of4
supervision/ond-uoe monitoring and subloan oolleotf.ong need
to be developed further to make them effeotive in real terms,
5.     The 3rd S8I Project oame into effectiveness as a cootinuation
of the 2nd Project and kept the conoerne* POls on their wheels for
another Project-period; but the SS3  lending programme  and sotivitXes
of these institutions suffered a set-back, so to say, when'IDA
suddenly dropped the 4th SI Project from thsir lending programme,
after oompletion of all the preparatory works of this Projeot.
Achievement of the colleotion targets fixed by IDA for SSI-XI and
III oould not have been possible for many reasons which include the
weaker supervision/end-use monitoring and oollection drives. But
these aotivities have subsequently been geared up and the situation
Is expeoted to substantially improve within a reasoxable period of
time. We, therefore, feel that reconsideration for processing the
4th SSI Programme by IDA would be of signifioant and valuable assis-
tance in overall development of our SSI lendig institutiono and
strategies.
6.     Some corrections are required to be made in the MOR on the*
following aspeots:
a. Currently our SSI is defined as "an industrial undertaking
engaged either In manufacturing process or service activity,
within a total investment up to Tk. 15 million and investment
in machinery and equipment not exoeeding Uk.10 million exclu-
ding taxes and duties"; and not as stated in para 2,07 of
chapter II of the report.
be In para 4,02 of the POR it has been mentioned that conultancy
funda of SSI-II were not utiliaed due to lsok of follov-up by
Bangladesh Bank in locating and employing suitable cons.tant;s.
We, however, point out that Bangladesh Bank made all its AfTorts
to locate, select ana appoint consultants under the Credit but
it oould not be done for many other reasone. Pirt of all, the
candidate from DCP9 Manila recommended by IDA was seLected
I given specific offer which he refused to aeoopt; and by
f l 44 -                                  ContdobotP/3
F IWORLK   DHAKA    04/15/83  09:13   0.Z3



ATTACHENIT I
Page 4 of 4
- 30 -
that time a long period already elapsed. Thereafter,
suitable oandidate was not being available; and finally
in the process of seleoting and appointing another
oandidate, the tenure of 8SI-III was over.
7.     As regards Government control of the marketing support
sotivities of Bangladesh Handicraft Marketing Corporation and
IDA's suggestions to induce private soector in this area, our
comment is that BHMC is only one suoh organisation in the public
sector, There are many similar mrketing organisations omed by
the private seotor alrea4y doing the same job as that of BOOSO
and the Government policy rather OncourQages more private sector
partioipation in such areas.
FROM WORLD DANK DHAKA   .04/15/87 09:14   P.24



HEAD OFFICI
______________________31                           MOTUHIJH  C. A.
DNA" .S,W"VISNE8
ZND;U L ORNDIT DM WION                                    Page 1 of 2
PROJUT OPRA.TION  DEim,
NOHQ:XICDaPOD*2XDa.DA  PIDZTsOL/ 451
DAMut 19m4m1987,
CONETS RECEIVED FROM THE SONALI BANK
I6wjSurtuder KJaftlk,0
Senor 26onomiat,
Th4 World B.ani
Resident Nis.ion in Ba4ladooh
~22 Now Zakaton Road,
GPoSOZO97
Subs ProJeot oompletion Report on Duqlad.eh-Soooad Small Seelo
Wul0   zrAsot (Cedi
Dear Sir,
We have received a letter dated Februax7 27,1,67 rom Me W.r24
Dsnk,Vnshngtons.nUSOA. alo.gwith a draft PwoJbt Oompol t
Report (PrC) on the above aentioned oredit wherein they bave
i1nvte4 our commnuts for refleotion in the tinal "port thxroh
&tt1aolent.
we as oucb frui'h, our cements as per attaohd shoet fer
ouward submiooson to The World SB*a VOh1hatou.*8*A, toeVade
incorporation in the tfinl repor,t,
5tooking you.
Dv W   IPKDH    QUl64                 .
FROM WORLD BANK DHAKA    04/22/87 16:43   P. a



- 32 -                              ATTA T II
Page 2 of 2
Subs Cements on PrOJejt O         aea ept(l
gX~~Smn Uma  bale ThAirt ,n e0R eot No
Zti Ia faet shut fte -bank iaiti.ell taeod vvobleft et bdLareu
ad adequato ePwinial hUand.ObVtowl.7 at the eadQtles of am*
VOW amthod  of PPojeot teeaLbllty WA  *ag ta0  oan eaely0Aa
b.TIM .M  dittrene. ftre  the trelioa  eb.rt.tea  loadiat
Of the bea0kvhQrO ndght be reason. to'? lov dveYlopseO at the
.XPutIDoo and tiowmwr of *relad etftoew. ia the abs en.. of
Plazaaed vadorstwmatag Uowv.viutho USAL SaZ.e.t.bek am dadoseted
In the report ha.as we bollo,by nw boon yerooem.h, wdu.tw.al
Oroet DIvUlvo Is a.- gearing Uap MntwLg o n=xia  ooeloa pmtoww
MAo00,foS'rt  are thers to we l$t motv    t
&t.tls1AolanG and tof extensiwo veeTaiag .t tho 91moaoA,al slys"
and wAsager.4  adition to thb  oziats" *o Uqttet  D i. )
$anotio  & Usbuowont (Ci) ferolow-  Xu          0t    -   dmUs*
Departmeat4f hw boen doidd to got up a 0aweto sen to be
headed by OM AsA tt.ee*wa"  Ma e  to leek after fealustw
oll.otions( wacowery of the zndwbtodel l.aM.Preoweeo
be  ared  boo  MOW"d to Podo thO re rd WoA   of Oet    lr &
Stafft  ther VOOOVea'  ol1 ok ths ftopust tru anot erro sa
Offlore  * And A a ba to zeeajv  th proble ot tra1nd Offfiewo X
ZdumaIte   loe,1Lt has "so e bo   apWaved by the lank'  a ben  of
Dfreoto" Su th  go@woe of their awroP ig the be*a' state0 of
Zaduatrial fInancin  in the LIgt at ZWUctsil pohLy.19S6 ft&l
ole., oo-.rdinttn en por disaoes  so*ul  preoal Lu beftege
ZOD eM Pereonuml   VD*Oi in  worpeot of ftetw of the OQBtfeg
emidered suitable for eOrb La Xudtrie orodit,affeta awe also
under wSL to traft up lage nube  of fPAnca  *Ualyute/gV.qOfiowe
ia Zdu.tial disoipime from all S vdeiabIe sepe  tnO thi, 1 good.
qumt attaehment na brenehe. and buiom&l Ofi.  to dipowe vith
th provisiOn ot Smel  zuatry tiaanot"(Gvoom.b m*        o  tral
policr 1986) window  as laid down & sphahined by the eawgledoe Peak
In that diroetin.A  resend  oete point  eobseved La *he d&af  gopwt
and hihlghto to"".   *we hav  to be LA ewe.aes  vAt the
wQOet* eOZOOv that the number of sUb-Vojeotgtfamed by Soma  *Un
woulM be 82 tor disburseent of 2h,4.03 millie. ug Santi as fe
D&4`1.22 aIlion S mentioned Im the rport,
FROM WORLD BANK DHAKA         04/22/87 16:44    P. 3



