Document of
The World Bank                         FiLE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 1802a-BD
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ON THE
SECOND SMALL-SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
BANGLADESH
May 26, 1978
Industrial Development and Finance Division
South Asia Projects
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
The Bangladesh Taka is officially valued at 26.70
to the Pound Sterling. The Pound now floats relative to
the US Dollar and consequently the Taka/US Dollar rate is
subject to change (as of January 30, 1978, US$l = Tk 14.5).
The rate below has been used throughout this report.
US$1                Tk 15.5
Tk 1           =    US$0.0645
Tk 1 million        US$64,500
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS USED
CI        -    Cottage Industry
BHMC      -    Bangladesh Handicrafts Marketing Corporation
BSIC      -    Bangladesh Small Industries Corporation
BCIC      -    Bangladesh Cottage Industries Corporation
BSCIC     -    Bangladesh Small and Cottage Industries
Corporation
BSB       -    Bangladesh Shilpa Bank
EPSIC     -    East Pakistan Small Industries Corporation
GOB       -    Government of Bangladesh
SCI       -    Small-Scale and Cottage Industry
SSI       -    Small-Scale Industry excluding cottage
FISCAL YEAR
GOB                 July 1    - June 30
BSCIC               July 1    - June 30
Commercial Banks   January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BANGLADESH
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND SMALL-SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.    BACKGROUND  ...........................................                                1
II.     THE  INDUSTRIAL  SECTOR AND  ROLE OF  SMALL AND
COTTAGE  INDUSTRIES  ................................                            2
Economic  Setting  ................................                            2
Characteristics  and Role  of SCIs  ....                   ............        3
Policy Framework  and  Industrial  Finance                    .........        5
III.     THE PROJECT  ..........................................                                7
The Project  Components  ..........................                            7
Credit  Component  - Size  .........................                          9
Credit Component - Subproject Selection Methods
and Criteria  ..................................                          13
Special  Capital  Fund  ............................                         13
Cottage  Industry  Component  ......................                         14
Technical Assistance  Component  ..................                          20
IV.     INSTITUTIONAL ASPECTS  ................................                              21
Institutional  Framework  .........................                          21
Commercial  Banks  ..... ..........................                          24
BSCIC  .       ..........................................                    27
V.    PROMOTION AND  EXTENSION  ..............................                             30
General  .........................................                           30
SSI Promotion  ...................................                           30
SSI Extension  ...................................                           32
CI Extension  ....................................                           33
VI.    ADMINISTRATION  OF THE  CREDIT  .........................                             34
VII.    ECONOMIC  JUSTIFICATION AND  RISKS  .....................                             37
Benefits  ........................................                           37
Risks  ...........................................                           39
VIII.      SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS  REACHED  ........................                             39
ANNEX 1 - LIST OF RELATED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
This report was prepared by E. Elejalde, J. Balkind, and N. Barry
(ASPID) and B. Hansen (Consultant) following their visit to Bangladesh in
August 1977.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






BANGLADESH
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND SMALL-SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
1.01      The Government of Bangladesh (GOB) has requested an IDA Credit to
finance small-scale and cottage industries (SCIs). This report recommends
a credit of $7 million. The purpose of the Credit will be to support the
development of SCIs by: (i) introducing reforms in the institutional frame-
work for assisting SCIs by strengthening institutions, redefining their roles,
and initiating programs to tackle problems constraining SCI development; and
(ii) providing finance for fixed investment and permanent working capital
requirements of new, expansion, balancing and modernization SCI subprojects,
and for technical assistance.
1.02      In June 1970, IDA made a $3 million Credit (Credit 192-PAK) to
Pakistan to provide foreign exchange for imported equipment and technical
assistance for small-scale industry (SSI) in the country's east wing. The
East Pakistan Small Industries Corporation (EPSIC) was responsible for the
administration of the Credit and a consortium of commercial banks also par-
ticipated in the project. In January 1973, IDA reactivated the Credit to
GOB (Credit 353-BD) with the Bangladesh Small Industries Corporation (BSIC),
EPSIC's successor, responsible for administering the Credit and again with
the participation of a consortium of commercial banks. The Credit was dis-
bursed by March 1978.
1.03      The first Credit financed 43 subprojects.  The average fixed cost
per enterprise was about Tk.1.2 million, with an average requirement of
imported machinery and equipment (average IDA subloan) of about $70,000,
and in a number of cases, fairly large recurring foreign exchange needs for
spares and raw materials. The sub-projects were heavily concentrated in two
subsectors: food and allied industries (40%), primarily financing oil and
flour mills; and textiles (40%), primarily financing warp-knitting and syn-
thetic textiles. The remainder were in engineering (9%), printing and
packaging (7%), and ice plant (4%) industries. The enterprises were con-
centrated in the Dacca and Chittagong areas and in terms of size, belonged
to the upper end of SSI. Employment generation was modest at an average
fixed cost per direct job created of about $5,000.
1.04      The first Credit achieved modest results partly because of the
situation prevailing in Bangladesh immediately following independence, which
made effective project implementation difficult. The other reason was a lack
of emphasis on project identification, promotion and extension work. The
roles of the implementing institutions were not clearly defined and the over-
lap of BSIC/commercial bank functions deterred BSIC from carrying out pro-
motional work and made procedures for appraisal and follow-up cumbersome.



- 2 -
While the subprojects financed by the first Credit are only now reaching the
repayment stage, other loans financed under these arrangements are heavily
in arrears, mainly due to lack of proper supervision. The proposed project,
therefore, seeks to strengthen promotion and extension work and to redefine
the roles and responsibilities of the implementing institutions. It will be
directed to smaller type of enterprises including cottage industries (CIs) and
will generate a significantly higher number of jobs at a lower capital cost.
Commercial banks, which have comparative advantages in the financing of SCIs,
will participate directly in SCI development and will gradually assume full
responsibility for appraisal and supervision. Simultaneously, BSCIC's 1/
activities will be concentrated mainly on promotion and extension, which it
is better equipped to undertake.
II. THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR AND ROLE OF SMALL AND COTTAGE INDUSTRIES
Economic Setting 2/
2.01      The industrial sector, although accounting for only 8% of GDP, is
an important element in the Bangladesh economy; it produces basic consumer
goods, provides agriculture with key inputs, accounts for about 60% of export
earnings and employs some two million workers. Industrial performance has
at the same time a critical bearing on resource mobilization and is poten-
tially an important source of rapid economic growth. The basic industrial
structure has changed little since independence. Large and medium scale
enterprises are mainly in the public sector and concentrated in jute, cotton
textiles, paper, steel, sugar refining and engineering. They represent about
65% of the total value added in industry. After independence, the ownership
and management of "abandoned" units were transferred to the Government. In
addition, all jute, cotton textile and sugar mills were nationalized. At
present, the public sector comprises about 400 units, including those under
several public sector corporations; GOB has recently disinvested about 80 of
these units. Small scale and cottage units, which account for about 35% in-
dustrial value added, are composed of roughly 50,000 SSIs and 500,000 CIs. 3/
2.02      A large number of industries in Bangladesh originally had been
established to supply the two wings which comprised Pakistan. The separation
of these markets after independence substantially reduced capacity utilization.
This was compounded by a shortage of foreign exchange to purchase raw mate-
rials and spares, inexperienced management, and labor unrest, especially in
1/   BSIC was merged with the Bangladesh Cottage Industries Corporation
(BCIC) in May 1976, becoming the Bangladesh Small and Cottage Industries
Corporation (BSCIC), which is now the agency primarily responsible for
promoting the development of SCIs in Bangladesh.
2/   The general economic background is covered in the most recent economic
report on Bangladesh, No. 1931-BD, dated April 13, 1978.
3/   Paragraph 2.03 gives the definition for SSI and CI units.



-3-
the years immediately following independence. The overall index of industrial
production only recently reached the FY70 level, although capacity utilization
remains at less than 50% in many industries. After achieving about 90% of the
FY70 level in FY74, total industrial production showed no sizable increase in
the following year, largely because of a slackening of consumer cemand.  As
consumer demand has picked up gradually, industrial production during the last
three years is estimated to have increased by about 10%.
Characteristics and Role of SCIs
2.03      Definition.  SSIs are officially defined in Bangladesh as enter-
prises with fixed assets, including land, of up to Tk 2.5 million. CIs are
defined as activities that are carried on wholly or mainly by members of a
family either as a full- or part-time occupation. As in many other countries,
the data base on Bangladesh's SCI sector is weak. However, the following
table is indicative of the characteristics of Bangladesh's SCIs compared with
large-scale industrial units:
Total     Total
Avg. No. of    Total No. of   Fixed   Production  Value
Fixed Asset Value /a   Workers/Unit  Establishments  Assets   Workers    Added
(US$      ('000)   -(US-$
million)            million)
Below US$6,500
(unregistered;
CI generally) - sample        4             60,641        40.1        253      70.7
US$6,500-US$160,000
(SSI registered) - census   9                1,334         6.8         12       6.6
Over US$160,000
(Medium and Large) -
census                      295              1,225       423.0        361     314.3
/a   Source:  Manufacturing Census for registered firms, 1975-76 and Sample
Survey of Unregistered Industries, 1976-77 (Project File 1).
The data for units with fixed asset value below US$6,500 is
on the basis of a sample and is not adjusted to cover the total
population.
2.04      Employment Impact.  SCIs provide work for about 80% of the total
industrial labor force. From the above table, the average fixed assets per
job is Tk 2,460 (US$160) for cottage/informal industries, and Tk 10,370
(US$570) for registered SSIs, compared with Tk 18,300 (US$1,200) for larger
firms. However, it should be noted that the fixed assets/job figures are
understated, perhaps by a factor of three to four, as they represent depre-
ciated capital stock at book value and are based on weak data. Nevertheless,
the figures are indicative and provide a basis for comparing SSI, CI and large
firms.



-4-
2.05      The ratio of value added to fixed assets (book value) is 0.74 for
large-scale industries, 0.97 for registered SSIs and 1.76 for cottage and
informal industries (which are characterized by extremely low fixed invest-
ment). A review of 20 major subsector/product lines in which SSIs represent
over 10% of value added indicates that value added/fixed assets in registered
SSIs are about equal to that of large scale industries in the same subsector
in 16 of the 20 subsectors (e.g., bakery products, knitted goods, plastic
products, leather tanning, various metal products). Value added/fixed assets
were higher in eight product lines (e.g., fruit and vegetable processing,
wooden and metal furniture, leather products, glass products, and various
repair operations). Subsectors in which value added per fixed assets was
markedly higher for large industries were: edible oil processing, silk tex-
tiles, and pharmaceutical products. On the other hand, labor productivity
is somewhat lower with value added per production worker at 16.5, 11.0 and
9.5 for large, registered SSIs, and CIs, respectively.
2.06      Economic Efficiency.  Data on capacity utilization and cost struc-
ture which would help determine SCIs' efficiency more rigorously are not
available. Data on profitability may also be misleading given relatively poor
accounting practices and because profits are not always calculated on the same
basis for small and large firms, particularly when computing labor costs.
Further, the "mortality" rate of SCIs is high and data is available only for
the more successful ones. Nevertheless, the figures give an indication since
SCIs do not receive any special protection or subsidy. Excluding interest,
overall profits/sales were 17% for large industries, 20% for registered SSIs,
and 29% for cottage and other unregistered industries. Profits/fixed assets
averaged 39%, 62% and 156%, respectively. Cottage and other unregistered
small industries had highest profits to sales and to fixed assets in almost
all sub-sectors in which they have major participation, with rural industries
more profitable than urban unregistered industries. In the 20 major SSI
subsectors, (accounting for about 80% of total assets of all registered SSIs),
registered small industries showed higher profits/sales than large industries
in 9 sub-sectors: fruit processing, oil milling, sawmilling, wooden furniture,
tanning, leather products, perfumes, glass products, and umbrellas. SSIs
averaged lower profits/sales in 9 subsectors: bakeries, flour milling, silk
spinning, housing, metal furniture, pharmaceuticals, paper board printing, and
soaps. SSIs and large industries had about the same profits to sales in 2
subsectors: grain milling and footwear. The most profitable subsectors (over
20%) were: fruit processing, bakeries, oil processing, tanning, pharmaceuti-
cals and perfumes.
2.07      Present and Potential Exports.  At present, SCIs contribute about
5% of Bangladesh's exports of some Tk 6 billion (about $400 million). SCIs
account for at least 20% by value in several major export product lines,
e.g. frozen and dried fish and seafood; handicrafts; hides and skins. Export
growth potential for SCI products exists in several lines, e.g. fruit and fish
processing, ready-made garments, sericulture, cane and bamboo, jute and other
handicrafts. Each of these subsectors is labor intensive and the minimum
economic size falls within the SCI definition.



- 5 -
2.08      Linkages with Agriculture.  Industries processing agricultural and
livestock products which have immediate expansion potential include fish dry-
ing, bakery and confectionery, fruit processing, poultry and rice milling in
selected areas. Also, agricultural implement manufacture and repair have
productive li-s to agriculture.  In all agro-based industries, potential
exists only in certain regions; resource availability and existing regional
processing/manufacturing capabilities would have to be assessed carefully
on a project-by-project basis.
2.09      Local Raw Material, Local Demand.  Some 70% of SCIs are located
in rural areas and 30% in urban areas. Given the small and dispersed nature
of agricultural and natural resources, the appropriate size for processing
industries often falls within the SCI definition (e.g. saw mills, fish drying,
fruit bottling, rice and oil mills). Also, given the small size of the domes-
tic market for many products, SCIs have the flexibility to respond to limited
needs for goods, services and specialized products of the rural population
(e.g. tailors, carpenters, repair workshops, blacksmiths, shoemakers).
2.10      Need for Promotion.  Project File 2 contains reviews of the problems
and prospects for developing export oriented SSI projects in fruit processing,
fish processing, and garments. It also contains descriptions of some sub-
sectors with potential for CI development (wood, footwear, agricultural imple-
ments) for sales in the local market. These reviews illustrate the need for
strengthening promotion and extension work to improve project design and
implementation, particularly when sales are geared to export markets.
Policy Framework and Industrial Finance
2.11      Policy Framework.  GOB's industrial policies do not differentiate
between SCIs and larger units although GOB recognizes the importance of SCIs
in creating employment and furthering urban and regional development. GOB's
industrial strategy has recently emphasized two main aspects. One consists
of measures to improve the climate for private investment such as raising the
ceilings for such investments, the payment of compensation for nationalized
property, the encouragement of foreign private investment collaboration in
selected fields, the expansion of opportunities for private participation in
domestic and foreign trade, and steps to activate the capital market. The
second element in the strategy consists of efforts to improve the efficiency
of public enterprises although more is needed concerning measures such as the
granting of more autonomy in matters of staff management and pricing policies.
These are appropriate priorities. They should have salutary indirect effects
on SCIs to the extent that they will stimulate demand for outputs of ancillary
and service industries.
2.12      The main problems constraining the development of SCIs have been
poor sub-project selection, lack of access to working capital and investment
credit, a cumbersome institutional framework, and weaknesses in support
institutions responsible for promotion and extension in areas such as marketing
and technical assistance (para 2.14). Another major constraint has been the
unavailability of imported raw materials due to a restrictive import policy
resulting from the shortage of foreign exchange. The import policy has been



- 6 -
liberalized substantially in the past year and firms are now able to apply for
permits for up to 2 shifts (they apply for one shift and if they use up their
permit amount within the first six months they are granted a second allocation).
This new measure is encouraging although it is too early to determine whether
the policy is being implemented effectively. Regarding procedures for sanction-
ing investment, the Investment Board has to approve projects requiring raw
material imports over 20% and for SCIs, those of over Tk 1 million investment
cost. IDA has recommended that SCI projects above Tk 1 million (or up to Tk 2.5
million) not requiring raw material imports over 20% be exempted from this
approval process and this is under consideration by GOB.
2.13      Financial and Service Institutions.  The Bangladesh Shilpa Bank (BSB)
and the Bangladesh Shilpa Rin Sangstha (BSRS), each with loans outstanding of
about Tk 1.2 billion as of March 1977, are the main sources of long-term loans
for industry. About half by number of BSB's loans are to SSIs, but given the
objectives and nature of the institution, loans are to relatively large SSIs
with project costs ranging between Tk 1 million to Tk 2.5 million. Nine com-
mercial banks (six of which are local and nationalized) with deposits totalling
Tk 13 billion as of June 1977, concentrate mainly on the provision of working
capital although they also make available long-term loans through roll-over
of funds. Loans to SCIs (including small businesses) account for roughly 2%-4%
of commercial banks' advances. The Investment Corporation of Bangladesh was
recently reconstituted to provide mainly underwriting facilities and help re-
activate the capital market, but its operations are not yet significant. Out-
side the banking system, GOB, through the Department of Industries, also pro-
vides long-term financing in the form of equity participation in public sector
enterprises.
2.14      Apart from BSB, the main source of long-term finance for SSIs 1/ has
been BSCIC in consortium with the commercial banks. This consortium arrange-
ment has not worked well. BSCIC was responsible for appraisal of technical,
organizational, economic, financial and market viability of the projects and
for providing extension services and follow-up as well as project promotion.
The commercial banks' role was limited to appraisal of creditworthiness of
clients and handling disbursements and collections. This split of responsi-
bility in areas that are interrelated (such as follow-up and collections), and
the fact that different institutions made decisions on different aspects of a
project during appraisal, resulted in the institutions blaming each other for
mistakes without taking responsibility for failures. Thus, most of the loans
made under this arrangement are in arrears. 2/ Further, given its involvement
in lending operations, BSCIC did not give proper attention to promotion and
extension work and most of the projects financed were in the upper range of
the SSI definition in which, given BSB's involvement, the need was not as
acute. A major objective of the proposed project therefore will be to have
1/   CIs generally have not had access to institutional finance and borrow
from money lenders (para 2.15).
2/   Except for projects financed under Credit 353-BD where most of the
amounts are not yet due (para 4.20 discusses actions being taken on
BSCIC arrears).



BSCIC focus on promotion and extension work and to build up gradually the
capability of the commercial banks to undertake appraisal and follow-up work
independently (para 4.01) starting with the Sonali and Janata Banks. The
commercial banks, with a developed branch network, more knowledge of local
conditions better access to local entrepreneurs, and which in any event finance
their working capital requirements, should be more effective in the appraisal
and supervision of loans to this type of small enterprise. Further, small
entrepreneurs will not have to approach different agencies for investment and
working capital and commercial banks will have more leverage on collections
given their day to day contact with clients for working capital financing.
2.15      Interest Rates.  The Central Bank rate has been at 8% since July
1974. Working capital loans are generally given by commercial banks at 11-12%
and BSB and BSRS generally charge 11.5% on their local and foreign long-term
loans for industry. CIs, which generally have little access to institutional
finance, borrow from moneylenders, whose rates vary although the effective
rate is generally above 25% p.a. Deposit rates range up to 10.25% depending
on the term although BSB and the Krishi Bank 1/ are allowed to pay one per-
centage point more than commercial banks on fixed deposits. The proposed
Credit will be on-lent at not less than 11.5%, the current long-term lending
rate, with GOB taking the exchange risk (para 6.01). The rate of inflation
was about 35% in FY74 and FY75 although prices declined by 11% in FY76 and
increased by about 11% in FY77. Inflation is projected at about 10%-14% for
FY78 and if it remains at about 10% in the longer-run, which is a reasonable
assumption given GOB's policies, onlending under the proposed Credit would
be at a positive real rate of interest of 1.4%.
III. THE PROJECT
The Project Components
3.01      While the above discussion indicates considerable potential for SCI
development, a modest credit of only $7.0 million is proposed. While the
demand for credit probably exceeds these amounts, there are institutional con-
straints, particularly in promotion and extension work. The proposed credit
seeks to remove these constraints. However, until experience with the revised
institutional arrangements is seen, a cautious approach is justified. The
proposed credit would finance the following components:
(a)  100% of subloan disbursements to SCIs by two participating
commercial banks (up to 70% of subproject costs) for parts
of the local plus all foreign costs of fixed investments
including permanent working capital 2/ (US$6.1 million;
paras 3.03-3.13);
1/   A specialized institution for agricultural finance.
2/   Defined as capital requirements for the initial stock of raw materials
and supplies needed for the commencement of operations or the increase
in such stock needed for the expansion of operations.



- 8 -
(b) 100% of disbursements from a special capital fund (up to
15% of subproject costs) to provide part of the equity
resources in cases in which the entrepreneur is unable
to make the normal 30% contribution to the project cost
(US$0.2 million; paras 3.14-3.18);
(c) An average 75% of the costs of a cottage industry component
for jute and cane/bamboo handicrafts including credit; new
product development; and specified extension from the
Bangladesh Handicraft Marketing Corporation 1/ (US$0.4
million; paras 3.19-3.34); and
(d) 100% of the foreign and local costs of technical assistance
to BSCIC, mainly for promotion and extension (US$0.3 million;
paras 3.35-3.36).
3.02      Total project costs and IDA's contribution can be summarized as
follows (Tk million):
GOB/CB/
IDA        IDA    BSCIC      Sponsors
Foreign   Local   Local         Local      Total
Subloans /a - SSI             52.0      25.7      2.0 /b      35.0       114.7
- CI              2.5      14.5      0.7 /b       7.5        25.2
Special Capital Fund            -        3.1       /c          /c          3.1
Technical Assistance
- BSCIC                     4.0       1.4      2.3 /d                   7.7
Cottage Industry
Component                   2.3       3.7      0.3 /e       1.8         8.1
60.8     48.4      5.3         44.3       158.8
/a   SSIs in this table are defined as projects costing between Tk 100,000-
Tk 2.5 million. CIs are projects costing less than Tk 100,000. About
200 SSI subprojects and about 1,000 CI would be financed.
/b   Reflects incremental staff and overhead costs for disbursement period
of the credit.
/c   Actually, the special capital fund would finance up to 50% of the
contribution to the subproject costs by selected sponsors (or up to
15% of sub-project costs) but the figures reflecting sponsors con-
tribution, as well as incremental staff, are shown in this table under
the subloans component.
/d   This relates to incremental activities by BSCIC for promotion and
extension (para 5.12).
/e   Storage and incremental bank staff.
1/   BHMC - see para 3.19 footnote.



Taking all components together, foreign costs would account for about 40%
of total project costs. The proportion of foreign costs is relatively high
because the domestic capital goods industry is not well developed. The pro-
posed Credit would finance 70% of the total project costs including local
currency financing which will facilitate reaching small industries and allow
the use of local raw materials and equipment when available. To ensure that
smaller industries are assisted, and since subprojects costing between Tk 1.0
million and Tk 2.5 million can obtain funds from BSB (para 3.03 b footnote),
at least 40% of the subloans component of the proposed credit is allocated to
sub-projects/enterprises with fixed assets below Tk 1 million.
Credit Component - Size
3.03      The size of the credit component was derived by:
(a)  Screening BSCIC's pipeline of current SSI subloan applica-
tions. Proposals for subprojects with fixed assets greater
than Tk 2.5 million were eliminated, as were applications in
subsectors in which significant underutilized capacity exists;
(b)  Assessing potential for smaller SSI and cottage industry
subprojects; BSB 1/ makes funds available for SSIs with
fixed assets between Tk 1.0 million and Tk 2.5 million.
Hence, the proposed project should pay more attention
to smaller, more labor-intensive projects which often
lack access to credit yet hold untapped opportunities;
(c)  Examining investment opportunities in high priority sub-
sectors (export-oriented, labor-intensive, using local
raw materials, supplying basic needs); opportunities and
requirements of three subsectors (fish- and fruit-
processing and readymade garments) were investigated, and
potential in 10 additional subsectors was reviewed. Sub-
sector work by BSB, BSCIC, and other government bodies
was used, as well as information collected from private
industry;
(d)  Estimating BMRE 2/ and related permanent working capital
needs of existing SSIs, to improve capacity utilization
and output;                                     r
(e)  Appraising the project administration capabilities of
BSCIC and the two commercial banks.
1/   In FY77, Bangladesh Shilpa Bank made 45 loans to firms with fixed
assets of less than Tk 2.5 million, up from 39 loans in FY76. Total
project costs averaged Tk 1.5 million in almost all subsectors,
with about 80% of the loans and 90% of the lending going for SSIs
with total fixed assets above Tk 1 million.
2/   Balancing, modernization, replacement and expansion.



- 10 -
3.04      BSCIC's Pipeline.  BSCIC's invitation for loan applications in
early 1977 yielded about 114 SSI subprojects with total credit requirements
of Tk 94.6 million (US$6.1 million). The majority of applications were for
subprojects under Tk 1 million each; 73 of these small loans had total credit
requirements of Tk 34.2 million (US$2.2 million) with subloans averaging
Tk 330,000. The other 41 applications, for subprojects of Tk 1 to 2.5 mil-
lion, were for credit of Tk 61.5 million (US$4.0 million). The mission did a
further subsector screening of BSCIC's 60 accepted applications (see para 3.12
for criteria); at least 45 subproject proposals, with credit requirements of
Tk. 43 million (US$2.8 million) appear viable:
New                   BMRE
No.      Amount       No.       Amount
(Tk million)          (Tk million)
Food/Allied             10        12.5          1         0.9
Garments/Textiles        5         5.4          4         2.3
Engineering              8         5.9          3         2.6
Printing                  3        1.8          6         5.5
Chemical                 1         0.3          2         1.8
Miscellaneous             1        2.0          1         1.7
Total                   28        27.9         17        14.8
3.05      While the credit would not necessarily finance these specific sub-
projects, this response (at least 45 reasonable proposals, totalling US$2.8
million) from a single invitation made by BSCIC, indicates effective demand
for credit by SSIs.
3.06      The mission's analysis of SSI subsectors 1/ indicated investment
potential in nearly 40 product areas, listed below. The 13 starred product
lines (see table below) are those in which short term expansion potential has
been identified; BSCIC's promotion and Commercial Bank prescreening would
focus on these priority product areas. It is reasonable to expect that at
least 5 subprojects would be developed for each priority subsector during the
2 year commitment period of the project; at this rate, 65 subprojects, averag-
ing Tk 300,000 in credit requirements, would be financed, for a total of
Tk 19.5 million (US$1.3 million). In addition, 2 subprojects could be expected
from the remaining potential SSI subsectors mentioned below; in that case, 46
1/   S2T subsectors with high potential were identified by (a) analyzing
market studies by the Export Promotion Bureau, Trading Corporation of
Bangladesh, EEC Missions to Bangladesh, product-market export studies
of key subsectors from various sources; (b) interviewing SSI entre-
preneurs, BSB and BSCIC officers, large industries and private import-
exports; (c) assessing growth patterns of SSIs, regional demand, and
raw material availability (using Census data, district and subsector
studies by BSB and BSCIC; and data from public agencies and private
enterprises); and (d) performing detailed analysis of 3 subsectors
(garments, fish and fruit processing) and a shorter review of ten
additional subsectors.



- 11 -
more subprojects would be financed, for a total of Tk 14.7 million (US$0.9
million). Using these estimates, about 110 projects with credit requirements
totalling US$2.2 million would emerge, in addition to the projects in BSCIC's
pipeline. While most of these 110 subloans would be for new projects, some
engineering, textiles, and food processing industry loans would be for BMRE.
Average                        Average
Subsectors       F    v  Assets  Subsectors     Fixed Assets
(TOn)                         (r-k. ,co
Food/Allied                Leather-based
*Fruit bulk birrelling       Footwear               120
for export          600     *Leather goods          90
*Fruit bottling, drying    150  Sporting goods      320
*Fish drying, smoking  100
Feed plants         625     Chemical
*lice milling       350
*Bakeries            550      Cosmetics             180
Oil milling         325      Soap                   120
Salt crushing       200      Plastic products      140
Confectionary       420
butter, ghee, cheese  300   Glass/Ceramics
Poultry             225
Ice plants         525       Building materials    210
Glass products        120
Specialized Textiles
Engineering
Sericulture seeding/hunting    425
*Knitted goods - manual      *Agricultural implements  220
machines            100      Cast iron foundries   240
*Xeadymade garments -         Non-ferrous metal foundries   300
export, local      480      *Aluminum utensils     150
Hardware              330
Wood-based                   *Bicycle parts         110
*Light engineering workshop    110
Sawmills            225      Structured metal products    150
*Yurniture, other wood       Pumps, compressors     120
products            120
Pqinting            200
3.07     The amount of the proposed credit also takes into account the staff
capability of the Sonali and Janata commercial banks, which have established
Loan Cells to implement the project (para 4.05).   In year 1, it is assumed
that 1.5 Loan Cell man months would be required per SSI appraisal, moving to
1 man month in year 2. At this rate, with 18 members (out of 30) in the two
Loan Cells working full time on prescreening and/or appraisal it is feasible
to expect that 140 prescreened projects would be appraised in year 1, result-
ing in 100 approvals; in year 2, expected appraisal would be 200, with 150
approvals. This would be sufficient capacity for about 200 SSI subprojects
expected to be approved during the two year commitment period of the project.
3.08     Cottage and Informal Industry Loans.  In addition to the SSI proposals
appraised at Headquarters, regional and branch managers would appraise smaller
projects falling within their lending limits (Tk 5,000-100,000). Sonali has
23 Regional and 450 Branch Offices, while Janata has 14 Regional Offices and
420 Branches. Some regional offices have already begun making term and working
capital loans to CIs (e.g., tailors, carpenters, small mills, rickshaw pullers).
With local industry profiles prepared by BSCIC and short regional training



- 12 -
courses, each of the 37 Regional Offices (averaging 25 Branches each) could be
expected to lend for at least 10 small projects during year 1, and at least 20
during year 2, for about 1,110 subloans during the two-year period. 1/ Assum-
ing 1,000 subloans at an average of Tk 17,000 each, there would be some Tk 17
million or US$1.1 million in subloans to very small borrowers.
3.09      Conclusion.  Combining these elements, the demand for IDA finance
would be about US$6.0 million for fixed investment and permanent working
capital credit. IDA financing would cover credit requirements for both orga-
nized SSI subprojects and cottage and informal industries.  Project costs for
modern SSI (Tk 100,000-2.5 million) subprojects requiring credit over a two-
year project life are estimated as follows:
---------------(Tk million)---------------
New Subprojects       BM&R for Existing SSIs
Project                    Project
No.      Costs          No.         Costs
Food Allied                 35       28.0           10          4.0
Engineering                 25        18.5          15           7.0
Garments/Textiles           20        12.5          15           7.0
Wood-based                  15         8.0          10           3.5
Leather-based               15         7.0          10           3.0
Chemicals/Plastics          10         5.0         10           4.5
Glass/Ceramics               5         2.5           5           1.5
Total                  125        81.5          75          30.5
3.10      It is expected that 70% of fixed investment and permanent working
capital finance will be covered by credit, and hence, about Tk 77.5 million
(US$5.0 million) would be required. IDA finance would cover 100% of the
credit provided by the commercial banks up to 70% of subproject costs. In
addition, Tk 17 million (US$1.1 million) would be required for cottage and
local industry subloans for investment and working capital, to be appraised
at the branch level (para 3.08), totalling US$6.1 million to be allocated to
the Credit Component of the Project.
3.11      Industrial Investment Schedule.  The priority SCI subsectors and
the distribution of projected credit fall within GOB's Industrial Investment
Schedule.
1/   In addition to the these funds, GOB has allocated Tk 60 million to provide
term and working capital finance to cottage and informal industries under
a scheme which generally follows the same procedures as the proposed
project (para 4.Old footnote) although all banks (with branches totalling
over 2,000) would participate. The allocation of these funds would pro-
vide a relatively small proportion of potential demand for credit (includ-
ing working capital) by cottage industries but, given institutional con-
traints, represents a realistic effort.



- 13 -
Credit Component - Subproject Selection Methods and Criteria
3.12      Several measures would be taken under the project to redirect lend-
ing efforts away from subsectors which are import-dependent, capital intensive
and burdened -;th over-capacity. SSI applications would be screened and con-
sidered according to the following criteria, which were agreed at negotiations.
While sub-project appraisals will also evaluate factors such as the entre-
preneurs' capability and the projects' profitability, (a) to (c) above will be
minimum criteria for selection, while (d) to (g) will be used as additional
factors to determine priorities for investment.
(a) Exports. Net foreign exchange earner with strong assur-
ances of export sales (at least letters of intent from
major importers) or local sales at competitive prices.
(b) Local Raw Materials. At least 60% of the value of raw
materials (except for net foreign exchange earners) and
other inputs are local, with sufficient regional avail-
ability established during appraisal.
(c)   Labor-intensive Methods.  Fixed investment per job
created not greater than US$3,000.
(d)   Relative Efficiency.  Subproject with profit and value
added to fixed investment at least as high as averages
for large scale firms in the same product line.
(e)   Capacity Utilization.  Expected two shift production
schedule, taking into account markets, raw material
availability, and operations of other units in same
subsector.
(f)   Decentralization.  Production sites would be located
outside Dacca, Chittagong or Khulna.
(g)   Agricultural Links.  Related to agricultural productivity/
earnings either in processing crops or providing inputs
or services to agriculture.
3.13      Subsector Work.  As indicated by the above discussion, the proposed
project should have a considerable impact in shifting past patterns in sub-
project selection.  To encourage investment in priority subsectors and to
forge links between BSCIC promotion and extension and commercial bank lending,
several steps would be taken as discussed in Chapter V, particularly paras
5.05 and 5.08.
Special Capital Fund
3.14      Purpose.  The purpose of the special capital fund would be to pro-
vide support to qualified small entrepreneurs who do not have sufficient



- 14 -
resources of their own to provide the normal equity contribution required by
banks, i.e 30% of subproject costs. The fund would provide, in the form of
"bridge finance", up to 50% of these equity requirements, or up to 15% of the
sub-project costs. The "bridge" loans would be made at 7.5% interest with
repayment within a period of 12 years or less, depending on the projection
of liquidity and capital structure done during appraisal. The entrepreneur
will be required to provide not less than 15% of the sub-project cost from
personal resources, so that the entrepreneur has something at stake.
3.15      Size.  The size of the fund will be Tk 3.1 million (US$200,000)
which corresponds to about 2%-3% of the total costs of the SCI projects esti-
mated to be financed. Since it is difficult to determine the demand for
this supplemental financing, the Tk 3.1 million is a notional amount covering
about 7% of the total contribution expected from sub-project sponsors. In
case the amount allocated is too high, unused resources of the fund will be
transferred to the loan funds of the commercial banks. If the amount is too
small, GOB could replenish the fund from its own resources.
3.16      Eligibility Criteria.  Projects eligible for finance from the fund
will be SCI projects in which all relevant aspects, including the entrepreneur's
capability and ability, have been appraised by one of the participating com-
mercial banks and the project has been found eligible for finance except
for the equity gap. In addition, the entrepreneur will be subject to a more
detailed scrutiny than is normally the case, to ensure need and above-average
capabilities/skills.
3.17      Administration.  The special capital fund will be administered by
the participating commercial banks under the Bangladesh Bank's (Central Bank)
supervision. The commercial banks are the most appropriate institutions to
administer the resources, since this will relieve the entrepreneurs of the
burden of applying for funds from and being appraised by another institution.
Also, the commercial banks would be appraising the project in any case, and
would normally be in the best position to judge the character and integrity
of the entrepreneur.
3.18      Since the commercial banks would be providing loan funds of up to
70%, special arrangements would be needed to induce the banks to implement the
scheme; banks might be hesitant in exposing themselves to such an extent
(85%) in any one project. Therefore, in addition to the normal risk coverage
of 30% (para 4.04), banks will receive an interest spread of 5.5% for the
special capital fund compared with 5% for normal SCI lending operations
(para 6.01). The interest spread/quarantee coverage package will be kept
under close review by IDA so that appropriate revisions can be suggested
to GOB as necessary.
Cottage Industry Component
3.19      General.  The project would address the needs of cottage industries
in three ways: (a) cottage industries would be eligible for investment and
working capital finance under the general credit component; (b) BSCIC would
create a department responsible for integrated support to specific cottage
industry subsectors to develop designs, help organize village-level extension



- 15 -
services, and work closely with BHMC 1/ and other marketing organizations
(paras 3.25, 4.15); and (c) a pilot cottage industry component, described
below, would consist of about US$400,000 for marketing, technical, financial
and some raw material support to jute, cane and bamboo handicraft units in
selected areas.
3.20      A separate cottage industry component should be included in the
project since: (a) considerable progress in exports of jute, cane, and bam-
boo handicrafts has been made, and export expansion potential exists for
these products; (b) there is need for credit accompanied by subsector specific
forward and backward linkages (marketing, design, raw material supply, organ-
ization), to increase sales, employment and earnings; (c) the component would
benefit the poorest portion of the population, primarily living in rural
areas, in the form of higher income and employment; (d) it would be based
mainly on local raw materials; and (e) these subsectors are very labor-
intensive.
3.21      Elements and Costs.  The cottage industry component would consist of:
(a) Credit to jute, cane, and bamboo artisans and cooperatives,
with IDA financing 100% of disbursement for subloans made to
provide up to 70% of funds for working capital and equip-
ment needs; 2/ average credit would be US$100 per artisan
in jute handicrafts and US$250 in cane and bamboo totalling
Tk 4.2 million (US$27,000) over 2 years;
1/   Bangladesh Handicrafts Marketing Corporation (BHMC), founded in 1972
as the Bangladesh Handloom Export Corporation (BHEC), is a subsidiary
of BSCIC with a separate Board of Directors headed by BSCIC's Chairman
and with 16 officers. BHMC (a) undertakes marketing, organization and
export sales of handicraft and handloom products (purchasing, quality
control, reselling, warehousing, contracting agents); (b) establishes,
organizes and promotes production units catering to these markets.
During the last 4 years BHMC has exported about Tk 2.3 million in handi-
crafts, holding about fourth position in Bangladesh handicraft exports.
BHMC plans to export Tk 2.5 million in 1977-78 and already has Tk 1.9
million in firm orders. In both jute and raw cane/bamboo products BHMC
has penetrated new markets and organized local production units, acting
as a catalyst for private exports. GOB has been considering whether
BHMC should limit its role to more passive export promotion, e.g.,
catalogues, fairs, display centers. However, there are advantages in
BHMC continuing its role in selling and organizing producers, working
closely with the Trading Corporation of Bangladesh, the Export Promotion
Bureau and private firms in areas (such as for the proposed component)
where there is need to extend geographical and/or market coverage and to
act as catalyst for private sector involvement.
2/   Mainly raw materials and tools.



- 16 -
(b) Market Development. BHMC's (para 3.19 footnote) sales trips
and participation in fairs in present and potential markets
would be funded with IDA financing 100% of foreign exchange
costs to-make arrangements with sales agents and export out-
lets; this direct sales approach has been the most effective
for BHMC. BHMC is expected to perform a catalytic role for
private marketing agencies, establishing broader market
channels, developing new export product lines, and extending
the production network to more remote areas of Bangladesh
(Tk 400,000; US$26,000);
(c) Design Consultancy. While importers may specify designs,
BHMC and BSCIC need to establish a set of popular standard
items to allow producing to stock without major risk of
obsolescence; designers, hired for short terms and specific
tasks, can develop these lines and prescribe production
techniques; IDA would finance 100% of foreign and local
costs (Tk 500,000; US$32,000) 1/;
(d) Training and Extension. IDA would finance one project co-
ordinator, 3 central trainers and 12 thana-level extension
workers to work with 30-40 production units (1,500 parti-
cipants) in the jute, cane and bamboo schemes. The project
also would finance 5 additional quality control inspectors
for BHMC. This incremental staff would be recruited as a
condition of disbursement for the cottage industry component
of the IDA Credit. Subsector specific extension workers and
inspectors would enable BHMC/BSCIC to expand the local pro-
duction network by building on existing and new production
groups in selected thanas and linking them to marketing
organizations, credit sources, and assistance on improved
methods and handtools (Tk 900,000; US$59,000); and
(e) Storage. GOB has agreed to become responsible for providing
storage facilities which would be built or rented. Construc-
tion costs for finished product storage facilities in the
three fairly remote districts that could allow bulk handling
are estimated at Tk 150,000 (US$10,000).
3.22      To summarize, elements, responsibilities, and costs of the cottage
industry component would be:
1/   UNDP is now preparing a technical assistance project for cottage
industries which may include provision of designs specialists for
jute and cane/bamboo handicrafts. If this is included, the allocation
of $32,000 would be transferred to the credit component of the project.



- 17 -
Agency           IDA      IDA
Responsible      Foreign   Local   Total
------(Tk million)----
(i)  Credit to artisans       Commercial banks      1.4       2.8     4.2 /a
(ii)  Market development       BHMC                  0.4        -      0.4
(iii)  Design consultancy       BSCIC/BHMC            0.5        -      0.5
(iv)  Extension/Inspection    BHMC/BSCIC              -        0.9     0.9
(v) Storage (counterpart
funding)                 BHMC                   -        -       0.2
Total                                     2.3      3.7      6.2
/a  Excluding Tk 0.1 million for staff and overhead costs and Tk 1.8 million
for sponsors contribution.
3.23      Benefits would include:  (a) increased employment and earnings
for 1,500 direct participants 1/; (b) annual increased exports of at least
Tk 3.5 million by the fourth year of the project; (c) expanded channels in
high volume, utility product markets; and (d)improved packages of sub-sector-
specific institutional support.
3.24      Coverage.  The cottage industry component would focus on districts
with concentrations of jute, cane and bamboo handicrafts. In jute, the major
handicraft centers presently are Comilla, Barisal, Tangail and Dacca, although
many districts have a tradition of jute handicrafts. While certain villages
in the Dacca District are well covered by existing market organizations, most
areas are sparsely covered. The major cane handicraft areas are in Sylhet,
Bogra and Pabna. Bamboo handicraft production centers exist in Comilla,
Dinajpur, Sylhet and Mymensingh. GOB/BSCIC has provisionally selected three
districts for each product, with about 35 village units and 1,500 participants
in total. Each village unit would be a cooperative or producer association
consisting of 30-50 members each. In addition to the direct benefits to 1,500
craftsmen, other artisans would benefit indirectly through the strengthening
of BHMC, BSCIC, and other institutions and through the increased availability
of credit from commercial banks.
3.25      Implementation.  The cottage industry component would be implemented
by BHMC, BSCIC, and participating commercial banks.  In addition, BSCIC would
work closely with the Integrated Rural Development Program, voluntary organi-
zations operating at the field level, and commercial marketing agencies.
BSCIC would be responsible for adapting designs, developing new products
and for providing general support to BHMC. BHMC, with BSCIC's assistance,
1/   Cost per job created of about US$180 for credit, and US$86 for marketing
and technical support.



- 18 -
would work on the: (a) development and diffusion of new techniques to im-
prove quality, productivity and marketability, and (b) organization of pro-
duction groups, training and raw materials. BHMC would also be responsible
for (a) arranging export sales, using BHMC, private, voluntary or government
channels (Trading Corporation of Bangladesh or Export Promotion Bureau);
(b) direct selling and market intelligence or arrangements with agents or
importers; (c) collection or reception of finished goods, inspection and
quality control; and (d) packing and shipment. Janata and Sonali Banks
would be responsible for making small loans to individual producers or asso-
ciations which are covered in the marketing scheme. Although at the present
time this is not a major constraint, the banks could also, once a number of
specific product lines become well established in foreign markets, provide
credit from their own funds to BHMC to finance advances and stocks in addition
to that covered by normal letters of credit.
3.26      Background on Jute Handicrafts.  Jute handicrafts represent a strong
handicraft subsector with immediate expansion potential:
3.27      As evidence of its market potential, jute handicrafts accounted
for about 60% of Bangladesh's Tk 14.1 million handicraft exports during FY77
and was the leader in the rapid growth of Bangladesh's handicraft exports
from Tk 306,000 in FY74 to present levels. BHMC was the first to penetrate
jute handicraft export markets (FY74) and this successful experience led pri-
vate market agencies into the area. However, expansion to date has been based
largely on a few product lines and narrow, specialized handicraft outlets;
market organizations have begun diversification into new utility lines e.g.
plant hangers, handbags, placemats, wall hangings and accessories. This
diversification should be expanded by BHMC and other marketing organizations
and market channels should be increased to include direct sales to department
stores and chains.
3.28      Over 100,000 women, located in villages throughout Bangladesh, are
involved in handicraft production using jute as the major raw material;
according to BHMC and private exporters, women can earn Tk 330 (US$21) a month
if marketing and production organization is present. In addition to improving
earnings for these women, expansion of jute handicrafts could build on a
larger production base if training were introduced. 1/
3.29      Equipment involved in jute handicraft production is minimal, and
value added per fixed asset is extremely high. While the Philippines and
other handicraft exporters have introduced selective mechanization for similar
items. Bangladesh with its low labor costs and abundance of low cost, local
raw materials can compete successfully relying largely on existing manual
methods. Unlike other handicrafts areas, where technical problems are a
barrier, jute handicrafts can build upon the existing methods and skill base.
1/   Under the project BSCIC would coordinate with the Bangladesh Women's
Rehabilitation and Welfare Foundation, the Integrated Rural Development
Project, and voluntary agencies which train women's groups, as the
extension workers for jute handicrafts are expected to be women.



- 19 -
3.30      Geographical concentrations of jute handicrafts do exist which
enable development of extension, marketing, organization and storage. Most
programs today are concentrated in parts of the Narsindi Zone of the Dacca
District, which accounts for about 80% of BHMCs and over 60% of Jute Works'
(para 3.31) coverage. Other centers for jute handicrafts exist in Comilla,
Tangail, Khulna, Rangpur, Noakhali and other areas of the Dacca District.
Jute raw materials are available in abundance throughout Bangladesh. 1/ It
would be possible to expand jute handicraft production and marketing to appro-
priate areas by developing decentralized collection and storage of goods,
quality control agents, extensionists, and other services including advance-
ment of working capital to the producers.
3.31      Organization of village cooperatives linked to a marketing organi-
zation has already proven successful. One example is the case of Jute Works,
a private voluntary organization which markets these products. Each of the
100 women's cooperatives (6,000 members) in the Jute Works' network elects a
leader who is responsible for collection of the handicraft products, quality
control at the village level, and movement of the products to the Dacca head
office. Jute Works' central organization provide sales organization, designs,
quality control, export shipment, and training of cooperative leaders. The
extension worker for the jute cottage industry component of this project are
expected to be women.
3.32      Background on Cane and Bamboo Handicrafts.  According to the "Report
of the Committee by the Development of Cottage Industry, July 1977", there are
about 20,000 units involved in bamboo handicrafts, employing about 53,700
workers producing about Tk 13.1 million in bamboo products. Most of the pro-
ducts are sold locally; this year has been marked by rapid growth in exports
of bamboo products. In cane, 2,500 units employ about 6,000 workers, pro-
ducing goods valued at about Tk 11.5 million. Cane products account for over
Tk 2 million in export sales during 1976/77. Cane and bamboo handicrafts now
account for about 30% of all Bangladesh's handicraft exports.
3.33      On marketing and production, the assessment by private exporters
and BHMC is that cane and bamboo products represent a major area for immediate
future growth in handicraft exports although these products face competition
from other areas of East Asia, especially China and the Philippines. As with
jute, cane and bamboo handicrafts represent utility products (baskets, knock-
down furniture, trays) which have proven marketability in Europe and the
United States. Both cane and bamboo products require simple hand tools util-
ized by skilled craftsmen, although improvements in more specialized hand
tools and selective introduction of equipment could have a marked effect on
productivity and costs in the subsector. Production of cane products is
highly concentrated in Sylhet and Pabna, which would facilitate marketing and
production organization. Bamboo handicraft units are more scattered with
large concentrations in Khulna, Sylhet, Pabna, Comilla, Dinajpur, Noakhali,
Jessore and Mymensingh.
1/   With the exception of North Bengal.



- 20 -
3.34      Regarding raw materials, unlike jute products, problems of quality
and quantity of raw materials exist in bamboo and cane. In cane, most of the
raw materials locally available are of the smaller variety which are approp-
riate to making of trays, smaller pieces of furniture and baskets. In the
high potential area of knocked down furniture, however, about 40% of the raw
material is imported from Singapore and India. As a result of large demand
for bamboo products in the local market, bamboo producers have begun to cut
the bamboo before its three-year gestation period, thus requiring additional
treatment in varnishing and chemical disinfectant in order to produce bamboo
handicrafts of export quality. In the long term, it would be necessary to
develop a project in which a component for systematic production of cane and
bamboo is included. However, supply is sufficient to develop a limited project
focusing on smaller cane and bamboo items, using largely local raw materials,
which would have only marginal impact on local price and availability of the
major raw materials. Imported cane from India and Singapore, available at
nearly the same price as local cane, could be used for furniture.
Technical Assistance Component
3.35      The Project's technical assistance component will focus on BSCIC's
promotion and extension activities (Chapter V), as this is a difficult en-
deavor and a key to the future development of SCIs. Other aspects where tech-
nical assistance is required, such as training of commercial bank staff, have
been arranged separately (para 4.07) and are partly financed from IDA's Tech-
nical Assistance Credit 622-BD. Advisors in the following fields and for the
periods indicated would be stationed with BSCIC and financed from the proposed
Credit as a GOB grant:
(i) Promotion of SSI; 12 months
Assist and guide BSCIC in undertaking sector studies and
preparing project profiles as outlined in Chapter V;
(ii) Industrial Engineering for SSI; 12 months
Assist and guide BSCIC in building up a unit which will
collect, analyze and publish information on local and
foreign machinery and production processes which are
suitable for SSIs in Bangladesh. The data collected
will be made available to the commercial banks to
improve the procurement process.
(iii)  Short-term consultants, total of 24 months
To meet various requirements for specific tasks (particularly,
specific subsector studies including at least 6 man-months
for extension work through diagnosis of problems of existing
industries in certain subsectors) which will strengthen BSCIC
and/or its services. Guidelines on the types of studies to
be undertaken are given in paras 5.05 and 5.08.



- 21 -
3.36      The proposed technical assistance concentrates more on SSIs than
in CIs as there is a separate cottage industry component and because UNDP
is preparing with BSCIC a technical assistance project for cottage industries
(para 5.11). Paragraph 5.12 shows detailed costs estimates for the above
consultants, and for other BSCIC promotion and extension activities.
IV. INSTITUTIONAL ASPECTS
Institutional Framework
4.01      As discussed in para 2.14, the institutional framework for assist-
ing SCI's so far has been weak. The proposed project introduces institutional
reforms involving assignment of more specific responsibilities among the
agencies involved in the sector and the establishment of programs to strengthen
SCI support and the institutions concerned. The following summarizes the
institutional arrangements.
(a) Project implementation responsibilities would be allocated
as follows:
Activity                       Agency Responsible
(i)  Promotion                     BSCIC
(ii)  Appraisal                     Commercial banks/BSCIC
(first eighteen months)
and commercial banks
(second year)
(iii)   Loan Sanction/
Disbursements              Commercial banks
(iv)  Follow-up                     Commercial banks
(v)  Extension Services            BSCIC
(vi)  Credit Guarantee Scheme       Bangladesh Bank
(vii)  Special Capital Fund          Commercial Banks
(viii)  Jute Handicrafts and          BHMC, BSCIC, commercial
Cane/Bamboo (Cottage         banks
Component)
(b)  BSCIC will be mainly responsible for project identification
and promotion and for providing extension services. Pro-
motion would entail undertaking area/subsector surveys to
identify economically viable investment opportunities,
determining linkages, preparing feasibility studies and



- 22 -
project profiles, conducting market surveys, and coordinat-
ing the work of the agencies involved in assisting SCIs.
Organized promotion will be a key aspect of the proposed
project and advisory services to assist BSCIC in this work
will be made available from the Credit. Improvement of
BSCIC's extension service functions (providing marketing
advice and other technical assistance) will be another key
aspect of the project. BSCIC's promotion and extension
service work for the proposed project are discussed in
Chapter V.
(c) Appraisal work will be undertaken jointly by BSCIC and
the commercial banks as a transitional arrangement of 18
months (see below). 1/ As SSI projects generally are not com-
plex and as BSCIC would have already prepared, in many cases,
a feasibility study, the appraisal should not take much time
(maximum 1 month). It would concentrate mainly on key
aspects such as management, market, and liquidity prospects.
In contrast to past practice (para 2.14), the commercial
banks will be accountable for all aspects of the investment
decision, would perform all the follow-up work and will
take full responsibility for loan defaults and other problems
faced at the project supervision stage. Project appraisals
will be reviewed by a committee with representatives of BSCIC,
the commercial bank involved, and possibly the Bangladesh
Bank,the Central Bank (refer to f). If there is disagreement
between BSCIC and a commercial bank on financing a project,
the commercial bank's management will make the final decision.
BSCIC will not be responsible for follow-up although it will
keep contact with the client through its extension service
responsibility. However, wherever required, BSCIC will provide
technical support to the banks in follow-up. The concept of
joint appraisal has disadvantages; having two institutions
decide whether a loan should be made or not will be somewhat
cumbersome and may create friction if there is disagreement
between the commercial banks and BSCIC. However, it will be
prudent to maintain it for the time being, given the lack of
experience by commercial banks in project appraisal (para 4.04).
The fact that, in contrast to the past, one institution will now
take responsibility for the final decision and the same will
be responsible for project supervision, will allow pinpointing
responsibilities for success and failure, easier management
and control, and taking corrective action on a timely basis.
Joint appraisal will be a temporary arrangement until the
commercial banks acquire enough experience to undertake this
activity on their own, which is estimated to take about one
1/   Loan applications could be received either at a bank's branch or at BSCIC
which would be copied to the other institution. An appraisal team would
be staffed with representatives of both BSCIC and the commercial bank
which will produce a joint report.



- 23 -
year to eighteen months. An understanding has been reached
with GOB that the commercial banks will take over full respon-
sibility for appraisal eighteen months after Credit effec-
tiveness unless a review by IDA and GOB determines that the
commercial banks have not acquired the capability to carry
out this activity on their own. Further, this division of
responsibility between commercial banks and BSCIC will also
apply to other SCI financing proposals.
(d) As a start, only 2 commercial banks would participate in the
project: Sonali and Janata. Focussing on two banks will
facilitate institution building work and will still allow
for competition. Both banks have established Small Industry
Loan Departments at their head office each to be staffed
initially with some 15 officers transferred from other depart-
ments in the bank and/or recruited from outside. The banks'
branch network would keep contact with the entrepreneurs,
assist them in filling application forms and ensure follow-up.
As most bank branches are not sufficiently strong at the
moment, the Small Loan Departments at the Head Offices will be
responsible for appraising projects costing over Tk 100,000.
Smaller projects usually would be appraised by the banks'
regional offices within the current sanctioning limits of the
banks. 1/
(e) The bank's security requirement would be relaxed somewhat to
a debt/equity ratio of 70:30. The special capital fund (paras
3.14-3.18) would provide part of the equity resources if a pro-
ject is a worthwhile one and the client, although suitable,
does not have enough funds to make its 30% contribution.
(f) A credit guarantee scheme managed by the Bangladesh Bank (the
Central Bank) will be established to cover 30% of the commer-
cial bank's risk in SCI lending for a fee of 1% per annum on
amounts outstanding paid by the commercial banks. The pur-
pose of the scheme will be to provide an incentive to commer-
cial banks for increased lending to SCI given that this is
a more risky operation than the normal commercial bank activ-
ities. The Bangladesh Bank has prepared a draft Credit
Guarantee Scheme (Project File 4) which is satisfactory.
The establishment of the Credit Guarantee Scheme by the
Bangladesh Bank is a condition of effectiveness.
1/   GOB recently allocated Tk 60 million for financing small projects (loans
below Tk 100,000) at the district level. Such projects will be jointly
appraised by BSCIC and the commercial bank branches and submitted to
a committee comprising representatives of both (with the final deci-
sion in case of disagreement with the commercial banks). The procedures
followed for these loans would be the same as discussed in para 4.01 (c),
although all commercial banks are involved, decisions are made at the
district level and the committee also includes the District Commissioner.
These arrangements have the same 18-month transition period mentioned in
para 4.01(c).



- 24 -
(g) Concerning the cottage industry component for jute handi-
crafts and cane and bamboo, as discussed in more detail in
para 3.25, BHMC will be responsible for marketing,quality
control and technical assistance, BSCIC in coordination with
BHMC for product development, and the commercial banks for
providing credit.
(h) Arrangements have been made for representatives from BSCIC,
the Janata and Sonali banks, and the Bangladesh Bank to
meet at least quarterly starting when the credit is approved
by IDA, to discuss and solve problems in project implementa-
tion and to ensure coordination in the work of the different
institutions involved.
4.02      Therefore, the main implementing agencies for the proposed project
will be the Sonali and Janata Banks and BSCIC. Project File 5 contains a
report on the two banks and Project File 6 on BSCIC. The issues concerning
these institutions, as they relate to the proposed project, are discussed
below.
Commercial Banks
4.03      Background.  The Sonali and Janata Banks are the two largest commer-
cial banks in Bangladesh.  Sonali was formed in 1971 from the National Bank
of Pakistan and as of December 31, 1976 had 8,566 staff (of whom 1,162 were
officers) and 450 branches; its total assets were then Tk 6.4 billion. Janata
came into being in 1972 when it took over the East Pakistan assets and liabil-
ities of the United Bank Limited of Pakistan.  As of December 31, 1976 Janata
had 6,140 staff (of whom 1,405 were officers), 420 branches, and total assets
of Tk 8.4 billion. Both Sonali and Janata have been already associated with
IDA as implementing agencies for a number of agricultural projects.
4.04      Commercial banks in Bangladesh have little experience in making long-
term loans for SCIs although they have general experience in loan supervision
matters. While there are some organizational and financial weaknesses (para
4.09), the Sonali and Janata Banks have adequate management, staff and proce-
dures. Both are headed by individuals with strong experience in development
banking. The staff is well qualified with the business background necessary
to appraise SCI credits where the key issues are an evaluation of the manage-
ment, market prospects, liquidity, and technical assistance needs and, after
completion of the proposed training program (para 4.07), should be able to
carry out effectively the tasks under the institutional arrangements for the
project. However, it would be prudent for BSCIC to provide assistance in
appraisals initially. BSCIC's appraisal standards are weak in market analysis
although the technical assessment is usually adequate. As the commercial banks
already have some expertise in market and financial analysis, this will help
ensure complementary expertise and that the key aspects of SCI projects will
be satisfactorily evaluated.
4.05      Organization.  Sonali and Janata Banks each have established a new
Small Industries Loan Department with responsibilities for preparing appraisals
and undertaking follow-up work for term loans and working capital to SCIs.



- 25 -
4.06      Staffing.  The following staff and skills for the Small Industries
Loan Department at the Head Office of each bank are being recruited and/or
transferred from other sections of the bank:
I    Department Manager
3    Financial analysts for appraisal
4    Financial officers with business background for
project supervision (follow-up)
2    Procurement/disbursement officers
3    Engineers/technical officers
2    Project economists
15    Officers
Given that appraisals of SCIs are generally simple, this staff should be suf-
ficient for the project. 1/ Both the Sonali Bank and the Janata Bank have
agreed to recruit or transfer to its Small Industries Loan Department the
officers mentioned above in time to complete their training (para 4.07).
4.07      Training.  The training program for these officers would comprise:
(a) External. 3-4 officers from the Small Industries Loan
Department in each bank would be seconded for two to three
months to commercial banks in India with experience in this
field, for on the job training. Two Indian banks have
indicated their interest in providing the training starting
in early 1978. An application from GOB for funding the costs
of the external training out of IDA's Technical Assistance
Credit to Bangladesh has been received and it is expected
that the training will start in June 1978.
(b) Internal. All officers in the Small Industries Loan Department
in each bank would attend a course of about 2-3 weeks duration
on project evaluation and project supervision. BSB and BSCIC as
well as BIDS, which collaborated with EDI on a recent Industrial
Projects Evaluation Course in Dacca, would assist in the training.
Regional Managers would receive 1-2 weeks training on appraisal
of CIs and the use of sub-sector profiles.
1/   Para 3.07 gives the basis for estimating staffing requirements. Appraisal
of CI projects, which do not require much technical input, will be done
at the branches. For SSIs, the bank appraisals would concentrate on the
marketing strategies, distribution channels, management and entrepre-
neurial capacity, projected technical assistance needs, and liquidity
position since these are the usual critical areas of small-scale projects.
Regarding follow-up, each project will be visited at least quarterly
and thereafter performance reports would be prepared by the commercial
banks' staff although much of this can be done at the branches. Further,
clients will be required to submit quarterly reports to the banks.



- 26 -
The Sonali and Janata Banks have agreed to complete the above training
programs by September 30, 1978.
4.08      Strategy Statements.  On the basis of discussions with IDA, the
Sonali and Janata Banks have prepared Strategy Statements (Project File 7)
which (i) outline the banks' credit policies regarding SCIs; (ii) quantify
its expected involvement in this subsector over the next 3 years; (iii) out-
line its priorities in project selection; and (iv) describe expected develop-
ments in its organization concerning SCIs, including appraisal and follow-up
procedures, role of branches, and staffing/training plans, as discussed above.
These Strategy Statements were approved in May 1978 by the commercial banks'
Board of Directors.
4.09      Other Issues Relating to the Commercial Banks.  Although not directly
related to the project, the following matters have also been discussed with the
banks and GOB: (i) in view of GOB's policy to develop the outlying regions,
it has asked banks to expand their branches substantially 1/ which will affect
their profitability and staff situation; (ii) financial planning, particularly
long-term, is weak; (iii) due to lack of data, the impact on the banks' finan-
cial position of their assets and liabilities relating to Pakistan is not
clear; 2/ and (iv) while the banks have a weak equity base and relatively
low profitability, much of their profits are not being allowed to be ploughed
back as reserves. 3/ These issues are complex and as they affect all the
commercial banks, it is difficult to treat them in isolation for the two
commercial banks concerned with the proposed project. Further, they do not
affect the proposed project directly, a situation similar to the IDA agricul-
tural credit projects which have used the Sonali and Janata Banks. However,
IDA will keep these matters under review and will continue discussions on
them with GOB in the course of this project's supervision.
1/   While the principle of branch expansion is appropriate, this should be
planned on the basis of the banks' implementing capacity. For example,
the Sonali and Janata Banks have been asked to expand their branches by
150-200 and 125-150 respectively, by end 1978. However, the view of the
banking sector is that actual implementation will be in accordance with
the capacity of the banks.
2/   Although GOB has stated that those banks that were negatively affected
are being supported and will continue to be supported by GOB.
3/   About 55% of the commercial banks profits are set aside as provision for
taxation (after deducting other provisions) and thereafter approximately
30%-50% of the remaining amount is transferred to Government in terms
of Section 25 of Bangladesh Bank Nationalization Order of 1972. In
effect, this represents a dividend pay out ratio of 30%-50% and a divi-
dend rate of about 50% which is high relative to the banks' profitability
and may not allow an adequate build up of their reserves.



- 27 -
BSCIC
4.10      General.  While BSCIC has been given the responsibility of promot-
ing and assisting the development of SCIs in Bangladesh, and BSIC's Charter
provided for promotion and technical assistance to SSI, activities in this
field have been limited. BSIC's main activities over the last few years
were: (i) distribution of raw materials; (ii) evaluation of requests by
SSIs for foreign exchange for the purchase of imported machinery; and (iii)
management of industrial estates. Further, BSIC's staff and work have been
centralized in Dacca with little contact with realities in the field. The
proposed project, therefore, as one of its principal objectives, aims at
assisting BSCIC to focus more on its promotional and technical assistance
role for the development of SCIs. These are key aspects given the low level
of entrepreneurship and management skills in the country. The responsibil-
ity for (i) is no longer with BSCIC, and for the proposed project, the res-
ponsibility for (ii) will be transferred to the commercial banks. While
(iii) will continue to be a BSCIC function, it should not impose an undue
strain in the organization as it is a separate activity and not expected to
expand in terms of staff requirements. At the same time, GOB supports regional
decentralization of BSCIC's activities. Thus, BSCIC should be able to devote
much more of its attention to promotion and extension. The proposed approach
for improved promotion and extension is outlined in Chapter V and the dis-
cussion below deals with the main institutional issues facing BSCIC that
should be dealt with to achieve this objective.
4.11      Board of Directors.  BSCIC's Board consists of six members, the
Chairman and five full-time Directors. The Chairman is the Chief Executive
and the Directors are all functional, each in charge of a Division and respon-
sible for the day-to-day management of BSCIC. The Chairman and the Directors
are all appointed by GOB and in the past, the quality of Directors has been
mixed and there has been little management continuity due to frequent trans-
fers. GOB has indicated that in future BSCIC Directors will normally be
retained in their post for at least 3 years to ensure management continuity.
4.12      Overseeing Committee.  Except for its reporting responsibility to
the Ministry of Industries, BSCIC has not had an overseeing body with the
specific task of guiding its policies and activities, coordinating them with
those of other organizations and reviewing and evaluating performance. As its
Board is functional, and the Directors are busy with the day-to-day matters,
such a body could play a useful role. GOB has recently assigned this task
to the 10 member "National Committee for Development of Small and Cottage
Industries", which in general has adequate representation and meets quarterly.
4.13      Quality of Staff.  To enable BSCIC to attract and retain better
quality staff, BSCIC's salary scales were recently increased and set at the
same level as other public sector organizations dealing with industry. In
addition, there is need to improve staff policies and training. On the basis
of discussions with IDA, BSCIC is taking steps to improve the motivation of
its staff. These include improvements in the staff evaluation system, and
the establishment of policies to reward good performances through extra
increments and rapid promotion, and where possible no increments for or lay-
offs of continually poor performers. Also, BSCIC has prepared a training



- 28 -
program. The training program covers a range of topics and would be useful
particularly for new staff although there is need to complement this with
specific training in promotion and extension. As part of this effort, BSCIC
has prepared a manual for extension work and is using the training facilities
offered by Technonet Asia. Further, the advisors discussed in para 3.35 will
prepare training programs, particularly for promotion work. These training
activities will be kept under review so that thay can be suitably expanded in
due course.
4.14      Quantity of Staff.  BSCIC's total personnel stands at about 1,300,
of whom 292 are officers. Of the officers, some 140 are stationed at head
office while 91 are at the regional offices or industrial estates, and 61
are employed in special projects. Starting in 1977, BSCIC has been making
efforts to decentralize its organization and to increase the proportion of
operational staff by stationing more personnel at the district level, parti-
cularly extension workers (para 4.16). BSCIC's personnel is somewhat excessive,
particularly non-officers, and BSCIC expects to reduce this through attrition.
4.15      Organization.  Apart from decentralization, discussed below, BSCIC
has agreed to some changes to its organizational structure which would entail
mainly having BSCIC activities for small and cottage industries placed under
different directors. This will allow a more coordinated approach for promo-
tion and extension work and will help BSCIC in giving appropriate attention to
both small and cottage industries as the approach to their development is
different. 1/ The proposed adjustments would not result in any major changes
in BSCIC's organization in number of directors and staffing requirements,
although there would be need for some transfers of staff between departments
to strengthen promotion and extension.
4.16      Decentralization.  Most BSCIC functions, staff, authority, and re-
sponsibility have been overly concentrated in the Dacca Head Office. In an
effort to decentralize, BSCIC took some steps during 1977, particularly to
strengthen the Rajshahi Regional Office 2/. More recently, it established
procedures for delegating more powers to district officers and has started
a program to station industrial extension officers at the district level.
Some 17 extension officers have been posted at BSCIC's districts offices and
BSCIC has indicated its plans to station another 30 extension offices at the
districts during FY79 (para 5.07).
1/   Chapter V outlines the recommended organization and staffing for pro-
motion and extension and para 4.16, the decentralization from the head
office.
2/   SIDA (Swedish International Development Agency) is considering provid-
ing finance for projects and technical assistance in Rajshahi although
this is not expected until after FY78. Nevertheless, IDA and SIDA
should coordinate closely to ensure consistency and avoid duplication
of efforts.



- 29 -
4.17      Policy Statement.  On the basis of discussions with IDA, BSCIC has
revised its Policy Statement on SSIs to reflect its new focus on promotion and
extension work, (refer to Chapter V) and its withdrawal from appraisal and
financing of loans. Also, the new Policy Statement (Project File 7) describes
BSCIC's role in cottage industries reflecting the merging of BSIC and BCIC.
4.18      Accounts.  The audit reports on BSCIC's accounts and activities
have stated a number of shortcomings mainly concerning the availability of
supporting documents related to specific transactions and the adequacy of
provisions for doubtful accounts. BSCIC has discussed with its auditors
their observations on BSCIC's accounts and is taking the necessary steps to
eliminate these reservations for future audits. Concerning provisions for
doubtful accounts, adequate allocations are expected once the project by
project review discussed below is completed.
4.19      Loan Portfolio.  BSCIC's portfolio comprises projects financed by
BSCIC itself, through joint financing with BSB, and through joint financing
with a consortium of commercial banks. These projects have not been ade-
quately supervised mainly because the responsibilities for this activity were
previously not clearly defined. Thus, the bulk of these loans are in arrears,
many of them for over 8 years. Further, the auditors of BSCIC's accounts were
unable to establish whether provisions for doubtful debts are adequate. This
problem has to be tackled. However, an involvement by BSCIC in banking
activities would distract it from promotion and extension work. As in any
event other agencies also have had responsibility for supervising a substan-
tial portion of this portfolio, it should be possible to find an appropriate
solution to this problem. IDA has recommended that (i) a joint team of BSCIC
and relevant commercial banks staff review all overdue loans under BSCIC/
Consortium Banks; (ii) a team of BSCIC and BSB review the BSCIC/ BSB port-
folio; and (iii) BSCIC itself review all overdue loans financed from its own
funds. The review of BSCIC/Consortium banks overdue loans (about 80) has not
yet started but the reviews of BSCIC/BSB overdue loans (about 350) as well
as BSCIC's own overdue loans (about 600) are underway and should be completed
by March 31, 1979. Concerning the BSCIC consortium banks portfolio, the re-
view did not start yet because the commercial banks are already fully respon-
sible for loan supervision of this portfolio and there is no dispute on the
extent of work to be done, which is manageable given the number of loans.
Concerning the BSCIC/BSB as well BSCIC's own portfolio, however, there are a
large number of loans outstanding, which have been in arrears for a longer
period; here there is need for a more organized approach. Thus, following the
project by project review, amounts not recoverable will be written off and
adequate provisions for bad and doubtful loans will be established on that
basis. After this has been done, the full responsibility for supervision and
collection of BSCIC/BSB loans will be transferred to BSB. The risk on these
loans would, however, have to be shared as per original agreement. Concerning
loans from BSCIC's own funds, it is difficult for legal reasons and because of
the lack of interest by other agencies, to transfer responsibility for super-
vision of these loans to such other agencies. However, a large number of
these loans will undoubtedly have to be written off (80% of the amounts have
been in arrears for over 8 years). Thus, the number of loans to be supervised



- 30 -
by BSCIC is likely to be greatly reduced. BSCIC has allocated about 10
officers to carry out this supervision work and this recovery workload
should not affect the quality of BSCIC's other activities as the recovery
cell would be kept separate.
4.20      Funding.  BSCIC's income would be supplemented by a 1.0% fee paid
by the commercial banks on outstanding loans under the proposed IDA-Credit,
which should cover BSCIC's contribution to appraisal, promotion and extension
under the proposed project (paras 5.12, 6.01).
4.21      Monitoring and Evaluation.  The effective implementation, the
achievements, and the development impact of BSCIC's various activities and
of overall assistance to SCIs need to be better monitored and evaluated.
BSCIC has agreed to establish a unit (of about three officers), which is
neither responsible for nor in any way involved in the implementation or run-
ning of these activities, to undertake such monitoring and evaluation. The
unit would report directly to the Chairman and initially would concentrate on
reviewing BSCIC's own activities and the impact of the proposed project.
V. PROMOTION AND EXTENSION
General
5.01      An important objective of this project is to reorient and strengthen
BSCIC's role in promotion and extension. BSCIC's promotion and extension
services would be strengthened by: (a) developing separate organization,
staffing and schemes for SSI and cottage industries; (b) assigning local staff
and the advisors specific responsibilities and timetables for completion of
subsector and area studies to be used in promotion and extension; (c) sepa-
rating promotion and extension work from credit with BSCIC providing the com-
mercial banks with studies on SSI subsector/regional profiles for very small
industries, and diagnoses of problems and BM&R needs of existing enterprises;
and (d) implementing integrated schemes for specific cottage industries (e.g.,
jute, cane, and bamboo handicrafts).
SSI Promotion
5.02      The Promotion Unit of the SSI Division would be responsible for
(a) preparing studies and schemes of subsector/area potential, (b) completing
product and market feasibility studies, (c) developing simple profiles/check-
lists of standard cottage industries with fixed assets of less than Tk 100,000 1/,
(d) conducting promotion among small industrialists and other entrepreneurs,
and (e) providing assistance in project preparation and initial organization
of industries.
1/   While nearly all promotion and extension for CIs would be performed by
the Cottage Industry Division (para 5.10), the SSI Promotion Unit would
prepare profiles/checklists for selected cottage industries (e.g., car-
pentry, repair workshops, tailoring) since this Unit would have the best
equipped technical staff to provide information on regional markets,
appropriate technology, raw material requirements, etc.



- 31 -
5.03      The SSI Promotion Unit at Head Office would consist of one unit
chief, seven other senior officers and three junior officers. These officers
have already been recruited, as have an additional ten for the District
Offices. In addition, an advisor would be assigned to this unit for the
first year of the project.
SSI Division
SSI Promotion Unit
Chief (1)
Area/Subsector      .Feasi bility            Very Small
Studies and Promotion       Studies          Industry Projects
-(4)                   (4)                  (2)
5.04      Each officer would be assigned a region as well as one or two sub-
sectors for specialization.  Each member of the Promotion Unit at Head Office
would be expected to spend at least two weeks out of every two months in the
districts. Regional staff would be actively involved in project identifica-
tion exercises to assure continuity.
5.05      BSCIC has agreed to undertake the following promotional activities
during year one of the project:
(a)  Five to ten SSI subsector studies; these would include:
(i) fruit processing (bulk processing for exports, dried,
jams); (ii) fish processing (drying, smoking, freezing);
(iii) readymade garments especially for export; (iv) agri-
cultural implement manufacture and repair; (v) poultry;
(vi) footwear and leather goods; (vii) subcontracting in
readymade garments, agricultural equipment, or other
subsectors suggested by BSCIC. The first stage of these
studies would concentrate on market/resource possibilities,
size and technology, requirements and potential, and re-
commended subproject organization and design. Specialized
consultants would be funded for a period of about three
months (para 3.35), to provide expert advice, especially
on markets and technology;
(b)  About 5 SSI area studies would be conducted in conjunction
with representatives of BSB, the Ministry of Industry,
District Development Boards, Export Promotion Bureau; in
all cases BSCIC's regional staff would be actively involved.
The studies would identify market and resource processing
potential as well as locate promising entrepreneurs.
Areas selected would be those which, despite resource
and other potential, have limited industrial development.



- 32 -
(c) At least 10 profiles/checklists of very small and cottage
industry subprojects (with less than Tk 100,000 fixed assets
and catering to local demand) to be used by commercial bank
branch managers in appraising very small projects; these
profiles could include, inter alia, tailoring, carpentry,
blacksmith, repair workshop, earthen ware and building
materials, small grain mills, bakeries, aluminum utensils,
footwear and leather goods, fish and fruit drying.
SSI Extension
5.06      Most extension staff should be located in the districts; a goal
would be set that by the end of the disbursement for the project (about 4
years) at least 2 to 3 extension officers would be placed in each district,
while about 5 to 7 specialists will be kept at headquarters in an SSI Exten-
sion Unit (see Chart below).
5.07      BSCIC has recruited 36 officers in the last year primarily for
extension work, 9 of whom are already at Dacca headquarters, 17 are in the
districts and ten are yet to join. The staffing plans provide for recruit-
ment of another 30 workers for the districts in FY79.
SSI Division
.I
SSI Extension
Unit Chief      Specialists in:
- Management training
- Subcontracting and SSI
marketing
District Level                   - Textiles/garments
Extension Officers               - Food storage and processing
- Engineering
- Chemical/Other
5.08      Diagnosis.  Since many SSI problems are subsector-specific, the
first step by headquarters would be to do a diagnosis of a sample of existing
SSI units. The subsector diagnoses should focus on problems and potential
solutions of most industries in the subsector, rather than collecting census
data available elsewhere. As complete surveys are too time consuming, samples
of about 20 firms per industry in the major subsectors would be taken in areas
of concentration to provide a reasonable basis for diagnosing subsector needs.
At least 5 surveys would be completed in year 1. The subsector diagnoses
would take place in stages, with extension staff concentrating on specific sub-
sectors; for example, food storage and processing (about 4 months); textiles/
garments (3 months); engineering industries (3 months); and another important
subsector (2 months). Once the diagnoses are completed, regional level services
and/or BMRE loans would be arranged with interested SSIs, with possible credit
for diversification, improved capacity utilization and building of economies
of scale.



- 33 -
5.09      Training.  On the basis of these diagnoses, BSCIC's extension work
would include provision of short, 2 to 4 day courses for entrepreneurs, to be
held monthly on such topics as equipment needs, accounting, bookkeeping etc.
These sessions would help demonstrate the benefits of BSCIC advice, provide
points of contact to entrepreneurs and opportunities for mutual discussion of
SSI problems.
Cottage Industry Extension
5.10      While the SSI Promotion Unit would develop standard profiles/
checklists for use by commercial banks in lending to cottage and very small
industries which cater to local markets, all other support to cottage indus-
tries would be the responsibility of the Cottage Industry Division of BSCIC.
Cottage industries require active, subsector-specific institutional support
in marketing organization, joint raw material purchasing arrangements, ex-
tension services, financing, design and technology development. There-
fore, the Cottage Industry Division would be organized along subsector lines
(e.g., jute handicrafts, fish drying, sericulture) and special schemes would
be developed over time for each of the major cottage subsectors.
5.11      A UNDP Advisor to BSCIC recently presented a project proposal to
strengthen BSCIC's support to cottage industries. Principal components of
the UNDP project would be (a) design and technology advisors at Headquarters
in about 7 product areas developing schemes for subsector specific support,
and (b) general Cottage Industry Development Officers at district level, to
review potential for subsector specific training and support in the longer
term. The IDA Cottage Industry Component would complement UNDP efforts, by
providing a pilot scheme for support (in marketing, design, credit, exten-
sion) to jute, cane and bamboo units in selected thanas, where concentrations
exist (see paras 3.19-3.34 for description of Cottage Industry Component).
5.12      The costs of the promotion and extension work, discussed above,
including the technical assistance provided by IDA (para 3.35) are esti-
mated below. 1/
1/ These costs exclude services for the cottage industry component, which
have been discussed in para 3.21.



- 34 -
A.   Consultants                       Quantity           Cost            Cost (Tk)
($'OOO)           (Tk'000)
1.   Salaries                        48 man-months        200 /a           3,100
2.   Per Diems                       48 man-months         85 /a            1,317
3.   Transport (coach)
to and from Dacca              12 round trips        20 /a              310
4.   Vehicles                               2              15 /a              232
5.   Other travel, Bangladesh          100 trips            6 7a               93
6.   Equipment and contin-
gencies /a                       7% of 1-4         24 /a              372
Subtotal                                       350              5,424
B.   Staff and Other Costs for
Promotion and Extension, BSCIC
1.   Salaries, Promotion staff   11 members, 4 yrs.   43                      662
2.   Salaries, Extension staff   10 members, 4 yrs.   39                      601
+ 2 members, 2 yrs.
3.   Landrovers                             2              20                 310
4.   Field Trips                     464 trips/4 yrs.   14                   216
5.   Overhead, office, etc.            10% of 1-4          13                 209
Subtotal                                 148               2,299
TOTAL                                    498               7,723
/a   Financed by IDA Credit
/b   These include imported equipment (typewriters, etc.) for consulting
services.
IDA would finance about 70% of these costs with responsibility for repayment by
GOB. The balance of about Tk 2 million would be recovered over the project's
disbursement period by the income of 1.0% on subloans outstanding, generated
by BSCIC from the IDA Credit (para 3.35, 4.21, 6.01).
VI. ADMINISTRATION OF THE CREDIT
6.01      Lending Arrangements.  The Credit would be made to GOB which would
relend the subloans component to commercial banks for on-lending to the SCIs.
GOB would relend to the commercial banks at 4.5% and the commercial banks would
on-lend to the ultimate borrowers at a minimum of 11.5%, the current lending



- 35 -
rate for SCIs. If the inflation rate remains at about 10% in the long-run,
which is a reasonable assumption given GOB policies, the ultimate borrowers
will pay a positive real rate of interest of about 1.4%. The commercial banks
would pay the Bangladesh Bank a guarantee fee commission of 1% on amounts
outstanding and a service charge to BSCIC of 1.5% that would cover the costs
of its promotional and extension activities for the subprojects financed; this
would allow the commercial banks a spread of 5% which is justified in view of
the administrative costs and inherent risks associated with SCIs and will
serve as an incentive for the banks to finance this sector. As many small
entrepreneurs could not afford nor understand the implications of incurring
heavy losses from foreign exchange fluctuations, the foreign exchange risk
would be borne by GOB. With regards the special capital fund the margins
will be: GOB, 1%; Bangladesh Bank, 1%; and commercial banks, 5.5%; thus,
the interest rate to the sub-borrowers for the special capital fund will be
7.5%. The funds for technical assistance would be provided by GOB to BSCIC/
BHMC, as a grant.
6.02      Free Limits and Prior Approval.  The maximum subproject size under
the proposed Credit would be Tk 2.5 million, and the maximum subloan, about
Tk 1.75 million (US$110,000). The average subloan size for projects costing
between Tk 100,000-Tk 2.5 million would be about Tk 440,000 (US$30,000) and
about 200 subprojects in this size range would be financed from the proposed
Credit. About 1,000 subprojects costing below Tk 100,000 would also be financed
with an average subloan size of about Tk 20,000 (US$1,300). Because the number
of subprojects will be large and the size small, and as SCIs should not be
burdened with an unduly complex review system, the normal DFC subproject ap-
proval procedures should be simplified. For subprojects costing less than
Tk 100,000, no prior review by IDA would be required. 1/ Instead, the commer-
cial banks would send to IDA for a post-review a quarterly statement of
approvals with key information on the subprojects financed. For larger sub-
projects the banks would send to IDA, on a monthly basis, for a no-objection,
the applications for authorization to make withdrawals from the Credit, with
a summary of each subproject and the terms and conditions of the proposed
financing, and a discussion of the basis for the procurement decision. 2/
There would be no prior review of appraisal reports (all subloans would be
"free limit" subloans) but appraisal standards would be discussed during
supervision missions on the basis of reviews of representative samples by
size and subsector.
6.03      Procurement.  In view of the size of the individual transactions,
IDA's normal requirements for international competitive bidding would be in-
appropriate for the proposed project.  Instead, procurement of foreign
equipment for projects estimated to cost Tk 100,000 or more would be based
on at least 3 quotations from different suppliers. To ensure adequate and
1/   However, IDA would be reviewing, in the course of the dialogue with
BSCIC on promotion, the project profiles prepared by it on which the
appraisal of most of these subprojects would be based.
2/   The form in which these sets of information would be presented to IDA
has been agreed during negotiations.



- 36 -
consistent procurement, the basis for the procurement decision will be re-
viewed prior to subproject authorization by IDA for projects costing above
Tk 100,000 (para 6.02). For smaller sub-projects and the procurement of
locally produced components of subprojects, IDA would rely on the local banks'
appraisal of reasonableness of costs together with the local entrepreneur's
incentive to keep costs low. Further, supervision missions will review pro-
curement procedures and standards including the relevant documentation for a
sample of subprojects financed.
6.04      Disbursements.  Disbursements from the proposed credit would be
made as follows:
(a) Concerning credit, IDA would finance 100% of loan dis-
bursements by the participating commercial banks for the
general subloans component and for the credit element of
the cottage industry component, in both cases, up to 70%
of subproject costs. 1/ IDA also would finance 100% of dis-
bursements, up to 157% of subproject costs for the special
capital fund. Withdrawal applications would be submitted
directly to IDA by the two participating commercial banks.
In view of the large number of sub-projects involved and
the small sub-loan sizes, the normal DFC procedure of dis-
bursing against expenditures on individual sub-projects
accounts, would be inappropriate. Thus, all disbursements
for foreign or local expenditures made by the commercial
banks will be financed equally up to 70% of subproject costs.
Disbursements for sub-loans above US$45,000 (with sub-project
costs from Tk 1.0 million to Tk 2.5 million), accounting for
about 40% by amount of the project's credit component, will
be fully documented, except for permanent working capital.
Disbursements for permanent working capital and for the
balance of sub-projects as well as the special capital
fund would be reimbursed against a quarterly statement
of expenditure, certified by the commercial banks, show-
ing their own subloan disbursements for the specific
sub-projects.
(b) For the balance of the cottage industry component, IDA
will finance 100% of foreign expenditures for sales trips
and design consultancy and 100% of local costs to pay for
BSCIC/BHMC incremental staff. Disbursements would be sub-
mitted to IDA by BSCIC and would also be based on a
quarterly statement of expenditures, certified by BSCIC,
except for the foreign costs, where withdrawal applica-
tions will be fully documented.
1/   The subproject sponsors will normally be contributing 30% to subproject
costs, so the commercial banks and IDA would be financing up to 70%.



- 37 -
(c) Concerning the technical assistance to BSCIC, IDA would
finance 100% of the direct foreign and local expenditures
for the consultants hired, including equipment needs.
Withdrawal applications would be submitted to IDA by
BSCIC and would be fully documented.
6.05       The documentation on (a) and on local costs for (b) above would be
retained by the commercial banks and by BSCIC respectively, and would be
available for review by supervision missions. All statements of expenditure
would be audited at least once every 12 months by auditors acceptable to IDA
and a report would be submitted to IDA promptly thereafter. The disburse-
ment schedule is estimated as follows (US$ thousand):
FY79     FY80      FY81      FY82
First Quarter                   -       550       800       500
Second Quarter                 -        600       700       200
Third Quarter                  250      700       600       100
Fourth Quarter                500       800       600       100
750    2,650    2,700        900
Cumulative total              750    3,400    6,100    7,000
of which (cumulative)
Credit Component              660    3,010    5,260    6,100
Special Capital Fund           -        100       200       200
Technical Assistance
BSCIC                        80       150       300       300
Cottage Industry
Component                    40       140       340       400
750    3,400    6,100    7,000
6.06       Amortization of Subloans.  It is unlikely that any subproject will
require an amortization schedule of over 12 years including a grace period of
say, 3 years. As the commitment period for the subloans will be about 2 years,
an amortization schedule between the banks and GOB of 15 years, including 3
years of grace would be appropriate. The amortization schedule between the
banks and GOB will be fixed because back-to-back repayments for such a large
number of subloans would be administratively too complex.
VII. ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
Benefits
7.01      General.  The proposed project addresses the main problems constrain-
ing the development of SCIs such as pDor subproject selection, lack of access



- 38 -
to working capital and investment credit, cumbersome institutional framework,
weaknesses of support institutions responsible for promotion and extension,
and failure to provide forward and backward linkages. SCIs can play a key
developmental role given the characteristics of Bangladesh's industrial sector.
SCIs have relatively higher labor intensity and can provide for better utili-
zation of the available entrepreneurial skills and limited capital resources
of the private sector. Further, given the low per capita income in the country,
SCIs have the ability to cater to the very limited needs for specialized items
in the small domestic market and can provide for dispersal of industrial activ-
ity throughout the country. Finally, SCIs give possibilities for better labor
relations as a result of closer contacts between management and labor. Thus,
the proposed Credit, although small in size, has considerable significance for
Bangladesh.
7.02      Institutional Improvements.  Apart from redefining the roles of
support institutions to make assistance for SCIs more efficient, the project
will provide needed technical assistance to BSCIC which is the primary agency
responsible for promoting development of SCIs. There is little doubt that
promotion and extension are of key concern for SCI development and the techni-
cal assistance program for BSCIC will thus focus on these areas. In addition,
the involvement of commercial banks in SCI financing will make access to
credit much easier and will relieve small entrepreneurs from approaching
different institutions for investment and working capital.  Commercial banks,
with their extensive branch network, more knowledge of local conditions and
better access to local entrepreneurs can play a considerable role in SCI
financing. The use of appropriate expertise, as planned, should not only
generate significant improvements in SCI promotion and development work, and
in the provision of technical assistance to entrepreneurs, but also in sub-
project selection, appraisal and supervision of enterprises.
7.03      Further, the proposed project introduces new schemes such as the
special capital fund and the credit guarantee scheme which should provide
opportunities for further growth of SCIs. The pilot cottage industry compo-
nent for jute, cane and bamboo handicrafts provides a model integrating pro-
motional, financial, marketing and technical assistance services, which could
be replicated by GOB to develop other subsector specific, export oriented
schemes for CIs.
7.04      Employment Effects.  It is not possible to quantify directly the
benefits that would flow from the above institutional improvements and from
the technical assistance components of the project. Clearly, they should
provide for more rapid growth of SCIs, and associated improvements in employ-
ment as well as productivity and SCI managerial development. Para 3.23 quan-
tified some of the expected benefits of the jute, cane and bamboo cottage
industry component. With regards the credit component, it is expected that
a fairly large number of small and labor intensive enterprises (some 200
SSIs and about 1,000 CIs), using chiefly local raw materials and some of
which are export oriented, or aimed at providing basic needs at lower prices,
would be financed. Financial and economic benefits cannot be easily quanti-
fied in a component such as this, involving a large number of enterprises
in disparate activities. However, it is roughly estimated that the project



- 39 -
would result in incremental direct employment of about 8,000 positions, and
increased earnings for an additional 6,000 workers. Average subproject cost
would be about $1,500 per position created in organized SSIs and about $500
for CIs. About 80% of the beneficiaries would be from towns or rural areas,
reflecting the population distribution in Bangladesh.
Risks
7.05      The main project risks are that BSCIC is still a weak institution
and that the commercial banks are just starting their involvement with SCIs.
However, the project introduces a number of measures to strengthen BSCIC and
the commercial banks, as well as to improve subproject selection and monitor-
ing. While some of these improvements may take a longer time than now envi-
saged, it is likely that delays will be mainly in strengthening promotion and
extension work. However, even if the strengthening of BSCIC's promotion and
extension activities are delayed, it should be possible to make an adequate
number of suitable small industry loans without full initial support in pro-
motion and extension as the criteria for project selection and appraisal have
been clearly defined. Since SCIs are a priority subsector and the proposed
Credit should help correct the present institutional weaknesses the risks are
not sufficiently great to warrant delaying the proposed credit. The credit,
however, will require close supervision and heavier than usual commitment of
manpower resources.
VIII.  SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED
8.01      During the course of discussions on the proposed credit, the follow-
ing matters were discussed and agreed:
With GOB and where appropriate also BSCIC/Commercial Banks
(a)  the project components, including lending limits, subproject
selection criteria, arrangements for administering the
special capital fund, the districts thanas and villages
and the recruitment for the cottage industry component,
and the liability for financing of the advisors (paras
3.01, 3.02, 3.12, 3.17, 3.21 d, e, and 3.24, 3.35);
(b)  the institutional arrangements for the Credit including
the transfer of full responsibility for appraisal to
commercial banks eighteen months after Credit effective-
ness and the steps to ensure coordination (para 4.01,
4.01 b, h);
(c) the arrangements for the administration of the proposed
Credit (paras 6.01-6.06).



- 40 -
With Sonali and Janata Banks
(a)  Creation of a Small Industries Loan Department in each bank,
with details on staffing and training (paras 4.05-4.07); and
(b)  Strategy Statements for SCI financing (para 4.08).
With BSCIC
(a)  changes to BSCIC organizational structure, including
staffing, particularly for promotion and extension,
training, establishment of a monitoring and evaluation
unit, the Policy Statement and other institutional
matters (paras 3.21 d, 4.11, 4.13-4.17, 4.19, 4.22,
5.03, 5.06, 5.07);
(b)  proposals to improve the loan portfolio situation (para
4.20); and
(c)  the promotional activities to be undertaken during the
project (para 5.05);
8.02      The establishment of a credit guarantee scheme by the Bangladesh Bank
will be a condition of effectiveness (para 4.01 f).



ANNEX 1
RELATED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
1.        Census Data on Manufacturing Industries (registered firms),
1975/76, and 3ample Survey Data (unpublished) on Unregistered Small and
Household Manufacturing Industries, 1976-77; prepared by Bangladesh's
Bureau of Statistics.
2.        Working reports prepared by appraisal mission on prospects and
problems of specific small industries: fruit processing, fish processing,
and readymade garments. Brief notes on specific cottage industries: wood
working units, footwear, agricultural implements, oil milling, and tanning.
3.        Table on Bangladesh interest rates as of June 30, 1977.
4.        Draft Credit Guarantee Scheme prepared by Bangladesh Bank.
5.        Working report prepared by appraisal mission on the Sonali and
Janata banks covering board composition, organization, management, staff,
delegation of authority, lending portfolio and practices, and financial
matters.
6.        Working report prepared by appraisal mission on the Bangladesh Small
and Cottage Industries Corporation covering management matters, organization
and activities, staff, past lending operations, quality of portfolio and
other financial matters.
7.        Janata and Sonali Banks' Strategy Statements on small and cottage
industries activities and BSCIC's revised Policy Statement.



