Document of
FILE CC op y    The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2 338-BD
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPNENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
FOR A
SECOND SMALL-SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
May 26, 1978
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
The Bangladesh Taka is officially valued at 26.70
to the Pound Sterling. The Pound now floats relative to
the US Dollar and consequently the Taka/US Dollar rate is
subject to change (as of January 30, 1978, US$1 = Tk 14.5).
The rate below has been used throughout this report.
US$1           =    Tk 15.5
Tk I          =    US$0.0645
Tk 1 million  =    US$64,500
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS USED
CI       -     Cottage Industry
BHMC     -     Bangladesh Handlooms Marketing Corporation
BSIC     -     Bangladesh Small Industries Corporation
BCIC     -     Bangladesh Cottage Industries Corporation
BSCIC    -     Bangladesh Small and Cottage Industries Corporation
BSB      -     Bangladesh Shilpa Bank
EPSIC    -     East Pakistan Small Industries Corporation
GOB      -     Government of Bangladesh
SCI      -     Small-Scale and Cottage Industry
SSI      -     Small-Scale Industry excluding cottage
FISCAL YEAR
GOB                   July 1      -  June 30
BSCIC                 July 1      -  June 30
Commercial Banks      January 1  -  December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BANGLADESH
SECOND SMALL-SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:         People's Republic of Bangladesh
Beneficiaries:   Janata Bank, Sonali Bank and Bangladesh Small and Cottage
Industries Corporation (BSCIC) and small and cottage indus-
tries receiving credit through Janata and Sonali Banks
Amount:           US$7 Million
Terms:            Standard
Purpose:          To support the development of small and cottage industries
(SCIs), including the strengthening of BSCIC for promotion
and extension work and the commercial banks for lending to
SCIs. The credit will finance (a) sub-loans for equipment
and permanent working capital; (b) a special capital fund
for providing supplementary financing to selected projects
for which the sponsors are unable to provide sufficient
equity; (c) a pilot cottage industry component for jute and
cane/bamboo handicrafts; and (d) technical assistance to
strengthen BSCIC's promotion and extension work. The risk
relates to the limited experience of commercial banks in
financing fixed investments for SCIs and of BSCIC in promo-
tion and extension. Therefore, the project incorporates
clearly defined criteria for project selection and super-
vision, tasks involved in promotion and extension, and
technical assistance in aspects requiring improvement.
Relending
Terms  :        GOB will relend US$6.1 million of the proceeds of the
credit to the Janata Bank and Sonali Banks for 15 years,
including three years of grace, with interest at 4.5% per
annum. The commercial banks will make sub-loans to ulti-
mate borrowers for up to 12 years, including 3 years of
grace at not less than 11.5% per annum and will pay BSCIC
and the Bangladesh Bank each a service charge and guarantee
fee of 1%. The proceeds of the credit allocated to the
special capital fund (US$0.2 million) will be onlent to
commercial banks at 1%; the commercial banks will lend to
ultimate borrowers for up to 12 years, including 3 years
of grace at 7.5% and will pay Bangladesh Bank a guaran-
tee fee of 1%. GOB will make available the proceeds
of the Credit allocated to BSCIC for technical assistance
and the pilot cottage industry component (excluding credit)
as a grant.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Credit Allocation:                Items                 US$ Million
Sub-loans for small
and cottage industry
projects                       6.1
Special Capital Fund              0.2
Cottage Industry Component
(including credit of 0.2)    0.4
Technical Assistance              0.3
Total Credit Allocation        7.0
Financing:        The proposed $7 million credit would finance sub-
loans by commercial banks up to 70% of subproject
costs, up to 15% of subproject costs through
the special capital fund, and the full cost of
technical assistance.
Estimated
Disbursements:                   Bank FY   FY79   FY80   FY81   FY82
--US$  Million----------
Annual                      0.8    2.6       2.7   0.9
Cumulative                  0.8    3.4      6.1   7.0
Appraisal
Report:         Appraisal of a Second Small-Scale Industry Project,
May 26, 1978, Report No. 1802-BD



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH FOR A
SECOND SMALL-SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed dev-
elopment credit to the People's Republic of Bangladesh for the equivalent of
US$7 million, on standard IDA terms, to help finance a second small-scale
industry project. US$6.1 million of the proceeds of the credit would be
relent to Janata and Sonali Banks for 15 years, including three years of
grace, with interest at 4.5% per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A Basic Economic Report on Bangladesh, entitled "Bangladesh:
Development in a Rural Economy" (Report No. 455-BD, of September 15, 1974)
was distributed to the Executive Directors on October 1, 1974. An economic
mission visited the country in November 1977 and its report entitled
"Bangladesh: Current Economic Trends" (Report No. 1931-BD, of April 10,
1978) was distributed on April 13, 1978. The basic conclusions of this
most recent mission are summarized below.
Background
3.        When Bangladesh became independent seven years ago, the newly
formed Government inherited a shattered economy: the country had lost
almost three million of its population - including many of the academic
and business elite - while much of the physical infrastructure had been
demolished. Agricultural and industrial production and trade had come to
a standstill. Attempts to revive the economy and put it on a growth path
were complicated by the necessity to fashion a national government out of
a provincial administration; to establish development institutions serving
agriculture, industry, trade, and banking; and to reorient agriculture and
industry after the loss of the West Pakistan market.
4.        Despite the destruction and disorientation prevailing immediately
after independence, some economic improvements have occurred. GDP has in-
creased annually by an average of 5.7% between FY73 and FY78 and since annual
population growth is about 2.8%, this represents an annual growth of per
capita GDP of nearly 3%. The output of foodgrains has shown an annual aver-
age increase of 4.5% during this period, but has nevertheless necessitated
an average of 1.8 million tons of foodgrain imports per year. The growth of
output of jute - Bangladesh's major export -- has been disappointing, how-
ever: this has declined by an annual average of 4%. Hence, despite a
rapid growth of non-traditional exports in recent years, export earnings



-2-
have increased by only 5.6% annually, while imports have risen by an annual
average of 7.4%, resulting in an average external resource gap amounting to
8.5% of GDP during FY74-78 and 10.2% in FY78.
5.        While the GDP growth rate over these five years has been relatively
high, a comparison of key indicators shows that what has happened is that the
economy has recovered from its post-independence low point, but that it has
yet to reach the levels of FY70 - the year before independence. Per capita
GDP was then higher in real terms than in FY78. The ratio of savings to GDP,
which stood at 7.1%, averaged 2.0% during FY74-78 and had recovered to only
3.1% in FY78. The investment ratio returned in FY78 to 13.3%, slightly above
the FY70 level, after lower figures in intervening years. The volume of out-
put of jute manufactures as well as a number of industrial products show a
marked fall. The volume of exports of jute and jute goods is also much less
than before independence. The output of rice has fallen in per capita terms
and yield per acre has remained low. Thus, the encouraging trends of recent
years should be viewed as having only laid the basis for development. The
dimensions of the problems remaining are clearly seen at the social level.
Many Bangladeshis continue to have inadequate food, clothing, and shelter.
Levels of nutrition have declined and the number of landless and unemployed
has increased. Even primary education is still the luxury of a few. Many
have little or no access to safe drinking water and preventive or curative
medicine. The life expectancy at birth is estimated to be only 45 years.
6.        As a first effort to begin to build on the foundation laid in the
last five years, the Government has clarified its priorities -- the control
of the rapid growth of population and a substantial increase in the output
of foodgrain. In 1975, the Government initiated a stabilization program in
conjunction with the IMF which helped reduce drastically the rate of infla-
tion, improve the competitiveness of exports, and increase revenues. Con-
cern with monetary stability is a continuing -- and encouraging -- feature
of government policy. In recent years, steps have been taken to improve the
operational efficiency of the jute manufacturing sector. For the first time,
in FY78, steps have been taken to provide an incentive price for foodgrains
through appropriate procurement policies.
7.        Action has been taken over the last few years to reduce the levels
of producer and consumer subsidies and to improve the working of public sector
corporations. The beneficial results of these reforms are not always readily
apparent, and in a number of cases will take considerable time to show. How-
ever, the Government has made a start on some of the issues that hamper the
growth of savings and investment. The Government is preparing a Two Year
Plan V £79-80), as a prelude to a formal Five Year Plan (FY81-85). It ex-
pects to implement many of the policy reforms needed to improve growth and
equity in the course of these Plans.
8.        The Two Year Plan offers the Government a good starting point for
introducing economic reforms. Specifically, the Plan should focus on such
issues as pricin:g policy, improvement in levels of domestic savings, expan-
sion of export earnings, and greater efficiency in project preparation and
implementation. The scope of private sector participation in the economy
should be clarified, and the management of the public sector improved.



-3-
Current Economic Situation
9.        Economic growth in Bangladesh in FY78 has been influenced to a
large extent by good performance in agriculture and industry. Aided by
good prices in the previous season, favorable weather, and the expectation
of a further strengthening of demand in FY78, farmers have responded by in-
creasing the acreage sown to jute and rice, and demonstrated a willingness
to invest in modern agricultural inputs. Foodgrain output reached 13.4 mil-
lion tons, the highest level since independence. Jute production, although
somewhat less than foreseen earlier due to untimely rainfall, was 17% higher
than in FY77.
10.       A strong upturn in industrial output has occurred because of a
revival in consumer demand, an improvement in investment, and more liberal
availability of imported raw materials. Capacity utilization in industry
is being stimulated by an increase in demand for jute goods and cotton tex-
tiles, and an intensification of construction activity.
11.       The volume of exports has continued to show improvement as a result
of better market conditions for raw jute and jute goods. However, because
stocks were run down to uncomfortably low levels in FY77, the quantity of
jute effectively available for domestic and export use rose less than out-
put. However, since there was a concurrent world shortage of jute, due to
poor crops in other producing areas, Bangladesh benefited from higher export
prices. The performance of minor and non-traditional exports has been less
bright than last year due to competition from other exporters and slower
growth in output.
12.       The Government has continued to adhere to prudent monetary and fis-
cal policies. Planned monetary expansion in FY78 was linked to the prospec-
tive rate of economic growth and the budget, when presented, made no provision
for deficit financing. However, during the year, some unforeseen expenditure
was undertaken: the Government thought it was necessary to purchase 296,000
tons of foodgrain in order to ensure adequate supplies early in the year, at
a cost of $53 million. There were other unexpected increases, such as a
rise in the fertilizer subsidy caused by sales which exceeded forecasts.
Thus, there will be a budget deficit of about Tk 1,250 million (10% of
current revenue), even though revenue collections, which were sluggish at
the beginning of the year, are now expected to reach the level estimated in
the budget.
13.       Imports rose by 50% in FY78, reflecting the increased tempo of
economic activity. The volume of imports of foodgrains, raw cotton, fertil-
izer and cement has risen substantially. Imports of edible oil and minor
consumer products have also been expanding. The biggest single factor (about
20% of the total) has been the increase in the volume of foodgrain imports.
These imports were required -- despite the record foodgrain crop -- to enable
the Government to begin moving towards the official foodgrain stock target of
one million tons. This is desired both for maintaining food security and for
facilitating open market operations to sustain the market price of foodgrain
within a desired price range.



- 4 -
14.       In sum, the overall rate of economic growth for FY78 is expected
to be about 8%; this derives from a projected growth rate of over 8% in agri-
culture, 8% in industry and about 7% in other sectors. Although the improved
supply position for foodgrains, combined with an increase in the volume of
imports, has helped to contain inflationary pressure, the overall budget
deficit suggests a rate of inflation of about 12% as compared to 11% last
year.
Major Developments and Policy Issues
15.       Foodgrain.  This year's record harvest was the result of a combina-
tion of good weather and improved production policies. Incentives for expand-
ing the output of rice consisted of a higher procurement volume and price,
which for the first time were announced to the farmers well in advance of
the planting season. To facilitate procurement, many new purchasing centers
were opened, staff cadres strengthened, the number of grain dealers expanded,
quality requirements made more flexible, and the number of bank branches and
payment points enlarged. At the production level, input packages consisting
of fertilizer kits and an expanded credit program of Tk 1,000 million (of
which about Tk 400 million was actually disbursed), were introduced as an
experiment. While these supporting measures for increasing foodgrain output
have been generally in the right direction, attention needs to be paid to the
longer term impact of some parts of the program. Repayment of agricultural
loans under the expanded credit program has been very slow and irregular.
Failure to ensure credit discipline could in the long run jeopardize the
Government's plans for channeling credit to agriculture and fostering the
application of inputs in the desired mix. There is evidence that the ex-
panded credit program has also led to some disruption of extension activi-
ties which are indispensable for providing the foundation for sustained
agricultural growth.
16.       Further steps have been taken in FY78 to reform the ration system
and to achieve a reduction in ration offtakes. The prices of rationed rice
and wheat were increased by 11 and 14% respectively; those enjoying a monthly
income of Tk 1,600 a month are to be shifted from the ration shops to "Essen-
tial Supply Shops" where the price would be between the ration and the market
prices; and the number of ration cards is to be reduced to a maximum of 6 per
household. The composition of the ration was also changed so that 2 units
of the more nutritious but cheaper wheat are now distributed for every 1 unit
of rice to some categories of consumers. The Government has indicated that
its ultimate objective is to restrict access to the ration to vulnerable
groups in urban and rural areas. As now structured, however, the ration
system still bypasses a large segment of the poor and landless and more in-
tensified efforts to reach these are, therefore, in order.
17.       Jute.  Responding to last year's favorable jute-rice price ratio
and the early announcement of a higher procurement price, the area sown to
jute increased by 29% to 1.8 million acres in FY78 and, despite bad weather,
output rose from 4.7 million bales in FY77 to 5.2 million bales. An impor-
tant factor was the increase in the area under the Intensive Jute Cultivation



- 5 -
Scheme to 500,000 acres. Meanwhile, the effect of the decrease in the area
available for rice production during the aus season was compensated by an
increase in productivity. Demand for raw jute -- both for export and supply
to domestic jute mills -- was buoyant. As a result of the very low level
of stocks carried over from the previous year, demand could not be met, and
prices rose throughout the marketing season by over 40%. The improvement
in price helped to raise farm incomes substantially, especially during the
months immediately following the harvest season, when prices traditionally
are depressed. The acreage sown to jute and output is expected to rise fur-
ther in FY79. The improved supply position should also help to maintain the
international price of jute goods at competitive levels. The Government
intends to increase jute output over the next few years -- relying to an
increasing extent on the Intensive Jute Cultivation Scheme -- on the expec-
tation of an improvement in world demand for raw jute and especially of jute
goods. Since the current world shortage is likely to persist for some time,
Bangladesh should benefit from these efforts to expand output over the short
run.
18.       The jute goods sector still requires further rehabilitation.  The
sector benefited from the improvement in international demand in FY78 which
led to a 35% increase in export value. A reduction in the wastage rate from
11% to 8% in FY78 has been a major achievement. Despite this and the improve-
ment in price, however, the industry's losses are expected to be about Tk 550
million (Tk 525 million in FY77). These losses are now being financed by a
differential scale of subsidies applied to categories of jute exports, based
on the f.o.b. export value. The weighted subsidy, which amounts to 15.7% of
the value of exports, is intended to help improve the overall liquidity of
the industry, but not to bail out ailing jute mills whose unit losses exceed
this percentage. This new method of paying the subsidy could be of help to
the Government in separating the better performing mills from those that are
not. Even with improvements in efficiency, and investments in rehabilita-
tion, some mills will continue to be a financial liability. The need is to
determine how to produce in the most efficient manner the quantity of jute
goods that the market will absorb at remunerative prices, and then to
restructure the industry accordingly.
19.       Public Enterprises.  The general upturn in economic activity in
FY78 has led to a substantial increase in capacity utilization in public
enterprises, particularly in cotton textiles, newsprint, paper, jute and
steel. The combined losses of public enterprises are expected to decline --
both because of the effect of higher capacity utilization and the decision
to price cotton textiles at a level that reflects the enhanced cost of raw
cotton. The basic problems which afflict the working of public enterprises,
however, continue; they relate primarily to the excessive centralization and
control exercised by ministries over the day-to-day commercial operations
of enterprises. Some progress has been made in alleviating the most diffi-
cult problems. However, any marked improvement in the performance of public
enterprises must be predicated on greater functional autonomy particularly in
the determination of input and output prices and the incentives offered to
personnel. A number of supplementary measures, including a decision to sell
off any enterprises that have continually been incurring losses, may also be
necessary.



- 6 -
20.       Resource Mobilization.  Inadequate mobilization of domestic re-
sources remains one of Bangladesh's key problems. As pointed out, domes-
tic savings finance only a small proportion of total investment and unless
savings, particularly those of the public sector, are raised, it will be
difficult to step up the pace of development in Bangladesh. Under present
conditions, the revenue gap tends to widen as development expenditures rise.
Budget performance in FY78 provides an illustration. Preliminary estimates
of the outturn for the year indicate that both revenue and current expendi-
tures have been increasing sharply leaving the current surplus roughly as
budgeted at Tk 2.6 billion (Tk 1.7 billion in FY77).  Development expendi-
tures, however, have been increasing by much more and despite an increase
in aid disbursements, which are likely to cover 62% of development expendi-
tures, an uncovered gap is now expected of about Tk 1.25 billion, the equiv-
alent of 10% of current revenue and about 10% of the money supply. It should
be pointed out that this unfavorable financial result is expected in spite
of the increase in the foodgrain ration price and the decline in the sub-
sidies extended to nationalized enterprises.
21.       More stringent action than undertaken thus far is clearly needed
to put public finance on a sound footing. On the revenue side, measures to
lessen tax evasion, improve tax administration and reduce exemptions and
loopholes offer most scope for increasing resources in the short run. On
the expenditure side, an examination is urgently required of the cost effec-
tiveness of production and consumption subsidies. Further efforts are also
needed to reduce the losses of public enterprises, a major cause of which
is the failure to allow input price increases to be passed on to consumers.
There is no doubt that a combination of such revenue and expenditure meas-
ures, in spite of Bangladesh's poverty, could lead to substantial improve-
ment in domestic resource mobilization. Some modest steps have already been
taken -- improvement in the administration of the income tax, improvements
in the pricing policy of the textile industry, and the recent increase of
the ration price for foodgrains -- and further measures are under active
consideration by the Government. Of course it will be difficult to imple-
ment these measures when the Government is at the same time successful in
carrying out its development programs. Consumption levels in Bangladesh
are extremely low and an increase of incomes arising from accelerated GDP
growth is a necessary condition for the implementation of any set of poli-
cies designed to raise the rate of savings.
22.       Project Implementation.  A number of steps to improve the Govern-
ment's capacity to implement projects were taken during 1977. The Project
Implementation Bureau's staff was strengthened, and its ability to monitor
progress improved. Project entities were assigned much greater functional
autonomy -- especially with respect to the authorization of expenditures.
For FY78 the complex procedures for the allocation of funds to projects
were simplified, and the Government is trying to speed up the approval of
projects in the pipeline, and to weed out existing projects that do not
promise early completion. These measures are welcome. At the same time,
it is important to focus on other major problems which have slowed down
project implementation in the past. Greater fungibility in the use of funds



-7.
appropriated for development should be introduced, so that fast moving proj-
ects can employ the funds of those that have stalled. Delays resulting from
breakdowns in machinery, shortages of supplies, absenteeism, and bad planning
of sequences of activity, must be avoided. Donors could help by ensuring that
project resources are supplemented by the provision of a higher proportion of
local currency cost in external assistance in order to ensure that the imple-
mentation of projects is sustained in the face of acute stringency of local
resources.
23.       External Capital Requirements.  Even with significant improvement
in its domestic resource mobilization, Bangladesh will continue to need sub-
stantial external assistance to support its development efforts. In the short
run, such support is even becoming more important in view of the fact that
the pace of development expenditures has begun to accelerate. Roughly it
is estimated that aid disbursements, which amounted to $750 million in FY78,
should rise to $880 million in FY79. These would comprise $180 million of
food, $400 million of commodities and $300 million of project aid. Since
Bangladesh would commence the year with a pipeline of aid amounting to $1,952
million, it should be possible to disburse about $625 million from that pipe-
line. Hence, about $255 million of disbursements from new aid would be nec-
essary. To yield disbursements at this level in FY79 and to build up the
pipeline for FY80, it is estimated that commitments in FY79 will need to
be approximately $1,100 million. If these projections materialize, the aid
pipeline at the end of FY80 will be about $2,170 million. It is important
to stress the widening gap in external resources which must be met by exter-
nal assistance at least for the time being, if economic growth and execution
of the development plan are not to be slowed down for lack of financial re-
sources. At the same time, the Government must strive to increase exports
and be prudent in the use of foreign exchange, as well as make efforts to
increase domestic resource mobilization.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BANGLADESH
24.       Bangladesh became a member of the Bank and IDA in August 1972.  Ini-
tially, Bank Group operations in Bangladesh concentrated on the reactivation
of uncompleted projects financed under credits made originally to Pakistan,
before 1971. Eleven such credits, amounting to US$148.6 million (including
US$44.1 million for the repayment of amounts disbursed under the corresponding
previous credits to Pakistan, and net of cancellations) were made to Bangladesh.
In addition, as of March 31, 1978, 24 new credits, excluding the consolidation
credit of US$31 million referred to in paragraph 25, have been made, totalling
US$720.7 million. Of these, US$425 million have been for six program credits.
The project credits have emphasized agricultural development, but also included
amounts for population, telecommunications, transport and industry. On June 18,
1976 Bangladesh became the 105th member of the IFC, but no IFC investments
have been approved as yet.



- 8 -
25.       Agreement has been reached between Bangladesh and most of the bi-
lateral and multilateral donors concerning the assumption by Bangladesh of
portions of the debt contracted by Pakistan, before Bangladesh became inde-
pendent. This will lead to some increase in debt service and, while the debt
service ratio is not expected to exceed 20% over the next ten years, it may
do so by the mid-1980s, unless careful debt management policies are pursued,
and aid is provided on appropriately concessional terms.   With respect to the
Bank Group, Bangladesh agreed to accept liability for portions of IDA credits
extended for projects visibly located in Bangladesh and completed before inde-
pendence. Based on this agreement, a consolidation loan of about US$54.9 mil-
lion and a consolidation credit of about US$31.0 million were signed on
February 14, 1975. The Bank Group's share of Bangladesh's outstanding exter-
nal debt is not expected to rise significantly above the present level of
about 22% over the next few years.
26.       Annex II contains a summary statement of IDA credits and the Bank
loan made to Bangladesh as of April 30, 1978, and notes on the execution
of ongoing projects. While disbursement of the program credits has proceeded
satisfactorily, project credit disbursements have lagged far behind expecta-
tions, owing inter alia to delays in the release of local funds, clearance
of contracts, employment of consultants, and appointment of staff. The Gov-
ernment has taken some steps to eliminate bottlenecks and the results are
beginning to be reflected in improvements in project implementation and dis-
bursement performance. However, serious implementation constraints remain
because of shortage of qualified staff, over-centralized bureaucratic proce-
dures and organizational deficiencies. Progress is being made on these issues.
For example, at the Government's request, IDA is providing assistance to im-
prove organization and procedures, especially in the ministries and agencies
dealing with agriculture and water resources. Further, the Government has
taken actions including improved procedures for recruitment of civil servants
and increased emphasis on training - which are important not only as steps
towards gradually improving the quality of public administration, but also as
evidence of its awareness of the problem and concern to do something about it.
On the organizational side, the Government is in the process of establishing
planning cells in the main ministries and agencies and in strengthening the
Planning Ministry. In this connection, IDA is providing assistance both under
specific projects and under the Technical Assistance Credits (409-BD and 622-BD).
27.       Of the 18 new project credits totalling US$295.7 million, 11 credits
totalling US$210.5 million have been directed towards agriculture and rural
development (excluding subprojects of the Technical Assistance credits devoted
to this sector). Their basic objective is to support the delivery of inputs,
including assured water, through quick yielding projects with low capital
intensity. While the pace of implementation has been disappointing so far,
the fundamental importance of improving agricultural productivity means that
projects geared to the rural sector should remain the cornerstone of future
IDA lending. However, in the shorter term, the rate of planned lending for
agriculture will be a function of progress in improving the currently limited
absorptive capacity of the project executing agencies. At the same time,



- 9 -
greater efforts in institution building are being made through closer super-
vision and technical assistance where necessary. Some progress has already
been made in correcting problems in ongoing projects. Over the next year,
projects for drainage and flood control and fisheries are expected to be
ready for consideration.
28.       Industry has been the major beneficiary of the six program credits
to date. For the reasons given in paragraphs 23-29 of the Report and Recom-
mendation on the Sixth Imports Program Credit (P-2155-BD, dated November 8,
1977), program lending to Bangladesh will continue to be required while efforts
are made to correct basic structural weaknesses in the economy. Nevertheless,
the share of program lending in total lending on a year to year basis is
planned to decline gradually during the next few years.  The industrial sector
has also benefitted from DFC and small industry projects and a fertilizer pro-
duction project. IFC is currently in the process of identifying suitable
investment opportunities.
29.       The enormity of Bangladesh's population problem gives this sector
an extremely high priority, limited only by its absorptive capacity. The
first IDA-supported population project is now making encouraging progress,
and a second population project was appraised in April/May 1978. Improved
availability of trained manpower is also crucial. Past lending in this field
has emphasized agricultural and technical training and future operations,
while maintaining a similar basic emphasis, are expected to include assist-
ance for vocational and management education as well.
30.       Given Bangladesh's immense needs, specific efforts to identify
projects in agriculture, transport, industry, energy and power, and telecom-
munications are now under way. In this connection, particular emphasis will
be placed upon possible projects which provide infrastructure for the rural
sector, which process or provide outlets for its products, or which reduce the
strain on Bangladesh's foreign exchange resources. Such projects could make
a significant contribution towards supporting Bangladesh's development efforts.
In view of Bangladesh's difficult foreign exchange position, IDA credits should
cover all foreign exchange costs. However, all external lenders are inhibited
from achieving the levels of resource transfers appropriate to Bangladesh's
economic circumstances by difficulties in the preparation and implementation
of development projects. The Government's capacity to carry out projects is
constrained, inter-alia, by a low domestic savings rate. In these circum-
stances, and in order to direct IDA lending to those sectors - such as agri-
cultural and rural development - where the percentage of foreign exchange
costs is relatively low, the financing of local currency expenditures is
also justified.
31.       In addition to lending, economic and sector work provides the basis
for continuing dialogue between the Bank Group and the Government on develop-
ment strategy, and for the coordination of external assistance within the
framework of the Bangladesh Aid Group. Recent activities in this area have
concentrated on food policy, industrial investment strategy, and increased
domestic resource mobilization.



- 10 -
32.       The scope and complexity of Bangladesh's development problems will
continue to strain the physical, human, and financial resources of an already
overburdened development administration. Since substantial improvements will
take many years, external assistance agencies, including the Bank Group, will
have to tailor their requirements in terms of project design, preparation
and implementation to the administrative realities. They will also have to
contemplate higher amounts of technical assistance and supervision than is
the case in many other countries. Nevertheless, there are opportunities
for making significant progress in improving economic conditions for the
people of Bangladesh. While progress is bound to be slow and will require
painstaking efforts, they are nonetheless worth making.
PART III - THE SMALL AND COTTAGE INDUSTRY SECTOR
Economic Setting
33.        Industry, although accounting for only 8% of GDP, is an important
sector in the Bangladesh economy. It produces basic consumer goods, provides
agriculture with key inputs, accounts for about 60% of export earnings and
employs some two million workers. Industrial performance also has a critical
bearing on resource mobilization and is potentially an important source of
rapid economic growth. Bangladesh's basic industrial structure has changed
little since independence when the ownership and management of "abandoned"
units were transferred to the Government and all jute, cotton textile and
sugar mills were nationalized. Large and medium scale enterprises, concen-
trated in jute, cotton textile, paper, steel, sugar refining and engineer-
ing, are now mainly in the public sector and account for about 65% of the
total value added. The small scale and cottage industry sector (SCI), which
accounts for about 35% of total value added, consists of about 50,000 small
scale industrial units (SSIs) and about 500,000 cottage industry (CI) units.
34.       The main problems faced by the industrial sector since independence
have included the loss of the Pakistan market, shortage of foreign exchange
to purchase raw materials and spares, inexperienced management and labor
unrest, especially in the years immediately after independence. Following
an increase of 6% in FY77 after no significant growth in FYs75-76, largely
due to a slackening in consumer demand, industrial production has now
recovered to the FY70 level.
Characteristics and Role of SCIs
35.       In Bangladesh, SSIs are officially defined as enterprises with
fixed assets, including land, of up to Tk 2.5 million. CIs are defined as
activities carried on wholly or mainly by members of a family either as a
full or part-time occupation. Although the data base is weak, SCIs are esti-
mated to account for about 80% of employment in the industrial sector. A
recent census of registered large and small firms and a survey of unregis-
tered small and household manufacturing industries suggest that SCIs tend



- 11 -
to be relatively efficient and labor intensive, compared with large firms.
For example, average fixed assets per job in unregistered cottage industries
are one-seventh, and in unregistered small industries, one-half that of large
firms. Capital productivity, as measured by the ratio of value added to fixed
assets, is generally higher in SCIs than in large firms, although much lower
levels of capital per worker bring down labor productivity in small firms.
Further, average profitability ratios are higher in SCIs (eg. overall profits
to sales were 17% for large industries, 20% for registered SSIs, and 29% for
cottage and other unregistered industries).
36.       However, it should be noted that large firms in Bangladesh do not
necessarily provide a satisfactory standard of efficiency and profitability,
and that marked improvements in performance are possible in both large and
small firms. Also, there is a higher mortality rate among SCIs and data are
available only for the more successful ones. Further, there are significant
differences in relative efficiency and market potential by SCIs in different
subsectors, which illustrates the need for selective promotion and technical
assistance. Available data indicate that SCI expansion possibilities include
industries which are: (a) export oriented, e.g. processed fish and fruit;
jute, cane and bamboo handicrafts; and readymade garments; (b) agro-based
e.g. bakery and confectionary, fruit bottling, leather and dairy industries,
wood-based industries, and rice mills in certain regions; and/or (c) cater-
ing to local demand e.g. tailors, repair workshops, construction materials
and other service industries.
37.       Although there is need for selective promotion and technical assis-
tance, the above data on relative employment and efficiency suggest that SCIs
can play a key developmental role. They have relatively higher labor inten-
sity and provide for better utilization of the available entrepreneurial
skills and limited capital resources of the private sector. Further, given
the country's low per capita income, SCIs cater to the limited needs for
specialized items in the small domestic market and provide for regional
dispersal of industrial activity.  The proposed credit could therefore be
significant beyond its small size in dollar terms.
Policy Framework and Institutions
38.       Although its industrial policies do not differentiate between SCIs
and larger units, the Government recognizes the importance of SCIs in creat-
ing employment and furthering urban and regional development. Industrial
strategy has focussed recently on measures to improve the climate for private
investment and the efficiency of the public sector. These are appropriate
priorities which should have salutary indirect effects on SCIs to the extent
that demand for outputs of ancillary and service industries will be stimulated.
The main problems constraining the development of SCIs to date have been poor
subproject selection, lack of access to working capital and investment credit,
cumbersome institutional arrangements, including weaknesses in the agencies
responsible for promotion and extension, and failure to provide needed support
in areas such as marketing and technical assistance.



- 12 -
39.       The main sources of long-term funds for SCIs have been the Bangladesh
Shilpa Bank (BSB) and the Bangladesh Small and Cottage Industries Corporation
(BSCIC) in consortium with six commercial banks. Commercial banks are the
main institutional source of working capital for SCIs. About half of BSB's
loans by number are to SCIs but, given the nature and objectives of the in-
stitution, its funds have financed relatively large SCIs with project costs
ranging from Tk 1 million to Tk 2.5 million. The BSCIC/commercial banks
consortium, through which the first small-scale industry credit (353-BD)
was channeled, has not worked well. BSCIC was responsible for appraising the
technical, organizational, economic, financial and market viability of proj-
ects and for providing extension services and follow-up as well as project
promotion; the commercial banks' role was limited to assessing the credit-
worthiness of clients and handling disbursements and collections. This
split in responsibility for functions that are inter-related resulted in
inefficiencies and problems in project supervision. Further, owing to its
involvement in lending operations, BSCIC did not give proper attention to
promotion and extension work and most of the projects financed were in the
upper range of the SSI category in which, given BSB's involvement, the need
was not so great. One of the main purposes of the proposed second project
therefore is to modify gradually the institutional framework to provide more
efficient and effective services to SCIs by: (a) strengthening the SCI proj-
ect appraisal capability of two commercial banks; and (b) helping improve
BSCIC's promotion and extension activities.
Past Bank Group Involvement with SCIs
40.       In June 1970, IDA made a $3 million credit to Pakistan to finance
imported equipment and technical assistance for small-scale industry in the
country's east wing. The East Pakistan Small Industries Corporation (EPSIC)
was responsible for the administration of the credit and a consortium of
commercial banks also participated in the project. In January 1973, IDA
reactivated the credit (353-BD) with the Bangladesh Small Industries Corpo-
ration (BSIC), EPSIC's successor, responsible for administering the credit
and with the participation of a consortium of commercial banks. The credit
is now fully disbursed. It financed 43 sub-projects; the average fixed
investment of enterprises was about Tk 1.2 million, with an average require-
ment of imported machinery and equipment (average IDA subloan) of about
$70,000 and, in a number of cases, fairly large recurring foreign exchange
needs for raw materials and spares. The subprojects were heavily concentrated
in two subsectors (food and allied industries and textiles), in the Dacca and
Chittagong areas and, in terms of size, in the upper end of SCIs. Employment
generation was modest at an average fixed cost per direct job created of about
$5,000. The proposed second credit is directed towards assisting smaller
enterprises, including cottage industries, with specific emphasis on promotion
and extension work and better utilization of commercial bank facilities as
discussed below.



- 13 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
41.        The project was appraised in August 1977.  Negotiations for the
proposed credit were held in Washington, D.C. from April 17-25, 1978. The
Government of Bangladesh was represented by a team led by Mr. Ayubur Rahman,
Chairman, Bangladesh Small and Cottage Industries Corporation.  Attached as
Annex III is a supplementary project data sheet. A report entitled "Staff
Appraisal Report on a Second Small-Scale Industry Project - Bangladesh"
dated May 26, 1978, Report No. 1802-BD, is being circulated separately
to the Executive Directors.
Project Components
42.        The proposed credit of US$7.0 million would finance the following
components:
(a) sub-loans made to SCIs by two participating commercial
banks in respect of the foreign and local costs of fixed
investments, including permanent working capital, up to
70% of total subproject costs (US$6.1 million; para 44);
(b)  loans made to SCIs from a special capital fund in respect
of part of the equity contribution (up to 15% of subproject
costs) in cases where the entrepreneur is unable to contri-
bute the full 30% of project cost (US$0.2 million; para 46);
(c)  a cottage industry component for jute and cane/bamboo
handicrafts including credit, new product development,
and specified extension (US$0.4 million; para 47); and
(d) technical assistance to BSCIC for promotion and extension
(US$0.3 million; para 48).
43.       Taking all components together, total project costs are estimated
at $10.2 million, of which $4 million or 40% is the estimated foreign ex-
change component. The proposed credit would finance 70% of total project
costs, including local currency expenditure, which will permit reaching
directly the smaller industries and serve as an incentive for utilizing local
raw materials and equipment when available.
44.      Sub-loan component.  The proposed credit is expected to finance about
200 small industry subprojects with project costs ranging from Tk 100,000 to
Tk 2.5 million and about 1,000 informal and cottage industry subprojects cost-
ing below Tk 100,000, which would be mainly processed at branch level. The
$6.1 million allocated to finance these subprojects was calculated taking
into account BSCIC's pipeline of subloan applications as well as potential
subprojects in nearly 40 product areas including fruit processing, fish drying
and smoking, rice milling in selective areas, and agricultural implement manu-
facture and repair. The size of the credit component also takes into account



- 14 -
the project administration capacity of the implementing institutions, both
at head office and at the branches. To ensure that the smallest entrepreneurs
are assisted, not less than 40% of this component of the proposed credit is
allocated to subprojects/enterprises with fixed assets below Tk 1 million
(Schedule 1 of the draft Project Agreements with Janata and Sonali Banks).
45.       Two commercial banks (Janata and Sonali) will be responsible for
sanctioning individual subloans (paras 49 and 56-59). While BSCIC will
assist the Janata and Sonali Banks in appraising subprojects during the
first 18 months of the commitment period, it is intended that the commercial
banks will assume full responsibility for project appraisal by March 31, 1980
(Section 2.03 of the draft Project Agreement with BSCIC). Thereafter, BSCIC
will concentrate on promotion and extension activities. However, the commer-
cial banks will be responsible for project supervision, including disburse-
ments and collections, from the outset. Methods and criteria for sub-project
selection and appraisal have been agreed and include: (a) that the estimated
manufacturing cost of goods shall not be higher than the price of similar
goods available in the area; (b) that at least 60% of the raw materials will
be from local sources except for export-oriented subprojects, which will be
required to earn foreign exchange sufficient to cover at least the cost of
imported raw materials; (c) that the capital cost per job created shall not
exceed $3,000 equivalent (Schedule 1 of the draft Project Agreements with
Janata and Sonali Banks).
46.       A special capital fund will provide supplementary financing (up to
15% of subproject costs) to those qualified small entrepreneurs who are unable
to satisfy the normal 30% equity contribution required by the commercial banks
(Schedule 2 of the draft Development Credit Agreement and Section 2.03 of the
draft Project Agreements with Janata and Sonali banks). These loans would be
made by the commercial banks, with interest at 7.5% and repayment within a
maximum of 12 years, including 3 years of grace, and would be covered partly
by the credit guarantee scheme described in para. 52. The initial size of
this special capital fund, which is in effect an experimental pilot scheme,
will be US$200,000 corresponding to about 2-3% of the SCI projects estimated
to be financed. If successful, the Government would be encouraged to replen-
ish and expand the fund, which would help remove an important constraint in
SCI development.
47.       In addition to general cottage industry financing under the proj-
ect's credit component, a pilot cottage industry component is proposed for
jute and cane/bamboo handicrafts, because of their potential for increased
exports and labor-intensity. About $400,000 is allocated for: credit; market
development; design consultancy; and training and extension. The Bangladesh
Handloom Marketing Corporations (BHMC), which has extensive experience in
exporting this type of handicrafts and is a BSCIC subsidiary, will be re-
sponsible for extension, quality control and marketing, and BSCIC for prod-
uct development and coordination with BHMC (Schedule 1 and Schedule 2 of
the draft Development Credit Agreement).



- 15 -
48.       Finally, a technical assistance component will finance advisors
to strengthen BSCIC's promotion and extension activities. Under the proj-
ect, BSCIC will establish promotion and extension units and expand its staff
at both headquarters and district levels. Promotional activities will con-
sist of: (a) preparing subsector/area potential studies and schemes in
specified lines (e.g. fruit processing, readymade garments, leather goods);
(b) completing feasibility studies for organized SSIs and simple profiles/
checklists for smaller SCIs, for use by commercial banks; and (c) directing
promotion to small entrepreneurs in developing and organizing promising SCIs.
Extension activities will include: (a) diagnoses of common problems of major
SCI subsectors, e.g. food storage, textiles/garments, light engineering firms
and (b) training and individual technical assistance to firms in these sub-
sectors. The technical assistance component will contribute to these activ-
ities by providing: (a) 12 man-months for a promotion advisor; (b) 12 man-
months for an industrial engineer to advise on small industry technology;
and (c) 24 man-months of short term consultants for specific tasks, particu-
larly specific subsector studies (Schedule 1 and Schedule 2 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement). The technical assistance provided is expected
to benefit small-scale industries in the rural areas.
The Institutions
49.       A key objective of the proposed project is to modify and strengthen
the existing institutional arrangements for SCI financing by means of a clear
division of responsibilities amongst the agencies involved and the strength-
ening of the agencies themselves. Specifically, BSCIC's activities will
gradually be re-orientated to focus on fewer responsibilities, mainly pro-
motion and extension, which it is potentially better equipped to undertake.
At the same time, the two commercial banks (Janata Bank and Sonali Bank)
will participate directly in SCI development for the first time and, over
an 18-month period, will gradually assume full responsibility for appraisal
and follow-up work. In this connection, the commercial banks, with a devel-
oped branch network, more knowledge of local conditions and better access
to local entrepreneurs, and which in any event finance SCI working capital
requirements, should be more effective in the appraisal and supervision of
loans to small enterprises. Further, small entrepreneurs will not have to
approach different agencies for investment and working capital and commercial
banks will have more leverage on collections given their day-to-day contact
with clients for working capital financing. Moreover, this division of labor
will promote clear demarcation of responsibility for success and failure,
easier management and control, and taking corrective action on a timely
basis. These institutional arrangements will also apply to other SCI fi-
nancing activities, including the Government's recently announced Tk 60
million scheme for informal and cottage industries (up to Tk 100,000) to
be administered by the commercial banks at branch level.
50.       The Sonali and Janata Banks are the two largest commercial banks in
Bangladesh. Sonali was formed in 1971 from the National Bank of Pakistan and
as of December 31, 1976 had 8,566 staff (of whom 1,162 were officers) and 450
branches; its total assets were then Tk 6.4 billion. Janata came into being in
1972 when it took over the East Pakistan assets and liabilities of the United



- 16 -
Bank Limited of Pakistan. As of December 31, 1976, Janata had 6,140 staff (of
whom 1,405 were officers), 420 branches, and total assets of Tk 8.4 billion.
Both banks are already participating agencies in IDA-financed agricultural
projects.
51.       Commercial banks in Bangladesh have made few long-term loans for
SCIs, although they have general experience in loan supervision and disburse-
ment procedures. However, the Sonali and Janata Banks have adequate manage-
ment, staff and procedures, and are both headed by individuals with strong
experience in development banking. The staff is well qualified, with the
business experience necessary to appraise SCI credits where the key require-
ments are an evaluation of the management, market prospects, liquidity, and
technical assistance needs. Both banks have established separate departments
for SCI lending which will be staffed with 15 officers each, transferred from
other departments of the banks or recruited from outside (Section 2.08 of the
draft Project Agreements with Janata and Sonali Banks). A training program
for 8 of these 30 officers has been arranged with two commercial banks in
India that have extensive experience in SCI lending. This on-the-job training
is being complemented with an internal training program for all 30 officers
and selected branch office staff, conducted by BSB and BSCIC. Both the Sonali
and Janata Banks have prepared strategy statements, agreed with IDA, on their
approach to the development of SCIs over the next two years (Section 1.01 of
the draft Project Agreements with Janata and Sonali Banks).
52.       As a condition of effectiveness, a credit guarantee scheme managed
by the Bangladesh Bank (the Central Bank) will be established to cover not
less than 30% of the commercial banks' risk in SCI lending for a fee of 1%
per annum on amounts outstanding and disbursed by the commercial banks. The
purpose of the scheme will be to provide an incentive to commercial banks for
increased lending to SCIs, given that this is more risky than normal commer-
cial bank activities. The Bangladesh Bank has prepared, in consultation with
the Association, a draft of the Credit Guarantee Scheme which was discussed
and agreed during negotiations (Sections 3.04 and 5.01 of the draft Develop-
ment Credit Agreement).
53.       BSCIC, formed in May 1976 by a merger of the Bangladesh Small Indus-
tries Corporation (BSIC) and the Bangladesh Cottage Industries Corporation
(BCIC), is the agency primarily responsible for promoting the development of
SCIs in Bangladesh. While BSCIC is formally responsible for promoting and
assisting the development of SCIs and its Charter provides for promotion and
technical assistance, activities in this field have so far been limited.
BSCIC's main activities over the last few years have been: (i) distribution
of raw materials; (ii) evaluation of requests by SSIs for foreign exchange
for the purchase of imported machinery; and (iii) management of industrial
estates. BSCIC's staff and work has been centered mainly in Dacca and only
recently has it begun to decentralize some of its activities. A principal
objective of the proposed project, therefore, is to assist BSCIC to focus
better on promotion and technical assistance. These are key aspects given
the low level of entrepreneurship and management skills in the country.
Since BSCIC is no longer responsible for the distribution of raw materials



- 17 -
and, under the proposed project, its responsibility for project appraisal
will be transferred gradually to commercial banks, BSCIC will be better able
to focus its efforts on promotion, including project preparation and extension
work.
54.       To strengthen the institution and reorient its activities, BSCIC
has been making efforts to decentralize its organization and to increase the
proportion of operational staff by stationing more personnel, especially ex-
tension workers, at the district level. Under the project, BSCIC and the
Government have agreed to: (a) establish, by September 30, 1978, separate
divisions for organized small and cottage industries, in view of the distinct
requirements of these groups, and (b) increase the proportion of staff work-
ing on specific promotion and extension tasks; BSCIC has already recruited ten
new Promotion Officers for Dacca, ten District Promotional Officers, and 36
extension workers of which 17 are posted at the Districts. The promotion
advisor will help structure and supervise work on product/area studies,
schemes, and SCI profiles. For extension, BSCIC will complement outside
training services arranged by Technonet Asia with an engineering advisor on
appropriate technology and short term specialists to assist in diagnosing
problems of major SCI subsectors and developing training programs (para. 48).
BSCIC will also establish a project monitoring and evaluation unit (Section
2.02 of the draft Project Agreement with BSCIC). Steps are also being taken
to transfer responsibility for supervision of most of BSCIC's past loan port-
folio, including loans made jointly with BSB and with a consortium of commer-
cial banks. Once the project by project review now underway is completed
(expected by March 31, 1979), write-offs and provisions for bad loans will be
established and the full responsibility for supervision of BSCIC/BSB loans
will be transferred to BSB, although BSCIC would continue providing extension
services. In the case of BSCIC/commercial bank past loans, the commercial
banks are already responsible for loan supervision and recovery. With respect
to BSCIC's own portfolio, BSCIC has allocated about 10 officers to carry out
supervision and recovery of loans not written off after the completion of the
project by project review. This should improve collections and allow BSCIC to
concentrate on promotion and exten sion. Finally, BSCIC has revised its Policy
Statement which reflects its new priorities for the next two years. This
statement has been agreed with IDA (Section 1.01 of the draft Project Agree-
ment with BSCIC).
55.       The main promotional activity to be undertaken by BSCIC under
the proposed project will be the preparation of specific area and subsector
studies to identify investment opportunities, determining linkages, preparing
feasibility studies and project profiles, conducting market surveys and coor-
dinating the work of the agencies involved in assisting SCIs (Section 2.04
of the Project Agreement with BSCIC). The technical assistance component
will finance an advisor to help organize promotion work, an industrial engi-
neer to advise on technology, and specialized short-term consultants to help
in preparing subsector studies for project identification/preparation and/or
diagnosing problems (Section 2.05 of the draft Project Agreement with BSCIC).



- 18 -
Administration
56.       Lending Arrangements.  The proposed credit will be made to the
Government, which will relend the subloans component to commercial banks at
4.5%. The commercial banks will on-lend to SCI ultimate borrowers at a mini-
mum of 11.5%, the current long-term lending rate for industry. Based upon
estimates that the rate of inflation will be held to about 10% in the long-run,
ultimate borrowers will pay a positive real rate of interest of about 1.4%. The
commercial banks will pay the Bangladesh Bank a guarantee fee of 1% on amounts
outstanding and a service charge to BSCIC of 1% to cover the costs of its
promotional and extension activities for the subprojects financed (Section 2.06
of the draft Project Agreements with Janata and Sonali Banks). This would
allow the commercial banks a spread of 5.0% to cover administrative costs and
inherent risks associated with SCIs and still give an incentive for the banks
to finance this sector. The foreign exchange risk will be borne by the Gov-
ernment. Under the US$200,000 special capital fund, the interest spreads will
be: Government, 1%; Bangladesh Bank, 1%; and commercial banks, 5.5%; the
interest rate to ultimate borrowers will be 7.5%. Credit proceeds for the
technical assistance and the cottage industries components (excluding credit)
would be passed on by the Government to BSCIC/BHMC as a grant.
57.       Free Limits and Prior Approval.  Because the number of subprojects
will be large and their individual size will be small, and as SCIs should not
be burdened with complex review system, the subproject approval procedures
will be simplified. For subprojects costing less than Tk 100,000, no prior
review by IDA will be required. Instead, the commercial banks would send to
IDA for post-review a quarterly statement of approvals with key information on
the subprojects financed. For larger subprojects, each bank will send to IDA
on a monthly basis its application for authorization to make withdrawals from
the credit with a summary of each subproject, the terms and conditions of the
proposed financing, and a discussion of the basis for the procurement decision
(Section 2.05 of the draft Project Agreements with Janata and Sonali Banks).
There would be no prior review of appraisal reports (all subloans would be
"free limit" subloans) except on a sample basis and appraisal standards would
be discussed during supervision missions.
58.       Procurement and Disbursement.  Procurement of foreign equipment for
projects costing above Tk 100,000 would be based on at least three quotations
from different suppliers. In these cases, the basis for the procurement deci-
sion will be reviewed prior to subproject authorization by IDA (Section 2.04
of the draft Project Agreements with Janata and Sonali Banks). For procure-
ment of smaller subprojects and locally produced components of subprojects,
IDA would rely on the commercial banks' appraisal of the reasonableness of
costs together with the local entrepreneur's incentive to keep costs low.
Disbursements for subloans above $45,000, accounting for about 40% by amount
of the project's credit component, will be fully documented. Disbursement for
the balance of subprojects will be made against certificates of expenditure,
the documentation for which would not be submitted for review but retained by
the commercial banks and available for inspection by IDA during supervision
missions. For the technical assistance components, IDA's normal disbursement
procedures will be followed. The credit should be fully disbursed in about
4 years.



- 19 -
59.       Amortization of Subloans.  The commitment period for the subloans
will be two years and it is unlikely that any subproject will require an
amortization period exceeding 12 years including a 3 year grace period.
Therefore, a fixed amortization schedule between the banks and the Government
of 15 years, including 3 years of grace, is appropriate.
Benefits, Justification and Risks
60.       Apart from improving the institutional arrangements for financing
the development of SCIs, the project will provide technical assistance to
redirect the activities of BSCIC, the primary agency responsible for promoting
SCIs. In addition, the involvement of commercial banks in SCI financing will
make access to credit easier and will enable small entrepreneurs to approach
a single institution for investment and working capital. The technical
assistance component should generate significant improvements in SCI promotion
and development work, subproject selection, appraisal and supervision and in
the provision of technical assistance to entrepreneurs. In addition, the
introduction of new programs such as the credit guarantee scheme and special
capital fund should provide opportunities for further growth of SCIs. The
pilot cottage industry component for jute, cane and bamboo handicrafts is
intended to test the efficacy of a model integrating promotional, financial,
marketing and technical assistance services, which could be replicated to
develop other subsector-specific export-oriented programs for CIs.
61.       It is impossible to quantify directly the benefits that would flow
from the institutional improvements and from the technical assistance com-
ponent of the project. Clearly, they should provide for more rapid growth
of SCIs, and associated improvements in employment, productivity and entrepre-
neurial development. Expected benefits from the jute, cane and bamboo cottage
industry component are increased employment and earnings for about 1,500
participants and increased exports of about Tk 3.5 million per annum by the
fourth year of the project. These cottage industries will be located in
rural areas and, in the case of jute handicraft cooperatives, participants
will be women. With regard to the credit component, it is roughly estimated
that the project would result in incremental direct employment of about 8,000
and increased earnings for an additional 6,000 workers. Average subproject
cost would be about $1,500 per direct job created in organized SSIs and about
$500 for CIs. About 80% of the beneficiaries would be from small towns or
rural areas, reflecting the population distribution in Bangladesh.
62.       The main project risks relate to the fact that BSCIC is still a weak
institution and that the commercial banks are just starting direct involvement
in SCI development. However, the project introduces a number of measures to
strengthen BSCIC and the commercial banks, as well as to improve subproject
selection and monitoring. While some of these improvements may take a longer
time than now envisaged, it is likely that delays will be mainly in strength-
ening promotion and extension work. However, even if the strengthening of
BSCIC's promotion and extension activities is delayed, it should be possible
to make an adequate number of suitable small industry loans without full
initial support in promotion and extension, with the technical assistance
and training provided under the credit. Furthermore, criteria for project



- 20 -
selection and appraisal have already been clearly defined. Since the proposed
credit will help correct present institutional weaknesses and SCIs are a pri-
ority sector, this risk is not sufficiently great to warrant delaying the
proposed credit. The project will require close supervision and a heavier
than usual commitment of staff time is envisaged.
PART IV - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
63.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the People's Republic
of Bangladesh and the Association, the draft Project Agreement between the
Association and BSCIC and between the Association and the Janata and Sonali
Banks, and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in Article V,
Section I (d) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
64.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Additional conditions of effectiveness of the proposed credit
are: (a) that the Project Agreements on behalf of the Sonali Bank, Janata
Bank and BSCIC have been duly ratified; (b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ments on behalf of Sonali Bank and Janata Bank have been duly ratified; and
(c) the Credit Guarantee Scheme referred to Section 3.04 of the DCA has been
established under arrangements satisfactory to IDA.
65.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
66.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
May 26, 1978



-  21  -                                             ANNEX I
TABLE 3A
BANGLADESH         - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (THOU KM2)                ---------------------        
_______________                                 BANGLADESH                          REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL      144.0                                      MOST RECENT
AGRIC.     101.1                       1960      1970   ESTIMATE          BURMA          THAILAND       MALAYSIA **
101.1 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~___                                                       -------__  --____    -__   _-___-__- __-___-__ __ _ _ _
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                     60.0      80.0       110.0              70.0      210.0       440.0
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION (MID-f,4. MILLION)         53.9       70.8      80.4               27.0        36.3        10.8
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                     374.0      492.0     558.0               40.0        71.0       33.0
PER SO. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND      566.0      730.0     795.0              253.0       263.0      185.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU, AV)        .49.S      50.3      49.5               41.3        44.3       42.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THOU,AV)         27.2       22.9      28.1               19.3        13.7       12.9
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)         ..         ,,     140.0                 ..        60.0       40.I/A
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)      38.7'      43.3      45.0               47.5        55.5       56.7
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              3.5        3.1         .                2.7         3.2         2.6/a
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (X)
TOTAL                                2.7        2.B*      2.1*               2.2         3.1        2.9
URBAN                                           6.2       7.4                3.7         4.9        3.0
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)          4.8        6.4       8.8               19.9        15.0       26.9
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                      44.7         ..     48.1                40.0        45.1       44.7 /a
15 TO 64 YEARS                      50.1 /a      ..     48.2                57.0        51.8       52.1 /
65 YEARS AND OVER                    5.2/a       ..      i.                  3.0         3.1        3.2 /
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                    1.0                l 3                 0.8         0.9        0.9/a
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.e/i       ..       ;.4 a              1.1/a       1.1 /a      1 .6 /
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)          ..         ..  2160.0                   ..       470.0      222.2 /a
USERS (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)                       ..      4.7/b                ..        10.0        B.0/a
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)       19400.0   24500.0   26200.0             10920.0    16700.0 /b  3600.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE  M%)       87.0       56.0      7S.0               70.0        79.0       49.5
UNEMPLOYED (% OF LABOR FORCE)           ,.         .       15.0 /c              ..          ..        7.0
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
% OF PRIVATE INCOME REC'D BY-
HIGHEST  5% OF HOUSEHOLDS           18.3 /C   16.7 /a       .                 ..        22 0 IC    28.3
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS           44.5 /C   42.3  a      ..                 ..        51.1       1 56.0
LOWEST  20% OF HOUSEHOLDS            6.9 /C    7.9 /         a*                          5.6 f      3.5
LOWEST  40% OF HOUSEHOLDS           17.9 /C   19.6 /-                         *         14.3 /C    11.2
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
__ _ _____________--_________-
% OWNED BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS            ..       34.0/b       ..
% OWNED BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS           ..       1.0/b                      ..             ..
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           loooo.o/d 7600.0/C 11000.0               6970.0     7970.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON    110000.0/772030.DfJ  56070.0               7540 0/b   6650.0
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED        11000.0/   812O.0/t  5200.0              1200.0 -    890.0       270.0/
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (% OF REQUIREMENTS)        89.0/f   89.0         93.0             101.0      103.0      112.0/b
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)             42.6/f                58.5              49.0       52.0        49.0/W
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       942/f                   8.0              13.0/C     17.0/d      20.0/t
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4              ..        ..        ..                 ..          ..        5.5
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                      47.0/j   61.0        73.0              87.0        81.0       91.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                     s.0/j   19.0        25.0              25.0        17.0        34.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)            10.0      10.0       10.0               10.0       12.0        13.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(% OF SECONDARY)                     1.0        ...                          0.8       14.0/e      3.2
ADULT LITERACY RATE (%)                 ..         ..      23.0                 ..       79.0        55.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)                ..         ..        ..                 ..          ..        2.3a
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (%)                       ..         ..      82.0/d               ..         ..        65.o/a.c
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(% OF ALL DWELLINGS)                  ,.         ,,       3.0/d               v-         ..       43.0/a
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (X)                    ..        ..         ..                 ..         ..        30.0/a
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU PoP)          ..        6.0                         15.0       78.0        41.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)           ..       0.4        0.4/e              1.0        5.0        27.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)           4.0      20.0       22.0               22.0      124.0       382.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)               ..                  0.4                0.6         1.0        4.1
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



-22 -
N-OTES
Unless otherolee noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 -and 1961, fot 1970 between 1969 and 1971, sod for Most Recent Estimate between
1973 ed 196.
* The 1 970-75 popultion groth rate is abeormally low due to the affects of the war of independence and ease population ena,aente across the borders
dur iog that period.  Presently, tha average POPulation grewth rtae is eatimated at 2.81 per   unnu.
*0 Oleo tlon of Maleysfe as an objective country iq based non halaysie's enecags in eainiaining e high rate of economic growtb and adequate level of
welfare concurrently with diversifying its economic strutureot.
OAIJLADROIi    1960    1.  Age group 15-59 and 60 sod over rempactively;    /b  RAtio Of Population under 15 and 60 end over to total labor force;
Ic  1963-64;    Id  Registered not all practicing 'Zn the country;    /±  Government hospital establisebmets only;
I?F 1961-651 IjL Approeimately enrolleent ae percenangeg of population in 6-li and 11-15 age groups reapectivaly.
1970    /a  1966-67;    /b  1967-68;    /c  Registered not all practicing in the country;    /d  Governmeant hospital esatblishmsente only;
IsAppr..meat-a enrollment as7percentage Of population in 6-li and 11-15 ege groups reepectively.
MOST RECENT EITIMATE:    /a  Ratio of population under 13 and 60 and over to total. labor force -;    lb  Percent of feeal  popoletion;
__________________  _i/  Mainly unemployed workers seeking thair firt.  job;    /4  Urban only;    Ie  1972.
BURMA          1970    Is  RLatio of population under 15 end 65 and over to tstal labor forte,;   lb  Personnel in governmet services only;    Ic  1964-6k
THAILASfD      1970    I   Ratio of population under 13 end 63 endl over to eOCenemtallY active population age 11 years. end over;    lb  Econoicelly
aciv  population sag  11 years and ove r;    I RUral only;    /d  1964-66;                     L.  Public schools, which Include tech.lcol
education at tha poet-secondary level.
MALAYSIA       1970    la  Peninsular ga1ayeia;    1b  1964-66;    Ic  Piped water inside,
Rl2, May 15, 1978
inwonm (W SOC IADRICATOF
Land Ares (thou hO)                                                                            PoPuleti   net nursing p-otnt - Population divided by sumber of practticig
Toist   Total surface erea cnpr.is   lanicd area. ad inlend waters,                             male and femal  gradnare nuss-tendo  "certified" nurse..e, ad
Agri..- Mont recent estimate of agricultural area used temporarily at perma-                     sasiliary personnel with trainling or experience.
-rotly for crops, pastures, market & kitchen gardens or ts lie fallow.                      Population net hoesital bed - Population divided by ocber of hospite1 beds
availabl, in publin and private gnere1 end spacialined hospital end
GNP per capita (US$) - GNP' per capita eatiosates at current market prines,                      rehabilitatipn caentr; e..tludes eureing homes and eatablielceote  for
colcolated by eusm  conversion, method as World Beank Atlas (1974-76 basis);                  nustodia1 and preventive tare..
1960; 1970 and t976 dare.                                                                   Per canit soonl, of caloies ft of reurCat) -Coputod fr'mmc
equivalent of Met fend supplies available in country per -apite per day;
Popolstioo and vital tetaintice                                                                  available suppliee omeprise domstit preductimn, Imoports lees enpontn, end
Pponlhtion m.id-your million) - Ao of July firer,  if not available, everege,                   changes in stock; net supplies seclude animal feed, sad,quaatitissooed
of two -d-y-s  estimates; 1960, 1970 and 1976 data,                                            in fond pr-oesing end losases in distribution; r-quire,nent wnroeutinntod
by TAO based on physiological needs for no-ma activity and health conaid-
Pporlatian. densityv  per~ eusre ho - Mid-yoar population per square kilometer                   ering environmeental temperature, body weights, age end see distributione of
(lii hec.rare) oi toisi ares.                                                                 populstmon, and e11wing lilt for waste at household level.
PonoLstion density- par ocuans ho of aric. leand - Computed as sowsa for                      Per cenits  ul  ofP1   ortein  (ere-  per dsp) - Protein content of par capita
agrico1t-rl 1sod only.                                                                        net supply of fond per day; met supply of fond is defined as shown; raqoirs-
munte for all1 coustrise:eetabliehed by USiDA Econmic Rm,esearh sericee
Vital ecailetice                                                                                 provide for aminimsm aIl-wsn. of 60 grwas of total protein per day, and
Crud  birh rts cr thusad, aoruo  -  neel lion births per thousand of                  20 grase of animal and Pulese Protein, of which 10 gras should be animal
mtd-yesr population-; ten-yost arirosoeic owereges ending in 1960 snd 1970,                   protein; those standards are lowr thon those of 75 g-a  of  ototl protein
and five-yea  average ending In 1975 for most recen.t estimate,                               end 23 grams of animal protein . asn sverage for the world, propoend hy PAO
Cc-do death rtet per thousand. aros- Acua-l deaths per thousand of mid-year                      in the Third Wfarld peed Survey.
population; toc-yaa- aritlejetio  svoragesaadiag in 1960 and 1970 and five-                 Per  aeoita orotein eapsly from- anima end Pulses - Protein suPPlY of food
ycr average ending is 1975 for meet recant estimate,                                          derived from  animals end pulses in grams pot day.
lefact norteiry rate, f/thou) - Annual deaths of infests under one year of age                Peach rate f/thou) ages 1-4 - Annmeal deaths per thousand in age gfrop 1-4
po trhoc-sd Hot birsha.                                                                       years, no childone in thlis age group; euggosted as en iedc-tor of
Life ..p.ecc...y at birth (yre) - Average number of years of life remining at                    malnutrition.
birth; usualIly five-year aeragna ending Is 1960, 1970 end 1975 for develop-
ft0 rootriec                                                                                Edaation
iron  roop-dutioc rate - Averags ntbhr of live, daughters a women will bear                    Adjuste,d enrolnen  raio -  rioory school - Enrollment of all agen 00 per-
in her normal1 reproductive period if she enperiences present age-specific                    cetgso  pary scolage population; Inludes children aged A-Il years
frr,tilfty  raten; usully five-year avereses ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975                    but adjusted for different lengths of primary adou-tion; for coern    ith
for d-onlpiog countries.                                                                      univrersa  edurstian, enrollmen  may serssd 100. since som  pupiln ore bel1n
Population croth rate  (%5 - total - Compound annual growth rate  of mid-year                    or ebow  the official school ege.
populatioc for 1950-if, 1960-70 and 1970-75.                                                Adjusted enrollment ratio - secondary school - Conputed as above; secondary
Popolotin groeth rate (t) - urban - Computed like goowth rate of total                           edoostion requires at leest fact years of approved primary inetre-tion;
population; difforo-t definitioo  of urban aresa nay affect cmepstbility of                   provides  eanara~.. octisoI or tes..h-r training ins,tructions for pcpilc
data aecetg otmt,tri-.                                                                         Of 12 to 17 years of aga; correpondence  -rore    are generslly  -1oldod.
-Urban pope1otton 12 of total) - Rfatlo of eubn to total pupulstion; differsnt                  Yrear  of schooling provided (first end second levels) - Total y-sra of
definition   of orbn area  may affect comparability of dat.a smng contis,shooling; at secondsry level, voca.tional ietru-tian maybe pertially or
As, structure I percent) - Children (0-14 years), worbimg-ege (15-64 years),                  Voetonl  -rlmetfofscnay-Vctialitttoaiccd
an.d retired (65 years end aver) as percentages of eid-yeer population.                         teohefoal, induatrial or other prog-ae  eblh operate lodopendeotlyora
o dcoondo-y -t io -  stio of population under 15 and 65 and ovr ca those                        dopartments of secondary institutions.
of  goou 15 through 64,                                                                      Adult literacy rate (%5 - Literate adults (ahle to red and writs) 00 pOt-
Erononic dependency ratio - Ratio of population under 15 sod 65 and over to                      centage of total adult population aged 11 yearn and over,
tr, lehor force in ego group of 15-64 years.
cn_ily ciuoin  - acceptors   ._! i      -uulte  thou) - t,mal.tive numnber of acce ptors       H..sIng
of birth-control devices undor aupi-s  of natione1 fmily planning progre                     Persons ner roo  (urban) - Aer-gs nomber of poraone per ro-  it occpiod
amos inception.                                                        canven~~~~~~~~~:-.tio...l dwellings to urbao areas; deollinge secludo   o-ontn
p'o ly .  . coie-uaer  It af narried woe)-Perce..cagma of -aried women of                    s .trutres and unoccupied parto.
child-bearintg aoe (15-44 year) who use birth-contral devicos to all married                 iccupied dwellings without sired water It) - Occupied con-ti-el dwollings
cmeIn tam  age group.                                                                       in urban and rural areas witboor molids or outeide pipe0 eater focilitica
sopretge of all onopiod dwellings..
mEploymeot                                                                                     Acest   letiiyf  of all duellio) - Conventional  dwo11lnge etCh
Total labor forc  Ithousand) - economically activo persona, including arme-d                     electricity In living qcsrters as portent of total dwellings in urhan and
forces sod unemployed hut excluding housewives, students, etc.; definitions                    rural ara..
in various coutrie.arse not compara.ble.                                                     Rural dellinse connec.ted to el1otririty           Ca -tmputed as ahow  for coral
Labor forc  In agiutueI) - Agr1culturel labor forte  (in fareimo, forestry,                      dwellings only.
hunt~ing and fishing) es percetage of total labor forc..
Loo..   ye  (7 of labOr force)  U- ooploy.d  rera usaly defined as persona who                 Con.usction
are able and willing tc take   job, our of a job on a given day, remamnad ont                Radio rece.ivers (net thou pop) - All types of receivers far radio broadcas ts
of a job, and esebing work for a specifief ninimm   period not -ereading on                    to general public per thousand of population; occldes unicrt-e..d roce.i-ern
work; say no t h  comparable betweet coustries doe to differen -t definitions                  in countries and in years when rsgietrstion of radio sets was in effect;
of anoplayed and source of data, e.g., employetant Offica etatistiose, ample                   data for reoent years may nout be compereble sinco nost cutries abo1iehed
Passenger oars (Par thou POPl - Passener tare comprise notor care sea ting
Income, dIstribution - Percentage of private income (both in cab end kind)                       less than eight persns; excludes mahu1ances, hearsesa and military
recoi-d by richest It, richaet 20t, poorest 202, and puoreat 402 of house-                     vehiles.
holds,                                                                                       Electricity fkth /vr net tee) - A1t05l  -unmeption of Industrial,cm,ril
public end private electricity in kilowatt hours per capita, gsenerally
Dfotributioc of land ownerehip - P'srentagea of land owned by wealthiest 102                     based onm production data, withoac allowoocs for losess  In grid. bet allow-
and poorest 102 of land awosra.                                                                 leg for Imports and experts of electricity.
Newsprint fke/vr set cep) - Per capita annual consomption In bilograms
Health and Nutrition                                                                              estimated from  domestic production plus net imepocta of newsprint.
Populatic e r physician - Popolation dividsd by numer of practicing
phyeiciana qualified from a medical school at oniversity level. 



- 23 -                                                              ANNEX I
19C0NOMTC DEVIDPSMpJT DATA
(AmWoun-ts in m-illions of U.S. dolla-rsT
Actual                  Estimated                   1960-      1965-      197-         Av. 679L7451767
AV. 1967.69  19 72/73  19 74/ 75      1975/76   1976/77               1965       1970        1977        16-917/51  67
NAIONA  ACOGINSTS                                                                                     __
lR orutant     1972- 1973 Prices & Exchange Rates           A,,erage Annual Growth Rates          As Percent of GDY
Grist Domiestic Prodlict           6,012    5,833    6,514              7,295      7,561-               4,7        3.3         6.7        98.5   101.8   102,
Gaits from Terms of Trade (+)          89         -      -117            -145        -148                                                   1.5    -1.8    -2.0
Gross Boniest>c Throme             6,1 01   35fl        T,9-7           7.150       7,413               5.6         2.5        6.2         r.    1-7-   100.0
Import (tool. NFl)                   879       747       703              646        500               20.6        6.8        -7.4        14.4    11.0        6.7
Exports   "(import capacity)    598            369        197             200         210              12.3      -14.6       -12.6          9.8      3.1    2.L&
Resource Gap                         281        78          6             44          29                                                   4.6    -7.9        3
Consumption E-xpenditures          5,668    5,817    6,403              7,062      7,230                5.7         3.6        5.6        92.9   100.1    97.6
Investment   '. (incl. stocks)    714          394       499              534        473               13.3         8.8        6.7        12.9       7.8      7.4
-Domestic Savings                            433        16        -6               88        183                4.3       10.0       81.0          6.8    -5.1       2.4
National Savings                      416        32        10             110         200                8.7       20.5       57.0          7.1      0.2      2.6
MERCHANDISE TRADE                             Arnnuel Data at Current Prices                                                              As Percent of Total
imrpor~ts
Capital goods                        .        100       135             213         268                                     25.. a.7       .      16.8    28.6
Intermediate goods 6m3.fuels)    .           176       386              396         250...                                  12.8           .      30.4    26.7
Fuels end related materialsB
of which:  Petroleum              .         23       155              126        144...                                   49.8          .       10.0    15.4
Consum"ption goods                           428Zf    ....Zzk           541         275...                                  -6.6        -~        4.1.     2.2.
Total March. Ieports (elf)          547       727    1,402            1,266         937                                     -,9100.0   100.0
Exports
Primar-y prodlucts (g,ml. fuels)     .        145       119              156        168                  ..                   2.9                40.9    42.0
Fuels and related materials
of wbich: Petroleum
Manufactured goods.                           195       239             225         24?                  ..                   5.4                 59.1    58.0
Toa    ee.Exports (fob)     481       340       358              381         400i                                      3-                loo.0   100.0
Tourism and Border  TradLe
merchandise Trade indices                       Average 1972-73   !D13
Export Price lodos                  61       100       133              109         i1l.                            .        2.4
Import Price index                  52       100       215              195        189                  ..         .        16.3
Terms of Trade Ind-x               118       100        62               56          59                 ..         .       -11.7
Exports Volume index               148       100        80              106         123                 ..                    3.9
VALUE ADDEr BY SECTOR               Annual Data at 1972- 73Prioes and Exchange Rates                 Average Annual Growth Rates          As Percent of Total
Agriculture                      3,542    3,403    3,712              4,078      4,140                                                    594.    59, 57
Industry ant Mining                420       412       466              527        567                 4. .8                                7      7
Service                 j~~~~~~~,050    1,848    2.146       2.333       2,504                8.2                                 34      34       35
Total                            6,012    5,663    6,324              6,938      7,211                                       6.          100   -1700      i00
PUBLTC FINANCE                                                                                                                             __A__P_rce_____f_GDP
(C-entral Government)
Current Receipts                   317       280       469              775        877                              .        32          5.3    7.2      11.2
Current Expenditures               365       364       419              600        686                                       34.2        6.1    6.4       8.7
Budigetary Savings                 -4        -8         50T                                                         .       16.8         0,      0.       25
Other Public Sector                 .          .        .                 .          ...
Public Sector Investment           421       239'      248              295        35                                       13           7.0    3.8       4.9
-   ~~~~          -US $ million-~
CURRENT oXcENDITmirEm DETAIiz                  Actual                    Estimated               DETAIL Dli                             Ar Av.    1972/73 P and ER
As 7, Total Current Expend.)       1969/70  1972/73  1974/75    1975/76  1976/77               PURLIC SECTOR                        First Plan    %1 of Total
Education                             ..       14.8      15.5         13.6      13.3           IN'VESTMENT PITIGRAY                  (19 73 /74   -197 7/78
Other Social Services                 ..        4.0       4.2         4.4        4.2           Sccial Sectors                             758         15.3
Agrisulture  end                                                                               Agriculture                              1,302          26.4
Other Eoonmic Services               ..      11.2        7.2         6.6       6.7           Industry and Mining                      1,024          20.7
Administration and Defense            ..       67.4      68.1         68.8      68.9           Leswer                                     529          10.7
Other                                           2.7       5.0          6.4       6.9           Transport ani  oeeniatn                    802         16.3
Total Current Expeniditures                   1o00-.0   -100.0      100oo .0    1500.0         Other                                      524         10.O6
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ TT otal EE x pen dit rres44,9401100.
SELECTED INDICATORS                                   1960-       1965-        1973-             FINANCING
(Calculated from 7-year averaged data)                1965        1970        1976                  Dmssetic Narroing                      784          15.9
Average ICON                                                       3.74        0. 89                Public S-otor Savinigs                2,022         40.9
-Import Elasticity                                            ..         1.29        1.11                  Progrsim aid counterpart             i,0os         20.4
Marginal Domestic Savings Rate                         .          0.22        0.05                  Foreign Pro/oct Aid                  1.125          22.8
Marginal National Savings Nate                         ..         0.35         0.05                 Total Financing                      4,940         100.0
LEBOR FORCE AIm                                   Total Labor Force                                    Value Aided Per Worker (1972   73 Prices &  Fxv. Rates)
OTTTPUS PER WORKER                 In Millions           5k of Total     - 1~961 - 73            In U.S.Dollars       Percent of Aver:ge           19 70 - 73
1960/61    19 72 /73 19 60/ 61   1972/73  G~rowth Rate          1969/70   1972/73    1969/70   1972/73   Growth Rate.
Agriculture                         16.1        20.5       85        18          2.0               ..          166         .76
Industry                             1.0         1.8        5         7         5.0                -,           29         ..        105
Service                              3.8         3.9       10        15         6.7                 .    ~     484         ..        222
Total                               I8-.9       2-6.2     100       II           2.0-T8           248          217        100        100          -r
no.t applicable          . -nil or negligible
not available               --less than half the s~aallest unit shown
Note: Figures are on fiscAl. year basis (July 1-Jane 30), Data prior to 1972/73 pertain to erstwhile East Pakistani
/1     These are original pla  trgts



- 24 -                                                                                  ANNEX I
BALANCE OF PAYMBSTS. IXTERNAL ASSISTANCE AND DBBT
(astuonte Ln million  of U.S. doll-rs ot co-rret price.)
Actual                                Estimated            P-i-tced             A-...R  A-os  Growth Rate
1969170   [972/73    1973/74   197/475               1975/76   1976/77         1977/78                     t974 - 197B
SLMMARY BALAdCE yO PAYMEBTS
Etparts (incI. SFS)                              515        369         339        358                381        400             425                           5.8
loporto  (inol. NFSf                           -639        -747       -958    -1.402              -1.290        -937         -1.274                            7.4
Resource Balucco (X-M)                         -124        -378       -619    -1,044                -909        -537           -849                            8.2
Iotereet (Cot)
Direct Investeent Incore   I
Workers' Romltteacce          I                  . .         45          10          7                  1          25             15
Curreot Tracofeco (oot)    I
BMluoc  on Curont Acconte .t            .                  -333                   _1 037              9          512            834                            6.32
Pri-ate Direct I-vest=et                         .
OfficJil Capitol Grutot                          ..         482         204        397                236        258             340                          13.6
Public MALT Looas
DOfbococacots                                  ..          76         292       527                578         314            476                          16.0
-Rrpaye.ects                                    . .        _          -10        -25                -78         -21            -31
Not tiobutserto ts                               ..          76         287        502               500         293            445                           17.3
DNtbursecents                                  ..           ..        .1. ...                                   .
-Repaycets                                      ..           ..        ..L..
Not Boburomeoto                                  ..          ..         ..t.
Capital Tccucactiuon  n.c.i.                     .         -205          74       334               122            33            81
Change it Nc Rtesroco ( --  i.cre6Re)            ..         -20          40      -196                50          -72            -32                                Actual                      Esti-ated
Cress Reserves (sod period)                      ;.         107          67       263               213          285            317                   1971i72    1972/73   1974/75         1975/76   1976/77
GRANT AND LOAN COMMITMBNTS
Officisl Gracts 6 Granr-Like                                514         150       368               380         DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE
Public Dcbt Out. & Disborood             36        187         998         1,899       2,245
Public M&LT Loaus                                                                                                  Ictcrest en Public Debt               -           -           10             20         26
IREE                                                       -             -       -                 -            Rprasoonte on Public Debt              -          -           253            67          21
IDA                                            ..          66          74      150                187           Totul Public Debt Service              -          -           35             S7         47
Other Multilaterul                             ..          11          17        87                22           Other Debt Service (not)               ..          ..
lcoveroocts                                   ..          204         329      678                332           Total Debt Service (net)               ..          .
Suppliers                                      ..          55           47       17                -
Finuccial  ot-tioutio-s                         .                       _       _                   9         Burdrn cn Elport Eartifgu (7.
PBpli  Loots cci.                                                                                               Public Debt Seric.                                           9.9           22.8      11.9
TotuL Public MOLT Louso                          -          338         467       932               530           TotaL Debt Service                                                         22
TD+Di-rect Icocor. Ic.-                .          .. 
Atual D.u"     icudu   alss3.17
tXTERNAL DEBT                                               Diiboroed Ocly             Percent                    A-r.get T.-   f Public Dbt
World Ounk                                                      Al                                                    g    r   o
IDA                                                            380                    21.0                        Iut. as I Prier Year D04D              ..          ..        2.3            2.0        1.4
Other Multiluterul                                              25                     1.4                        A-rt. as 2        Prior  Year D04D      .          ..        5.7            6.7        1.2
Gotooc to                                                    1,250                    69.1
luppliero                                                       90                     5.0              .       IBD Debt OtD. 4 Disbarord
Financial Inatitutions                                           9                     0.5                        "  as 7 Publif  Debt 06D               -           -         5.5            3.0         2.4
Bonds                                                                                                                 as    Public Debt Sorvfc-          _           _          -             1.8         7.0
Poblic Debts n.e.i.
Totol Public M6LT Debt                                                                                          IDA9 100.0  IDA D ebt Out. & Disburoed
us 0f Poblic Debt OW             -          8.6       23.5           21.0        27.7
Ocher MOLT Debts.                                                                                                     Is Poblic Doit Sevice-                         -         3.1            2.5         6.4
Short-T_cT  Debt (diob. only)
not upplicoble                           c . ctaff astioate
. .  ot avuilablo          - nil                      or - ogligiblc
D.. cut  voilblu    sepacattly but          --   less thus half the s alleot
included it total                            unit showt
May 1977



- 25 -
ANNEX II
BANGLADESH
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
As of April 30, 1978
A.   IDA Credits to Bangladesh
US$ Million Net of
Credit                                                        Exchange Adjustment
Number     Year                  Purpose                      Amount  Undisbursed
(net of
cancellations)
Eight Credits Fully Disbursed                                  329.1        -
339        1972      Cyclone Area Reconstruction (replaces
Credit No. 228-PAK of 1971)             25.0       6.4
340        1972      Chandpur Irrigation II (replaces
Credit No. 184-PAK of 1970)             13.0       3.3
341        1972      Tubewells (replaces Credit No.
208-PAK of 1970)                        14.0       2.1
343        1972      Telecommunications (replaces part
of Credit No. 145-PAK of 1969)           7.3       0.5
367        1973      Chittagong Water Supply (replaces
Credit No. 42-PAK of 1963)               7.0       0.7
368        1973      Dacca Water Supply and Sewerage
replaces Credit No. 41-PAK of
1963)                                   13.2       0.5
407        1973      Education (replaces Credit Nos.
49-PAK and 87-PAK of 1964 and
1966)                                   21.0       6.6
408         1973     Highways (replaces Credit No. 53-PAK
of 1964)                                25.0      11.3
409         1973     Technical Assistance                        4.0      1.1
410         1973     Cereal Seeds                                7.5      5.5
424         1973     Inland Water Transport Rehabilitation    8.7         1.9
487         1974     Second Telecommunications                  20.0     14.6
527        1975      Ashuganj Fertilizer                       33.0      19.3
533        1975      Population                                 15.0     13.1
542        1975      Barisal Irrigation                         27.0     24.8
605        1976      Karnafuli Irrigation                       22.0     17.4



- 26 -
ANNEX II
BANGLADESH
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
As of April 30, 1978
A.   IDA Credits to Bangladesh (CON'D)
US$ Million Net of
Credit                                                       Exchange Adjustment
Number     Year                  Purpose                     Amount  Undisbursed
621         1976     Agricultural and Rural Training          12.0        11.5
622         1976     Technical Assistance II                    7.5        6.7
631         1976     Rural Development                        16.0        15.8
632         1976     Bangladesh Shilpa Bank                   25.0        23.7
676         1977     Imports Program V                        75.0        27.6
724         1977     Shallow Tubewells                        16.0        16.0
725         1977     Muhuri Irrigation                        21.0        21.0
729         1977     Extension and Research                   10.0        10.0
735         1977     Inland Water Transport II                 5.0         5.0
752         1977     Imports Program VI                       75.0        74.4
765         1978     Jute                                     21.0        21.0
787        1978      Foodgrain Storage II                     25.0        25.0*
SUBTOTAL                   900.3      386.8
Principal Repayment                                0.4
Effective Credits held by Association            899.9
B.   IBRD Loans to Bangladesh
1087        1975     Consolidation Loan                       54.9         0
TOTAL                  954.8       386.8
*   Not yet effective



- 27 -
ANNEX II
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION-
Cr. No. 339    Cyclone Area Reconstruction Project:  US$25.0 Mil. on Credit
of October 18, 1972; Effective Date: January 17, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1978
Project performance has improved and, although still 3 years
behind schedule, it is no longer falling further behind. Following reevalua-
tion of the design, the cyclone shelter program is now moving ahead with
about 90 shelters completed out of a total of 236. 120 shelters are currently
under construction and 37 to commence shortly. Construction of all shelters
should be completed by the end of 1978. Four of the five primary roads are
now finished with the fifth road scheduled for completion in late 1978. The
IDA financed portion of the feeder road program is nearing completion. The
telecommunications subproject is behind schedule but was to be completed by
December 1978. The fisheries subproject, including distribution of boats to
groups of local fishermen, and the inland water transport subproject have
been completed. A request for a further one year extension of the Closing
Date is under consideration.
Cr. No. 340    Chandpur Irrigation II Project:  US$13.0 Million Credit of
October 18, 1972; Effective Date: January 17, 1973;
Closing Date: February 28, 1979
The project should be completed by December 1978, about 2 years
behind schedule. Delays have been due to major flooding, labor problems,
shortages of materials, equipment, breakdowns, ineffective management, and
delays in provision of local funds. While problems remain, substantial pro-
gress has been made recently both in physical construction and agricultural
extension. The main regulator is now operational, although utilization of
the irrigation works will be delayed due to land acquisition problems (now
resolved) which interfered with work on irrigation channels.
Cr. No. 341    Tubewells Project; US$14.0 Million Credit of
November 6, 1972; Effective Date: January 13, 1973;
Closing Date: March 31, 1979
Because of a slow start, project implementation is about 18 months
behind schedule. Completion of the Project is expected within a year. About
90% of the wells under contract have now been drilled, and verticality prob-
lems have largely been corrected by the contractors. BADC has decided to
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
recontract for 281 wells not yet drilled. Pumphouse construction and engine/
pump installation is proceeding satisfactorily. The agricultural development
component of the project, also behind schedule, has been incorporated in the
Extension and Research Project. Project audits are not being received in a
timely fashion. Arrangements for extending consultants' services have been
agreed. The Closing Date has been extended to March 31, 1979.
Cr. No. 343    Telecommunications Project;  US$7.3 Million Credit of
November 15, 1972; Effective Date: January 17, 1973; Closing
Date: June 30, 1979
The Project was originally financed as part of Credit No. 145-PAK
of 1970, and goods valued at US$2.2 million had been received prior to sus-
pension of disbursements. Two of the four microwave systems have been com-
missioned and the third is expected to be brought into service by June 1978.
The fourth microwave system, equipment for which was ordered together with the
microwave systems under Credit 487-BD, is expected to be commissioned by
June 1979, completing the project four years behind schedule. The Closing
Date has been extended from December 31, 1975 to June 30, 1978 and a request
for further extension to June 30, 1979 has been approved.
Cr. No. 367    Chittagong Water Supply Project; US$7.0 Million Credit of
April 9, 1973; Effective Date: June 7, 1973
Closing Date: October 31, 1978
After very little movement during the first two years because of
organizational and procurement difficulties, the progress of work in the
past three years has been satisfactory and disbursements on the project are
expected to be completed by November 1978, some three years behind the
schedule established in 1973. WASA had been in default of the financial
covenant (Section 4.03 (a) of the Credit Agreement dated April 9, 1973),
which stipulates that rates are to provide sufficient revenue to: (i)
cover operating expense, depreciation and interest; (ii) to meet repay-
ment of long-term debt to the extent that such repayments exceed deprecia-
tion charges; and (iii) finance normal extensions of the systems and pro-
vide a reasonable portion of the cost of future major extensions. GOB
approval of a tariff increase was given on November 3, 1977. This will
increase annual revenue by about Tk 3.8 million and should, with other
measures being taken, provide Chittagong WASA with sufficient revenue to
enable it to meet the earnings covenant for FY78.
Cr. No. 368    Dacca Water and Sewerage Project; US$13.2 Million Credit of
April 9, 1973; Effective Date: June 7, 1973, Closing Date:
October 31, 1978
Project progress and the Dacca WASA's financial problems are similar
to those of Chittagong under Credit 367-BD above.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Cr. No. 407    Education Project; US$21.0 Million Credit of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date: September 27, 1973; Closing Date: June 30,
_978
This project was originally financed by Credits 49-PAK and 98-PAK
and by December 1971, when disbursements were suspended, US$7.7 million had
been disbursed. Progress on the Agricultural University portion of the proj-
ect is about 60% complete but 30 months behind schedule due to initial dif-
ficulties in reaching agreement with the consultant architects on a revised
contract and shortages of building materials and delays in the preparation of
equipment lists and furniture designs. However, significant progress has been
made beginning in late 1976. The academic buildings now under construction
are expected to be completed by June 1978 and the remaining works by December
1979. About 60% of the equipment and books have been procured. The University
has taken steps to improve the relevance of its agricultural training and re-
search programs to Bangladesh's practical problems in agricultural and rural
development but further progress in this direction is needed. The technical
education portion of the project is 95% complete but about 30 months behind
schedule due to past delays, but is expected to be completed within the next
few months. The graduates are facing problems of unemployment and a committee
has been established to revise the curriculum to make it more relevant to job
requirements.
Cr. No. 408    Highways Project; US$25.0 Million of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date: September 27, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979
Several project elements are complete with others due for completion
mid-1979 about 2-1/2 years behind the original schedule. The Sitalakhya
bridge was opened to traffic in December 1977, the Keane bridge repairs were
completed and the bridge opened June 1977, and the improved ferries have been
carrying loaded trucks since July 1977. Progress is now steady on the Feni
bypass and provided no serious problems develop with the paving and stone-
crushing equipment, the bypass should be open to traffic mid-1979. Similarly,
the RHD building construction progress is steady with completion also around
mid-1979. However, progress on improving RHD's equipment maintenance repair
capacity is slow with no new workshop construction having taken place.
Cr. No. 409    Technical Assistance Project; US$4.0 Million Credit of
June 29, 1973; Effective Date: August 20, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1978
Contracts have been signed with consultants for thirteen sub-
projects amounting to about US$3.9 million. Completed studies have played
a key role in the preparation of projects for IDA financing. Due to delays
in initial commitment of credit funds, disbursements are 3 years behind
initial estimates.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Cr. No. 410    Cereal Seeds Project; US$7.5 Million Credit of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date; January 30, 1974; Closing Date: December 31,
1979
Although the project is about 20 months behind schedule, implemen-
tation has improved considerably in recent months. Orders for farm machinery
and laboratory equipment have been placed. After contract negotiations with
the lowest bidder for the seed processing plants broke down, proposals for
simplification of plant design were agreed and tenders are now being evaluated.
After substantial initial delays, work is now proceeding on improvements at
the seed multiplication farms. Production of seed is increasing and quality
is improving. The seed is now finding increased acceptance among farmers and
even though the seed is being sold at 30% premium over grain prices demand
often outstrips supply. Bangladesh Rice Research Institute development
activities at headquarters and two substations are proceeding on schedule
but are behind in the two other substations (Rajshahi and Charchandia). Gov-
ernment has promised to accelerate their development. The seed certification
agency is now fully staffed but its activities had been slowed down because
of a budget cut. Government undertook to remedy the situation.
Cr. No. 424    Inland Water Transport Rehabilitation Project; US$8.7 Million
Credit of August 10, 1973, as amended by Amending Agreement
of October 17, 1975; Original Credit Effective Date:
September 27, 1973; Supplementary Credit Effective Date:
March 19, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1978
Procurement of spare parts and equipment under the original credit
is almost fully committed with 90% of available funds disbursed. Under the
Supplementary Credit, two used lighterage tankers have been procured and are
based in Chittagong. Pipes connecting the new pontoon berth oil mooring to
the ERL refinery have been laid, and the berth is being utilized for unloading
of crude oil. One tanker ("Banglar Kheya") which was damaged last July during
the monsoon has been repaired. The "Banglar Alo" hull damage has yet to
be repaired, and it is unable to carry its full quota of crude oil as a result.
Since January 1978 the two tankers have lightered crude oil from the Norwegian-
aid mother tanker, "Banglar Noor", (93,026 dwt) moored off Kurubdia Island
to ERL in Chittagong. BSC is reviewing desirable technical assistance to im-
prove tanker operation and maintenance, and firm proposals are expected from
GOB to extend the closing date to December 31, 1979 to enable this technical
assistance to be financed under the credit.
Cr. No. 487    Second Telecommunications Project; US$20.0 Million Credit of
June 26, 1974; Effective Date: July 23, 1974; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979
Procurement action has been completed or is in an advanced stage
on all items except for the trunk automatic exchanges and the international
telephone exchange. Physical progress of the project is about two years
behind schedule due to earlier delays in building construction and reduced



- 31 -
ANNEX II
supplies from the domestic switching factory. About 65% of the target of
45,000 lines of local exchange to be installed by June 1977 have been com-
missioned by December 1977. The current forecast date for completion of
physical works under the project is December 1980, 2-1/2 years behind schedule.
The T&T Board was established in July 1976, but little progress has been
achieved in meeting project instituting building goals including transfer to
T&T of responsibility for its accounts (currently maintained by Comptroller
and Accountant General) and introduction of a commercial accounting system
within T&T. The Rules and Regulations defining the Board's powers have not
yet been issued leaving the Board with less autonomy than the prior Director
General of the Telephone and Telegraph Department, before the Board was
created.
Cr. No. 527    Ashuganj Fertilizer Project; US$33 Million Credit of
February 11, 1975;_Effective Date:  December 19, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project is being cofinanced by the Asian Development Bank, KfW,
and the Governments of Iran, Switzerland, UK and US, providing a total of
US$109 million equivalent in addition to the IDA credit. Site preparation
work including the necessary dredging and filling was completed on schedule.
However, based on the soils analyses undertaken by two specialist consulting
firms, further preparation of the site was undertaken to protect the plant
against earthquake risks.   Currently the project is about two years behind
schedule due primarily to the additional site preparation and initial slow
progress in (a) placing orders for time-critical items and (b) planning for
construction. Process engineering and procurement have progressed substan-
tially and the Project is now entering the construction phase. The soil com-
paction work has been completed except for final testing of some compacted
zones and the site is available for construction start. Contracting arrange-
ments for the critical compensatory foundation works of the Project have
been finalized and the contractor has already begun work at the site. Revised
estimates indicate that due to the need for additional site work, the delays
and the currency fluctuations, costs will be substantially higher than lender
funds currently available. Arrangements are being discussed among the Govern-
ment and the various cofinanciers to raise the additional funds required to
complete the Project.
Cr. No. 533    Population Project:  US$15 Million Credit of February 11,
1975; Effective Date: September 25, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The project is being cofinanced by six co-lenders providing a total
of about US$25 million equivalent in addition to the IDA credit. Notwithstand-
ing the delay in declaring the Credit effective, the Government has made sub-
stantial progress in project implementation. The organizational structure of
the Population Control and Family Planning Division (body responsible for the
population program) has been defined and its headquarters staff has been placed
in position; most field staff is being recruited. Population programs in five



- 32 -
ANNEX II
non-health ministries are underway. The Building, Planning and Design Unit of
the Ministry of Health, with the assistance of consultants, has completed a
master plan for the project's construction program and contracts for construc-
tion of project buildings are being awarded. Preliminary drafts of a study
on Population legislation and a management study for the Ministry of Health,
Population Control and Family Planning have been completed. Most of the
required consultants and advisors for other parts of the project have been
appointed.
Cr. No. 542    Barisal Irrigation Project; US$27 Million of April 29, 1975;
Effective Date:  February 24, 1976; Closing Date:  Decem-
ber 31, 1980
Construction work restarted at the end of the monsson season.
Contracts have been awarded for 6 sluice gate structures and 7 sluice gate
pump houses. Tender documents for 120 primary pumps and 1,500 low lift
pumps were prepared, approved by IDA, and are being advertised. A tender
for 460 steel sluice gates and bricks was issued and the bids evaluated.
Some problems in bid evaluation necessitated a Water Development Board re-
examination bids before deciding whether to award a contract or re-tender.
The project authority has now been allocated sufficient Taka funds for
financing its present program.
Cr. No. 605    Karnafuli Irrigation Project; US$22 Million of January 28, 1976;
Effective Date: February 24, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1980
The project has been behind schedule due to initial delays in
hiring project consultants. The consultants for the irrigation portion of the
project began work in September 1976, but their effectiveness was limited by
delays in procurement of vehicles and equipment and in the assignment of local
consultants to assist in the design work. Progress has improved considerably
in the last seven months. Civil work construction is now proceding well,
and if progress is maintained the project can still be completed by the
Closing Date. The fisheries component of the project, which had made little
progress previously is also showing improvement. Key staff have now been
appointed and a contract with a fisheries consulting firm has been signed.
Cr. No. 621    Agricultural and Rural Training Project; US$12.0 Million
of March 25, 1976; Effective Date: June 30, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
Progress on preparation for construction is about five months ahead
of schedule. All sites have been selected and acquired. Progress has also
been achieved in the preparation of sketch plans for project buildings and the
Government has been working on revised, more economical plans for the Bogra
Rural Development Academy. About 75% of civil works contracts have been
awarded. Construction has commenced and is expected to be completed by mid-
1978. The in-service training program supported under project has been delayed
due to delays in allocation of local funds; delays are also being experienced
in hiring consultants for the project.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Cr. No. 622    Second Technical Assistance Project; US$7.5 Million of
April 8, 1976; Effective Date April 14, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980
Ten subprojects have been approved amounting to about $6 million.
Other subprojects are under consideration.
Cr. No. 631    Rural Development Project; US$16.0 million of May 20, 1976;
Effective Date: August 3, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1981
The physical progress of major components has been mixed and there
have been reports of some poor quality civil works which may require costly
remedial measures. Progress is not reflected by the low level of disburse-
ments which is expected to improve substantially in the near future as
applications for reimbursement for past expenditure are assembled. However,
the project is facing institutional and coordination problems. In particular,
the cooperative model employed has not been fully effective in increasing
the flow of production inputs to farmers and interdepartmental coordination
difficulties have hampered effective project execution. Discussions between
the Government and IDA on remedial measures are underway.
Cr. No. 632    Bangladesh Shilpa Bank Project; US$25.0 Million of May 20,
1976; Effective Date: November 8, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981
As of April 30, 1978, IDA had committed $8.3 million to finance
specific subloans. It is anticipated that the Credit will be fully committed
by December 1980 and that disbursements will be completed by the Closing Date.
Cr. No. 676    Fifth Imports Program; US$75 Million of January 25, 1977
Effective Date: February 24, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978
As of April 30, 1978, disbursements were US$46.3 million. In
addition about US$9.0 million of letters of credit are outstanding.
Cr. No. 724    Shallow Tubewells; US$16 Million of July 1, 1977; Effective
Date: December 9, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Bids for engines and pump sets for all 10,000 wells have been re-
ceived and are being reviewed. A consultant for workshop management has been
hired and the preparation of tender documents for workshop tools and machinery
is at an advanced stage. Construction of 3 out of the 5 project zonal work-
shops has been completed.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Cr. No. 725    Muhuri Irrigation; US$21.0 Million of July 1, 1977; Effective
Date: January 6, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Delays occurred initially in obtaining Government approval of the
project budget, establishing the project fund, completing arrangements for
hiring the engineering consultants, and signing a contract with the Contractor
who will construct the Feni Regulator. Consequently, no construction could be
undertaken this dry season.  Negotiations are underway with construction man-
agement consultants to assist the contractors in construction of the Feni
Regulator.
Cr. No. 729    Extension and Research Project; US$10 Million of July 1, 1977;
Effective Date: January 6, 1978; Closing Date: April 30, 1981
Major staff positions in the Project Implementation Unit have been
appointed. Introduction of the "Training and Visitation" extension system
began in April in one district with introduction in the three other districts
in the project schedule for October 1978. Contracts for supervision of the
construction program have been agreed and plans for the buildings have been
approved. The project is being constrained by shortage of transport and
remaining staff vacancies in the Project Implementation Unit but steps have
been taken to remedy these difficulties.
Cr. No 735      Inland Water Transport II Project; US$5.0 Million Credit of
September 30, 1977; Effective Date: March 10, 1978;
Closing Date June 30, 1980
Lists of spare parts for BIWTA vessels and navigation aids, and
for BIWTC cargo vessels have already been prepared and BIWTC lists for spare
parts for hydrographic equipment and specifications for new mobile cranes are
under preparation. The Ministry and the two agencies (BIWTA and BIWTC)
received more than 20 detailed proposals for their technical assistance
components of the project. Final selection is expected to be completed by
May 1978.
Cr. No. 752    Sixth Imports Program; US$75 MilLion of November 30, 1977;
Effective Date: January 13, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979
Cr. No. 765    Jute Project; US$21 Million of February 8, 1978; Effective
Date: April 14, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
As of May 22, 1978, disbursements were US$604,000. In addition,
about US$13.5 million of letters of credit are outstanding.
Cr. No. 787    Foodgrain Storage II Project; US$25 Million of April 12,
1978; Closing Date:  July 12, 1978; Credit not yet effective



- 35 -
ANNEX III
BANGLADESH
SECOND SMALL-SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I:     Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Agency that prepared the project:   BSCIC, assisted by con-
sultants financed by UNDP
(b)  Time taken to prepare project:        22 months (October 1975/
August 1977)
(c)  First presentation to IDA:            October 1975
(d)  First mission to review project:    April 1976
(e)  Departure of appraisal mission:       August 1977
(f)  Completion of negotiations:           April 1978
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:        September 1978
Section II:    Special IDA Implementation Actions
Arrangements have been made with two banks in India to train 8 key
staff members of the Janata and Sonali banks in procedures for appraisal of
Small-Scale Industry projects.
Section III:   Special Conditions
A.   Assurances have been obtained from the Government that:
(a)  at least 40% of the proceeds of the credit allocated for
subloans under Part A of the project will be committed
for small enterprises with fixed assets not exceeding
Tk 1 million (para 44);
(b) agreed criteria for eligible subprojects would be employed
(para 45);



- 36 -
ANNEX III
(c) by September 30, 1978, the Janata and Sonali Banks
will staff their respective Small Industries Loan
Departments with suitably trained personnel (para 51);
(d) by September 30, 1978, BSCIC will establish at its
headquarters: (a) a division solely responsible for
small-scale industry sector and a division responsible
for cottage industry sector (each consisting of a Pro-
motion and an Extension Unit); and (b) a Project
Monitoring and Evaluation Unit (para 54).
B.   Conditions of Credit Effectiveness would be:
(a) the ratification of the Project Agreements by the
Janata Bank, Sonali Bank and BSCIC (para 64);
(b) the ratification of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements
by the Janata Bank and Sonali Bank (para 64); and
(c) the establishment of the credit guarantee scheme under
arrangements acceptable to the Association (para 52).



