CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 825 BD
Project Agreement
(Second Small-Scale Industry Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
SONALI BANK
Dated June 16, 1978


﻿CREDIT NO. 825 BD
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 16, 1978, between INTERNATIONAL DEVEL-
OPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and SONALI
BANK.
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the People's Republic of Bangladesh (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to seven million dollars ($7,000,000), on
the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit
Agreement, but only on condition that the Sonali Bank agree to
undertake such obligations toward the Association as are herein-
after set forth; and
WHEREAS the Sonali Bank, in consideration of the Associa-
tion's entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the
Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter
set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the term "Strategy Statement" means the statement of the
Sonali Bank's lending policies and procedures concerning the
small-scale and cottage industry sector, approved by its Board of
Directors on May 9, 1978, for the period ending March 31, 1981.
ARTICLE II
Execution of Parts A and B
of the Project
Section 2.01. The Sonali Bank shall carry out Parts A and B
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit
Agreement with due diligence and efficiency, in conformity with


﻿-2-
appropriate administrative, financial and engineering practices
and in accordance with its Strategy Statement, and shall provide,
or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facil-
ities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 2.02. For the purposes of Part A of the Project, the
Sonali Bank shall make available to Small Enterprises Sub-Loans on
terms and conditions acceptable to the Association, including,
inter alia, those set forth in Part A of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement, for Investment Projects selected in accordance with
criteria satisfactory to the Association, including, inter alia,
those set forth in Part B of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. For the purposes of Part B of the Project, the
Sonali Bank shall make available to Small Enterprises loans which
shall (a) cover up to 15% of the costs of specific Investment
Projects selected by the Sonali Bank in accordance with criteria
agreed with the Association and to be partly financed out of the
proceeds of Sub-Loans and (b) be on terms and conditions satisfac-
tory to the Association.
Section 2.04. (a) The Sonali Bank undertakes that, unless the
Association shall otherwise agree, any Sub-loan under Part A of
the Project will be made on terms whereby the Sonali Bank shall
obtain, by written contract with the Small Enterprise or by other
appropriate legal means, rights adequate to protect the interests
of the Association and the Sonali Bank, including the right of the
Sonali Bank to:
(i) require the Small Enterprise to carry out and
operate the Investment Project with due diligence
and efficiency and in accordance with sound tech-
nical, financial and managerial standards and to
maintain adequate records;
(ii) require that (1) (A) the goods and services pro-
cured locally shall be purchased at a reasonable
price, account being taken also of other relevant
factors such as time of delivery and efficiency and
reliability of the goods and availability of main-
tenance facilities and spare parts therefor, and,
in the case of services, of their quality and the
competence of the parties rendering them and (B)
except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
contracts for goods procured outside the Borrower's


﻿-3-
territory and estimated to cost TklO0,000 or more
shall be let through international shopping on the
basis of at least three price quotations and (2)
such goods and services shall be used exclusively
in the carrying out of the Investment Project;
(iii) inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives
of BSCIC or the Association, if the Association
shall so request, such goods and the sites, works,
plants and construction included in the Investment
Project, the operation thereof, and any relevant
records and documents;
(iv) require that: (1) the Small Enterprise shall take
out and maintain with responsible insurers such
insurance, against such risks and in such amounts,
as shall be consistent with sound business prac-
tices; and (2) without any limitation upon the
foregoing, such insurance shall cover marine,
transit and other hazards incident to the acquisi-
tion, transportation and delivery of goods financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit to the place of
use or installation, any indemnity thereunder to be
made payable in a currency freely usable by the
Small Enterprise to replace or repair such goods;
(v) obtain all such information as the Association
or the Sonali Bank shall reasonably request
relating to the foregoing and to the administra-
tion, operations and financial condition of the
Small Enterprise; and
(vi) suspend or terminate the right of the Small Enter-
prise to the use of the proceeds of the Credit
upon failure by such Small Enterprise to perform
its obligations under its contract with the Sonali
Bank.
(b) The Sonali Bank shall exercise its rights in relation
to each Investment Project in such manner as to:
(i) protect the interests of the Association and the
Sonali Bank;
(ii) comply with its obligations under this Agreement;
and


﻿-4-
(iii) achieve the purposes of the Project.
Section 2.05. (a) The Sonali Bank shall furnish to the Asso-
ciation all such information as the Association shall reasonably
request concerning the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated to Parts A and B of the Project, the Small Enterprises,
the Investment Projects, the Sub-loans and the loans made under
Section 2.03 of this Agreement.
(b) Each request by the Sonali Bank for authorization to
make withdrawals from the Credit Account under Section 2.09 of the
Development Credit Agreement shall contain:
(i) a summary description of the Small Enterprise and
the Investment Project, including a description of
the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Sub-loan and any loan made under
Section 2.03 of this Agreement;
(ii) the terms and conditions of (1) the Sub-loan,
including the schedule of amortization therefor,
and (2) any loan made under Section 2.03 of this
Agreement;
(iii) a   stement from the Sonali Bank confirming that
goods and services required for the Investment
Project have been procured in accordance with the
procedures referred to in Section 2.04 (a) (ii) (1)
of this Agreement; and
(iv) in the case of goods subject to international
shopping for Investment Projects costing more than
Tk 100,000, the names of the firms invited to sub-
mit offers and a summary of the offers submitted.
(c) Except as the Association and the Sonali Bank shall
otherwise agree, requests made pursuant to the provisions of
paragraph (b) of this Section shall be presented to the Associa-
tion on or before March 31, 1981.
Section 2.06. In order to assist BSCIC in financing the cost
of promotion and extension activities provided by BSCIC under the
Project as well as BSCIC's contribution to the appraisal of
Investment Projects under Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement
between the Association and BSCIC, the Sonali Bank shall pay to
BSCIC a service charge at a level satisfactory to the Association.


﻿-5-
Section 2.07. The Sonali Bank shall duly perform all its
obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Sonali Bank shall not
take or concur in any action which would have the effect of
amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.08. The Sonali Bank shall, not later than Septem-
ber 30, 1978 or such other date as shall be agreed with the
Association, establish and maintain at its headquarters a Small
Industries Loan Department responsible for the appraisal and
supervision of Investment Projects eligible for Sub-loans under
Part A of the Project, such Small Industries Loan Department to be
adequately staffed with suitably trained personnel.
Section 2.09. (a) The Sonali Bank shall at the request of
the Association, exchange views with the Association with regard
to the progress of Parts A and B of the Project, the performance
of its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the
Credit.
(b) The Sonali Bank shall promptly inform the Association
of any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with,
the progress of Parts A and B of the Project, the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by the Sonali
Bank of its obligations under this Agreement and under the Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. The Sonali Bank shall maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 3.02. The Sonali Bank shall: (i) establish and
maintain separate accounts for the purposes of Parts A and B of
the Project; (ii) have said accounts and its financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related
statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by indepen-
dent auditors acceptable to the Association; (iii) furnish to the
Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than


﻿-6-
six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies
of said accounts and financial statements for such year as so
audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably
requested; and (iv) furnish to the Association such other infor-
mation concerning the accounts and financial statements of the
Sonali Bank and the audit thereof as the Association shall from
time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of
the Association and of the Sonali Bank thereunder shall terminate
on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) a date 15 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
the Sonali Bank of this event.
Section 4.03. All the ps:t  -    n  of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effee:  -    N.'tanding any cancellation
or suspension under the Development C; :      ement.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,


﻿-7-
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Sonali Bank:
Sonali Bank
P. 0. Box No. 147
Dacca
Bangladesh
Cable address:                    Telex:
GANABANK                          SB-HO-DAC-740
Dacca
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of the Sonali Bank may be taken or
executed by its Managing Director or such other person or persons
as its Board of Directors shall designate in writing.
Section 5.03. The Sonali Bank shall furnish to the Associa-
tion sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated
specimen signature of the person or persons who will, on behalf of
the Sonali Bank, take any action or execute any documents required
or permitted to be taken or executed by the Sonali Bank pursuant
to any of the provisions of this Agreement.
Section 5.04. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.


﻿IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ W. David Hopper
Regional Vice President
South Asia
SONALI BANK
By // Abidur Rahman
Authorized Representative


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Terms and Conditions of Sub-Loans
Selection of Investment Projects
A.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, Sub-loans
shall:
(a) be amortized over a period not exceeding 12 years,
including a grace period of 3 years; and
(b) bear interest at the rate of not less than 11.5%
per annum.
B.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, not less
than 40% of the amounts withdrawn from the Credit Account by the
Sonali Bank in respect of Part A of the Project shall be used to
finance Small Enterprises with fixed assets nat exceeding Tk
1,000,000.
C.   Eligible Investment Projects shall, except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, meet, inter alia, the following criteria:
(a) the estimated manufacturing cost of goods to be produced
under any Investment Project shall not be higher than the price of
similar goods available in the area where and at the time when the
Small Enterprise intends to sell the goods produced under such
Investment Project;
(b) at least 60% of the estimated expenditures for raw
materials required under such Investment Project shall be in
Takas, unless such Investment Project shall be designed for
exports sales which shall be forecast to yield foreign exchange
earnings covering at least the estimated cost of imported raw
materials required for such Investment Project; and
(c) all Investment Projects shall create employment for
which the capital cost per job shall not exceed $3,000 equivalent.
The Sonali Bank shall take into consideration other elements
such as (i) capacity utilization and the relative efficiency of
the Small Enterprise measured in terms of average profit and value
added to fixed investment, (ii) the location of the production
site outside Dacca, Chittagong or Khulna and (iii) the links of
the Investment Project with the agricultural sector.


