CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 825 BD
Development Credit Agreement
(Second Small-Scale Industry Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated June 16, 1978


﻿CREDIT NO. 825 BD
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 16, 1978, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF
BANGLADESH (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association.)
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Project will be carried out by the Sonali Bank, the
Janata Bank and the Bangladesh Small and Cottage Industries
Corporation with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such
assistance, the Borrower will make available to the Sonali Bank,
the Janata Bank and the Bangladesh Small and Cottage Industries
Corporation the proceeds of the Credit as hereinafter provided;
and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter
alia of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth and in three
Project Agreements of even date herewith, the first one between
the Association and the Sonali Bank, the second one between the
Association and the Janata Bank and the third one between the
Association and the Bangladesh Small and Cottage Industries
Corporation;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).


﻿-2-
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set
forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "Project Agreement" means each of the agreements between
the Association and (i) the Sonali Bank, (ii) the Janata Bank and
(iii) the Bangladesh Small and Cottage Industries Corporation,
respectively, of even date herewith, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the
Project Agreement and all agreements supplemental to the Project
Agreement;
(b) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means each of the agreements
to be entered into between the Borrower and (i) the Sonali Bank
and (ii) the Janata Bank, respe:tively, pursuant to Section 3.01
(b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to
time, and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement;
(c) "BSCIC" means the Bangladesh Small and Cottage Indus-
tries Corporation, a corporation established and operating under
the laws of the Borrower;
(d) "BHMC" means the Bangladesh Handicrafts Marketing
Corporation, a subsidiary of BSCIC established and operating
under the laws of the Borrower;
(e) "BIDS" means the Bangladesh Institute of Development
Studies, an institute established and operating under the laws of
the Borrower;
(f) "Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by
the Sonali Bank or the Janata Bank to a Small Enterprise for an
Investment Project;
(g) "Small Enterprise" means an enterprise whose fixed
assets, including land, shall not exceed Tk 2,500,000;
(h) "Investment Project" means a specific development
project to be carried out by a Small Enterprise utilizing the
proceeds of a Sub-loan; and
(i)  "Taka" and "Tk" mean the currency of the Borrower.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit
Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various cur-
rencies equivalent to seven million dollars ($7,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit,
shall be governed by the provisions set forth or referred to
in Section 2.04 of the Project Agreements between the Asso-
ciation and (i) the Sonali Bank and (ii) the Janata Bank,
respectively.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1983
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each May 15
and November 15 commencing November 15, 1988, and ending May 15,
2028, each installment to and including the installment payable
on May 15, 1998, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of


﻿-4-
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be
one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.09. For the purposes of Parts A and B of the
Project, the Managing Director of the Sonali Bank and the Managing
Director of the Janata Bank, and in the event of their absence
or inability to act such other official or officials as may be
designated by them, are designated as representatives of the
Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or per-
mitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01.(a) Without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the Borrower shall cause the Sonali Bank, the Janata
Bank and BSCIC to perform in accordance with the provisions of the
Project Agreements and the Subsidiary Loan Agreements all the
obligations therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken
all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services
and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable the Sonali
Bank, the Janata Bank and BSCIC to perform such obligations, and
shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would
prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b) The Borrower shall cause the Sonali Bank and the Janata
Bank to repay to the Borrower the proceeds of the Credit with-
drawn, under Category (1) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, by the Sonali Bank and the janata
Bank, respectively, on behalf of the Borrower, upon the terms and
conditions set forth in the Subsidiary Loan Agreements to be
entered into between the Borrower and (i) the Sonali Bank and (ii)
the Janata Bank, respectively, on terms and conditions satisfac-
tory to the Association.


﻿-5-
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreements in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish
the purposes of the Credit, and except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or
waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreements or any provision thereof.
(d) The Borrower shall make available to BSCIC and BHMC by
way of grants such amounts to be financed under Categories (3),
(4) and (5) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1
to this Agreement as shall be required to enable BSCIC and BHMC to
fulfill their respective obligations under Parts C and D of the
Project.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall take such steps as shall be
required to ensure that representatives of the Sonali Bank, the
Janata Bank, BSCIC and the Bangladesh Bank shall meet at least on
A quarterly basis to insure efficient coordination in the imple-
mentation of the Project.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Part B of the Project, the
Borrower shall establish and maintain, in the Bangladesh Bank, a
special capital fund to be (a) administered jointly by the Sonali
Bank and the Janata Bank and (b) used exclusively to make avail-
able to Small Enterprises loans on terms and conditions consistent
with those set forth in Section 2.03 of the Project Agreements
between the Association and (i) the Sonali Bank and (ii) the
Janata Bank, respectively.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall cause the Bangladesh Bank to
guarantee, under arrangements (hereinafter referred to as the
Credit Guarantee Scheme) agreed with the Association, the due
and punctual payment of not less than 30% of the principal of, and
interest on, Sub-loans made by the Sonali Bank and the Janata Bank
to Small Enterprises, for a fee satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall, not later than six months
after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed between
the Borrower and the Association, prepare and furnish, or cause to
be prepared and furnished, to the Association a report, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request, on the execution and initial operation of the Project,
its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from it,


﻿-6-
the performance by the Borrower, the Association, the Sonali
Bank, the Janata Bank and BSCIC of their respective obligations
under the Development Credit Agreement and the Project Agreements
and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Bank
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) the Sonali Bank, the Janata Bank or BSCIC shall have
failed to perform any of their respective obligations under
the Project Agreements;
(b) the Sonali Bank or the Janata Bank shall have failed to
perform any of their respective obligations under the Subsidiary
Loan Agreements;
(c) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which
shall make it improbable that the Sonali Bank, the Janata Bank or
BSCIC will be able to perform their respective obligations under
the Project Agreements;
(d) the by-laws of the Sonali Bank, the Janata Bank or
BSCIC shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed
or waived in such a way as to materially and adversely affect
the ability of the Sonali Bank, the Janata Bank and BSCIC to carry
out their respective obligations under the Project Agreements;
and
(e) the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of the Sonali Bank, the Janata Bank or BSCIC or for the
suspension of their respective operations, unless arrangements
satisfactory to the Association shall have been made to replace
them by other banks, financial institutions or corporations
which shall assume and perform all their respective functions
in respect of the Project and covenants under the Project Agree-
ments upon such dissolution, disestablishment or suspension.


﻿-7-
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a) any event specified in paragraph (a) or (b) of Section
4.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period
of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Association to the Borrower and the Sonali Bank, the Janata Bank
or BSCIC; and
(b) any event specified in paragraph (c) or (d) of Section
4.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the executions of the Project Agreements on behalf of
the Sonali Bank, the Janata Bank and BSCIC, respectively, have
been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate
actions;
(b) the executions of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements on
behalf of the Sonali Bank and the Janata Bank, respectively, have
been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate
actions; and
(c) the Credit Guarantee Scheme referred to in Section
3.04 of this Agreement has been established.
Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a) that the Project Agreements and Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ments have been duly authorized or ratified by the Sonali Bank
and the Janata Bank, respectively, and are legally binding upon
the Sonali Bank and the Janata Bank, respectively, in accordance
with their terms; and


﻿-8-
(b) that the Project Agreement between the Association
and BSCIC has been duly authorized or ratified by BSCIC and
is legally binding upon BSCIC in accordance with its terms.
Section 5.03. The date September 15, 1978 is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint
Secretary or Deputy Secretary of the External Resources Division
of the Ministry of Planning of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03
of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purpose of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
External Resources Division
Ministry of Planning
Government of the
People's Republic of Bangladesh
Dacca, Bangladesh
Cable address:
BAHIRSAMPAD
Dacca
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.


﻿-9-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement
to be signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
By Is/ Abidur Rahman
Authorized Representative
on behalf of the President
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By Is/ W. David Hopper
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Sub-loans under                6,320,000        100% of eligi-
Part A of the                                  ble expendi-
Project                                        tures
(2) Loans made out of                200,000        100% of loan
the special capi-                              disbursements
tal fund under
Part B of the
Project
(3) BHMC's market                     30,000        100% of for-
development                                    eign expendi-
expenditures                                   tures
under Part C.4
of the Project
(4) Experts' services                100,000        100%
and salaries of
additional staff
of BHMC under
Part C of the
Project
(5) Experts' services                350,000        100%
under Part D of
the Project
TOTAL          7,000,000


﻿- 11 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Borrower;
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c) the term "eligible expenditures" with respect to Cate-
gory (1) means loan disbursements made by the Sonali Bank or the
Janata Bank for the acquisition by Small Enterprises of (i) fixed
assets and (ii) the initial stocks of raw materials required for
the Investment Projects financed under Part A of the Project, to
the extent that such loan disbursements shall not exceed 70% of
the costs of such Investment Projects.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of
the Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes
levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or
services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or
supply thereof; to that end, if the amount of any such taxes
levied on or in respect of any item to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit decreases or increases, the Association
may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or decrease the dis-
bursement percentage then applicable to such item as required to
be consistent with the aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for: (a)
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and (b) expen-
ditures under Categories (3) and (4) until BHMC has appointed the
additional staff referred to in Parts C.2 and C.5 of the Project.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that
the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then


﻿- 12 -
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Association are not needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii)
if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such expen-
ditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category may
continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent
with the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement,
no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit and the Association may, without in any
way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy
of the Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by
notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in
the Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of
such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The purpose of the Project is to assist in the development of
the small-scale and cottage industry sector in the Borrower's
territory. The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A:
Provision of Sub-loans to Small Enterprises through the
Sonali Bank and the Janata Bank.
Part B:
Establishment and operation of a special capital fund to
finance up to 15% of the costs of selected Investment Projects
approved by the Sonali Bank or the Janata Bank.
Part C:
Carrying out of a pilot cottage industry scheme in locations
selected by agreement between the Borrower and the Association for
jute, cane and bamboo handicrafts, including:
1.   provision of Sub-loans to cottage industrial units
through the Sonali Bank and the Janata Bank under Part A
of the Project;
2.   appointment by BHMC of a Project coordinator in addition
to about 3 central and about 12 thana-level extension
workers to be responsible, with the assistance of BSCIC,
for the training of the personnel working in about 40
production units included in the pilot scheme;
3.   employment by BSCIC of design specialists to assist in
establishing a set of standard items to be produced
under the pilot scheme;
4.   provision of grants to BHMC to cover BHMC's market
development expenditures;
5.   appointment by BHMC of about 5 additional quality
control inspectors; and


﻿- 14 -
6.   provision of storage facilities for BMC.
Part D:
Provision of promotion and extension experts' services to
BSCIC.


