Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 17375-CM
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT OF US$ 4.8 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
FOR A
HIGHER EDUCATION TECHNICAL TRAINING PROJECT
June 4, 1998
Human Development II
Africa Region



CURRENC'Y EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1.00 = CFA Franc 604 (Mid May 1997)
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
July 1 - June 30
ACADEMIC YEAR OF IUT DOUALA
Mid-September to Mid-July
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BAC          - Baccalaur7at
CAA          - Caisse autonome d'amortissement
CETIC        - College de / 'enseignement technique industriel et commercial
CIDE         - Canadian International Development Agency
CF           - Coopirationfranqaise
CIDA         - Canadian International Development Agency
DCA          - Development Credit Agreement
EU           - European Union
ICB          - International Competitive Bidding
IlT.         - Institut universitaire de technologie
LIL,         - Learning and Innovation Loan
MINEDUC    - Ministere de l 'education nationale
Ml\EFI       - jiinistere de l 'economie et des finances
MINESUP    - Minist're de 1 'enseignement superieur
NCB          - National Competitive Bidding
SIL          - Sector Investmenl: Loan
SOCs         - Statement of Expenditures
TA           - Technical Assistance
UNICAM       - programme d'appui au systeme ediucatif universitaire camerounais
USAID        - United States Agency for International Development
Vice President      Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director    Serge Michailof
Sector Manager      Nicholas R. Burnett
Task Team Leader    Nicholas L. Bennett



THE REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
HIGHER EDUCATION TECHNICAL TRAINING PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective ...............................................................2
1.   Project development objective and key perfornance indicators
B. Strategic context ...............................................................3
1.   Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) .............                       .............3
2.   Main sector issues and government strategy .....................................3
3.   Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices ... 5
C. Project Description Summary ...............................................................5
1.   Project components ........................................................5
2.   Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project .........7
3.   Benefits and Target Population ........................................................7
4.   Institutional and implementation  arrangements ...............................7
D: Project Rationale ...............................................................8
1.   Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection .................                    8
2.  Major related projects financed by the Bank and other agencies ......9
3.   Lessons learned and reflected in the project design ........................ 10
4.   Indications of borrower commitment and ownership ...........11.......... 1
5.   Value added of Bank support .......................................................   I 1
E. Summary Project Analysis ..............................................................                       11
1.   Economic Assessment ....................................1....................                     1
2.   Financial Assessment .......................................................                 12
3.   Technical Assessment .......................................................                 12
4.   Institutional Assessment ........................................................             12
5.  Social Assessment ...................................                                         13
6.   Environmental Assessment ...................................                                 13
7.   Participatory Approach ...................................                                   13
F. Sustainability and Risks                            .......................................... 13
1.   Sustainability ..........................................                                    13
2.   Critical Risks ..........................................                                    14
3.   Possible Controversial Aspects ..........................................                    15
G. Main Credit Conditions and Readiness for Implementation                                        . .   15
1.   Effectiveness Conditions ..........................................                          15
2.  Other ..........................................                                              15
H.  Compliance with Bank Policies ................................................                               15



Annexes
Annex 1.    Project Design Summary
Annex 2.    Estimated Project Costs
Annex 3.    Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Table A.    Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Table B.    Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Table C.    Tentative Disbursement by Year
Annex 4.    Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 5.    Country at a Glance



THE REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
HIGHER EDUCATION TECHNICAL TRAINING PROJECT
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Regional Office
AFTH2
Date: June 3, 1998                                                                           [X]  Draft           [ ]  Final
Task Manager: Nicholas Bennett Sector Manager: N. Burnett  Country Director: Serge Michailof
ProjectID: CM-PE-55684                     Sector: Education          Program Objective Category: PV
Lending Instrument: Learning and Innovation Loan                      PTI:           [    Yes               [X] No
Project Financing Data                           []  Loan       [ x]  Credit       []   Guarantee          []      Other [I
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount:          US $ 4.86 million equivalent/SDR  3.7m
...........................................................................................  ...................................................................... ... ..........  ................................................................................................... 
Proposed Terms:                                    [X]   Multicurrency    []  Single currency
Grace period (years): 10 years             []     Standard            [   Fixed                  []         LIBOR-
Variable                                                 based
Years to maturity: 40 years
Commitment fee: 0%
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                                    Local                  Foreign                 Total
Government (Taxes and duties)                                         0.87                      -                    0.87
IDA                                                                   0.61                    4.25                   4.86
Sub-total (1)                                                         1.48                    4.25                   5.73
IUT Self Generated Funds                                              0.36                      -                    0.36
Government (Increase in Teachers Salaries)                            0.26                                           0.26
Sub-Total (2)                                                         0.62                      -                    0.62
Total (1+2)                                                           2.10                    4.25                   6.35
Borrower: Republic of Cameroon
Guarantor: N/A
Responsible agency: Ministry of Higher Education (MINESUP)
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):                            FY99          FY00        FY01        FY02
Annual                     1.5           1.8        1.0         0.5
Cumulative                     1.5           3.3         4.3         4.8
..   ............................................ ..... .........................I...................................................................................................................... .....  ..........................
Financing available without guarantee?:                         [       Yes                 [ x]    No
If yes, estimated cost or maturity:
Estimated financing cost or maturity with guarantee:
Expected effectiveness date: May 1998                                           Closing date: November 30, 2001
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objectives and key performance indicators (see Annex 1):
The Project Development Objective is to introduce and test a new model of public higher education in
Cameroon for adoption in IUT Douala and a number of other public higher education institutions.



Project Appraisal Report                                                               Page 2 of 15
Cameroon                                            Project Title: Higher Education Technological Training Project
The higher education system in Cameroon has its roots in the traditional francophone African model, with
almost all students in full degree courses, few links to the labor market, no involvement of the private sector in
program selection and curriculum content, and virtually all financing (apart from small student fees introduced in
1993) provided and controlled by the Ministere de l Enseignement Superieur (MINESUP) and the Ministry of
Economy and Finance (MINEFI). This model, initially designed to produce personnel for the civil service, no
longer conforms to the economy's needs in the era of shrinking public services, nor to international best practices.
In addition public: resources alone are not sufficient to provide an education of minimally acceptable quality to the
number of students already enrolled in public higher education institutions.
A number of small public higher education institutions are trying to break away from this inappropriate
model, with the support of MINESUP, which is interested in searching for a new, more suitable system which
eventually could be generalized in the Cameroon conitext. One such model is being tested under this LIL project
and would:
*  encourage existing private sector enterprises to become involved in the management, the selection of
courses and the development of curricula in public sector higher education institutions;
*  involve private sector enterprises in the training of higher education students in both public and private
sector institutions;
*  insist on following up regularly the employment situation of students in the year following their
graduation, and the attitude of employers to the training these students have received;
*  allow a range of different types of courses depending on market demand; shorl: courses requested by
employers, sub -degree, degree or post graduate; regular full time, part time, or evening;
*  encourage institutions to raise a substantial proportion of the non salary recurrent resources they need
from non-governmental sources;
*  allow institutions full financial autonomy and control in the utilization of all self generated resources.
An opportunity to test such a model has arisen because of innovations already carried out at the Institut
Universitaire de Technologie de l 'Universite de Douala (IUT Douala) (only recently created as a part of the
university reforms of 1993) which has taken as its mission the training of students for employment and self
employment, and the creation of close links with enterprises in the area surrounding the IUT. The IUT has decided
to concentrate on diploma level courses instead of degree level, to limit enrollments to numbers that can be
effectively taught, to rely on private sector internships, and to generate revenues from part time and "a la carte"
training. Already the follow up programs on its first three small graduation cohorts has shown formal employment
of graduates to be over 80%.
Obviously, three years of graduating a small number of students however successfiul is not a sufficient basis
on which to create a reformed system of public higher education. The proposed project has as its objective the testing
of the components of this model described above. It1 is thus designed to institutionalize and to take to scale the
tentative reforms that are already underway at the IUT. Relationships with the private sector will be reinforced,
enrollments will be increased, new disciplines will be introduced (but only those with a symbiotic relationship with
the existing), staff will be trained especially in the teaching of practical programs, and new enterprise-creation
activities will be developed for graduating students. In addition evaluation and follow-up employment services will
be substantially strengthened. If successful, the IUT Douala model could then be used as a basis for reforming other
higher education institutions in Cameroon, as could a parallel model being considered by IFC with the technical
participation of the Bank.
The following performance indicators will be used in the evaluation of this program and in deciding whether
post-LIL lending in the sector is justified or not (qualification annual targets is included in Annex 1):



Project Appraisal Report                                                             Page 3 of 15
Cameroon                                           Project Title: Higher Education Technological Training Project
* Representatives from at least a dozen local enterprises will be involved in the panels responsible for the
development of each new curriculum each year of the project, and in the committee selecting major
items of equipment before they are procured;
* All students in regular diploma level training courses will participate in at least six months of
internships during their training throughout the project;
* Studies carried out by the evaluation and employment follow-up services enable IUT to be sure that at
least 80% of IUT graduates are employed, are in pre-employment internships, or in productive self-
employment six months after their graduation in May 1999, May 2000 and May 2001;
* Student follow-up services will enable IUT to ensure that from September 1998 each student will
complete a minimum of 30 hours of courses per week;
* The number of student participating in part time evening courses and the number of short training
programs will be doubled over their 1996/97 levels of 380 by October 2,000;
* Over two thirds of non salary operating expenses will be covered by resources generated by the IUT by
2000/01 fiscal year;
* One fifth of operating expenses (excluding salaries, but including overtime payments) will be devoted
to equipment maintenance from 1999/2000;
*   An average of 150 students/day will use the library services from 1999/2000.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1):
CAS report No.: 15275       Date of latest CAS discussion: January 17, 1996
This project had not been identified at the time of the latest CAS in March 1996. Nevertheless it
directly supports the third of the three main objectives of the CAS, i.e. to "create a climate favorable for
private sector development so as to set the stage for faster growth." In addition, as a part of the core
priority program, a fifth education project was specifically mentioned in the CAS with one of its
objectives to "promote reform of technical education to give people technical skills more suited to
employment needs in Cameroon."
In the CAS update presented to the Board in March 1998 this project is specifically mentioned.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy
Budgetary. There are currently six universities, four technical schools or IUTs (Institut
Universitaire de Technologie), and a number of "Grandes Ecoles, " with total enrollments of about
46,500 under the responsibility of MINESUP. The Higher Education Sector budget was reduced in 1993
by 80% from its 1991 level, necessitating major reforms. All local scholarships, and student services
were eliminated, teachers' salaries were reduced by more than 60%, and no new foreign scholarships
were allocated. All students were charged a tuition fee of 50,000 CFAF per year. Capital grants
disappeared. In addition to these draconian cuts, budgeted subsidies to universities have not been paid in
full. Most public higher education institutions have not fared well in this era of fiscal scarcity and are
still looking to the Government to rectify the situation. Only those institutions that have found ways to
raise a significant portion of their non-salary expenses (such as the IUT) and have become responsive to
the needs of the private sector have managed to continue to provide quality education and training.



Project Appraisal Report                                                           Page 4 of 15
Cameroon              R                           ProjectI itle: Higher Education Technological Training Project
Excessive enrollments. In the francophone tradition, all those who pass the Baccalaureat have
a right to be admitted into public universities. Thus universities tend to admit far more students than
they are able to educate or train effectively. Enrollments now are almost at the same level as they were
before the 1993 budget cuts, and average unit costs supported by Government have fallen from around
1.0 million CFAF ($4,000) before the crisis, to 250,000 CFAF ($400) after the devaluation in 1994. The
IUT has managed to limit its enrollments and generate non salary operational resources equivalent to the
Government subsidy and thus has maintained a unit cost in its technical disciplines of about 1.0 million
CFAF and half this level in other areas.
Employment of graduates. The intemal efficiency of the overall university system is very low,
with graduation rates of the order of 20% for the senior class. At the IUT, final year graduation rates
were over 90%. Few graduates from the ordinary universities find employment within a year of their
graduation and the overall unemployment rate of university graduates is around 30% (unemployment
rates rise with qualifications--only 6.5% of unschooled young people are unemployed, compared with
30% of university graduates). Such figures put in question the validity of the 24 years of schooling
bestowed upon graduates. Furthermore, the defeated expectations of many of the youth introduce a
dangerous element of instability into society. Follow-up figures for the first graduating cohorts of IUT
show an employment rate of between 81% and 89%.
Lack of legal framework for private higher education. A number of private higher education
institutions exist outside of any legal framework. These institutions charge fees of up to 1,000,000
CFAF for degree level courses and up to 750,000 CFAF for higher technician courses. Some of these
private colleges, such as the Catholic University, offer quality training, but are not linked to the labor
market and are not part of a cohesive tertiary education strategy. With the encouragement and
accreditation from Government, private institutions could play an important role in training technicians
needed by the economy, perhaps drawing from the IUT Douala model being developed under this
project.
Inter African cooperation. Experience gained through this project could also serve as a model
outside of Cameroon. Although there are IUTs in Congo Brazzaville, C6te d'Ivoire, and Senegal, none
of them presents the same combination of sub degree technical training and interaction with the private
sector as does the IUT Douala.
Management. The management of the public higher education system is cumbersome and
outdated. Staff involved in sector administration are qualified but unmotivated, given the fact that
their salaries were reduced by 60% five years ago, and they lack the tools necessary to carry out their
tasks. Though public universities have considerable legal autonomy, their complete dependence on
subsidies fiom MINESUP and salary payments from MINEFI, significantly reduces their de facto
autonomy. The IUT Douala is a cutting edge institution in this respect as it is beginning to raise (and
keep) increasing portions of its own resources. The IUT is already beginning to involve private
sector representatives in management decisions. Finally the IUT Director has creaLted a participative
management team at the [UT.
Government Response to Sector Issues Described Above. The 1993 reforms forced upon
MINESUP by the budget scarcities (such as replacing scholarships and student subsidies with significant
tuition fees all in one year), went a great deal further than those in any other country in sub-Saharan
Africa and established a framework which could be built upon in the years to come. They also
demonstrated Government's willingness to tackle university reform issues head on. It was under this
reform that the IUT was created by presidential decree. By June 1998 MINESUP will have prepared a
detailed evaluation of the 1993 reforms which will result in some amendments to the decrees introducing
these reforms. In addition it has drafted legislation to legalize the creation of accredited private higher
education institutions, which has yet to be presented to the National Assembly. As a response to the
development of this LIL, the Minister of MI1NESUP has decided to hold a round table meeting in July



Project Appraisal Report                                                                      Page 5 of 15
Cameroon                                                Project Title: Higher Education Technological Training Project
1998 to determine the role that the private sector could play in the management and financing of public
higher education institutions.
Universities are also being encouraged to improve their data base and to develop strategic plans,
as a first step in the development of a program that will eventually be presented to donors. This exercise
will draw on the evolving experience of the IUT Douala.
Two private higher technical institutions in Bamenda in Northwest Cameroon have submitted
requests to IFC for financing, one of which is being actively considered.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The IUT Douala was chosen for the testing of the new system of higher education because it
already embodies many elements in its current program which address several of the major current
problems facing public higher education institutions:
* The majority of IUT graduates find employment outside the civil service, with earnings in
excess of the level obtained by university graduates newly recruited into the civil service.
* IUT Douala has canvassed private sector operators regarding their labor needs. No other
institution has developed this direct link with the labor market.
* Internships in local enterprises are an integral part of the IUT program. The demand for
interns from local enterprises is more than four times the number of students available.
* The IUT has limited its intakes to 36 students per area of specialization to enable it to
maintain a quality program. Because of the success of its training programs there were
twenty times the number of qualified applicants as places available this year.
* The IUT Douala has already started running evening courses and short courses on demand,
which serve to raise funds to finance its activities.
With this strong foundation, the school is ready to go to scale, doubling the number of disciplines,
tripling the number of full time students, and doubling the number of part time and evening students. For
this, and in order to consolidate existing programs, the IUT Douala will need some significant
investments.
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed cost breakdown):
Component                           Category            Cost Incl.      % of
Conting2encies   Total
(US$)
1. Existing Disciplines                       Policy, Physical             1,359,000       23.7
2. New Disciplines and System Coherence        Policy, Physical            2,746,000       47.9
3. Institutional Development, Evaluation and   INS, Policy, PM             1,623,000       28.4
Follow up, and Sustainability of Policy
Initiatives
Total                                                                    5,728,000      100.0
Of which financed by IDA                                                   4,863,000       84.0
-~ ~ ~ s. . e1fgeneratd reo urces------- - ---------------------- - --..._... ...
Note: In addition, lUT's self generated resources will total about $0.36 million over the three year implementation period and S 0.26 million
for the increase in teacher salaries making a total of $6.35 million attributable to the project.



Project Appraisal Report                                                                Page 6 of 15
Cameroon                                            Project Title: Higher Education Technological Training Project
Within the present curriculum, the three existing disciplines will be strengthened by
introducing new training options requested by local industries. These disciplines are in i) management of
enterprises and administrations; ii) computer science, and iii) industrial maintenance. In addition,
transport and logistics management, an additional discipline is already selected and developed as a
priority by local entrepreneurs and will take in its first students in September 1998.
New disciplines such as electrical engineering and industrial computing (especially automatic
control systems, electronic maintenance, and electro-technique), mechanical engineering and
productivity (especially mechanical construction), and thermal engineering and energy (especially large
scale air conditioning, refrigeration installation, and alternative energy sources) will be added to the four
existing disciplines, both to strengthen existing dlisciplines and to respond to the demands of local
enterprises.
Use of LIL proceeds: See Annex 3. The use of project funds will be as follows:
*  C'ivil works ($1,589,000): All remaining derelict and unused buildings in the site will be
rehabilitated in order to provide a library, a multimedia center, three classrooms, staff rooms
and thirteen specialized teaching spaces. In addition there will be 1,900 m2 of new
construction to provide six classrooms and nine laboratories will be constructed.
*  Equipment ($2,847,000): Specialized teaching equipment will be provided for all existing
and new departments. Before procuring any new major items of equipment the IUT will
check with local entrepreneurs to verify that these are appropriate. In addition, twenty
computers will be purchased for the library to give students and staff access to library
collections elsewhere through the internet. Specialized computer programs, virtual
university equipment, and 5,000 titles for the library will also be procured.
*  Training and Studies ($753,000): A contract has been prepared for an initial two months
orientation for 24 recently appointed IUT staff and, two five months research training
programs for 12 staff. All trainees for this programs will be selected by a special scholarship
committee chaired by a representative from the Strasbourg IUT. In addition, administrative
staff will receive training in various Bank procedures. Finally, a number of studies and
seminars on subjects such as financial autonomy, relations with the private sector and
generation of resources, useful in spreading the ideas of this LIL to other higher education
institutions will be financed. Finally, the evaluation and follow-up services at the IUT
Douala will be strengthened.
*  Consultant Services ($371,000): The bulk of this allocation will be used to finance i)
architectural and engineering services to manage the rehabilitation and construction works,
ii) preliminary procurement agents recruited to help with technological equipment
procurement bid preparation and evaluation, iii) project audits, iv) implementation of new
accounting procedures and v) specialists to help in curriculum development.
*  Operating Costs ($166,000) will be used to finance equipment maintenance, internet and
virtual university subscriptions, project related communications field allowances, special
and second generation bank charges, and office equipment and vehicle maintenance.
Government is committed to creating posts and actively recruit for additional 40 teaching staff
required between now and the end of the project ($260,000); has agreed to provide an additional 15 non-
teaching staff ($50,000); whilst IUT Douala will increase its self generated revenue by $360,000 during
the life of the project.



Project Appraisal Report                                                           Page 7 of 15
Cameroon                                         Project Title: Higher Education Technological Training Project
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The IUT Douala will serve as a pilot higher education institution. Once its innovative programs
have proven to be cost-effective, feasible, and beneficial, they could be replicated in a number of other
institutions.
Institutional development and Sustainability of policy initiatives are crucial and will require
active involvement of private sector representatives in the Governing Board of the IUT; de facto as
well as de jure financial autonomy of IUT (both the Governing Board membership, and the de Jure
financial autonomy are covered by dated covenants) all students will complete six months of internships
during their courses with follow up by IUT staff; library services will be linked to the internet; and a
subscription to virtual university resources will be taken up. The evaluation and employment follow-up
services will be substantially strengthened. Students who plan to launch their own small scale
enterprises will be encouraged by the availability of financing for pre-investment studies.
3. Benefits and Target Population:
Immediate Benefits:
*   An increasing number of students will pass through the IUT and will find employment in
local industries or in productive income-generation activities within a few months of
graduation;
*   links between the IUT and industries in the Douala area will be further strengthened;
*   sufficient resources to finance all additional non-salary recurrent costs at the IUT will be
generated;
*   the Bank and the French Cooperation will work together with Government in supporting
higher education reforms.
Longer Term Benefits:
* An increasing number of agreements will be signed between the IUT and local private and
public sector enterprises, increasing the probability of sustained cooperation;
* industries which employ IUT graduates will increase their productivity;
* other university institutions will follow the examnple of the IUT by involving potential
employers in the design and implementation of curricula and programs, by requiring
intermships for students, and by generating their own resources;
* the Bank and other donors will selectively support an increasing number of tertiary
education institutions prepared to follow the tested model at IUT Douala;
Target Population: The target population of this project includes secondary school graduates
who succeed in passing the entrance exam into the IUT (5% of those who apply), evening students who
pay the full cost of their courses, and technicians already employed in industry who benefit from short "a
la carte" training. The ultimate beneficiaries are the entrepreneurs in and around Douala, who will
employ the graduates.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Full responsibility for implementation will rest with the Director of the IUT in Douala who will
act as de facto Project Coordinator. He will be aided in these functions by his management team, by his
qualified accounting and administrative staff and by the team of "cooperants" financed by the French
Cooperation until the end of the project. These staff will use a standard project management and
accounting program in day to day implementation activities and standard Bank procurement documents
as outlined in an implementation manual already prepared and summarized in Annex 4.



Project Appraisal Report                                                             Page 8 of 15
Cameroon                                          Project ritle: Higher Education Technological Training Project
Project operations will be approved anti implementation monitored by a project programming
and follow-up commission, chaired by a high level appointee of MINESUP, with representatives from
the University of Douala, the Ministry-of Public Investment, and some surrounding industries, which will
meet four times a year in Douala.
Government will open a special account in an approved commercial bank in Douala which will
be managed by the Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement (CAA) with a subsidiary account managed by the
IUT Douala in the same bank. Project accounls will be audited twice a year during the life of the project.
All expenses will be made according to a rolling three-month plan of operations, using standard
procurement procedures as outlined in the creclit agreement.
The management of the construction and rehabilitation activities will be given to a local
architectural and engineering partnership, with experience in the design and implementation of tertiary or
higher technical education facilities, selected on the basis of competitive bidding. Consultants will be
recruited to help in the preparation of bidding documents, the launching of the bids, and the preliminary
evaluation of the bids when necessary. Procurement agents will also be recruited to assist with the
procurement of equipment according to Bank procedures
To avoid excessive patronage in selecting appropriate candidates for training (a point causing
considerable difficulties in previous projects), the overseas training program for IUT staff will be
managed by a commission similar to the one established under the CF project. This commission is
chaired by a professor at the University of Strasbourg and includes two members nominated by him, two
by the MINESUP, and the Director of the IUT, as secretary. A contract has been developed with the
University of Strasbourg as executing agency on the same terms as with the CF project.
As the Director of the IUT is the driving force behind most of the innovations that have been
introduced over the past few years, his replacement--if necessary for any reason-- will require the non
objection of the Bank if the project is to continue.
The project will be of 3-years duration, with a 3.5 year disbursement period.
Monitoring and evaluation: As a LIL, the monitoring and evaluation arrangements for this
project are crucial, which is why the existing employment and follow-up services of the IUT will be
continually reinforced during the project. In addition, there will be a detailed mid-term review at which
time successful elements will be identified for wider replication. The mid-term review will take place
after one and a half years of implementation of the LIL (plus three years of pre-project experience of the
IUT) and will concentrate on six areas: (i) the status of graduating students, their current employers and
salaries, anid the employers' opinion of the applicability of the graduates' technical skills; (ii) the
number of private sector companies that have signed longer term contracts with IUT Douala and the type
of contracts signed as well as those enterprises that have paid for "a la carte" training; (iii) the proportion
of non-salary expenditures met from resources other than the Government budget and the actual
autonomy in the use of these resources; (iv) the extent to which private entrepreneurs are actively
involved in the Governing Board of the IUT and in taking crucial decisions relating to the future of the
institute; (v) the interest that MINESUP and other institutions are showing in involving the private
sector; and (vi) the accounting, financial reporting and auditing arrangements of the project.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
This LIL is the result of two years oi dialogue with NJNESUP on the impossibility of
Government alone providing the resources needed to finance quality and up to date high level training
essential if Cameroon is to compete in the twenty first century. Government is committed to encourage
accredited private higher education institutions to be established and, also the private sector to participate
in the management and financing of public institutions. In response to these conclusions and to the
Cameroonian Government's request of assistance in restructuring the higher education sector and in



Project Appraisal Report                                                           Page 9 of 15
Cameroon                                         Project Title: Higher Education Technological Training Project
developing a higher education strategy, a large investment or sector project may be attempted in the
future, not to regenerate or expand the previous system, but to create an improved system truly responsive
to the needs of the economy. Before this is done new models have to be developed and tested. One such
model can be tested in one institution over a short period of three years for a cost of around $6.0 million.
Since this institution already has a clear idea of what innovations are being tested and has already
developed a rudimentary evaluation and follow-up system it seems an ideal candidate for a LIL. A SIL
does not have either the simplicity in preparation, nor the flexibility in implementation of a LIL. Another
model, equally important in the creation of a reformed higher education system, is being developed
concurrently with IFC support and involves the creation of a private technical university offering courses
from foreign universities on a franchise basis.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed and
ongoing)
Sector Issues                         Project                              Form 590 Ratings
Latest Form 590 Ratings
(Bank-financed Projects
Only)
IIP      DO
Quality of general secondary education   First Education Project              S         S
industrial and agricultural training  Cr. 161 CM. Closed 1979
Quality of technical and vocational studies  Second Education Project          U         S
at the secondary level and rural training in  Cr. 320 CM. Closed 1982
northern Cameroon
Quality of technical training through  Third Education Project                 U         S
construction of CETICs in Douala and in   Ln. 1245 T CM. Closed 1984
Ngaoundere;,and through improvement in
technical education planning
Quality of primary education, vocational   Education and Vocational Training   HU       HU
training for job market, and institutional    Project - Loan 2683 CM (Education IV)
strengthening.                        Canceled 1995
Other development agencies
USAID: Improvement in quality of      Agricultural Education Project
agricultural education at the University of  Closed in 1991
Dschang
USAID Basic Education Project         Canceled in 1989
CIDA: Construction of 6 lycees        SOFATI Project (closed 1993)
techniques on a Turnkey Basis
Mission de coopiration et d'action    Programme d'appui au systeme
culturelle (France): Support for the  educatif universitaire camerounais
university education system, especially    (UNICAM) Ongoing
technical faculties and institutions



Project Appraisal Report                                                           Page 10 of 15
Cameroon                                          Project ritle: Higher Education Technological Training Project
European Union: Rehabilitation of ENIs,   Programme d'appui a l'ajustement
library books, teaching aids and charts and  slructurel (PAAS) 112 - Volet education
teachers salaries in the private sector for
1995/96 academic year.
Japan: Construction of 460 classrooms in   Primary school construction Project
existing schools in Yaounde and Douala.   (forthcoming)
IP/DO Ratings:  HS (Highly Satisfactory3, S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU  (Highly
Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Most Bank and other donor resources for education in Cameroon over the past thirty years have
supported vocational and technical education. However, the resulting projects had little lasting impact
on the sub-sector, be they projects with heavy physical investments, such as the Canadian Lycde
Technique, or those with largely (or even solely) TA inputs, such as the French technical cooperation
projects for the University of Yaounde, which have been underway for more than 30 years. Few donor
projects have ever been rapidly implemented -- the average life of a Bank project is nine years, as is
those of other donors using normal structures within MINEDUC or MINESUP. Many projects have
faced serious implementation problems due to troubled donor-Government relations, such as the USAID
basic education project, which was canceled, at least partly, because of an unacceptably high level of
interference in the selection of 36 teacher educators for training in the USA.
The first three Bank education projects concentrated on constructing and equipping earmarked
institutions. All suffered considerable cost overruns, but disbursed 100% of credit/loan proceeds (the
first was even allocated an additional credit), and thus tended to finance under 60% of actual
expenditures. All three projects took about 70MO longer to implement than the appraisal estimates.
Procedures were over complex, and implementation capacity generally weak.
The fourth educational project (Education and Vocational Training Project - Loan 2683 CM)
which aimed at improving the quality of primazy education, relating vocational training to the labor
market, and improving sector management in three ministries including MINESUP closed without any
significant achievements. Important lessons can be learned from the failure of that project, 71% of
whose loan proceeds were undisbursed and canceled, and none of whose objectives were achieved.
According to the ICR (report no. 15034), four major lessons can be drawn from the experience of this
project. First, counterpart fund requirements were high, and even when reduced after a loan amendment
were not made available in the amounts and according to the schedule agreed upon. Second, three
ministries were involved in project implementation with no common policy framework and no effective
coordination mechanisms. Third, there was inefficient management, especially in administration and
accounting. Finally, a demand for technical training did not correspond to the demand for trained
workers. There was insufficient involvement of employers and economic operators in the preparation
and implementation of vocational training activities.
Throughout the preparation of this IUT LIL, prime attention has been devoted to creating a
project whose counterpart funds would not directly affect disbursements other than taxes and duties,
which are being reflected in the budget, but which would normnally either be paid (or exempted) directly
by MINEFI. In addition, at the time of negotiations Government will commit as its counterpart
contributions i) the creation of posts for an additional 40 professional teaching staff over the 1996/97
level which is a dated covenant (an increase of 86 million CFAF in the final year), and ii) a 115%



Project Appraisal Report                                                          Page 11 of 15
Cameroon                                          Project Title: Higher Education Technological Training Project
increase in the resources for operational expenditures over the 1996/97 level, from the IUT's self
generated resources of the direct project costs, 15% is for taxes and duties. The counterpart funds from
additional salaries and operational expenses will total I 1% of project costs.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The IUT Douala was created by presidential decree (Arretes Nos. 008 and 009/CAB/PR of 19
January 1993) as an autonomous institute within the University of Douala as a part of the 1993 higher
education reform program. This decree also established the membership of the Governing Board of the
IUT. It has received the highest support from MINESUP and was even given some structural adjustment
resources by MINEFI to help it establish its first rudimentary facilities. It is one of the four institutions
selected by MINESUP to benefit from UNICAM 2,000 TA resources financed by the Cooperation
Fran aise. It was the Government that approached the Bank for possible support; it was the IUT that
invested its own resources (without any PPF) in preparing and revising several times its own project
document,; it was the Director of the IUT who made frequent trips to Yaound6 to discuss the different
versions of the detailed project document; it was the IUT that recruited a local consultant to teach them
how to use the Bank's COSTAB; and most importantly of all it was the Director of IUT and his staff
that developed the innovations that would be tested under the LIL. Government ownership is not in
doubt.
5. Value added of Bank support:
The Government, and the IUT through self generated revenues, would finance all salaries and
other operating costs. The CF (which has been involved with the IUT through the UNICAM 2,000
project), would continue to provide the core TA required (six posts), some staff training, and a small
amount of the most urgently needed pedagogic equipment. However, other essential investments exceed
CF possibilities, and thus it has requested a partnership in financing with the Bank (and has participated
in the appraisal of this LIL). The Bank's unique contribution would be to use its investment in the IUT
as an essential element in its ongoing dialogue with Government on the creation of a new model of
higher education which will become truly responsive to the needs of the private sector. Obviously also
the size of its investment will enable a number of the important reforms already being undertaken by IUT
to be fully institutionalized through the training of key teaching staff to enable them to be appointed as
"charge de cours; " the construction and equipping of essential teaching spaces, and the full
establishment of a permanent structure for evaluation and employment follow up.
E: Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic Assessment:
The Bank would provide support for investments essential for the successful development of
IUT. For an investment of around $4.7 million, adequate buildings, teaching equipment, and qualified
staff will be available to cater for 804 regular full-time diploma students and a similar number of part-
time evening students. The cost per student place (each used by two students) will be under $6,000
which is low by international standards for technical institutes. Amortizing this cost at a 12% discount
rate over ten years involves a cost per use of a place per student (assuming two'students will use each
place) of around $500, or 26 % of total direct unit costs. The total recurrent and amortized capital cost is
about 1.1 million CFAF per student per annum. Given the fact that starting salaries of new graduates
range from 1.0-2.0 million CFAF p.a. the rate of return to this investment will be high. Thus even
without the indirect benefits gained through the development and testing of the new model to be used in
other parts of the higher education system, this investment is justified.



Project Appraisal Report                                                           Page 12 of 15
Cameroon                                          Project ritle: Higher Education Technological Training Project
2. Financial Assessment:
Currently the annual unit costs in technical disciplines are just over 1.0 million CFAF and in
secondary disciplines about half these levels (with an average of 860,000 CFAF excluding the
amortization of investment costs). Marginal costs are 200,000 to 300,000 CFAF per student per year.
The present subsidy from the state for operational costs excluding teacher salaries is 38,000,000
CFAF. Teacher salaries are paid directly by NIvNEFI without passing through MINESUP or the IUT
account, and they amount to about 66 million CFAF. Self generated revenue is also about 31,500,000
CFAF. By the end of the project in 2000/01, the required government subsidy will remain unchanged,
teacher salaries will increase to 154 million CFAF and the self generated revenue will have almost
tripled to 91,000,000 CFAF. The increase in the total Government contribution by 40 million CFAF per
year should be relatively easy to support.
3. Technical Assessment:
Field studies have shown that the demand for interns in local industries is considerably greater
than the supply of students in the IUT in all disciplines, and this demand has consistently exceeded the
supply during each of the past three years. More than a dozen local enterprises have been involved in the
development of the new discipline "transportation management." Special non-specialized,
comprehensive management training modules have been developed for students likely to be employed in
small and medium scale industries. Employment information in IUT shows that 91% of 1994 graduates
are currently in regular employment, 87% of 1995 graduates, and 81% of 1996 graduates (the lower
figures for the later years are largely due to w?aiting times). Of the most recent graduates, depending on
the discipline, between 89% and 61% are already in regular positions. Relations between the IUT and
the local private sector are healthy; and one company has already signed an agreement with the IUT
Douala giving a long term commitment for the employment of a certain number of graduates and the
provision of regular financial support to the nJT.
4. Institutional Assessment:
Executing agencies: The IUT Douala is an autonomous institution under the University of
Douala, which in turn is an autonomous institution under MINESUP. The Rector of the IUT is chairman
of its Governing Board. The IUT Douala has managed to obtain a considerable degree of financial
autonomy from these two agencies. Since this autonomy is de-facto and not de-jure, the IUT must obtain
full de jure financial autonomy over the long-term. This will eventually be done through an amendment
of the official decree establishing the IUT bul it will be a long process (it is a dated covenant for
December 31 1998). For immediate purposes, autonomy can be achieved by MINESUP instructing the
Rector of the University of Douala to delegate his financial autonomy to the Director of IUT and to have
a "comptefleche " in the coming years budget specifying the subsidy allocation. The University of
Douala operates four faculties and three institutes, including the IUT, but has not been paying IUT the
fee-income it has generated over recent years (the IUT received only 26 % of the fee-income collected
from its regular students in 1996/97). MINESUP is poorly organized, makes little use of its ample but
unmotivated staff, and fails to collect even basic statistical or budget and expenditure data on the six
universities and their composite institutes.
Project management: The current director of the IUT has led the institute since its creation in
1993. He is highly motivated and competent and has the loyalty of a good core group of staff. He also
has the help of six French technical assistants who work well with him, and the CF is willing to keep
these assistance for the duration of the project. The Director is very familiar with the ways in which
business is done in Cameroon and is deterrnined to keep his project professionally and honestly run. As



Project Appraisal Report                                                           Page 13 of 15
Cameroon                                          Project Title: Higher Education Technological Training Project
long as the current Director is maintained in his post no major problems of project management are
envisioned.
5. Social Assessment:
Since students will be accepted into the IUT programs only on the basis of a competitive
entrance examination there will be no preferential treatment given to any ethnic group or sex. Offering
students good opportunities of employment at the end of their training will result in some reduction in
urban unemployment.
6. EnvironmentalAssessment: Environmental Category     [] A   [] B   [X] C
The only new buildings to be constructed will be completed on sites already developed within
the boundaries of the city of Douala.
7. Participatory Approach:
Preparation         Implementation        Operation
Individual Teachers        CON                    COL               CON
Individual Students        CON                   CON                COL
Private Sector Enterprises      CON                    COL                COL
Other Donors         COL                    COL                COL
IS: Information Sharing;   CON: Consultations;   COL: Collaboration
The management of the IUT Douala has not only involved teacher groups and students in the
preparation of this project, but has also made efforts to find out what training options the local private
operators would like to see added at the IUT. The attitudes of teachers, students, and private sector
entrepreneurs have been recently surveyed, and the results are largely positive. The ways in which the
IUT involves the various stockholders is yet another lesson that can drawn from this LIL.
F: Sustainability and Risks:
1. Sustainability:
The IUT Douala, already an institution of repute, will remain viable and grow larger and
stronger with the support of the IDA project. The sustainability of the project depends on the satisfaction
of the IUT staff (ensured through the possibilities for their training and by earning extra income in
teaching evening courses), the restricted size of the institution (ensured by limiting enrollments), the
continued cooperation with local companies (ensured by building up long term contracts with private
sector enterprises), and the development of financial autonomy. The largest risk is that the existing
director be replaced by someone less motivated and qualified, and less convinced of the trail blazing
mission of IUT. This risk is mitigated by the agreement with the Borrower that the terms of reference,
qualifications and experience of the Project Coordinator, who will be the Director, shall be acceptable to
IDA. A secondary risk to the larger mission of creating the elements of a new model for higher
education in Cameroon, is the possibility ofjealousy amongst the peers of the Director of IUT from other
parts of the Cameroonian higher education system. This can only be mitigated by strong leadership
within MINESUP.



Project Appraisal Report                                                             Page 14 of 15
Cameroon                                           Project rtle: Higher Education Technological Training Project
If the r esults of these innovations are positive (see Block A, Performance Indicators), a
somewhat larger-scale project could be developed for other parts of the university system which are able
to develop equally close relationships with the private sector. This larger project might be expected to
get underway iin January 2002.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of annex 1):
Risk                    Risk                Risk Minimization Measure
Rating
Project Outputs to Development Objectives
Pressures to expand enrollment              M    Reach agreement with MINESUTP on need to limit intake
size for both technical and academic programs.
The addition of four new disciplines over the  L,   Hold one discipline in reserve, to be implemented only
three-year life of the project might be too      when the other three have been successfully started
rapid.
L,   Limit the number of student intakes to intern position
Period of economic decline which would
reduce opportunities for intermships.
L,   Any new project director would be subject to IDA non
The Director of the IUT might be replaced        objection.
1,  Involve these heads in round table with private sector
Heads of other higher education institutions     scheduled for July 1998. Annual studies and seminars on
might fail to cooperate with the model being     key LIL elements have been included in the project.
developed at IUT because of jealousy.       Nl   Active Ministerial leadership
Project components to outputs
There might be a tendency of IUT staff to   Ml   Appropriate private enterprises should be given the
procure items of equipment that are not          chance to vet all important equipment purchases in their
normally found in local industries.              areas
Staff training opportunities that exist might  I\1   The scholarship selection committee should be instructed
not be sufficiently practically oriented.        to place staff only in practically oriented programs.
IUT staff might be so involved in the       Mv!   Use agents and consultants to assist in all the more
implementation of the hardware aspects of        aspects of procurement and physical implementation.
project implementation that they neglect a
follow-up of key actions
When equipment purchased through the        M    Involve the local private sector in the selection of all
project becomes obsolete or inappropriate for    important items of equipment. Create sinking fund with
the local private sector, sufficient funds not be  private sector support.
available for replacement.
Insufficient attention be devoted to key    L    Emphasize these elements in the mid term review.
innovations that involve only small
expenditures
Overall Risk Rating                         M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)



Project Appraisal Report                                                           Page 15 of 15
Cameroon                                          Project ritle: Higher Education Technological Training Project
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
There are two main controversial aspects: first, the proposal to give local private-sector
representatives a majority position in the Governing Board of the IUT, replacing about half the
Government nominees on the committee; and second the decentralization of most financial responsibility
to the Director of the IUT, thus eliminating intermediate layers, and the expensive blockages that these
often cause.
G: Main Credit Conditions and Readiness for Implementation
1. Effectiveness Conditions:
As a LIL, the project will not be presented to the Board. There will be no conditions for
presenting the project to the Regional Vice President, except for standard administrative conditions.
However, the delegation of financial autonomy from the Rector of the University of Douala to the
Director of the IUT was required prior to presentation to the Regional Vice President. In addition, the
inscription of taxes and duties necessary for the project in 1998/99 were to be included in the 1998/99
draft Government budget also prior to presentation to the Regional Vice President. These two
requirements have been met. The following effectiveness conditions have been or will need to be met:
*  the subsidiary agreement has been executed on behalf of the Government and the IUT Douala;
*  a manual of procedures in a forrn and substance acceptable to the Association has been adopted;
*  the IUT Douala has employed independent auditors satisfactory to the Association; -
*  an annual operation and budget for the first year after effectiveness has been found acceptable to the
Association.
In addition there are five dated covenants in the DCA, the first establishing and replenishing
regularly a project account in which will be deposited the funds needed to pay taxes and duties
(September 30 1998); the second relating to the numbers of additional teachers who will have to be
recruited in each of the three academic years covered by the project; the third to increasing private sector
participation in the Governing Board of the IUT Douala (December 31 1998); the fourth to increasing
the de jure financial autonomy of the IUT Douala ( by December 31 1998); and the last relating to the
establishment of the fellowships commission (August 31, 1998). The project is currently ready to be
implemented. In addition, the implementation of a financial management and accounting system
satisfactory to the Association is a condition for disbursement for equipment and vehicles.
2. Other:
There will also be a mid-term review of the project in January 2000 which will concentrate on
reviewing the employability and employment of graduates, ensuring that the skills of the graduates are
those that the private sector requires, checking the extent to which the IUT is generating its own
resources; and evaluating the degree of decentralization of responsib
lity to the IUT.
H. Compliance with Bank Policies
The project is consistent with Bank policies.                        4
Task Team Leader: Nicholas Bennett                      Country      er: Serge Michailof



Annex 1
Page 1 of 4
Annex 1
HIGHER EDUCATION TECHNOLOGICAL TRAINING PROJECT
Project Design Summary
Narrative Summary       Key Performance         Monitoring and        Critical Assumptions
Indicators            Supervision              and Risks
CAS Objective:                                                         (CAS Objective to Bank
Mission)
1.1  Create a climate   1.1 GDP attributable to  1.1 Follow-up of SAC III  1.1  Manpower shor-
favorable for private  private sector.        and ESAF                  tages are a con-
sector development                            conditionalities.        straint to private
so as to set the stage                                                 sector growth.
for faster growth.
1.2 Promote reform of    1.2 Employment rate of 1.2 Follow-up of       1.2  Employers are
technical education to    newly graduating   graduating students       looking for already
increase number of     students with         from the IUT Douala.      trained personnel,
qualified technicians  appropriate technical                           rather than
available to the labor  skills.                                        trainable personnel.
market in Cameroon.
Project Development                                                        (Development
Objectives                                                               Objectives to CAS
Objective)
1.1 A new model of public  1.1  White paper and    1.1 Appropriate    1.1.1  Jealousy of IUT
higher education more    texts specifying      documents verified      Director by peer's
responsive to the needs   the details of the   during supervision.     could hinder adop-
of the economy            new model signed.                            tion of new model.
accepted.
(Year 2001)                              1.1.2  Vested interests
in old system could
prevent adoption of
new model.
1.2 A number of public  1.2 Number of          1.2 MINESUP reports,   1.2 The adoption of a
higher education insti-  institutions           and ICR preparation    radically new way of
tutions, in addition to   adopting new         supervision visit.      doing business takes
IUT Douala adopt this     model.                                       time.
model.
1.3 A project document for  1.3 Project document   1.3 Appropriate    1.3 Support for higher
the wider adoption of     and credit/loan/      documents verified      education refonns
this model prepared and   grant agreements.     with donors during      not a donor priority.
submitted to the Bank                           supervision.
and/or other donors.



Annex 1
Page 2 of 4
Narrative Summary       Key Performance          Monitoring and        Crtical Assumptions
Indicators             Supervision             and Risks
Project Outputs:                                                       (Outputs to
Development
Objectives)
1.1  Assist in the full  1.1 An expanded,      1.1 Semi annual progress  1.1  Director of Douala
developmerit of the      improved Douala      reports and               IUT replaced by
innovations of the       IUT by the year       supervision missions     someone less
Douala IUT               2001                                           capable and
motivated.
1.2 Private sector       1.2  Amendment of     1.2 Copy of amended      1.2  Private sector
involved in the          decree changing       decree duly signed.      representatives not
management of            membership                                     interested in
Douala institute of      governing boaid to                             devoting sufficient
technology               give private sector                            time to manage-
a majority                                     ment of institutions
management.
12/98
1.3   Private Sector     1.3 Number of         1.3 Semi annual progress  1.3 Director of IUT
involved in            enterprises           reports and             Douala replaced by
management and         involved:             supervision visits.     someone less capable
curricula devpt.                                                     and motivated.
1998: 12 enterprises
2000: 12 enterprises
2002: 12 enterprises
1.4 Involve private sector   1.4  Full-time students  1.4 IUT employment  1.4  Private enterprises
in the training of  participating in 6         follow-up service        are not compelled
higher education    months of internship      report.                   to take on interns.
students (through   over 3-yr. program.:
internships).
1998 100%
2000 100%
2002 100%
1.5 Adequate course load   1.5 Students receive a   1.5 Verification through    1.5  None
for students             minimum of 30         reports and
hours of instruction   supervision
a week:
1998/99: 100%
1999/00: 100%
2000/01: 100%
1.6 Wide use of library  1.6 Students using    1.6 Verification through   1.6
facilities             facilities:            reports and               None



Annex 1
Page 3 of 4
Narrative Summary       Key Performance          Monitoring and       Critical Assumptions
- Indicators             Supervision             and Risks
supervision
Present: 50/day
(12/99: Completion of
library building
renovation)
2/00: 150/day         _
1.7 Follow-up of         1.7 Proportion of     1.7 IUT employment       1.7  Employers not
employment situation   graduating students     follow-up service          interested in the
of graduating students.  employed six months   report. Spot checks on     specific skills
after grad.:             local enterprises          given during
during supervision.      training.
1997 80%
2000 80%
2002  80%
1.8 Create a wide range of   1.8 Different types and  1.8 Semi-annual progress  1.8  Pressures to on the
to respond to market      levels of courses    report.                   training specific
demand                    offered.
1998 3 disciplines
(actua)
1999 4 disciplines
2000 5 disciplines
2001  7 disciplines
1.9 Illustrate that public   1.9 Proportion of non   1.9 Semi-annual progress  1.9  Official limits on
higher institutions can  salary operational   report and verification   levels of and other
generate their own  resources generated by     of accounts during       charges, prevent
resources.          IUT:                       supervision.             sufficient of
resources.
1998  60%
1999  63%
2000  70%
2001  78%
1.10 Study to define    1.10 Report completed  1.10 Reception of report  1.10 none
criteria of financial     8/31/98
autonomy
1.11  Allow institutions   1.11 Amendment of   1.11 Copy of amended    1.11   Possible objection
autonomy in the use of   decree giving          decree, duly signed.    from MINEFI which
self generated           autonomy in use of     Verification of         is against prolifera-
resources.               self-generated         practice during         tion of govt.
resources (12/98).    supervision.            accounts.



Annex 1
Page 4 of 4
Narrative Summary        Key Performance           Monitoring and        Critical Assumptions
Indicators             Supervision               and Risks
Project Components                                                        (Components to
_______ ______ _______ _________ __  O utputs)
1.1 Existing Disciplines.   1.1.1 Trained staff,  1.1  Semi-annual        1.1 IUT concentrates so
teaching space and    progress report, and    much on project
equipment in          supervision visits to    implementation and
place.                private enterprises.     installation of
hardware that it fails
1.1.2 Private sec. in-                             to devote sufficient
volved in selection                            attention to the
of equipment.                                  reform objectives of
this LIL.
$1.359 m
1.2 New Disciplines and   1.2.1 Private sector  1.2  Semi-annual progress  1.2 IUT Douala
System Coherence.        involved in selec-     report and supervision   concentrates so much
tion of program       visits to private        on project implemen-
options and cur-      enterprises.             tation and
riculum content.                               installation of
hardware that it fails
1.2.2 Trained staff,                                to devote sufficient
teaching space an,d                            attention to the
appropriate equip-                             reform objectives of
ment in place.                                 this LIL.
1.2.2. Virtual
university in place
end 1999
$2.746 m.
1.3 Institutional        1.3.1 Evaluation and   1.3.1 Evaluation during   1.3 Evaluation and
Development,               employment            supervision visits of     employment follow-
Evaluation and Follow-     follow-up service     methodology, and          up service given
up, and Sustainability     operating             results of evaluation     insufficient resources
of Policy Initiatives.     effectively.          and employment            to operate
follow-up service.       effectively.
1.3.2 Model being tested
in IUT Douala     1.3.2 Study of official
adopted by Govt.      texts.
$1.623 m.            _                           _-



Annex 2
Page 1 of 1
CAMEROON
HIGHER EDUCATION TECHNICAL TRAINENG PROJECT
Estimated Project Costs
in US $
Government          IDA            Total
Project Components                         (Taxes and duties)                    Costs
1. CIVIL WORKS                                    297,133.8     1,291,817.0    1,588,951.0
2. EQUIPMENT                                      532,486.2    2,315,034.0    2,847,520.0
3. STUDIES AND TRAINING                             30,109.8      722,769.7       752,879.5
4. CONSULTANT SERVICES                               5,425.9      365,241.7       370,667.6
5. OPERATIONAL COSTS                                      --      168,211.8       168,211.8
TOTAL                                             865,155.7    4,863,074.2    5,728,229.9
Project Cost Summary
by components
(US $)
Local       Foreign        Total      Foreign     Total
Exchange   Baseline
Costs
1. Existing Disciplines         398,746      835,448      1,234,195        68         24
2. New Disciplines and System   777,067     1,721,626     2,498,693        69         49
Coherence
3. Institutional Development    187,349     1,296,078     1,413,427        92         27
Total BASELINE COSTS         1,363,1642     3,853,153     5,216,315        75        100
Physical Contingencies           63,158       194,157       257,315        75          5
Price Contingencies              52,224      202,372        254,596        79          5
Total PROJECT COSTS          1,478,5464     4,249,683     5,728,227        74        110



Annex 3
Page 1 of 5
CAMEROON
HIGHER EDUCATION TECHNICAL TRAINING PROJECT
Procurement, Disbursement and Auditing Arrangements
Procurement
1.    Procurement Experience: None of the staff of the IUT Douala have experience in the
procurement of goods, works, and services under a Bank project (though one of the French
cooperants at the IUT has had such experience). However they have had considerable
experience under a project financed with French resources. In order to avoid delays in project
take-off, key staff at IUT will be given a basic orientation by the staff of the resident mission in
Bank procedures, and as soon as appropriale regional training programs are available staff will be
sent to participate in these.
Civil Works and Goods
2.    Procurement of Civil Works and Goods will be carried out according to procedures set
forth in the Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD loans and IDA credits dated January 1995
and revised in January and August 1996 an,d September 1997.
3.    C'ivil Works: The main construction activities under this project involve the
rehabilitation and construction of classrooms, library facilities, and specialized teaching spaces at
the existing site of the IUT. Six classrooms and 9 specialized spaces will be built for a total cost
of around US $1.1 million, and 3 classroomls, a library building, and 15 specialized spaces will be
rehabilitated for a total cost of US $480,000. All together 2,800 m2 will be constructed or
rehabilitated. There will be two relatively large civil works contracts, one for new construction to
be let under international competitive bidding (with a preferred margin of 7.5% for local
contractors) and the second for rehabilitation under national competitive bidding for around
$180,000. In addition, small rehabilitation contracts, each for under US $50,000 (for an
aggregate not exceeding US $300,000) will be let on the base of comparison of estimates from
three qualified contractors.
4.    Goods financed under the project include technical training equipment, books, journals,
internet and virtual university subscriptions, vehicles, furniture, computing equipment and
software. Most of these goods (with the exception of furniture, books and softvare) will be
grouped into packages costing more than US $50,000 per contract, and procured under
International Competitive Bidding procedures (ICB). US $2.4 million will be procured under
ICB (of which US $1.95 million will be financed by IDA). Where ICB procedures are applied,
standard bidding documents developed by IDA will be used, and a preferential margin of 15
percent, or the applicable customs duty, whichever is the lower, over the c.i.f. prices of
competing goods will be given to domestic manufacturers in accordance with IDA guidelines.
Contracts for furniture and other small items totaling about US $250,000 required over a period
of time and available locally at competitive prices, for which foreign firms would not be
interested, would be procured under NCB procedures which are acceptable to IDA. In addition
competitive shopping contracts of less than US $20,000 each for an aggregate total of US



Annex 3
Page 2 of 5
$120,000 would be allowed. The NCB document to be used for national bidding will be cleared
by IDA prior to the first contract for national bidding. Procurement for books (estimated to cost
around $125,000) will be carried out through limited international bidding amongst at least 5
qualified wholesalers. Procurement will be spread over the three years of the project.
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(first tentative estimates)
(in US$'000 equivalent)
Total Cost
Expenditure Category             Procurement Method           (including
contingencies)
ICB      NCB       Other
1. Civil Works                    1,100      180       300          1,580
(898)     (147)    (245)        (1,290)
2. Equipment, furniture,           2,400     250       245          2,895
computers, books, software.
(1,950)   (203)    (200)         (2,353)
3. Studies and training                       -        732           732
(684)         (684)
4. Consultant Services                                 370          370
_          -      (370)        (370)
5. Other Operating Costs                                166          166
-         -      (166)        (166)
Total                           3,500      430      1,813        5,743
(2,848)    (350)    (1,665)      (4,863)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA credit
Prior Review Civil Works and Goods
5.    Prior review thresholds. Contracts for goods and works in an amount of US $50,000
equivalent and above will be sent to IDA for prior review. Draft standard bidding documents for
NCB and the first three NCB contracts processed during a specific calendar year will be reviewed
and submitted to IDA for approval.
Consultancies and Training
6.    Procurementfor Consulting Services will follow IDA's Guidelines on Employment of
Consultants by World Bank borrowers, dated January 1997 and revised in September 1997.
Consultancy services will be required for architectural and engineering, procurement, auditing
and other specialist services. Selection of consultants will normally be addressed through
competition among qualified short-listed firms in which the selection will be based both on the
quality of the proposal and on the cost of the services to be provided. Short-lists for contracts
estimated under US $100,000 (all contracts), may be comprised entirely of national consultants if



Annex 3
Page 3 of 5
a sufficient number of qualified firms (at least three) is available. However, if foreign firms have
expressed interest, they will not be excluded from consideration.
7.    Prior review consultants. Will be required for all consultants contracts.
8.    Procurement for training will follow the norms and the unit costs already established by
the French Cooperation for similar training activities in order to ensure complete coherence
between the different donors, and will use the same French University as executing agent. The
5% management charge already negotiated is extremely low.
9.    Procurement information will be collected and recorded as follows:
(a)  prompt reporting of contract award information by the Borrower;
(b)  cojmprehensive semi annual reports to IDA by the Borrower indicating:
(i)  updated cost estimates for individual contracts and for the total project, including
best estimates of allowances for physical and price contingencies;
(ii)  revised timing of procurement actions, including advertising, bidding, contract
award and completion time iFor individual contracts: and
(iii)  compliance with aggregate limits on specified methods of procurement.
Disbursemtent
10.   The IDA credit is expected to be effective by July 15, 1998 and the project will run over
the following three years. Disbursements are expected to continue over three and a half years.
There is no PPF to be refinanced.
11.   Special Account (denominated in CFA francs): The authorized allocation will be 25
Million CFAF (US $420,000). Fifty percent will be deposited upon effectiveness in a
commercial bank in Yaounde, and fifty percent when disbursement levels justify (total
expenditures and commitments of over 1.2 million SDR). Like all special accounts this account
will be managed by the CAA. A subsidiary account will be established in the same bank in
Douala and managed by the IUT Douala witlh an authorized maximum of 50 million CFAF (US
$82,000), to cover payments of less than 10 million CFAF over a three month period and
replenishecd from time to time from the special account.
12.   Exlpenditures from the special account should be submitted for reimbursement at least
once a month or more frequently, if necessary. The special account may be used to pay for
expenditures either in local currency or foreign exchange through the commercial banking
system, against any category of eligible expenditure. All expenditures would be paid from the
special account. All replenishments should be fully documented except in the case where
Statements of Expenditure (SOEs) are authorized. Monthly bank statements and reconciliation of
the Special Account statement would accompany replenishment requests. Direct payment by IDA
will only be approved in exceptional cases, and on no account will the minimum application
amount be below 10% of the Special Account deposit.



Annex 3
Page 4 of 5
13.   Semi annual and Annual Budget Review. The IUT through the Comite de
Programmation et de Suivi of the IUT will submit an annual plan to IDA for its approval which
will include estimates of all proposed procurements and expenditures over the following 12
months. For local training and operating expenditures, a semi annual operation plan and budget
will be submitted for IDA's approval. Disbursement requests in conformity with the main
expenditure items under this plan and budget will be submitted to IDA for payment without
specific non-objection letters, except for expenditure falling above the non-objection thresholds,
as specified in the Credit Agreement. Only expenses, below the prior review or clearance
thresholds, which represent significant changes in the semi annual budget will be required to be
submitted for special non-objection of IDA.
Table B: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Expenditure Category             Amount in        Financing Percentage by
US $000's                EDA
1. Civil Works                                    1,200            85%
2. Equipment, Vehicles, Computers,
Software, Books and Journals                                  100% of Foreign
2a Software, & Printed Materials                220    Expenditures and 85% of
2b. Other                                     1,980      Local Expenditures
3. Studies and training                            630             100%
4. Consultant Services                             330             100%
5. Other Operating Costs                           150             100%
Unallocated                                        350.
Total Project Cost                                4,860
Disbursements under category 2b will not be able to take place until there is a financial management and accounting system in place
satisfactory to IDA.
14.   Government counterpart contribution will be met by assuring the creation of posts for an
additional 40 teaching staff for the IUT making a total of 71 staff by the end of the project and by
almost a tripling of IUT's self-generated resources being used for running costs. These will
amount to about 11 % of total project costs.
In addition for imported goods, Government will be liable to pay all taxes and duties that
might fall due; and for civil works, and locally purchased goods, will pay the imputed tax
implication by covering 15% of such expenditures. In order to ensure the timely payment of
these taxes, duties and imputed tax expenditures on time, Government will establish a project
account with an initial balance of 75 million CFAF . Whenever the balance of this account drops
below 35 million CFAF this account will be replennished up to its iinitial balance.
15.   The credit closing date is January 31, 2002 which provides 3 years and six months for the
disbursement of this three year project. The following table shows the estimated disbursements
by year.



Annex 3
Page 5 of 5
Table D: Tentative Disbursement by Year
(in US $ million equivalent)
FY99       FY00       FY01     FY02
Annual         1,5         1.8       1.0       0.5
Cumulative     1.5        3.3        4.3      4.8
16.   Disbursement by IDA against Stat,ements of Expenditure (SOEs). Appropriate
arrangements for accounting and auditing will be in place by July 1998 and the IUT Douala will
then possess the ability to process and maintain SOE documentation in a manner satisfactory to
IDA. IUT would claim reimbursement on lthe basis of statements of expenditure (SOEs) for: (i)
goods, works and equipment contracts less than US $50,000; (ii) contracts with consulting firms
valued at less than US $50,000; (iii) contracts with individual consultants costing less than US
$50,000 (including amendments); and (v) all operating costs.
Audits
17.   1'he project's accounts will be audited semi annually according to IASC accounting
guidelines by private audit firms recruited under NCB procedures, having demonstrated
professional competence and applying auditing standards recognized under IASC's auditing
guidelines. Financial reporting standards will be in conformity with recent IDA guidelines on
fnancial statements and norms of the IASCI. Financial statements submitted for auditing will
comprise as a minimum, a statement of nel: position (balance sheet equivalent), a source and
application of funds, a summary budget execution statement and summary statement on the IDA
Special Account. Audit reports in the long form will be submitted within four months of the end
of the period to which they refer. Assurance to this effect has been obtained during negotiations
18.   T'he annual work program incorporating the rolling six month training program, details
of procurement and other agreed project details would be prepared and submitted to IDA for
comments and approval by the beginning of July each year.
19.   Reports on project implementation progress would be submitted to IDA semi-annually at
the end of June and at the end of December each year. The June report would be submitted to
coincide with discussion of the draft annual work program and budget for the following year.



Annex 4
Page 1 of 1
CAMEROON
HIGHER EDUCATION TECHNOLOGICAL TRAINING PROJECT
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$'000)                    Planned               Actual
LENP/LENN                                      $20,000               $20,000
B. Project Schedule                            Planned               Actual
Appraisal                                      2/15/98               3/2/98
Negotiations                                    2/22/98              4/5/98
Timne taken to prepare the project (months)    4 months             4 months
First Bank mission (identification)          October 1997           10/09/97
Appraisal mission departure                    2/15/98               3/2/98
Negotiations                                    2/22/98              4/5/98
Planned Date of Effectiveness                  5/15/98                ...
Prepared by IUT Douala
Preparation assistance: No financial assistance of any kind was provided to help in the
preparation of the project.
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Nicholas Bennett
David Tchuinou
Helene Pieume
Lydie Munshikpu
Myrina McCullough



Annex 5
Page 1 Of 2
Cameroon at a glance                                                               8/21/97
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                          Saharan    Low-   I
Cameroc n     Africa  Income      Development diamond*
Population mid-1996 (millions)                        13.7      600    3,229
GNP per capita 1996 (US$)                             6tl0      490      500                 Lifeexpectancy
GNP 1996 (billions US$)                                8.4      294    1.601
Average annual glrowth, 1990-96
Population (%/6)                                       2.9       2.7      1.7     GNP                              Gross
Labor force (%)                                        3:1       2.6      1.7     per                           Gprimary
Most recent estimate (latest year available since 1989)                           capita                       enrollment
Poverty: headcount index (% of population)
Urban population (% of total population)               45        31       29
Life expectancy alt birth (years)                      57        52       63
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)              156        92       69               Access tD safe water
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)             14
Access to safe water (% of population)                 41        47        53
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                   37        43       34          -     Cameroon
Gross primary eniollment (% ofschool-age population)   B9        72      106
Male                                                 93        78      112                Low-income group
Female                                               84        65       98
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1975    1985       1995    1996
Economic ratios
GDP (billions US$)                            2.8     8.1        8.0      9.0
Gross domestic ihvestment/GDP               20.0    24.9        14.5    16.1               Openness of economy
Exports of goods and services/GDP           22.7     33.4       25.9     23.9
Gross domestic savings/GDP                   17.1    26.8       20.6     19.4
Gross national savings/GDP                   12.1    20.9       12.4     13.7
Current account balancelGDP                  -8.0     4.0       -2.1     -2.4                    /nesm
Interest payments/GDP                         0.6      1.7       2.1      1.7     Savings                     Investment
Total debtVGDP                               15.3    36.2      115.6   103.2
Total debt service/exports                    6.8     1 5.5     40.9     38.5
Present value of debVGDP                       ..       .      107.9    94.1
Present value of debVexports                   ..       ..    407.2   379.6                   Indebtedness
1975-85  1986-96    1995       1996  1997405
(average annual growth)                                                                     Cameroon
GDP                                 8.5    -2.9        3.3       5.0      5.3               Low-inome goup
GNP per capita                       1.7      0.3     -1.0       3.9      3.3               Lwicm ru
Exports of goods and services      16.1      2.0      -1.8       6.3      3.6
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
(% of GDP)                                            18S      1995    1996       Growth rates of output and Investment l%)
Agrculture                                   29.1     22.1      42.5     44.3     30
Industry                                    18.2    36.8        25.3    24.3      20 -
Manufacturing                              10.3     11.8      10.8     10.9       o _A \
Services                                    52.6    41.1        32.2     31.5    -10
-20+/
Private consumption                         72.0    64.2        70.8    72.7    -30
General govemment consumption                10.9     9.0        8.6      7.8               -GDI          CDP
Imports of goods and services               25.5   '31.6        19.7    20.6
1975-85  1986-96     1995    1996
(average annual growth)                                                           Growth rates of exports and Imports (%)
Agriculture                                   4.9      0.7       2.0      5.0     20
Industry                                    18.4    -.5.5       -0.4      5.5
Manufacturing                              13.8    -.1.0       2.4      7.7      10
Services                                      6.3    -3.5        6.6      4.7                  o .
Private consumption                           5.5  - 3.1         7.2      7.8    -109 92                               96
General govemment consumption                6.8      -4.7       0.9     -4.2
Gross domestic investment                     1.7     *8.0      -6.6    12.8    -20
Imports of goods and services                10.8     -1.2      -0.7     13.2             -Exports          Imports
Gross national product                        4.1      2.4       1.9      7.1
Note: 1996 data are preliminary estimates.
^The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond vill
be incomplete.



Annex 5
Page 2 of 2
Cameroon
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1975     1985      1995     1996
Dornesilc prices                                                                    Inflation (Y)
(% change)                                                                          30
Consumer prices                               13.6     11.5      26.9      6.4      20 -
Implicit GDP deflator                         6.0      11.2      17.0      4.5
10
Government finance l
(% of GDP)                                                                                 91   92            94   95   95
Current revenue                                 ..    21.0       12.9     14.4    -10
Current budget balance                          ..      9.5      -3.8      -1.9                   GDPdef. -'O-CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                         ..    -1.6       -4.9      -2.8
TRADE
1975     1985      1995     1996
(millions US$)                                                                      Export and Import levels (mill. US$)
Total exports (fob)                           512    2,339      1,662    1,721      2,500
Fuel                                          ..   1,535        454      330
Cocoa                                          ..     226       256      276      2,000
Manufactures                                          126       137       192
Total imports (cif)                             .      ,3        ,9        ,8
Food                            ..       ~~~      ~~~~     ~~~~~~~92  222  248
Fuel and energy                               ..        8         8        9       So
Capital goods                                 ..      382       460      440 
Exportpriceindex(1987=100)                      ..     126        121      121            90  91  92  93  94  95  98
Import price index (1987=100)                   ..      96         81       83                 o ExDorts    m Imports
Terms of trade (1987=100)                       ..     131        149      146
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1975     1985      1995     1996
(millions US$)                                                                      Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services                 648    2,725      2,059    2,159
Imports of goods and services                 730    2,573      1,572    1,867       2
Resource balance                              -82      153        488      302   o-            '  lI
Net income                                   -202     -488       -668     -595      -2                       94
Net current transfers                          62       10          9       74
Current account balance,
before official capital transfers           -221     -325      -171      -220
Financing items (net)                         203      363        185      302      4.
Changes in net reserves                        18       -38       -13      -82    -10
Memo:
Reserves including gold (mill. US$)                      0         13       13
Conversion rate (localUJS$)                 222.4    471.1      518.6    501.9
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
(millions US$)                                                                      Composition of total debt, 1996 (mill. USS)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed          420    2,946      9,203    9,323
IBRD                                         50      287        639      520                 G       A
IDA                                          50      227       443       513                1198    576    B
645 C
Total debtservice                              45      432        863      861                                  136
IBRD                                          4       35        148      129
IDA                                           0        3          8        8
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                               0        0          0        0
Official creditors                           56       94       -195      100
Private creditors                            48     -253        -94     -133
Foreign direct investrnent                    0        0          0        0
Portfolio equity                              0        0          0        0                      D
6768
World Bank program
Commitments                                  22      159         86      254      A - IBRD                    E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                37       50        68       163      B-IDA    D- Other mutilateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                          0       16         92       93      C - IMF                     G - Short-term
Netflows                                     37       34        -24       70                              .          ,,
Interest payments                             4       22         56       51
Net transfers                                33       12        -80       19
Development Economics                                                                                                8121/97



