Report No. PID6032
Project Name                     Cameroon-Higher Education Technical ...
Training Project (IUT-Douala)--LIL
Region                           Africa
Sector                           Higher Education
Project ID                       CMPE55684
Borrower                         Republic of Cameroon
Implementing Agency              Institut Universitaire de Technologie
University of Douala
Douala
Contact: Dr. Awono Onana, Director
Tel/Fax (237) 40-24-82
Date PID Prepared                February 13, 1998
Project Appraisal                March 2, 1998
Projected Board Date             May 15, 1998
Background
1.      Country and Sector Background
In response to the economic crisis that had gripped the country
since 1987, in 1993 government embarked on a major program of higher
education reform. All scholarships for studies inside the country,
student cafeteria and transport services (which had been taking 46t
of higher education budgets) were abolished and replaced with an
annual fee of 50,000 CFAF. A semester and credit system was
introduced, along with a third (summer) semester thus helping reduce
dropout rates. These fee and student flow measures resulted in a
reduction in student enrollments from 52,000 students before the
reforms to 40,000 after. For effective instruction it was still
necessary to reduce further the number of students in the university
of Yaounde, and thus the reforms also aimed to decongest enrollments
and programs by upgrading five existing higher education
institutions to independent universities, and three small Instituts
Universitaires de Technologie (IUT) were created in each of three
universities including the IUT Douala. Unfortunately these reforms
were incidentally accompanied by a collapse in the employment
market, and a blanket reduction in civil service (including
university) salaries, which meant that they really had no chance to
succeed. It has only been a few small parts of the university
system that have managed to take full advantage of the reforms and
develop really appropriate programs.
Objectives
The LIL project's overall objective is to take a number of
important innovations that are being developed in the IUT Douala to
scale, to clearly evaluate the impact and effectiveness of these
innovations, and to eventually plan for wider scale implementation



in other higher education institutions those innovations which have
the greatest impact on employment and private sector development.
The main sub-objectives that are being tested include the following:
-- to increase the enrollment of students only to a level that can
be taught efficiently;
-- to lengthen the academic year from nine to ten months;
-- to involve the private sector in all stages in the design and
execution of high quality, diploma-based training programs;
-- to ensure that all students participate in internships in local
enterprises each year during each year of their studies;
-- to ensure that the majority of graduating students find
employment in the months that follow their graduation;
-- to raise a significant proportion of the operating costs needed
to ensure quality instruction;
-- to train students to start their own enterprises;
-- to develop a project disbursement system not involving the Caisse
Autonome d'Amortissement (CAA).
Description
The project will be composed of three components: (i) support
to existing disciplines; (ii) new disciplines and system coherence;
and (iii) institutional development and sustainability of policy
initiatives. Under each of the components there will be
construction activities, purchase of teaching equipment, training of
staff, technical assistance, and other miscellaneous activities.
Financing
The project, which is a 3-year LIL (Leaning Innovative Lending)
project for only $5 million, will be fully financed by IDA. The
Government will invest about $1 million, and supplemental resources
of about $1 million will be generated directly by the IUT itself.
Implementation
During this 3-year project, full responsibility for
implementation will rest with the Director of the Institut
universitaire de technologie (IUT) in Douala. He will serve as
project director, aided by a management expert provided by the
French cooperation. The CAA is normally mandated to manage all
special accounts and to transmit all withdrawal applications to
Washington. However, in this project, a new decentralized system of
financial management will be tried as the IUT is more than 300 km
from the CAA in Yaounde. The IUT will open a special account in an
approved Bank in Douala and will be responsible for submitting its
withdrawal requests directly to Washington. All expenses will be
made according to a rolling three month plan of operations and the
procurement procedures outlined in the credit agreement. The
rolling plan of operations will be approved and its implementation
monitored by a project implementation commission, chaired by a high
level appointee of MINESUP, with representatives from the University
of Douala, the Ministry of Public Investment, and some surrounding
industries which will meet four times a year in Douala. The
- 2 -



Director of the IUT has already had experience in managing
significant donor funds and has qualified accounting staff among his
administrative personnel. These staff will be trained in the use of
a standard project management and accounting computer program.
Project accounts will be audited twice a year during the life of the
project.
The management of the construction and rehabilitation
activities will be given to a local architectural and engineering
partnership with experience in the design and implementation of
tertiary or higher technical education facilities, selected on the
basis of competitive bidding.
Sustainability
The Technical Institute designed by the project will
incorporate certain principles which will ensure its viability:
providing opportunities for staff to gain tenure; limiting student
intake and enrollment; building up long-term contracts with private
sector enterprises; and ensuring that the majority of recurrent
resources needed for all key programs are raised internally. The
three largest risks to potential sustainabilitiy are a further
economic decline which would weaken the industrial base of the IUT,
insufficient funds to replace equipment as it becomes obsolescent,
and the replacement of the current director with someone who does
not share the same vision and leadership characteristics as he.
Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The first three Bank education projects all concentrated on
constructing and equipping earmarked institutions. All suffered
considerable cost overruns, but disbursed 100% of credit/loan
proceeds (the first was even allocated an additional credit), and
thus tended to finance under 60% of actual expenditures.    All three
projects took about 70% longer to implement than the appraisal
estimates. Procedures were over complex, and implementation
capacity generally weak.
The fourth education project was an unmitigated disaster, with
71% of loan proceeds undisbursed, and none of the objectives
achieved. Four major lessons can be drawn from the experience of
this project. First, counterpart fund requirements were high, and
even when reduced through a credit amendment, were not made
available in the amounts and according to the schedule agreed upon.
Second, three ministries were involved in project implementation
with no common policy framework and no effective coordination
mechanisms. Third, there was inefficient management, especially in
administration and accounting. finally, the demand for technical
training did not correspond to the demand for trained workers.
There was insufficient involvement of employers and economic
operators in the preparation and implementation of vocational
training activities.
The Higher Education Project would require no specific
counterpart fund allocations other than taxes and duties (but would
- 3 -



necessitate the recruitment and payment by government of the
required number of staff to operate the programs effectively); would
involve only one institution in one ministry; would have a
decentralized accounting system in place prior to implementation;
and would give top priority to the establishment of close
relationships with private sector enterprises in the area
surrounding the institution.
Poverty Category
This project is not a poverty targeted project.
Environmental Aspects
This is a category C project. The only new buildings to be
constructed will be completed on sites already developed within the
boundaries of the City of Douala.
Program Objectives Categories
The project is a LIL designed to test the interface between
human resources and private sector development objectives in order
to create approaches that can be implemented on a larger scale.
More specifically if it designed to prepare youth for the employment
possibilities that exist, to create partnerships with the private
sector, and to generate the resources necessary for a quality higher
education.
Contact Point            The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C.    20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax: (202) 522-1500
Note:   This is information on an evolving project.    Certain
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending February 27 1998.
- 4 -



