Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3110 CM
Project Agreement
(Higher Education Technical Training Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
INSTITUT UNIVERSITAIRE DE TECHNOLOGIE  DE L’UNIVERSITE DE DOUALA
Dated September 23, 1998
CREDIT NUMBER 3110 CM
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 23, 1998, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association) and INSTITUT UNIVERSITAIRE DE TECHNOLOGIE DE 
L’UNIVERSITE DE DOUALA (IUT DOUALA).
WHEREAS: (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
Republic of Cameroon (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to 
make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to three 
million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 3,700,000), on the terms 
and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on conditions 
that IUT DOUALA agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set 
forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by a subsidiary agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and IUT 
DOUALA, the proceeds of the Credit provided for under the Development Credit Agreement 
will be made available to IUT DOUALA on the terms and conditions set forth in said 
Subsidiary Agreement; and
WHEREAS IUT DOUALA, in consideration of the Association’s entering into the 
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Page  2
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General 
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) IUT DOUALA declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement and, to this 
end, shall carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity 
with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, technical and educational 
practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and IUT DOUALA shall otherwise agree, IUT DOUALA shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) IUT DOUALA shall carry out the obligations set forth in 
Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, IUT DOUALA shall assist the Borrower in carrying out its 
obligations under Section 3.03 of the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.04. IUT DOUALA shall duly perform all its obligations under the 
Subsidiary Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, IUT DOUALA 
shall not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, 
abrogating, assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) IUT DOUALA shall, at the request of the Association, exchange 
views with the Association with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance 
of its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Agreement, and other 
matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b) 
IUT DOUALA shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by IUT DOUALA of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of IUT DOUALA
Section 3.01. IUT DOUALA shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs 
in accordance with sound administrative, financial and educational practices under the 
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in 
adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. IUT DOUALA shall at all times operate and maintain its buildings, 
office space, machinery, equipment, vehicles and other property, and from time to 
time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in 
accordance with sound technical, engineering, financial and educational practices.
Section 3.03. IUT DOUALA shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, 
or make other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such 
Page  3
risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) IUT DOUALA shall maintain records and accounts adequate to 
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial 
condition and to register separately the operations, resources and expenditures 
related to the Project. \0c
(b) 
IUT DOUALA shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) for each fiscal 
semester audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any 
case not later 
than four months after the end of each such 
semester, (A) certified copies of 
the financial statements 
referred to in paragraph (a) above for such semester 
as so audited 
and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors of such scope 
and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, 
accounts and financial statements as well as 
the audit thereof, as the 
Association shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of  
IUT DOUALA thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate 
in 
accordance with its terms; or
(ii)
the date ten years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its 
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association 
shall promptly notify IUT DOUALA of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request.  The addresses so specified are:
Page  4
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For IUT DOUALA:
B.P. 8698
Douala
Republic of Cameroon
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of IUT DOUALA, 
may be taken or executed by the Project Coordinator or such other person or persons as 
the Project Coordinator shall designate in writing, and IUT DOUALA shall furnish to 
the Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen 
signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Jean-Louis Sarbib
Regional Vice President
Africa
INSTITUT UNIVERSITAIRE DE TECHNOLOGIE
  DE L’UNIVERSITE DE DOUALA
By /s/ Jérôme Mendouga
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1 
Procurement and Consultants' Services 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General 
Page  5
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and September 1997 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
(a)
Grouping of contracts 
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods (with the exception of furniture, 
books and software) shall be grouped in bid packages estimated to cost $50,000 
equivalent or more each. 
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods and domestic contractors 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto 
shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works to be 
carried out by domestic contractors.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
Limited International Bidding
Books estimated to cost about $125,000, which the Association agrees can only be 
purchased from a limited number of suppliers, regardless of the cost thereof, may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.2 of 
the Guidelines. 
2.
National Competitive Bidding 
(a)
Rehabilitation works for 3 classrooms, a library building and 15 
specialized teaching spaces, estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $180,000 equivalent, may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of 
the Guidelines. 
(b)
Goods (furniture and small items), estimated to cost less than $50,000 
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $250,000 equivalent, 
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
3.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $20,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $120,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
4.
Procurement of Small Works
Small rehabilitation works, estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $300,000 equivalent, may be procured 
under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from 
three (3) qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The 
invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic 
specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to 
the Association, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to 
the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who 
has the experience and resources to complete the contract successfully.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
Page  6
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for goods and works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. In addition, draft standard bidding 
documents for National Competitive Bidding and the first three National Competitive 
Bidding contracts processed during a specific calendar year will be submitted to the 
Association for its prior approval. 
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section 
II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for services, estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants Single Source Selection
Services for staff training under Part B of the Project may, with the 
Association's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines. Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
Page  7
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $50,000, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of 
employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its prior 
review and approval. The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall 
have been given.
SCHEDULE 2 
Implementation Program 
1.
For the purposes of carrying out the Project, IUT DOUALA shall apply the 
policies, procedures and arrangements specified in the Manual of Procedures and, 
except as otherwise agreed with the Association, shall not amend the Manual of 
Procedures in a manner which, in the opinion of the Association, would materially 
affect the implementation of the Project.
2.
Until the completion of the Project, IUT DOUALA shall: (i) maintain internship 
policies for each category of regular students; (ii) ensure that all its regular 
students participate in internship programs in enterprises for 6 months at least 
during their three-year studies; (iii) not make any change to the student internship 
policies without the prior approval of the Association; and (iv) involve private 
sector enterprises in all aspects of the IUT DOUALA activities, in particular, the 
definition of programs and the selection of any major items of equipment to be 
procured, and organize part-time and short course programs on behalf of such 
enterprises.
3.
IUT DOUALA shall: 
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in Schedule 
3 to this Agreement, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof; 
(b)
participate in the annual review referred to in paragraph 4 of Schedule 3 
to the Development Credit Agreement, and in the midterm review referred to in 
paragraph 4 of said Schedule; 
(c)
not later than thirty days prior to the reviews referred to in paragraph 
(b) above, furnish to the Association, for its comments, a report in such detail as 
the Association shall reasonably request, including an evaluation of the progress 
achieved in implementing the Project during the current elapsed period, and a draft 
action plan containing proposals for remedying any identified deficiencies; and
(d)
promptly after said reviews (i) prepare an action plan satisfactory to 
the Association based on the recommendations stemming from the aforementioned reviews, 
and (ii) adopt and implement said action plan until the completion of the Project.
4.
(a)
IUT DOUALA shall prepare and transmit to the Association for its comments 
and approval, not later than July 15 of each year, an annual operation plan and budget 
which shall include, with respect to the next twelve months: (i) details regarding all 
expected sources of financing; (ii) estimates and phasing of all proposed procurements 
and expenditures; (iii) details regarding envisaged training activities for 
professional staff; (iv) information regarding intakes of regular full-time students 
in each of its Departments; and (v) information regarding professional staffing 
levels.
(b)
IUT DOUALA and the Association shall hold annual review meetings on each 
Page  8
such annual operation plan and budget not later than August 15 each year. IUT DOUALA 
shall make such revisions to such annual operation plan and budget as may be 
appropriate, having due regard to the comments emanating from the said review meetings 
and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, carry out the Project in the 
year in question on the basis of such annual operation plan and budget, as so revised.
SCHEDULE 3 
Performance Indicators
The indicators for monitoring and evaluating the carrying out of the Project, 
referred to in paragraph 3 (a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement are the following: 
representatives from at least 12 private sector enterprises are involved in the 
development of each new curriculum and the selection of any major items of equipment 
to be procured; 
all regular students participate in internship programs in local enterprises for 6 
months at least during their three-year studies; 
studies carried out by the evaluation and employment follow-up services of IUT DOUALA 
indicate that at least 80% of students who have graduated are employed or productively 
self-employed within six months of their graduation in May 1999, May 2000 and May 
2001; 
as of September 1998, all regular students complete a minimum of 30 hours of courses 
per week;
the number of students enrolled in part-time evening courses and short-term training 
programs, has increased from 300 and 80, respectively, for the 1997-1998 academic 
year, to: 400 and 100, respectively, for the 1998-1999 academic year; 500 and 100, 
respectively, for the 1999-2000 academic year; and 600 and 200, respectively, for the 
2000-2001 academic year; over two-thirds (2/3) of non salary operating expenses are 
covered by IUT DOUALA self-generated revenues by 2000-2001 fiscal year; 
at least one-fifth (1/5) of non salary operating expenses are devoted to cover 
equipment maintenance, as of 1999-2000 fiscal year; and an average of 150 students/day 
use the library services as of 1999-2000 academic year.
