Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3110 CM
Development Credit Agreement
(Higher Education Technical Training Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated September 23, 1998
CREDIT NUMBER 3110 CM
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 23, 1998, between REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Project will be carried out by INSTITUT UNIVERSITAIRE DE TECHNOLOGIE 
DE L’UNIVERSITÉ DE DOUALA (IUT DOUALA) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of 
such assistance, the Borrower will make available to IUT DOUALA the proceeds of the 
Credit as provided in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Association 
and IUT DOUALA;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01 The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through December 2, 
1997) (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
Page  2
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“CD” means Conseil de Direction, the committee responsible for the 
management supervision of IUT DOUALA, established and operating under the Borrower’s 
Arrêtés No. 008/CAB/PR and No. 009/CAB/PR, both dated January 19, 1993;
(b)
“Fellowships Commission” means the Fellowships Commission referred to in 
Section 3.08 of, and in paragraph 3 of Schedule 3 to, this Agreement;
(c)
“IUT DOUALA” means Institut Universitaire de Technologie de l’Université 
de Douala, an établissement public established and operating under the Borrower’s 
Decree No. 93/031 and Arrêtés No. 008/CAB/PR and No. 009/CAB/PR, all dated January 19, 
1993, and the Borrower’s Arrêté No. 005/MINESUP/F120 dated January 28, 1993 (together, 
the “Decree and Arrêtés”), as amended to the date of this Agreement;
(d)
“MINESUP” means Ministère de l’Enseignement Supérieur, the Borrower’s 
Ministry responsible for higher education;
(e)
“CPS” means the Comité de Programmation et de Suivi, established and 
operating under the Ministerial Decision No. 98/0134/MINESUP/SG/GJ/ TAD/MM dated May 
22, 1998, and referred to in paragraph 2 of Schedule 3 to this Agreement;
(f)
“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Association and IUT 
DOUALA of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such 
term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(g)
“Project Coordinator” means the Project Coordinator and director of IUT 
DOUALA referred to in paragraph 1 of Schedule 3 to this Agreement;
(h)
"Manual of Procedures" means the manual adopted pursuant to Section 6.01 
(b) of this Agreement, outlining the procurement, disbursement and other arrangements 
for the implementation of the Project;
(i)
“Special Account” and “second generation special account” mean the 
corresponding accounts referred to in Section 2.02(b) of this Agreement;
(j)
"Project Account" means the account referred to in Section 3.01 (e) of 
this Agreement;
(k)
“Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and IUT DOUALA pursuant to Section 3.01 (c) of this  Agreement, as the same 
may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the 
Subsidiary Agreement; and
(l)
"CFA Franc" or "CFAF" means the currency of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to three million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 3,700,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
CFA Francs a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against setoff, 
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. The 
Borrower may, in addition, open and maintain in CFA Francs, for the benefit of IUT 
Page  3
DOUALA, a second generation special account of the Special Account in the same 
commercial bank and on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be January 31, 2002, or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on January 1 and July 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each January 1 and July 1 commencing July 1, 2008, and ending January 1, 2038. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on January 1, 2018, shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by, (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid, and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
Page  4
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Development 
Credit Agreement, shall cause IUT DOUALA to perform in accordance with the provisions 
of the Project Agreement all the obligations of IUT DOUALA therein set forth, shall 
take and cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, 
services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable IUT DOUALA to perform 
such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would 
prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b)
Without any limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this 
Section and except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, the 
Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out in accordance with the 
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(c)
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit available to IUT 
DOUALA on a non-reimbursable basis under a subsidiary agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and IUT DOUALA under terms and conditions which shall have been 
approved by the Association.
(d)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in 
such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the Association shall otherwise 
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary 
Agreement or any provision thereof.
(e)
Without any limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01(a) of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall, for the purposes of making available its counterpart 
contribution for the financing of the Project:
(i)
open and thereafter maintain in CFAF an account (the Project 
Account) in a 
commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association;
(ii)
by September 30, 1998, deposit into the Project Account an initial 
contribution of CFAF seventy-five million 
(CFAF 75,000,000);
(iii)
thereafter, replenish said account at least on a quarterly basis, 
up to the 
amount of the initial contribution, or whenever its 
balance shall be less than 
the equivalent of CFAF 
thirty-five million (CFAF 35,000,000); and
(iv)
ensure that amounts deposited into the Project Account shall be 
used 
exclusively for payments made or to be made in 
respect of the reasonable cost 
of goods and services for the 
Project not otherwise financed by the Credit.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
the Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
Page  5
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan for the continued achievement of the Project’s objectives; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.04. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by IUT 
DOUALA pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall implement, beginning with the 1998-1999 
academic year, a program satisfactory to the Association, for training and deploying 
on an annual basis a sufficient number of teachers at IUT DOUALA to increase the 
number of these teachers whose salaries are paid by the Borrower from 31 for the 
1997-1998 academic year: (i) to 41 for the 1998-1999 academic year; (ii) to 52 for the 
1999-2000 academic year; and (iii) to 71 for the 2000-2001 academic year.
Section 3.06. By December 31, 1998, the Borrower shall take all actions 
necessary on its part to include in the CD, in a manner satisfactory to the 
Association, a significant number of representatives from private sector enterprises 
with qualifications and experience acceptable to the Association.
Section 3.07. By December 31, 1998, the Borrower shall take all actions 
necessary on its part to establish the full financial autonomy of IUT DOUALA, in a 
manner satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.08. By August 31, 1998, the Borrower shall take all actions necessary 
on its part to establish, in a manner satisfactory to the Association, a Fellowships 
Commission which shall be responsible for approving all training fellowships to be 
granted to IUT DOUALA teachers.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditures, the Borrower 
shall:
(i)
maintain, or cause to be maintained, in accordance with sound 
accounting 
practices, records and accounts reflecting 
such expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures 
are retained until at least one 
year after the Association has 
received the audit report for the fiscal 
semester in 
which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account was made; and
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of 
this Section 
including those for the Special Account  and the 
second generation special 
account for each fiscal semester 
audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable 
to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than four months after the end of each such 
semester the report of such audit 
by said auditors, of such 
Page  6
scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
have 
reasonably requested, including a separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
semester, 
together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their 
preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
IUT DOUALA shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement;
(b)
as a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall 
make it improbable that IUT DOUALA will be able to perform its obligations under the 
Project Agreement; and
(c)
the Decree and Arrêtés referred to in paragraphs (a) and (c) of Section 
1.02 of this Agreement shall have been amended, suspended or waived so as to affect 
materially and adversely the ability of IUT DOUALA to perform any of its obligations 
under the Project Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall 
have been given by the Association to the Borrower; and
(b)
the event specified in paragraph (c) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower and 
IUT DOUALA;
(b)
IUT DOUALA has adopted the Manual of Procedures in form and substance 
acceptable to the Association; 
(c)
the Borrower and IUT DOUALA have employed the independent auditors 
referred to in Section 4.01 (b) of this Agreement and the Project Agreement, 
respectively, in accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 1 to the 
Project Agreement; and
(d)
the annual operation plan and budget referred to in paragraph 4 (a) of 
Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement, for the period after the Effective Date and up to 
July 15, 1999, have been received and found satisfactory by the Association.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
Page  7
(a)
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by IUT 
DOUALA, and is legally binding upon IUT DOUALA in accordance with its terms; and
(b)
that the Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the 
Borrower and IUT DOUALA and is legally binding upon the Borrower and IUT DOUALA in 
accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time responsible for public 
investments and regional development is designated as representative of the Borrower 
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Public Investments 
  and Regional Development
Yaoundé
Republic of Cameroon
Cable address:
Telex:
MINPAT
8203 KN
Yaoundé
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
By /s/ Jérôme Mendouga
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Page  8
By /s/ Jean-Louis Sarbib
Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category.
        Amount of the
       Credit Allocated
        % of
         (Expressed in
 Expenditures
Category
       SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil works 
   900,000
85%
(2)
Equipment
100% of expenditures
and vehicles:
and 85% of local 
expenditures
(a) software and books
   160,000
(b) other
 1,500,000
(3)
Studies and
   470,000
100%
training
(4)
Consultants' services          250,000
100%
(5)
Operating costs
    110,000
100%
(6)
Unallocated
    310,000
  _________
TOTAL
  3,700,000 
  =========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the 
Borrower; provided, however, that if the currency of the Borrower is also that of 
another country from the territory of which goods or services are supplied, 
expenditures in such currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be 
“foreign expenditures”; and
(c)
the term “operating costs” means the incremental expenditures arising 
under the Project on account of vehicle maintenance, Internet and virtual university 
subscriptions, communications, office equipment maintenance, bank charges on the 
Special Account and the second generation special account, and travel and supervision 
costs but excluding salaries of officials of the Borrower's civil service.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made: (a) in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement; and (b) in respect of payments made for expenditures under Category (2) (b) 
of the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule, unless IUT DOUALA has established an 
accounting and financial system for the Project, satisfactory to the Association.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
Page  9
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures: (a) under contracts for goods 
and civil works costing less than $50,000 equivalent each; (b) under contracts for the 
employment of consulting firms  and individual consultants costing less than $50,000 
equivalent each; and (c) for operating costs; all under such terms and conditions as 
the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in developing, 
implementing and evaluating an improved system of higher technical education by: (i) 
involving actively private sector enterprises in priority program identification, 
curriculum development, student internships and employment of students who have 
graduated; (ii) improving the quality and efficiency of, and increasing access to, IUT 
DOUALA, and expanding its curriculum; (iii) increasing the number of educational 
departments offered within IUT DOUALA; and (iv) strengthening the institutional 
capacity of IUT DOUALA.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Improvement of Higher Technical Education and Efficiency of IUT DOUALA
1.
Increasing the expertise and performance of IUT DOUALA teachers and staff 
through in-service training with respect to: (i) the implementation of new curriculum 
within the Departments of Management of Enterprises and Administrations, Industrial 
Maintenance, Computer Science, and Transport and Logistics Management; (ii) the 
creation of three additional Departments (Electrical Engineering and Industrial 
Computing, Mechanical Engineering and Productivity, and Thermal Engineering and 
Energy) and the implementation of related new curriculum; (iii) the use of new 
equipment; and (iv) the use of applied research methodology.
2.
(a) The rehabilitation and re-equipping of about 3 classrooms, 13 specialized 
teaching spaces, a multimedia center and 1 library, and (b) the construction and 
equipping of about 6 classrooms and 9 specialized teaching spaces, so as to permit the 
increase of the number of higher education technical teachers and students.
Part B:
Capacity Building and Institutional Arrangements
1.
Improving the institutional capacity of IUT DOUALA to provide efficient higher 
technical education through: (a) strengthening the operational capacity of IUT DOUALA 
in procurement, disbursement, financial control, accounting and follow-up of the 
employment of its graduate students through the provision of technical advisory 
services; (b) teacher, research and administrative staff training; and (c) acquisition 
of equipment, furniture, computers and computer software, books and vehicles. 
2.
Carrying out of project feasibility studies by IUT DOUALA students who plan to 
launch their own small scale enterprises.
3.
Carrying out studies and holding national seminars on topics relevant to higher 
education such as financial autonomy, relations with the private sector, and 
self-generation of resources, in order to spread the Project objectives to other 
higher education institutions.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by July 31, 2001.
SCHEDULE 3
Implementation Program
1.
The Borrower shall maintain until the completion of the Project, a Project 
Coordinator with terms of reference, qualifications and experience, acceptable to the 
Association. The Project Coordinator, who shall be the director (“Directeur”) of IUT 
Page  10
DOUALA, shall be responsible for the supervision and coordination of the day-to-day 
management of the Project.
2.
The Borrower shall maintain the CPS until the completion of the Project, with 
terms of reference acceptable to the Association. The CPS shall be chaired by the 
Minister of MINESUP, and shall include representatives from MINESUP, the University of 
Douala, the Borrower's Ministries responsible for public investments, finance and 
public works, teachers and private sector, and the Project Coordinator who shall also 
act as the CPS secretary. The CPS shall be responsible for the monitoring of the 
implementation of the Project.
3.
The Borrower shall maintain the Fellowships Commission until the completion of 
the Project, with members and terms of reference acceptable to the Association.
4.
The Borrower shall, not later than July 31 of each year, commencing on July 31, 
1999, undertake, in conjunction with the Association and IUT DOUALA, a joint annual 
review or all matters relating to the progress of the Project and, in particular, the 
progress achieved by IUT DOUALA during the current elapsed year, having regard to the 
Project performance indicators referred to in paragraph 3 (a) of Schedule 2 to the 
Project Agreement.
5.
The Borrower shall carry out, jointly with the Association and IUT DOUALA, not 
later than January 31, 2000, a midterm review of the progress made in carrying out the 
Project (referred to in this paragraph as the Midterm Review). The Midterm Review 
shall cover, among other things: (i) progress made in meeting the Project’s 
objectives; (ii) overall Project performance against Project performance indicators 
referred to in paragraph 3 (a) of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement; (iii) reaction 
of the private sector enterprises over the programs offered by IUT DOUALA; (iv) 
requests for short-term training received by IUT DOUALA from private sector 
enterprises; (v) degree of involvement of representatives of private sector 
enterprises in the CD; (vi) conditions of employment of students who have graduated; 
(vii) terms and conditions of agreements entered into between IUT DOUALA and  private 
sector enterprises; (viii) extent to which IUT DOUALA is generating its own resources; 
and (ix) quality of the advisory services under the Project. 
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) to (5) set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to CFAF 
250,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless 
the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to 
an amount equivalent to CFAF 125,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals 
from the Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments 
entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions 
shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 1,200,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
Page  11
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the 
Special Account at such intervals 
as the Association shall 
specify.
(ii)
Prior to, or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for 
the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit 
into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested 
and 
as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been 
paid out of the Special Account 
for eligible expenditures. All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn 
by the Association from the Credit Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as 
shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account or the second 
generation special account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall 
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and other evidence 
showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to 
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that 
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request, or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
Page  12
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraph 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
