Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16200-MA
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MALAYSIA
SECOND WESTERN JOHOR AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2740-MA)
December 23, 1996
Agriculture and Environment Operations Division
Country Department I
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit              Malaysian Ringgit (RM)
US$ 1.00             RM 2.48 (at appraisal in April/May 1985)
RM2.50 (at loan closing in June 1996)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January I to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
DID          Department of Irrigation and Drainage
DOA          Department of Agriculture
ffb          fresh fruit-bunch (oil palm)
ha           hectare
ICR          Implementation Completion Report
mcm          million cubic meters
O&M          Operation and Maintenance
PMIJ         Project Management Unit
RISDA        Rubber Industry Smallholders Development Authority
Vice President:      Marianne Haug, Acting Vice President, EAP
Director:            Javad Khalilzadeh-Shirazi, EAI
Division Chief:      Jeffrey Gutman, EA I AE
Task Manager:        Syed Husain, EAIAE



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MALAYSIA
SECOND WESTERN JOHOR AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2740-MA)
CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface.                                                                                                                          i
Evaluation Summarya..
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ...................................1
A.   Statement/Evaluation  of Objectives ....................................................I
B.  Achievement of Objectives ....................................................9
C. Implementation Record And Major Factors Affecting The Project ........4........ __ ....4
Implementation  Record ....................................................4
Major Factors Affecting the Project ....................................................6
D.   Sustainability ....................................................7
E.  Bank Performance ....................................................8
F.   Borrower Performance ....................................................8
G. Assessment of Outcome ...................................................                                                     8
H.  Future Operation ....................................................8
I.   Key Lessons Leamed .....................................................9
PART  II:  STATISTICAL  TABLES ....................................................1.1
Table  1:   Summary  of Assessments ....................................................                                        12
Table 2:   Related  Bank Loans ....................................................                                             13
Table 3:   Project Timetable ....................................................                                               13
Table 4:   Loan  Disbursements:  Cumulative Estimated  and Actual ............................ 14
Table 5:   Key  Indicators for Project Implementation .................................................. 15
Table 6:   Key  Indicators for Project Operation ...................................................                             16
Table 7:   Studies Included  in Project ...................................................                                     16
Table 8A:  Project Costs ...................................................                                                    17
Table 8B:  Project Financing ...................................................                                                18
Table 9:   Economic Costs and Benefits ...................................................                                     18
Table  10:  Status of Legal Covenants ...................................................                                       19
Table  11:  Compliance with  Operational Manual Statements ....................................... 20
Table  12:  Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ...................................................                                   20
Table  13:  Bank  Resources: Missions ...................................................                                      21
APPENDICES
Appendix 1: Completion Mission's Aide-Memoire
Appendix 2: Borrower's ICR
Appendix 3: Economic Re-Evaluation
N,lap IBRD 18871R
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wiLhout World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MALAYSIA
SECOND WESTERN JOHOR AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2740-MA)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Second Western
Johor Agricultural Development Project in Malaysia, for which loan 2740-MA in the
amount of US$55 million equivalent was approved on July 15, 1986 and made effective
on September 16, 1986.
The loan was closed on June 30, 1996 after an 18-month extension from the
original closing date of December 31, 1994. There were cancellations of US$4 million
on January 25, 1993, US$1.62 million on September 22, 1994, and US$ 0.067 million on
January 10, 1996. The remaining loan amount of US$49.31 million was fully disbursed,
and the last disbursement took place on September 6, 1996.
The ICR was prepared by Messrs. Syed Husain (Task Manager) and Jagdish
Srivastava (Consultant Engineer), Agriculture and Environment Operations Division
(EA1AE), Country Department 1, East Asia and Pacific Region, and reviewed by Messrs.
Jeffrey Gutman. Chief, EA1AE, and Walter Schwermer, Project Advisor, EAI. The
borrower provided comments that are included as Appendix 2 to the ICR.
Preparation of this ICR is based on the Bank's implementation completion
mission in October/November 1996 and on material in the project file. The borrower
contributed to preparation of the ICR by offering views reflected in the mission's Aide-
Memoire (Appendix 1), commenting on the draft ICR, and preparing it's own evaluation
of the project's execution (Appendix 2).






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MALAYSIA
SECOND WESTERN JOHOR AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2740-MA)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
i.    Introduction.  In the mid-1980s, rural poverty incidence was still high in
Malaysia at over 20%, with the rural areas accounting for two-thirds of the nation's poor.
Government's policy emphasis was, therefore, on maximization of farm income of
smallholders, and expansion of agricultural production. In Johor, which was the largest
agricultural producer among Malaysia's states, the southwestern part was mostly flood-
prone and poorly-drained. About 135,000 ha of this area was provided with flood control
and drainage works under the Western Johor Agricultural Development Project (Loan
973-MA), which was completed in 1984. This was followed by the Second Western
Johor Agricultural Development Project (Loan 2740-MA). The project area covered
about 210,000 ha, of which some 97,000 ha was poorly drained and subject to regular
flooding.
ii.    Project Objectives.  The main project objective was to control floods and
improve drainage to facilitate development of 85,000 ha. Of this, 14,500 ha of senile
rubber on smallholdings was to be replanted with high-yielding rubber, oil palm
(including 3,000 ha to be developed into 30 mini-estates), and diversified crops, during
the project period under the ongoing replanting grant scheme of the Rubber Industry
Smallholders Development Authority (RISDA), and the remaining 70,000 ha was to be
developed after completion of project works. The project civil works were to include
construction of a storage dam (called Bekok dam); river improvement works;
construction of a catchment separator bund and a small flood retarding embankment;
construction of main and secondary drains; construction of new agricultural roads, and
resurfacing of roads and maintenance tracks along existing secondary drains; replacement
of eight bridges over the rivers to be widened; and flood protection for the town of Parit
Sulong. In addition, support was to be given to project management in the form of
engineering consulting services, equipment and vehicles, administration buildings, a soils
laboratory, and incremental project staff.
iii.   Evaluation of Objectives. Project objectives were clear and realistic, important
for the agricultural sector in Johor State, in particular, and Malaysia, in general, and
consistent with the Bank's country assistance strategy in the mid-1980s, which
emphasized raising of productivity on smallholder farms and rural poverty alleviation.
Conceptually, the project was neither complex nor risky.  However, appraisal



- iii -
expectations still turned out to be optimistic, and the project, when completed in 1998,
would have spanned 12 years, due to delays caused by a variety of factors (para. iv).
iv.   Implementation Experience. At appraisal, project completion was expected in
1993, and the Bank loan closing date was December 31, 1994. When the loan closed on
June 30, 1996 after two extensions, works on drains and farm roads were still continuing.
These works are expected to be completed by the end of 1998. The delay in project
implementation was due to several factors, including inadequate counterpart funding in
the initial project years, major design changes for the bridges, a longer than anticipated
time taken in completion of designs and award of contracts for drainage and farm road
works, and some land acquisition problems. Although project implementation was
delayed, the major civil works (Bekok dam, flood retarding embankment, catchment
separator bund, improvement of rivers, and reconstruction/strengthening of the bridges on
these rivers) had been completed by the loan closing date. The completed project works
have been properly maintained and monitored. Land acquisition and compensation, and
resettlement of 74 families displaced from the Bekok dam storage area, have been
satisfactory.  The resettlers were provided alternative land and other facilities, and
available evidence suggests that their current income and standard of living are better
than before resettlement. However, the issuance of land titles to the resettlers, and the
remaining payment to other land owners for acquired land, needs to be expedited. As
regards the agricultural component of the project, the replanting under grants by RISDA
is almost the same as expected at appraisal.
v.    Costs and Financing. At loan closing, project costs were estimated at US$107.6
million equivalent, compared to US$148.3 million at appraisal. However, an additional
US$22.2 million equivalent would be needed until project completion in 1998, bringing
the total project cost to US$129.8 million equivalent, or 88% of the appraisal estimate.
The cost underrun is primarily due to significantly lower costs of Bekok dam, river
improvement works, and land acquisition. The final loan amount of US$49.3 million
(after cancellations on three occasions from the originally approved US$55.0 million)
financed about 46% of the project cost at loan closing (38% of the estimated cost at
completion in 1998), with the Government financing the rest.
vi.    Results and Impact. The project objectives laid down at appraisal have been
mostly achieved. Of the 85,000 ha agricultural area expected at appraisal to eventually
benefit from the project's flood control and drainage works, approximately half is
estimated to be benefiting already by the end of 1996. These areas are also benefiting
from construction of farm roads, which inter alia have substantially reduced transport
cost of produce and inputs, and increased labor mobility to nearby towns (particularly
improving opportunities for women to work on off-farm jobs, since transport to and from
home is now provided by factories in nearby urban areas). Flood damage to property in
the project area and the human suffering and public costs due to evacuation of affected
people to the relief centers have been virtually eliminated.



- iv -
vii.   Project sustainability is likely as the borrower has adequate technical and
financial capacity to operate and maintain project civil works; and, on the agricultural
side, farmers are expected to have continued interest in growing oil palm, given its
relatively low labor requirements and reasonably good price prospects. The overall
outcome of the project is satisfactory. The re-estimated net present value of the project at
a discount rate of 10% is RM57.8 million, and the economic rate of return (ERR) 13%,
compared to the appraisal estimate of 14%. The lower ERR at completion is mainly due
to lower projected world prices for palm oil.
viii.  The performance of the Bank and the borrower from project identification
tlhrough supervision was largely satisfactory. The Bank insisted on thorough preparation
ol the project, learning from the experience of the Phase I project, and delayed appraisal
uLntil preparation was complete. The borrower performed very well on procurement. The
standard of construction, operation and maintenance (O&M) of the Bekok dam also
deserves special commendation.
ix.   Future Operations. The Project Management Unit (PMU) has already prepared
an O&M plan for project civil works. The Department of Irrigation and Drainage of
.lohor State (State DID) is expected to take over the O&M of project works from the
Federal Government soon after completion in 1998. Based on the experience of O&M
funding by the Federal Government and State DID for Phase I works, the estimated
amount of RM13.5 million per annum required for O&M of Phase II works is within the
financing capability of the Government. However, consideration should be given to
increasing cost recovery from the farmers by raising the drainage charges, which have
remained at RM 1 5/ha/year since 1970, compared to the current maintenance cost of about
RM37/ha/year.
x.    Key Lessons Learned. The main lessons learned from project implementation
experience are the following: (a) action on land acquisition and detailed designs for civil
works prior to project commencement helps expeditious project implementation, as was
demonstrated by the smooth and timely implementation of the Bekok dam construction
and river improvement works under the project; (b) in a rapidly industrializing economy
like that of Malaysia, with growing labor shortages, attracting competent technical staff to
the public sector will be increasingly difficult, and, therefore, greater reliance should be
placed on the private sector for the O&M of project works; (c) to ensure long-term
financial sustainability of O&M of project works, and to promote greater beneficiary
participation in O&M, cost recovery from beneficiaries should be increased through inter
alia appropriate adjustments in drainage charges;  (d) the de-emphasis on the
establishment of new mini-estates (none was established under the project) was an
appropriate response by RISDA to the many problems faced by existing mini-estates, and
was consistent with the Government policy to phase out direct involvement of the public
sector in agricultural production activities; and (e) peat soils should not be drained by
deep drains with large spacing; instead, shallow drains with less spacing and with water
level control should be used to keep the area drained without lowering the groundwater
level significantly.



I



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MALAYSIA
SECOND WESTERN JOHOR AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2740-MA)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
1.   Introduction. In 1985, when the project was appraised, the agricultural sector was still
playing an important role in the Malaysian economy, contributing about 23% of GDP, 40% of
total merchandise exports, and 35% of total employment. However, the agricultural growth rate
had slowed down to 3.7% per annum (p.a.), compared to 7% p.a. in the 1960s and 1970s.
Moreover, rural poverty incidence was still high at over 20%, with the rural areas accounting for
about two-thirds of the nation's poor. The Government, therefore, reviewed its sectoral objectives
and announced its National Agricultural Policy (NAP) in 1984. Maintaining the emphasis on
poverty alleviation, the NAP objectives were: (a) maximization of farm incomes to improve the
quality of rural life and facilitate retention of productive labor in the sector; and (b) expansion of
production of traditional and new export and food crops to revitalize the agricultural sector.
2.    At the time of project appraisal, Johor was the largest agricultural producer among
Malaysia's states. However, its rural incomes were about half of urban incomes, and the annual
growth rate of its farm output was less than half of the national average. The southwestern part of
the State, settled with smallholders, was mostly flood-prone and poorly drained. Infrastructure
development of about 135,000 ha in this area was successfully completed in 1984 under the
Western Johor Agricultural Development Project (Loan 973-MA). This was followed by the
Second Western Johor Agricultural Development Project (Loan 2740-MA). The project area
covered about 210,000 ha. The average annual household income for rural families in the project
area was RM356 per month, which was about equal to the official estimate of the rural poverty
income level.
3.    Statement of Objectives. The main project objective was to control floods and improve
drainage to facilitate development of 85,000 ha in the project area. Of this, 14,500 ha of senile
rubber on smallholdings was to be replanted with high-yielding rubber (3,000 ha), oil palm
(10,000 ha, including 3,000 ha to be developed into 30 mini-estates), and diversified crops (1,500
ha) during the project period under the ongoing replanting grant scheme of the Rubber Industry
Smallholders Development Authority (RISDA), and the remaining 70,000 ha (including 15,000
ha of coconut to be intercropped with cocoa, coffee and fruits) was to be developed after
completion of project works, as part of the ongoing programs under several agencies. The project
civil works were to include: (a) construction of a storage dam (called Bekok dam); (b) river
improvement works, including river enlargement (79 km), river realignment (14 km), and new
levees along tidal reaches (55 km); (c) construction of a catchment separator bund (12 km), and a
flood-retarding embankment; (d) construction of a main drainage system consisting of high level



- 2 -
drains (146 km in non-flooded areas and 69 km in flooded areas) and associated structures; (e)
replacement of eight existing bridges on the main rivers; (f) flood protection for the town of Parit
Sulong; and (g) development of three coastal blocks through construction of secondary drains (85
km), new  agricultural roads (112 km), and resurfacing of existing roads (920 km) and
maintenance tracks along existing secondary drains (350 km). In addition, support was to be
given to project management in the form of engineering consultancy services, equipment and
vehicles, administration buildings, a soils laboratory, and incremental project staff.
4.    Evaluation of Objectives. Project objectives were clear and realistic; important for the
agricultural sector in Johor State, in particular, and Malaysia, in general; and consistent with the
Bank's country assistance strategy in the mid-1980s, which emphasised raising of productivity on
smallholder farms and rural poverty alleviation. Conceptually, the project was neither complex
nor risky, and, considering that it was the second phase utilizing a project organization which had
already evolved and the experience already gained during the first phase, it did not place any
significantly heavy demands on the borrower's implementation capacity. The major project risks,
viz., land acquisition delays and inadequate counterpart funding due to government budgetary
problems, were correctly identified at appraisal. These risks were incorporated into project design
by having a conservative pace of implementation over seven years, including a lead time of one
year prior to commencement of works during which land acquisition and preparation of further
detailed designs would proceed. However, appraisal expectations still turned out to be optimistic,
and the project, when completed in 1998, would have spanned 12 years, due to delays caused by a
variety of factors (para. 19).
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
5.    Although project implementation was delayed, the major civil works (Bekok dam, flood
retarding   embankment,  catchment  separator  bund,  improvement  of  rivers,  and
reconstruction/strengthening of the bridges on these rivers) had been completed by the revised
loan closing date of June 30, 1996, and the project had substantially achieved its main physical
objective of providing flood control and drainage. The following benefits have already occurred:
(a) of the 85,000 ha agricultural area expected at appraisal to eventually benefit from project flood
control and drainage works, approximately half is estimated to be benefiting already by the end of
1996, which includes areas replanted under RISDA grants, previously abandoned area brought
under cultivation, areas heavily damaged in the past due to frequent floods now enjoying
sustained production, and areas enjoying increases in yields due to better drainage; (b) all the
above areas are benefiting from construction of farm roads, which inter alia have substantially
reduced transport cost of produce and inputs, and increased labor mobility to nearby towns
(particularly improving opportunities for women to work on off-farm jobs, since transport to and
from home is now provided by factories in nearby urban areas); (c) the construction and
strengthening of bridges has led to an increase in the volume of traffic and savings in transport
costs; (d) increased pumping from the Bekok river has improved water supply to nearby towns;
and (e) flood damage to property in the project area, and the human suffering and public costs due
to evacuation of affected people to the relief centers, have been virtually eliminated. The entire
85,000 ha is expected to be relieved from internal flooding and to have good road access when the
drainage and farm road works are completed in 1998.



6.    Poverty Alleviation Impact. To assess project impact, a rapid survey was undertaken by
the Project Management Unit (PMU) in October 1996 in five blocks representing different soil
types and stages of development. Preliminary results of the survey indicate that flood occurrence
and duration were reduced, average farm incomes doubled, and total household incomes
quadrupled after the project (details are in the borrower's ICR in Appendix 2). The average farm
income reported is RM4,330. This income is low, since oil palm, which is the predominant crop
in the area, is mostly young in the five surveyed blocks benefiting from flood control. With a 2.5
hla average farm size in the project area, the net farm income from mature oil palm would be about
RM8,000-8,500 per annum or RM700 per month in current prices at the end of 1996. Since these
returns are considerably higher than the official poverty threshold of about RM400 per family per
month, the project has had a significant poverty alleviation impact already. In contrast to farm
income, the average total household income reported in the survey is RMI 1.500 after the project,
compared to RM2,1 00 before.  A significant part of this increase is attributable to better
employment opportunities for household members due to the improved roads system under the
pro.ject.
7.    Institutional Impact. Although not included in the original scope of project activities,
the Bank and the borrower agreed to include the training of a few staff under the project. Thirteen
staff attended overseas short courses in water management. land drainage, and polder
development, and seven staff made overseas training visits to drainage projects. Training courses
were also held locally, for which limited training equipment was procured.
°.    Environmental Impact. The overall environmental impact of the project is assessed to
be positive. With the elimination of flooding, the farming families, who had left the area in
search of better livelihood, are returning to the area. Some environmental aspects deserve special
mention: (a) to reduce flooding, the project adopted the environmentally-friendly solution of
widening and deepening the rivers, including proper disposal of the excavated material, instead of
the unfriendly solution of constructing levees along the rivers: (b) the project contributed to
environmental improvement by eliminating riverside swamps; (c) the negative implications of'
Bekok reservoir construction were minimal, since mostly rubber and oil palm plantations were
submerged. The reservoir water quality is being regularly monitored; and (d) a study of peat soils
behaviour, not originally included in the project, was undertaken and provided useful guidelines
to the Government to enable it to formulate at a later date a policy for management of these soils.
Plantation of rubber and oil palm on these soils, when provided necessary drainage for increasing
yields, causes settlements of'these soils, as established by monitoring studies conducted under the
project. A specialized international institute known for its work on peat soils was contracted for
the interpretation and analysis of' tle monitoring data collected. The analysis of the data showed
that water level in the drains needed better control, to avoid settlement of' peat soils and
consequent desiccation. The study concluded that deep secondary drains with larger spacing had
inferior performance as they lowered the water table excessively near the drains, causing
undesirable settlements. The study confirmed the importance of tertiary drains and of maintaining
the water level high enough in these drains by constructing check structures.
9.    Resettlement. The land acquired for civil works did not llave any permanent residents. In
the Bekok reservoir area, 90 squatter families were initially identified as engaged in agricultural



-4 -
operations. After a detailed review, it was found that only 74 families had to be resettled.
Accordingly, facilities were created for access to the selected resettlement site and land
development carried out by the concerned agencies, and the families shifted in time to permit the
filling of the reservoir in 1990. Each family was provided alternative land (3 acres or 1.2 ha),
which is now mostly planted with rubber, since the resettlers had previous experience with this
crop. The resettlers also received assistance from the Department of Health and Social Welfare in
the first three years, and extension services for rubber were and are provided by RISDA. A socio-
economic survey carried out in 1994 by the Ministry of Agriculture showed that only two families
had incomes less than RM 200 per month, and were thus in the hard-core poor category. These
two families received assistance under the Government's Poverty Eradication Program. In late
1996, only 52 families were still living in the resettlement site; the other 22 families lived in
nearby towns and came to the resettlement site to take care of their farms. Most of the rubber
trees are now under tapping, and this supplements the resettlers' income from work in the
adjacent private estates (some resettlers also get income even now from their plantations in the
Bekok reservoir area). Available evidence suggests that the current income and standard of living
of the resettlers are better than before resettlement. However, due to cumbersome clearances
required, the process of providing land titles to these resettlers has not yet been completed,
although initiated about four years ago. This process needs to be expedited.
C. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
Implementation Record
10.   Civil Works Component. The commencement of civil works was generally delayed, and
execution took longer than envisaged, except in the case of the Bekok dam, as shown below:
Civil Works                           Start                 Completion
SAR         Actual       SAR          Actual
Bekok Dam                      02-87        07-87        01-90        11-90
Flood Retarding Embankment     n.s.         10-92        n.s.         05-95
Catchment Separator Bund       07-89        09-92        12-90        09-94
River Improvement Works        08-87 to     06-89 to     01-91 to     09-93 to
06-89       07-92        12-92        11-95
Bridges                        07-88        04-89 to     06-90        03-92 to
03-93                    10-94
Drains and Roads               01-88 to     01-91 to     12-89 to     02-93 to
01-91       12-95        12-93        05-98
(n.s. = not specified)
11.   The Bekok dam was constructed on a tributary of the Bekok river, where a reservoir of
sufficient capacity was created, and the main river diverted to it by constructing a 6.5 kin long
feeder channel. A panel of experts (POE) was engaged for review of the design consultants'



- 5 -
recommendations, but due to delay in its appointment, the POE had its role limited to the
implementation period. As executed, the main dam has two sections, with a height of about 16 m
and a total length of 3,900 m, and there are 1 1 saddle dams having a total length of 1,900 m.
There were no major implementation problems. The dam is well maintained and is being
monitored for safety. The performance of the dam is satisfactory. So far, the inflow floods have
not been large, the uncontrolled concrete spillway (20 m long) having run only twice, and
emergency unlined spillway (250 m long) having not run at all. The twin radial gate-controlled
outlets have been used continuously to control the outflow from the reservoir. The dam has the
dual purpose of holding the floods from the catchment and providing municipal water supply.
The flood routing through the reservoir made allowance for about 24 mcm of capacity for water
supply up to the year 2010, and 51 mem thereafter. Although the gate-controlled pipe for
municipal water has not been used for delivering direct supply, about 21.5 mcm (57,000 cm/day)
of water is being pumped from the Bekok river about 2 km downstream of the dam by the private
water supply company.
12. The flood retarding embankment on Simpang Kiri river (maximum height of 2.7 m and
length of 1,120 m), the uncontrolled concrete overflow spillway (11 m long), the uncontrolled
river sluices, and the catchment separator bund between Simpang Kiri and Bekok rivers
(maximum height of 3 m and length of 5,590 m) were satisfactorily completed, although with
delay, due to slower than expected completion of designs and inadequate counterpart funds.
13.   The river improvement works were completed on Sembrong, Simpang Kanan, Bekok, and
Simpang Kiri, by widening and deepening of the section and limited re-alignment. During
detailed review of implementation designs carried out by the supervision consultants, the levees
envisaged at appraisal for confining flood water to the lower reaches of the rivers were mostly
replaced by section widening and deepening. Construction started three years late due to
inadequate counterpart funding and delays in finalization of designs and tender documents. There
were also delays in land acquisition for river widening and disposal of excavated materials. The
river improvements resulted in major relief to the town of Parit Sulong from flood damages. The
protection works for this town envisaged at appraisal were, therefore, not implemented under the
project.
14.   As regards replacement of eight bridges envisaged at appraisal for removing obstructions
to the passage of floods down the rivers, further examination by the supervision consultants
revealed that nine bridges needed replacement with greater width to accommodate future traffic,
while two others required strengthening to ensure that there was no obstruction to the river flow.
The reconstruction/strengthening of the 11 bridges was completed with major delays, mainly due
to the increased work, problems created by the failure of two contractors, and delay in land
acquisition. The cost of the work on the bridges increased substantially (para. 18), but the
additional investment was worthwhile.
15.   The execution of the drainage works and farm roads was divided into 18 contract
packages. At loan closing in June 1996, the contracts for all the packages had been awarded, and
works had already been completed against four contracts, and were in an advanced stage (likely
completion within 1996) against nine contracts. Of the remaining five contracts, works against



- 6 -
two are scheduled to be completed by the end of 1997, and against the other three by the end of
1998. The delay in the commencement of work was mainly due to the long time taken in the
preparation of designs. These designs were prepared by the Department of Irrigation and
Drainage (DID), which had a shortage of engineers. The pace of implementation was affected by
the shortage of construction materials and transport vehicles, which was a national problem in the
past two years, due to the construction boom in the country. The program for the construction of
the tertiary drains, which was to be implemented by the farmers themselves under guidance from
the project, progressed well in the areas not having peat soils, but was slow in the area of peat
soils. In the latter area, construction of the tertiaries by the farmers will be supervised by the DID
to ensure proper control of the ground water level, as recommended by the study of the behavior
of peat soils in the area (para. 8).
16.   Agricultural Component. The replanting of about 14,300 ha of old rubber under grants
by RISDA was almost the same as expected at appraisal (14,500 ha). About 9,200 ha was
replanted with oil palm, 2,800 ha with high-yielding rubber, and 2,300 with other crops (mainly
fruits). In contrast to the appraisal expectation that 30 mini-estates for oil palm on 3,000 ha
would be established under the project, none was established. This was due to the fact that
RISDA recognized many problems in the existing mini-estates and took an appropriate policy
decision to de-emphasize establishment of new mini-estates.
17.  Project Management Support Component. The buildings subcomponent was limited to
the construction of the Farmers' Development Center (FDC), the building for the project office
having been completed prior to the effectiveness of the Bank loan. The FDC was at an advanced
stage of construction by the end of 1996. The proposed laboratory for the Department of
Agriculture for monitoring acid sulphate soils was constructed, but funded from a source other
than the Bank loan. The procurement of equipment and vehicles was limited to a few items (one
front end loader, one backhoe, six four-wheel drive vehicles, and a few office equipment).
18.   Project Costs and Financing. At loan closing, project costs were estimated at US$107.6
million equivalent, compared to US$148.3 million at appraisal. However, an additional US$22.2
million equivalent would be needed until project completion in 1998, bringing the total project
cost to US$129.8 million equivalent, or 88% of the appraisal estimate. The cost underrun is
primarily due to significantly lower costs of Bekok dam (60% lower), river improvement works
(25% lower), and land acquisition (30% lower), although cost of bridges increased 16 times, cost
of consultancies increased 2.5 times, and cost of drains and roads is expected to be 50% higher by
completion in 1998. The final Bank loan amount of US$49.3 million (after cancellations on three
occasions from the originally approved US$55.0 million) financed about 46% of the project cost
at loan closing (38% of the estimated cost at completion in 1998), with the Government financing
the rest.
Major Factors Affecting the Project
19.   There were negative as well as positive factors affecting project implementation. Some of
the negative factors were within the control of the borrower, and some were beyond its control.
The main negative factors were: inadequate counterpart funding in the initial years due to the
budgetary problems of the Government; inadequate design capacity in DID leading to a



- 7 -
significant delay in the implementation of drainage works and farm roads; poor performance of
some contractors; and shortage of construction materials, equipment and labor due to the
construction boom in the country. The main positive factors for project implementation were:
advance action on land acquisition for Bekok dam (although there were some delays in land
acquisition for other works); familiarity of the Project Management Unit (PMU) with the Bank
procurement procedures; and use of supervision consultants. Some of these factors are discussed
further below.
20.   Counterpart Funding. Counterpart funding was inadequate in the initial project years to
meet the full requirements for the works. Due to the Government's budgetary problems at that
time leading to insufficient provision for the project in the Fifth Malaysia Plan (1986-90), it was
possible to pursue only Bekok dam construction, and the river works had to be delayed.
Continued budget stringency in the Sixth Malaysia Plan (1991-95) delayed the commencement of
works for the drainage network and roads. The provision of RM91.8 million for the project in the
Seventh Malaysia Plan (1996-2000) is sufficient for the completion of the remaining works.
21.   Land Acquisition. Land acquisition needed for the execution of civil works was less than
the appraisal estimate of 3,104 ha (dam 1,300 ha, river works 776 ha, and drains and roads 1,028
ha). Actual acquisition through 1998 would be 2,781 ha, of which 1,728 ha for the dam and
reservoir were acquired in 1987, 918 ha for the river works were acquired between 1987 and
1990, and 135 ha are in the process of acquisition since 1990 for the drainage and roads network,
the requirement for which is being minimized by aligning the drains in the reservations already
available, as far as possible. There were delays in land acquisition, mainly due to procedural
problems. Compensation for land acquisition has been mostly completed.
22.   Procurement.  Procurement of civil works was carried out following international
competitive bidding (ICB) procedure for three major contracts, and national competitive bidding
(NCB) procedure for the rest of the contracts. Force account work was not carried out. Works
carried out under ICB contracts amounted to about 40% of the total cost of works. Familiarity of
the PMU with the Bank's procurement guidelines greatly facilitated project implementation, and
good competition under both ICB and NCB was mainly responsible for the lower costs of Bekok
dam and river works (60% and 25% lower, respectively, than the appraisal estimates). The
contractors performed satisfactorily except in the case of two contracts for the bridge works and
one contract for drainage works and farm roads, which had to be canceled and fresh contracts
awarded.
23.   Consultancies. The use of supervision consultants under the project resulted in good
quality control, efficient contract management, and effective monitoring of completed works. The
supervision consultants also reviewed the detailed designs which had been made earlier, and quite
a few changes for the better were carried out, specially for the river works and the bridges. The
person-months of these consultants, therefore, increased considerably.
D. SUSTAINABILITY
24.   Sustainability of project benefits is likely as the Government has adequate technical and
financial capacity to operate and maintain project civil works; and, on the agricultural side,



-8 -
farmers are expected to have continued interest in growing oil palm, given its relatively low labor
requirements and reasonably good price prospects. However, sustainability would depend on
good operation and maintenance (O&M) of project facilities (see paras. 28-31 for a detailed
discussion).
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
25.   Bank performance was overall very satisfactory during the project cycle. To ensure proper
preparation, the Bank suggested, and the borrower accepted, carrying out of a detailed feasibility
study to supplement the earlier study which was weak in many aspects. The revised study
adequately covered the technical, financial, economic, environmental, and social aspects, and it
was only then that the Bank appraised the project. During implementation, the Bank generally
provided quick decisions on procurement matters, particularly those relating to selection of
consultants and ICB tenders, and Bank supervision missions had the required expertise. The
Bank also agreed to the borrower's request to finance the training of a few staff under the project,
thus benefitting project implementation.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
26.   Overall performance of the borrower was also satisfactory, except for inadequate
counterpart funding in the initial years of the project. Project implementation was facilitated by
the familiarity of the PMU with works under Phase I. The major civil works comprising dam
construction and river improvements were ready for implementation, with the designs and tender
docments almost complete, when the Bank loan became effective. However, there were delays in
completing the designs of the drains and roads, which were carried out by DID, even though it
was short of engineers. In hindsight, as pointed out in the borrower's ICR, it would have been
preferable to have a single body design the whole system (flood mitigation as well as drainage) to
ensure integrated and timely implementation. The borrower performed satisfactorily in land
acquisition and resettlement of the families displaced from the reservoir.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
27.   The overall outcome of the project is satisfactory. Had the implementation period been
shorter, the outcome would have been rated highly satisfactory. The re-estimated net present
value of the project at a discount rate of 10% is RM57.8 million, and the economic rate of return
(ERR) 13%, compared to the appraisal estimate of 14%. The lower ERR at completion is mainly
due to lower projected world prices for palm oil.
H. FUTURE OPERATION
28.   The PMU has already prepared an O&M plan for project civil works (see Appendix 1,
Attachment A). The Johor State DID is expected to take over the O&M of project works from the
PMU (under the Federal Government) soon after completion in 1998. The Johor State DID is a
competent organization, and has good experience in O&M of similar works. At present, farmers
are assisting the PMU by operating the gates on the secondary drains. All maintenance is done
under small contracts with the village committees or contractors. Under the State DID, the system
is likely to continue. Based on the experience of O&M funding by the Federal Government and



- 9 -
State DID for Phase I works, the estimated amount of RM13.5 million per annum required for
O&M of Phase II works is within the financing capability of the Government. However.
consideration should be given to increasing cost recovery from the farmers by raising drainage
charges, which have remained at RMI 5/ha/year since 1970, compared to the current maintenance
cost of about RM37/ha/year. In addition, the cost of maintenance of farm roads is about
RM40/ha/year.
29.   The arrangements for maintaining and monitoring Bekok dam are good. These are
expected to continue under State DID after takeover. Sedimentation survey of the reservoir, which
has not yet been carried out, is planned to be undertaken now and to be repeated every five years.
The six-monthly monitoring of the widened and deepened rivers, stopped after the completion of
the supervision consultancy, is planned to be done annually, or. if the regime is found stable,
every three years. Monitoring of the impact of peat soils drainage is planned to continue until
project completion.
30.   For proper control of Bekok dam operation, the project should establish models for: (i) the
correlation of the catchment rainfall with the reservoir inflow floods; and (ii) the water levels in
the rivers at the critical monitoring points for different floods passing down the dam and flood
retarding embankment. Approval for appointment of consultants for the modelling mentioned
above is expected from the Government shortly. The modelling is necessary to anticipate the
floods at the Bekok dam and to inform the concerned persons if the rivers would flow at high
levels.
3511. The following indicators would be used by the PMU to regularly assess project
performance and impact in the future: (a) the peak of the maximum flood received at Bekok dam
and the outflow peak for the same flood; (b) the area flooded for more than three days
continuously; (c) the quality of water in the Bekok dam; (d) the volume of water taken from the
Bekok river monthly for water supply; and (e) maintenance expenditure per ha/year for drainage
works and farm roads.
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
32.   The main lessons learned from project implementation experience are the following:
(a)   Action on land acquisition and detailed designs for civil works prior to project
commencement helps expeditious project implementation, as was demonstrated by
the smooth and timely implementation of the Bekok dam construction and river
improvement works under the project.
(b)   In a rapidly industrializing economy like that of Malaysia, with growing labor
shortages, attracting competent technical staff to the public sector will be
increasingly difficult, and, therefore, greater reliance should be placed on the
private sector for the O&M of project works.
(c)   To ensure long-term financial sustainability of O&M of project works, and to
promote greater beneficiary participation in O&M, cost recovery from



- 10-
beneficiaries should be increased through inter alia appropriate adjustments in
drainage charges.
(d)   The de-emphasis on the establishment of new mini-estates (none was established
under the project, compared to the appraisal expectation of 30 mini-estates with an
area of 3,000 ha) was an appropriate response by RISDA to the many problems
faced by existing mini-estates, and was consistent with the Government policy to
phase out direct involvement of the public sector in agricultural production
activities.
(e)   Peat soils should not be drained by deep drains with large spacing; instead, shallow
drains with less spacing and with water level control should be used to keep the
area drained without lowering the groundwater level significantly.



- Il -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MALAYSIA
SECOND WESTERN JOHOR AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPENT PROJECT
(Loan 2740-MA)
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1:     Summary of Assessments
Table 2:     Related Bank Loans
Table 3:     Project Timetable
Table 4:     Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:     Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:     Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7:     Studies Included in Project
Table 8A:    Project Costs
Table 88:    Project Financing
Table 9:     Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10:    Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11:    Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12:    Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13:    Bank Resources: Missions



- 12 -
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
A.   Achievement of Obiectives              Substantal                                                       Nogltaibpicable
(V)                  (1)                   (1)                       )
Macro Policies                                  O                    0                     0                      E3
Sector Policies                                 0                    E                     0                       0
Financial Objectives                            O         0                                0                      0
Institutional Development                       0                   0                      0                       0
lIhysical Objectives                           0                     0                     0                       0
Poverty Reduction                               0                   El                     0                       0
Gender Issues                                   0                    0                     0                      E3
Other Social Objectives                         0                    03                    0                       0
Environmental Objectives                        0                    0                     0                       0
Public Sector Management                        0                    0                     0                      0D
Private Sector Development                      0                    0                     0                      0
Other (specify)                                 0                    0                     OB 0
B.  Proiect Sustainability                         Likelv                          Unlikely                          Uncertain
(v')                             (i)                                (1)
0                                 0                                 0
C.  Bank Performance                                satsfactory                   Satisfacr                          Deficeint
Identification                                 0                                0                                  0
Preparation Assistance                          0                               0                                  0
Appraisal                                       03                              0                                  0
Supervision                                     0                               0                                  0
D.   Borrower Performance                                    satisfactory         Satisfactor           Defiient
(1)                 (/)                  (1)
Preparation                                                 0                    0                   0
Implementation                                              0                   0                    0
Covenant Compliance                                         0                    0                   0
Operation (if applicable)                                   0                    0
Highly                                                           ffimbhi
E.  Assessment ol'Outcome                         satistactorv       Satisfactorv         Un.satisactQoly         unsatisfactory
(Vi ))                                     (V/)                   (V)
0         0                                0                      0



- 13 -
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK LOANS
Year of
Loan Title                         Purpose                Approval             Status
Preceding oVerations
973-MA, West Johor Agricultural    Protection of agricultural lands from  1973        Completed 1984
Development Project                flooding
1899-MA, Kelantal Lald Schemes     New planting and replanting of       1980             Completed
Rehabilitationi Project            smailholder rubber, construction of
access and farm roads, and coconut
intercropping with cocoa and coffee
2147-MA. Malacca Agricultural      Construction and improvement of      1982             Completed
Development Project                irrigation and drainage works, and
development of smal holder rubber
areas
Following operations
3139-MA, RISDA I                   Replanting of low-yielding rubber    1989             Completed
3699-MA, RISDA 11                  Replanting of low-yielding rubber    1994              On-goilig
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Steps in Project Cycle                      Date Planned                       Date Actual/Latest Estimate
Identification                              1973                               1973
Preparation                                 Oct. 1983*                         Nov. 1984
Appraisal                                   Nov. 1983*                         Apr and Nov 1985
Negotiations                                Jul. 1984*                         March 18, 1986
Board presentationi                         Aug. 1984*                         Jul. 15, 1986
Signing                                     Aug. 1984-                         Jul. 30, 1986
Effectiveness                               Oct.. 1984-                        Sep. 16, 1986
Project completion                          Dec. 12, 1993+                     Dec. 31, 1998
Loan Closing                                Dec. 31, 1994+                     Jun. 30, 1996
* As per monitoring table of 1982.
- As expected from monitoring table, after Board presentation.
+  As per SAR of June 1986.



TABLE 4: LOAN DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL
(US$ Million)
FY87    FY88    FY89    FY90    FY91    FY92    FY93    FY94    FY95    FY96    FY97
Appraisal estimate             1.30     6.00    14.40    24.40    33.10    40.20    46.90    52.60    55.00
42.90    46.98    49.38    49.31    49.31
Actual                         0.02     2.25    4.80     9.30    13.37    22.99    30.37    38.11    42.83    47.83    49.31
Actual as % of estimate         1.5    37.5    33.3    38.1    40.4    57.2    70.8    81.1    86.7    97.4   100.0
Date of final disbursement  September 6, 1996
The lower figure in the appraisal estimate represents the change due to cancellations of US$4.00 million on Jan. 5, 1993, US$1.62 million
on Sep.22, 1994, and US$0.067 million on Jan. 10, 1996.



- 15 -
TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Estimated                         Actual Quantity
Description                         Quantity             Unit      At Loan       At Project
(SAR)                          Closing     Completion
(a) Works:
Bekok dam                              3.9 (main darn)           km         3.46          3.46
1.9 (saddle dams)         km        1.9            1.90
River diversion channel to dam         6.5                       km        6.4            6.40
Flood retardation embankment/sluice    n.g.                      km         1.12          1.12
Simpang/Bekok catchment sep. bund      12                        km         5.95          5.95
River section improvement              79                        km       107.00        107.00
River re-alignment                     14                        km        11.20         11.20
New levees in tidal reach              55                        km        11.00         19.00
Replacement of bridges                 8                         no.    9 replaced     9 replaced
2 strengthened 2 strengthened
Flood protection Parit Sulong town     job                               n.r.          n.r.
Main drains improvement                215                       km      64            203
Secondary drains construction          85                        km      628           804
New roads and maintenance tracks       462                       km      135           592
Resurfacing existing roads             920                       km      100           559
(b) Land acquisition                         3,100                      ha     2,512         2,781
(c) Resettlement of families                 74                        no.    74             74
(d) Agriculture development: /1
Replacing l.y. rubber with oil palm    10.000                     ha     9,200         9,200
Developing mini estates in above       3,000                      ha     0             0
Replacing l.y. rubber with h.y. rubber  3,000                     ha     2,800         2,800
Replacing l.y. rubber by div. crops    1,500                      ha     2,300         2,300
(e) Procurement of equipment and vehicles   job                                job           job
(f) Consultancy services
78                      Exp.mm      93.5          93.5
432                    Local mm   1700.5        1700.5
(g) Buildings:
Project office                          I                         no.    *             *
Farmers' development center            n.i.                       no.     1
Lab. for acid sulfate soils             I                         no.                  ©
].y.    = low yield; h.y. = high yield
n.r.    = not required       n.g. = not given     n.i.  not included
*      = constructed before project started, under separate funding
(3     = constructed by DOA under other funding
/1     The actual figures for replanting are upto 1996. However, replantings since 1994 have been
funded under the Second RISDA project (Loan 3699-MA). The total replanting through 1993
was about 11.000 ha.



- 16 -
TABLE 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION
No specific indicators for project operation and maintenianice (O&M) were set at appraisal. However, DID
was to remain responsible for (i) O&M and safety monitoring of the darn and other embankments, (ii) maintainiing
the carrying capacity of the rivers and notifying civic authorities the likely water levels in the rivers for different
outflow from the dam, (iii) O&M of drainage chaninels (except tertiary drains constructed and maintainied by the
farimers) including control of ground water in peat areas, and (iv) maintaining the farn roads and drainage
mailitenanice tracks. Johore State DID was to take over the responsibility, sooI1 after the completion of the works.
TIhe State Department of Agriculture was to provide extension service in the entire improved area.
The works being in the finial stages of completion, the responsibility for O&M of works still rests with the
project. The State DID will take over sooIn after completion of all the works. So far the O&M  is satisfactory. A
detailed program for operation, maintenance, and periodic inspectioni/surveys of the dams and embankments and
rivers, including mathiematical models interrelating catchment rainfall witli runoff at the dam, and river levels for
different flood discharges, is under preparation. The State Department of Agriculture and RISDA are providing
extensioii service in the project area.
TABLE 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT
Purpose as defined at appraisal                   Status                Impact of study
Peat Soils Beliavior
The study was not identified at appraisal.  Study completed.     The lowering of water table in peat
It became necessary to analyze the peat soils     Data collection       soils has to be carefully controlled to
settlemenit observed with drainage, and to enable  will continue till   avoid settlement and oxidation.
government to formulate a policy for management   project completion    Study will be used in formulation of
of these soils.                                                         government policy.



- 17 -
TABLE 8A: PROJECT COSTS
Appraisal estimate               Actual
Iteinl                                              (US$M)                     (US$M) 1/
Local  Foreign             Local  Foreign
Costs    Costs   Total    Costs    Costs        Total
Executive Agency DID
Civil works                                  33.10    45.15   78.25      26.12    32.43       58.55
Bekok dam                                  8.45     12.49   20.94      3.18     4.70       7.88
Catci. Sep. Bund and Flood Retard. Emb.    0.96      1.37    2.33      1.34      1.91      3.25
Rivers Improvement                        12.40     19.76   32.16      7.09    11.31       18.40
Bridges                                    0.57     0.57    1.14       7.55     7.54       15.09
Town flood protection                      0.53      0.66    1.19         -        -          -
Drains and roads                          10.19     10.30   20.49      6.96     6.97      13.93
Buildings                                     0.88      0.38    1.26      0.47      0.20       0.67
Land acquisition                             34.06       0.0   34.06     20.93      0.00      20.93
Mainteniance during construction                 -         -       -      1.16         -       1.16
Equipment and velhicles                       0.01      0.49    0.50      0.01      0.53       0.54
Consultanit services                          0.63      1.52    2.15      1.41      3.39       4.80
Administration and Establishment              7.25       0.0    7.25      5.40      0.00       5.40
Training                                         -         -       -      0.03      0.36       0.39
Executive Agency RISDA
Agricultural development                    17.37      7.46   24.83     10.57      4.54      15.11
Total Project Costs                          93.30    55.00  148.30      66.10    41.45      107.55
1/    Actual Costs are up to June 30, 1996.
Upto completion of project in 1998, additional costs are estimated as:
US$M
Drains and roads                 12.60
Land Acquisition                  2.80
Administration                    4.47
Maintenance during construction  _228
Total     22.15



- 18 -
TABLE 8B: PROJECT FINANCING
Appraisal estimate      Actual/Latest estimate (US$M)
(US$M)
Local   Foreign               Local   Foreign
Source              Costs      Costs     Total     Costs    Costs      Total
IBRD                    0.0      55.0      55.0      7.86     41.45      49.31
GOM                    93.3       0.0      93.3      58.24       0.0     58.24
Total               93.3      55.0     148.3     66.10     41.45    107.55
GOM will have to incur an additional expenditure of about US$22 million till completion of
the project.
TABLE 9: ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS
Economic Rate of Return Estimated at Appraisal       14%
Economic Rate of Return Estimated at Completion      13%
Net Present Value Estimated at Completion at a
Discount Rate of 10%                          RM 57.8 million
(Details of economic analysis are at Appendix 3)



TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Agreement       Loan/Credit            Text           Covenant   Status   Original   Revised                    Description of Covenant                         Comments
Number           Reference         Classes(es)                 Fulfill       Fulfill
Date         Date
LOAN             L27400        Sclhedule 5 (1)           10           C                                 Government would acquire or                Land acquisition  has not
make available land and interest in   been a significant problem.
respect of land for project
purposes.
Schedule 5 (2)            7            C                                 Government would compensate                Compensation given. Two
displaced people in accordance            hard core poor resettled
with prevailing regulations               families are receiving
assistance under the Poverty
Eradication Program
Schedule5 (3)             9            C       12/31/86                  By December 1986, the                      Panel of experts was
Government to appoint a panel of    appointed and was effective.
experts to review dam  construction
quality, design revisions, and
safety programs
Schedule 5 (3)           10            C       12/31/86                  By December 1986, the                      Consultants were employed
Government to employ consultants   and performed satisfactorily.
to assist in supervision of
construction of Bekok Dam.
Status.   C      =  Comnplied with                                                                               Covenant Class
CD      =  Compliance after delay
NC      =  Not complied with                                                                            I. Accounts/Audit
SOON   =  Compliance xpected in reasonably short time                                                   2. Financial performance/generate revenue fromii beneficiaries
CP      =  Complied with partially                                                                      3. Flow and utilization of Project funds
NYD    =  Not yet due                                                                                   4. Counterpart funding
5. Management aspects of the Project or of its executing agency
6. Environenit covenants
7. Involuntary resettlement
8. Indigenous people
9. Monitoring. review and reporting
10. Implementation
11. Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation
12. Sectoral or cross-sectoral regulatory/institutional action
13. Other



- 20 -
TABLE 11: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS
No significanit lack of compliance with applicable Bank manual statements.
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS
Planned            Revised             Actual
Stage of project cycle              Weeks    US$    Weeks    US$    Weeks    US$
l Trough appraisal                                                            54.8    139.9
Appraisal - Board                                                               1.9      3.6
Supervisioni                                                                  82.4    248.7
Completion                                                                      1.3      3.8
TOTAL                                                                        140.4    396.0



- 21 -
TABLE 13: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS
Number    Days                                 Performance Rating
Status of Project   Month/       of      in Field       Specialized       Implementation    Development   Type of Problems
Cycle          Year      Persons               Skills Represented       Status         Status
Preparation             4/81      3          1/    Ec, En, Ag
Preparation             2/82      4          1/     E, En Lp, HY
Preparation             9/82      3           '     En, Lp, F
P'reparation         2, 3/83       1                Er,
Preparation         10, 11/83      1          J     En
IPre-appraisal         11/84      3          27     E, En, S,
Appraisal               3/85      4          18     E, En, Ag,
Post-appraisal          9/85       1         5      En
IPost-appraisal        11/85      6          19     En E, A,, Fo, Lp, In
Supervision            10/86      3          5      E, E_1,                     I              I        Ag
Supervision             7/87      2          14     Ag E,                       I              I        DDe
Supervision         11, 12/87      1         17     En                          2              1        Ad, IF, DDe
Supervision             4/89      3          7      2E, Ag                      2              1        IF, DDe, DRe
Supervision           2-3/90      2          23     2En                         2              1        DPr. DRe. IR, DDe
Supervision             6/90       1         1      En                          2              1        DPr. DDe
Supervision            10/90       1         17     En                          2              I        DDe
Supervision          9.10/91      2          11     En 'E,                      2              I        DDe, DPr
Supervision           5.6/92      2          8      En, E,.                     2              I        DDe, IF
Supervision             2/93       1         If    En                           2              1        DDe, IF
Suipervision            9/93       1         13     En                          1              I        DDe
Supervision             4/94       1         7      En                          I              I        DDe, DPr
Supervision            11/94      2          6      En E,                       S              S        DDe
Supervision           6.7/95      2          7      En.E,                       S              S        IR
Supervision             5/96      2          5      En, E,                      S              S        IR
ICR                    10/96      2          16     E, E,                       S              S        NA
Notation for Skills:     E,= Economist, E.= Engineer, A. = Agronomist, Lp= Land Use Planner, Hy= Hydrologist,
S,= Statistical Data Specialist, R. = Road Specialist, In= Industry Specialist, F. = Forestry Specialist.
E= Estaurine Specialist
Notation for Problems: IF = Insufficient Funds, DDe = Delay in Design, DRe = Delay in Resettlement,
Ad = Administrative Problems, Ag = Agricultural Constraints, DPr = Delay in Procurement,
IR = Insufficient Construction Resources
rhe preparation work was carried out during missions for other tasks, each mission lasting for about three weeks,






- 23 -
Appendix 1
Page 1
MALAYSIA
SECOND WESTERN JOHOR ADP (LOAN 2740-MA)
WORLD BANK IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT (ICR) MISSION
OCTOBER/NOVEMBER 1996
Aide-Memoire
1.    A World Bank mission comprising Messrs S. Husain and J. Srivastava visited Malaysia
from October 28, 1996 to November 9, 1996, to solicit the views of the Borrower and the
implementing agencies in respect of the implementation of the project, and to collect data for the
preparation of the ICR. The mission met Ir. Neo Tong Lee, Director General, and Ir. Dr. Hiew
Kim Loi, Director of Drainage, Drainage and Irrigation Department (DID), and, during the visit
to the project site from October 28 to November 2, 1996, met Mr. Mohamad Noh Samik,
Director, West Johor Project, and other project and Rubber Industry Smallholders Development
Authority (RISDA) officials in Batu Pahat. The mission also met Mr. C. C. Chan, Director, Johor
State DID, and Mr. Nik Mustapha, Deputy Director, RISDA Johor State Office. The mission
visited a few blocks in the project area where the drains and farm roads have been completed,
and others where the works are in progress. The mission also had discussions on project impact
with groups of farmers and the head of the group of resettlers from the Bekok reservoir area.
This Aide-memoire, discussed in the wrap-up meeting on November 8, 1996, chaired by Mr.
Mohamad Noh Samik, Director, West Johor Project, and attended by Messrs. Abidin Arshad,
Ministry of Agriculture; Nik Mustafa, RISDA, Johor State Office; Abu Talib Abu Bakar and
Zulkifli Ahmad, DID; and Lee Loke Chong and Zahari bin Shahid, West Johor Project,
summarizes the mission's findings and agreements reached, and is subject to the confirmation of
the Bank's senior management. The mission thanks the Project Management Unit (PMU), DID
and RISDA officials for the assistance rendered and the courtesies extended to the mission.
2.    The Loan Agreement for US$55.0 million for the project was signed between the
Government of Malaysia and the World Bank on July 30, 1986, and became effective on
September 16, 1986. The original closing date of the Loan was December 31, 1994. However,
due to inadequate counterpart funding in the initial project years and delays in completion of
designs, project implementation was delayed, and the Loan closing date was extended (initially
by one year and again by six months) to June 30, 1996, when the Loan was closed. After
cancellations of US$4.0 million on January 25, 1993, US$1.62 million on September 22, 1994
and US$0.067 million on January 10, 1996, the remaining Loan amount of US$49.3 million was
fully disbursed, with the last disbursement on September 6, 1996.
3.    Discussions on preparation of the ICR for the project started in June/July 1995, and in its
Aide-Memoire dated July 1, 1995, a Bank supervision mission provided guidance to the PMU
for the ICR preparation. It had been agreed then that the PMU, in collaboration with RISDA,
will collect as much data as possible to quantitatively assess the agricultural and other socio-
economic impact of the project, and, to assist the PMU in this effort, consultants will be hired.



- 24 -
Appendix 1
Page 2
Action on ICR preparation was postponed since the Loan closing date was extended to June 30,
1996. Another Bank supervision mission in May 1996 stressed the need to initiate the ICR
preparation process, and provided further details in its Aide-Memoire dated May 25, 1996.
However, since timely authorization for the appointment of consultants could not be obtained
from the Government, the PMU could not prepare and submit the draft ICR to the Bank by the
agreed target date of September 30, 1996. The PMU has recently conducted a survey of 3,000
farmer beneficiaries in five of the 15 blocks where drainage and road works have either been
completed or are in progress. Based on the preliminary results of the survey, and the Bank
mission's findings during visits to the project area and discussions with various stakeholders, a
few observations and statements, which also reflect the views of the various stakeholders, on
project implementation and impact, and on arrangements for future operation and maintenance
(O&M) are made in the following paragraphs.
4.    Project Implementation. Although project implementation was delayed, the major civil
works (Bekok dam, Simpang Kiri flood retarding embankment, catchment separator bund,
improvement of rivers, and reconstruction/strengthening of the bridges on these rivers) had been
completed by the Loan closing date of June 30, 1996. Works on drains and farm roads had been
partially completed, and were estimated to be already benefitting about 50% of the potential
85,000 ha of the agricultural area. The delay in completion of drainage and farm road works was
due not only to insufficient funding in the early years but also to a longer than anticipated time
taken in completion of designs and award of contracts. The balance of work on the drains and
farm roads, for which contracts are on-going, will be completed by the end of 1998. The
completed project works have been properly maintained and monitored, and will continue to be
maintained using project funds until the State DID takes over the O&M. The necessary process
for handing over the completed works to the State DID, and decision on the sharing of the O&M
costs between the Federal Government and State DID are expected to be completed soon. The
land acquisition and resettlement of the displaced persons has been satisfactory. The remaining
payment for the acquired land and the issuance of land titles to the resettlers needs to be
expedited. As regards the agricultural component of the project, the replanting of about 14,300
ha of old rubber, primarily by oil palm, under grants by RISDA from 1987 to 1996, was almost
the same as expected at appraisal (14,500 ha).
5.   Investment Costs. It is worth noting that the cost of the Bekok dam is only about 40 per
cent, and that of the river works about 75 per cent, of the original estimates, resulting mainly
from good competition both under international competitive bidding (ICB) and national
competitive bidding (NCB) for these works, and partly reflecting a possible over-estimation at
appraisal. The cost of bridges has increased 16 times. The original provision for the bridges was
evidently based on insufficient study, and, moreover, the width of the bridges is now greater than
originally planned to accomodate anticipated increased traffic in future. Consultancies cost 2.5
times the original estimate, mainly due to a substantial increase in design and construction
supervision work. The cost of drains and farm roads, when completed, would be about 50 %



- 25 -
Appendix 1
Page 3
higher than the original estimates, due to higher density of the drains and roads in the final
designs.
6.    Project Impact. As the drainage and farm road works are still in progress, and detailed
surveys on project impact so far have not been carried out (except for the rapid survey conducted
by the PMU in October 1996), a precise quantitative assessment of project benefits can not be
made at this stage. However, based on the mission's discussions with the stakeholders and
observations of increased economic activities in the areas which have already benefited from
project facilities, the overall outcome of the project is satisfactory. The project objectives laid
down at appraisal have been mostly achieved: (a) of the 85,000 ha agricultural area expected at
appraisal to eventually benefit from the project flood control and drainage works, approximately
half is estimated to be benefiting already by the second half of 1996, which includes areas
replanted under RISDA grants, previously abandoned areas brought under cultivation, areas
heavily damaged in the past due to frequent floods now enjoying sustained production, and areas
enjoying increases in yields due to better drainage; (b) all the above areas are benefiting from
construction of farm roads, which inter alia have substantially reduced transport cost of produce
and inputs, and increased labor mobility to nearby towns, thus helping rapid industrialisation in
Johor State; (c) the construction and strengthening of bridges has led to an increase in the volume
of traffic and savings in transport costs; (d) increased pumping from the Bekok river has
improved water supply to nearby towns; and (e) flood damage to property in the project area and
evacuation of affected people to the relief centers has been virtually eliminated. Some of the
above benefits will be quantified in the ICR for the estimation of the economic rate of return for
the project.
7.    Future Operation and Maintenance (O&M). The PMU has prepared an O&M plan for
the civil works under the project, identifying the items of work required to be carried out for
operation, monitoring of safety and performance, and maintenance; the staff required for these
items of work; and the funds needed for proper O&M (Attachment A). About RM 5 million will
be required annually for the staff and other administrative costs, and RM 8.5 million for actual
maintenance. The Johor State DID is expected to take over the O&M of project works soon after
completion in 1998 (para. 4). Based on the experience of O&M funding by the Federal
Government and State DID for Phase I works, the estimated amount of RM 13.5 million per
annum required for O&M of Phase II works is considered to be within the financing capability of
the Government. However, consideration should be given to increasing cost recovery from the
farmers by raising the drainage charges, which have remained at RM 6/acre/year since 1970,
compared to the current maintenance cost of about RM 15/acre/year.
8.    For proper control of Bekok dam operation, the project should establish models for: (i)
the correlation of the catchment rainfall with the reservoir inflow floods; and (ii) the water levels
in the rivers at the critical monitoring points for different floods passing down the dam and flood
retarding basin.  Approval for appointment of consultants for the above modelling is expected



- 26 -
Appendix 1
Page 4
from the Government shortly. The modelling is necessary to anticipate the floods at the Bekok
dam and to inform the concerned persons if the rivers would flow at high levels.
9.   It was agreed that the following indicators would be used by the project staff to regularly
assess project performance and impact in the future: (a) the peak of the maximum flood received
at the Bekok dam and the outflow peak for the same flood; (b) the area flooded for more than
three days continuously; (c) the quality of water in the Bekok dam; (d) the volume of water taken
from the Bekok river monthly for water supply; and (e) maintenance expenditure/ha/year for
drainage and farm road works.
10.   Lessons Learned. The main lessons learned from project implementation experience are
the following:
(a) Action on land acquisition and detailed designs for civil works prior to project
commencement helps expeditious project implementation, as was demonstrated by the smooth
and timely implementation of the Bekok dam construction and river improvement works under
the project.
(b) Familiarity of the PMU with the Bank's procurement guidelines greatly facilitated
project implementation, and good competition under both ICB and NCB was mainly responsible
for the lower costs of Bekok dam and river works (60 and 25 per cent lower, respectively,
compared to appraisal estimates).
(c) In a rapidly industrializing economy like that of Malaysia, with growing labor
shortages, attracting competent technical staff to the public sector will be increasingly difficult,
and, therefore, greater reliance should be placed on the private sector for the O&M of project
works.
(d) To ensure long-term financial sustainability of O&M of project works, and to promote
greater beneficiary participation in O&M, cost recovery from beneficiaries should be increased
through inter alia appropriate adjustments in drainage charges.
(e) The de-emphasis on the establishment of new mini-estates (none was established
under the project, compared to the appraisal expectation of 30 mini-estates with an area of 3,000
ha) was an appropriate response by RISDA to the many problems faced by existing mini-estates,
and was consistent with the Government policy to phase out direct involvement of the public
sector in agricultural production activities.
(f) Peat soils should not be drained by deep drains with large spacing; instead, shallow
drains with less spacing and with water level control should be used to keep the area drained
without lowering the groundwater level significantly.



- 27 -
Appendix 1
Page 5
11.  It was agreed that the Government's contribution to the project ICR will be formally
made available to the Bank by November 30, 1996, so that it could still be included in the final
ICR to be submitted to the Bank's Board of Directors by December 31, 1996.
Kuala Lumpur                                                   Syed Z. Husain
November 9, 1996                                               The World Bank
Distribution
1 .    Dato' Ahmad Zabri Ibrahim, Secretary General, Ministry of Agriculture (MOA)
2.   Ir. Neo Tong Lee, Director General, DID
3.    Mr. Shahabudin bin Shafie, Director General, RISDA
4.    Mr. Ahmad Rosli Johari, Secretary, Strategic and Macro Planning Division, MOA
5.    Mr. Cheah Kong Lee, Principal Assistant Secretary, Finance Division, The Treasury
6.    Ms. Nafsia Abu Bakar, Principal Assistant Director, Agriculture Section, EPU
7.    Mr. Mohamad Noh Samik, Director, Western Johor ADP
8.    Mr. Nik Mustafa, Deputy Director, RISDA Johor State Office
9.    Mr. Abidin Arshad, Resource and Institutional Development Division, MOA



- 28 -                            Attachment A
MALAYSIA
SECOND WESTERN JOHOR AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DETAILED OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE PLAN
1.    INTRODUCTION. The major engineering infrastructure constructed under the
project comprises the following:-
a.    Flood Mitigation and River Improvement Works
i)    Construction of Bekok Dam
ii)    Widening and deepening of 4 major rivers (1 18 km)
iii)   Construction of Catchment Separator Bund (5.59 km)
iv)   Construction of Flood Retarding Embankment (l.12 km)
b.    Drainage Works and Farm Roads
i)    Construction of main drains (203 km) and secondary drains (804 km)
ii)    Construction and improvement of farm roads (1151 km)
iii)   Construction of drainage control structures, culverts and tidal control
gates (196)
iv)   Construction of 9 main road bridges and 153 medium traffic bridges
2.    OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE (O&M). The main objective of the Second
Western Johor Agricultural Development Project was to provide integrated infrastructural
development as well as agricultural development with a view to improving agricultural
productivity and socio-economic status of the farmers. In order to achieve this objective, all
the major infrastructures listed above and expected to be completed by 1998, need to be
operated and maintained at specific intervals. In particular, the Bekok Dam, the major river
systems, drains, farm roads and structures need proper maintenance in order to function. The
detailed operation and maintenance plan as shown at Attachment A-1 and A-2 was prepared
based on the following norms and criteria:
a.    Drain vegetation clearing by farmers' group 4 times a year;
b.    Desilting of drains and rivers every 3 years;
c.    Desilting of river by dredging every 5 years;
d.    River and drain reserve vegetation clearing twice a year;
e.    Resurfacing of farm roads every 3 years; and
f.    Filling and compaction of pot-holes periodically.
3.    MANPOWER REQUIREMENT. The proposed organisational set-up to undertake
fully the operation, monitoring and maintenance works after the completion of all civil works
in 1998 is shown in Attachment A-3. A total of 231 posts will be required (Attachment A-4)
headed by a Senior Engineer J2. The organisational set-up will comprise four departments as
follows:
a.    Administration and Finance
b.    Operation and Maintenance of Drains and Roads
c.    O & M of Dam and Rivers
d.    Technical Support



- 29 -
Each of the four departments will be headed by a Senior Officer. The Operation and
Maintenance department for drains and roads will be headed by 2 engineers and 4 technical
assistants, the 0 & M department for dam and rivers will be headed by 1 Senior Engineer,
and the Technical Support department will be headed by a Senior Technical Assistant. In
general, the number of technicians required to carry out operation and maintenance work was
based on similar norms established in Phase I area, i.e. 8,000 - 9,000 ha per technician, and
each engineer being responsible for supervision of all maintenance, operation and monitoring
works within a drainage area of 80,000 ha.
4.    OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE COST.  The annual recurrent cost for
operation and maintenance can be divided into supervision cost and maintenance of
infrastructure which varies depending on the level or standard of maintenance required.
Based on the norms established earlier, the annual 0 & M cost for the Second Western Johor
Agricultural Development Project area is estimated as follows:-
Supervision Cost               :     RM  3,800,000
Operating Cost                       RM  1,200,000
Drains/Structure Maintenance   :     RM  5,000,000
Farm Road Maintenance          .     RM  3.500.000
RM 13.500.000



SECONI) WESTERN JOJ101R AG RICUTIURAL I)EVELOPMENT PROJEC'T
OPERATION AND) MONITORING PLAN
OPERATION                                          MONITORING                                          ESTIMATED
CIVIL WORKS                                                                                                                SUPERVISION   OPERATING
COMPONENT            DESCRIPTION OF WORKS   METHOD/COST    DESCRIPTION OF WORK                        METHOD/ COST                          COST (RM)
I   DAM:              I) Operate outiflow gates (2 Nos) 3 Techinician and I) Measure seepage flow (26    3 Techinician and 12   1 Engineer and   1,200,000.00
- Bekok &            and Comiipensation Water       12 Labourers      Nos)and piezometers (29 Nos)       Labourers          I Techinical
Se imbrong           Outlet (CWO) gates                               readi ng.                                              Assistant
2) Recording Rainfall and                        2) Inspect dam embankment (5.4
Reservoir Level, Inflow &                       kin) or cracks/decfcts and toe
Outiflov and anialysis                          areas for scepage.
3) Safety inispection of dam and   Yearly in-house and 5
spillway and analysis of data   yearly by Dam
Monitoring Unit
4) Ilydrographmic survey of       Licensed Surveyor
reservoir
2.  River S-stem                                                                                                                                              o
- Sg. Kiri River  I) Record water levels daily/    3 Technicians  I) Measure discharge(5 stationi)    3 Technicians and      I Senior
- Sg. Kanan          wveeklv (25 Nos)             and 8 Labourers     and wvater lcvels (16 stationi)   8 Labourers         Techinical
Rivcr            2) Inspect and clieck Telemetric                     at regular intervals                                   Assistant
- Scibronig River    Stations (12 Nos).                           2) Verify rating curves
- Bekok River    3) Supply Information for Flood                  3) Carry ont Monitorinig Survey    Licensed Surveyor
Warning System                                  (every 3 years)
4) Operate Tidal Control Gates
daily to prevent flooding
upstreamii (4 Nos)
3   DRAINS:
- Secondary (215  I) Operate Drainage Controls   Farmers to        I ) Measure ground water table   3 Tecinicians and 8   2 Engineers and
kim)                 (DC) (1'96 Nos)             operate tinder       and subsidenice (Peat Area)        L-abourers          5 Senior
- Tertiary (850                                  giiidaiice of       (55 Nos)                                              Technicians
kimi)                                            Techniicianis    2) Mcasure ground(l wvaler table
and hydraulic conduictivrity (47
Nos)
3) Recording water levels in
drain (21 Nos)



SECONI) WESTIERN .1011OR AGRICUIJLtURAL DEVELOPME.NT PROJIECTI
MAINTENANCE PLAN
ANNUAL/PERIODIC MAINTENANCE                              UNIT COST x          ESTIMATED        SUPERVISION
CIVIL WORKS COMPONENT    _                                       _                                 FREQUENCY/YEAR   MAINTENANCE    COST (RM)
DESCRIPTION OF WORK                       MET'HOD                             COST (RM)
DAM:
- Bekok                   I)  Painting of Gates, Metal Railings and Control Rooml    Quotation   RM    80000/yr x 0.5  RM    400,000.00    3.800,000.00
- Sembrouig              2)  Grass cutinig on slopes, berms & eimibainkmienil (105 hi) Quotation    RM    200/ha x 4
3 )  Remioval ol' Walcr tI Yci ithi & dlec)bris l'oin Resei c oi  Quoltalion,
4)  Maintenance of slopes, beruis. drain and roads.
2    RI VERS:
- Spg. Kiri River         1)  River Dredging (150.000n3)                         Tender &    RM    5. 0/i3 x 0.2    RM     1,300,000.00
- Spg. KIaniani River    2)  River Rakinig (118 kmi)                             Quotation   RM    6,000/kin x I
- Bekok River            3)  River Excavation/Desilting (80 kin)                              RM    10,000 x 0(.3
- Sembrong River         4)  Clearing of bcriii vegetation (I 18 kin)                         RM    300/kin x I
3    DRAINS:
- Secondary              1)  Drain vegetation clearing by JKKK (Farmier's Group)   Quiotation   RM    350.00/kin x 4 RM    3,100,000.00
- Tertiary               2)  Drain excavation or Desilting (1007 kin)                         RM    4000/km x 0.3
- Stnictuires (196 Nos)  3)  Drain Rerserve clearing (1009 kiii)                              RM    400/kin x I
4)  Painting gates and repairs (349 Nos)
4.   FARMROADS                 I)  Filling of pot holes periodically (I 150 kin)      Tender &    RM    1,500.00 x I   RM       3,500,000.00
2)  Resurfacing of Farm Roads (I 150 kmi)              Quoatation  RM    6,500.00 x 0.3
5.   BUILDING                  I)  Periodic maintenance for 7 Nos FDC                 Quotation   RM    150,000.00 x I RM         200,000.00
2)  Provide services for garbage disposal and uipkeep of            RM    50,000.00 x I
office and FDC                                           ___
RN1    8,500,000.00



WFSTFRN_JOHOR INTEGRATFD AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJFCT
ORGANISATION CHART FOR OPFRATION AND MAINTENANCF WORKS                                                       LACTUALLY NEEDFD)
SENIOR fNGINEER J2---------------------------------------------------------  SENIOR ENGINEER J2
OPFRATION I                                ADMINISTRATION &                         OPERATION  I                                      RIVER ENGINEERING &             HYDROLOGY &
UAINTENANCE                                    FINANCE                              MAINTfNANCE                                         DAM MONITORING                TELEMETRIC SYSTEM
|   ENGINEER J 3  l                                   l                           | ENGINEER J3         |                          |      ENGINEER J3
CLERK N1       | 7                                                                                                    TECH. ASSISTANT J4
NORTHEN ZONE                 TECHNICAL                                          SUILDING &                   SOUTHERN                RIVER ENGINEERING/             DAM &
SERVICES/DRAUGHTING                                    VEHICLES                      ZONE                  WATER MANAGEMENT        FLOOD MONITORING
I  TFCHASSISTANT  J5   I TECHASSISTANT  J4  5 CLERK                      N9    1TECHNICIAN           J6   1TECH.ASSISTANT  J5  1 TECHNICIAN JR   1 TECHASSISTANT  J4   EXISTING
2  TFCHNICIAN        J6   2 TECHNICIAN          J1  3 TYPIST             Nil  4  TECHNICIAN          J7   2  TECHNICIAN          J6  2 TECHNICIAN  J7   3 TECHNICIAN           J7      POST
11 TECHNICIAN        J7   2 DRAUGHTMAN          J7  2 OFFICE BOY        NH3  I  DRIVER               RIO  9  TECHNICIAN         J7  I DRIVER        RIO  I DRIVER             RIO
6  DRIVER           RID    2 DRIVER            RIO  1 DRIVER             RIO  44 1MG                 Rul  5  DRIVER             RIO  8 IMG          Rll  121MG                Rul
49 IMG              Rll   4 IMG                Rl                                                          411 IMG             Rul



- 33 -
ATTACHMENT A - 4
SECOND WESTERN JOHORE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMLENT PROJECT
LIST OF POSTS REQUIRED FOR MAINTENANCE WORKS
POST                       NUMBERS REQUIRED
1.  Senior Engineer                                          2
2.  Engineer J3                                              3
3. Engineer J3 (Mechanical)                                  0
4.  Senior Technical Assistant J4                            2
5. Technical Assistant                                       2
6.  Senior Technician J6                                     6
7. Technician   J7                                           28
8. Clerk        N7 (Finance)                                 I
9.  Clerk       N7 (Service)                                 0
10. Clerk         N9                                         4
11. Store Keeper N9                                           I
12. Draughtsrnan  J7                                          2
13. Typist       NII                                         3
14. Telephone Operator  N 1I                                  0
15. Office Boy N13                                           2
16. Foreman   R6                                              0
17. Driver     R9                                            4
18. Driver      RIO                                          17
19. Security Guard RI 1                                      30
20. Labourer (IMG)R 1                                       124
Total                               231






- 35 -
Appendix 2
BORROWER'S ICR



Appendix 2
- 36 -                     Page I-of 8
SECOND WESTERN JOHORE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Achievement of Objectives
Achievement of physical objectives comprising the civil works component, agricultural
component and project implementation facilities component were satisfactory altlhough
implernentation of civil works component was delayed during the initial start-up phase
of the project due to administrative and other reasons. All major civil works such as thie
Bekok Dam, River Channel Improvement. Flood Retarding Emba2nkment, Catchment
Separator Bund and 9 Nos Main Road Bridges with a total contract value of MR 143.2
million have been completed except the 19 contract packages for drainage works. and
farm roads which is about 40% completed up to end of Jun 1996. It is anticipated that
all outstanding civil works will be completed by end 1998.
The delay in implementation of drainage works and farm roads is mainly due to the fact
that the detailed design of these infrastructure which was carried out by DID engineers
in-house has taken much longer time than anticipated due to shortage of engineers.
The delay is further compounded by the poor performance of some contractors as well
as other factors such as shortage of construction material and labour.
2.    Implementation Record And Major Factors Affecting The Proiect
Under the Agricultural Drainage Works component, 18 packages were awarded.
Cortstruction of these drainage works began since the year 1991 and are expected to
be completed by the year 1998,
Some of the mnaior factor affecting the implementation of the projects were as follows:
i)    As the tme taken to process the acquired land were very long (six months to.
three years) some of the land could not be In possession and this resulted in
some deray of the project Implementation and even in some cases were shelved
off.
ii)   It was found that most of the initial planning and design undertaken by the
consultant had to be changed before awarding the contract A totally new
planning and design unit had to be formed in-house to study back the initial
proposals by the consultants: in which most of the recommenaed planning and
design had to be modified to suit the present site conditions. This Is due to its
incompleteness and were no longer practicable due to the changes and
development that had taken place throughout the project area since Its initial
time of study.
iii)   During the in-house planning and design stage, only skeletal and inexperienced
technical staff were employed hence delaying the Implementation of the
aqricijltural drainaQe comoonents.   -



Appendix 2
37 -                         Page 2of8
iv)    During the period of construction, there were many Mega-project launched by
the Government such as the Putra Jaya New Township. construction of the new
Kuala Lumpur International Airport at Sepang, upgrading of Karak Highway
connecting Kuala Lumpur to Pahagn and constructionof the Second Link tO
Singapore.  This had resulted in the shortages of manpower, earthworks
machinery and building materials specifically  Portland cement.  Hence a
slowdown in the performance of some of the contractors.
v)    The labour shoitage were further aggravated by a change in the.governmeifl
policy to impose stricter rulings in acquiring foreign workers. For example, the
imposition of higher levy.
vi)   As the construction of farm roads forms a major part in the completion of most
of the packages, frequent rainfalls had hampered its construction hence
delaying the project.
3.    Bank Performance
The loan 'agreement between the Government of Malaysia and The World Bank was
signed'on 30th. July, 1986.    The initial loan amount was fifty-five million dollars
(US' S 55,000,000) and this was subsequently revised to US $ 49.31 million. The
closing date of the loan, originally scheduled on 31 December 1994, was extended until
30 Jun 1996 due to delay in Implementation of drainage works and farm roads.
In general, Bank Performence has been highly satisfactory judging from various
aspects such as project identfication, appraised and supervision. Due to unforseen
circumstances such as economic recession and lack of experienced engineers during.
initial stage of the project, the project implementation ,period of 10 years to complete all
physidal works was inadequate. However the major components of the civil works such
dams river improvement works, main road bridges and a portion of the drainage works
and. farm roads had been completed by 31 December 1994. In particular, project
appraisal and supervision had been highly effective as there was hardly any cost
over-run and regular supervision mission had been carried out by officials of the Works
Bank throughout the duration of the loan.
4.    Borrower Performance
The.Western Johore Integrated Agricultural Development Project (IADP) Phase II was
scheduled to be completed over a period of 10 years from Jan, 1.986 to December
1994. There was no delay in implementaion of flood control and river Improvement
worlks except for the drainage works and fami roads which experienced some, delay at
the initial stage of the project. Detailed design for the dams and river works were
completed in 1986 and construction works began in 1987. Construction of the major
civil works comprising of the Bekok Dam, Sungai Simpang Kid and Sungai Simpang.
Kanan River Works, Catchment Separator Bund etc. were completed on schedule.
However, due to delay in implementation of detaNed design for drainage works and
farn roads, all the major civil works will only be completed by mid 1998,



Appendix 2
-38 -                       Page 3 of 8
In general the performance  of the Borrower can be described as satisfactory in
preparing, implementing and operating the project. The delay in, impfementation, of the
drainage works and farm roads was mainly due to shortage of funds and experienced
engineers to carry out detailed design in-house.  Disbursement applications were
submitted to the Worl Bank promptly after payment has been made to the contractors.
At the end of the extended loan closing period, the load amount of US S 49.31 million
was fully reimbursed by the Bank.
5     Future Operation
The future operation and maintenance of the Second Western Johore Agricultural
Development Project has been studied in great detail by the DID. So far two papers
have been prepared with regard to the above subject including a paper on the
possibility of privatising the Operation and Maintenance  works to a privatisedl
corporatised body.
Under normal circumstances the State DID will take over the O & M of the infrastructure
after completion of the project. It is estimated that the 0 & M cost for Phase It amounts
to RM 13.5 million comprising RM 5,0 million for staff and operating cost and RM 8.5
million for maintenance of project infrastructure.
All the infrastructure constructed under the project, in particular the dam and major river
systems, as well as the drainage and farm road systems, require proper and adequate
operation and maintenance In order to obtain optimum benefits from the proposed
agricultural development. The operation and maintenance of the Bekok Dam and the
major river system will be carried out in accordance with the Designer's Operation
Manual and the; DlD has also prepared a separate 0 & M Manual in Bahasa Malaysia
for the dam operator or technician. As for the agricultural drainage system, there are
two miajor operational requirements, i.e. operation of the drainage control gates and
use of check structures to control ground water level in areas with peat and poLential
acid suplhate soils. The major maintenance work for the drainage system and farm
roads include regular clearing and removal of weeds, vegetation as well as filling of pot
holes, grading and compaction of farm roads periodically.
6.    Lesson Learned From The Implementation Of The Project
It is felt that the splitting of the design and construction of the flood mitigation works
and agricultural drainage works between the consultant and the department has
resulted in the late implementation of the agricultural drainage projects.  As the
complete design and construction of the agricultural drainage works were done
in-house and at a latter period the flood mitigation works, the land acqulsition plan
were submitted late. When the contracts were awarded, those areas that were to be
alienated were still in the process of acquisition and as such the contractors could not
have qulck possession of site.



Appendix 2
39                            'Page 4 of 8
It is preferable that the design of the whole system (Flood Mitigation and Agricuitural
Drainage) be undertaken by a single body so as to have a more integrated and a well
planned scheme.
For future undertaking of such projects, land acquisition should be planned and settled
before the actual construction works begin.
Nevertheless, it is found that the in-house planning and design of the agricultural
deainage components by the Department had provided good training ground for the
DID staffs. This is due to the imvolvement of the DID staffs in the investigation.
planning, design as well as construction and supervision of the works. In addition, this
involvement has enable them to understand the conceptual aspect of the project and
hence helped them to tackle any problems that arise latter.
It is felt that the financial maintenance requirement of the project was not properly
spelled out during the project appraisal stage. This will create problems once the whole
project is completed. For example:-
i)    The agencies responsible for the maintenance works whether the State
of Federal Government.
ii)   types of maintenance works required
iii)   sources of funds
During the planning and design stage of the agricultural drainage development, there
were not enough maintenance tracks being privided due to the existng famiroads
being built close to the drains without berms in between. There were also financiaJ and
socal constraints in acquiring the land due to the existence of numerous houses
situated at the edges of the drain and the road reserves. Any maintenance works for
the drains will damage the farmroads and obstruct the smooth traffic flow. It is
therefore recommended that adequate maintenance tracks for drain maintenance be
provided for similar project in future.
7     Assessment of Proiect Impact and Effect
A qulck survey was under taken to assess the impact and effect of. the project. A
random survey was carried out In five areas representing different soil type. and
stages of Development. The focus of the study is to Investigate and evalute the
Socio-Economic impact of flood mitigation measures and farm road development.
The five different areas that were studied were as follows:



Appendix 2      :
40 -                        7age50o f t8
Table 1:    Areas covered by study
Block    Block Name            Block Features           No of
Respondent
1.      Sri Dayung   A newly developed areas            172
provided with infrastructure for
agriculture drainage and potential
and      acid sulphate area.
A new area of clay soil suitable
Sri Medan   for cultivation but has not been
provided with infrastructure..
2.      Ayer Hitam    Existing cultivated area on peat  35
soil and have been improved with
new and upgraded infrastructure
3.      Sri Gading    An agricultural area on clay      726
shallow peat soil but has not been
provided with infrastructure.
4.    Sungai Balang  An existing agricultural area on   160
coastal alluvial soil.
5 6.    Tg. Semberong  An existing agricultural area with  171
clay soil.
With regard to the impact of flood mitigation efforts it was found to be positive as
shown in the following tables.
Table 2:    No. of Flood Occurances
No of flooding    No of flooding    Reduction in No, of % Reduction
reported before   reported after 1993  Flood Occurances    of Flood
1992                                             Occurances
414                95                319             77



Appendix 2
- 41 -Pae 6 o  8
Table 3: Duration of Flood_
Average No Of Days Of Flood    % Reduction
Before Project    After Project   .-
Block 1             60               9             85.0
Block 2              6               1              83.3
L     Block 3              26              13              50
Block 4              88              2              97.8
Block 5              19              2             78.9
Table 4:    Estimated Damages Coused By Flood (RM/Fam!IV/Occurance
Average (RM)         Standard Deviation
Block 1            2919.00      J          2393.00
Slaok 2         _      _                      - _
Block 3             1096                    1299
Block 4              856                    922
Block 5              608                    1222           j
As se-er from the table there is significant reduction in the number of respondents
reporting flood occurance after the flood mitigation works has been put in place. The
duration of flood has also been greatly reduced.
The project has also make a significant impact on the income of farmers in the area.
This can be seen from the subsequent tables.
Table 5:    Average Farm Income (RMfYear)
Average Farm Income                %
Before Project After Project   Income     Income
Block 1       2584         4894          2687         103.9
Block 2       2541         5787    [ 313             123,4
Block 3       2642         5108         3274         123.9
Block 4       1330         4158         2828         212.6
Block 5       1461         2196        . 732          50.13
Total:    |   1972        4330    --2228              112



Appendix 2
- 42 -                      Page 7 of 8
Tabie 6:    No Of Res2ondent and Reported Increase In Farm Income.
% Increase in Farm Income             Total .
At25%      At 50%   jAt75%       At 160%
Block 1    70(85.4%)   6(7.3%)    2(2.4%)    4(4.9%)       82
Block 2    28(80.0%)    1(2.9%)        .     6(17.1%)      35
Block 3   216(95.6%)   3(1.3%)    1(0.4%)    6(2.7%)      226
Block 4    135(84.4%)   4(2.5%)    2(1.3%)   19(11.9%)    160
Block 5    67(74.4%)  12(13.30%)  2(2.2%)    9(10%)        90
Total:   [516(92.3%)  26(4.7%)   7(1.3%)   49(0.72%       553
' ( )%/
Table 7:    Averaqe Total Household Income (RMIYear)
Average Total Household Income      % Income
Before       After        Income
Biock 1       2584         11223         9250         358
Block 2       2541         13036        11774         463
Block 3       2642         13098        11909         450
Block 4        1330        10908        10303         775__
8lock 5        1461        9330          7585         519
Total:        2112        11519         9407          445
{o l:          ____-______ __ lX__ .-                 
Table 8:    No Of Respondents and Reported Increase In Farm Income
% Increase in Total Household Income       Total
At 25%     At 50%      At 75%    At 100%
Block 1    43(52.4%)     1(1.2%)              38(46.3%)     82
Block 2    16(45.7%)    1(2.9%)        -      18(51.4%)     35
Block 3    164(72.6%)   4(1.8%)    6(2.7%)    52(23%)      226
Block 4    68(42.5%)    1(0.6%)    4(2.5%)   87(54.4%)      160
Block 5    32(36.4%)                   - _    56(63.6%)     88
Total:    323(54.6%)   7(1.2%)   10(1.7%) 1251(42.5%)    591
)OX,I _  .._ ._.



Appendix 2
- 43-                          Page 8 of 8
With respect to farm income there is a significant increase after thie project in all thra
study areas. However the majority of respondent have an increase in farm income at
less than 25%.
When total household income is taken into consideration, the project has contributecd
significatly in increase in Income in all the study areas. More respondents (42,5'?O) are
reporting more than 100% increase in total household income. This could be attributed
to better employment opportunities among the household members in the rural! areas
with irnproved roads systems. Household members are able to commute to work and
still stay in the villages. This contribute to the significant increase in total housetiold
incom6.
In conclusion the study has shown the project has had a significant impact on the
Socio-Economic and well being of the farmers in the project area.






- 45 -
Appendix 3
Page I of 4
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MALAYSIA
SECOND WESTERN JOHOR AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2740-MA)
Economic Re-Evaluation
1.    The gross project land area is 210,000 ha. At appraisal, the cultivated area was estimated
at 153,000 ha and the rest 57,000 ha consisted of swamps, urban areas, etc. About 42,000 ha in
the project area was flooded periodically for various depths and durations, and the rest suffered
from the internal drainage problem. About 85,000 ha was expected to eventually benefit as a
result of the drainage and flood control works under the project. Of this, 50,000 ha was to
benefit through replanting of old rubber, 20,000 ha through bringing into production of swamps
and scrub lands with oil palm and diversified crops, and 15,000 ha under coconut through
intercropping with cocoa, coffee and fruits.
Economic Benefits
2.    As at appraisal, the eventual benefited area under the project is still estimated to be
85,000 ha. Although precise estimates are not available for land use in the project area in 1996,
the following was estimated based on data in the feasibility report for the project and area
covered by the completed and ongoing drainage and farm road works under the project:
Estimated Project Area Land Use (1996)
Ha
Urban and associated areas                  20,000
Swamp / Scrub land which can not            16,000
be cultivated even after project
Estates                                     48,000
Forest                                      11,000
Unknown (no information was available        5,000
in the Feasibility Report because of
lack of aerial photography)
Possible Hilly Areas (mostly under rubber)  25,000
Smallholder areas with potential            85,000
project benefits
Total                    210,000
3.    The figures for urban and associated areas and possible hilly areas are rough estimates,
while the other figures are based on the feasibility report. Moreover, some hilly areas may be
under estates, and some estate areas may also benefit from the project, although, as a matter of
policy, estate areas are generally excluded from the project works for drainage and farm roads.



- 46 -
Appendix 3
Page 2 of 4
4.    The 85,000 ha smallholder area to eventually benefit from the project includes about
14,000 ha replanted under RISDA grants, and an estimated 5,000 ha previously abandoned area
brought under cultivation, 15,000 ha area heavily damaged in the past due to frequent floods and
now enjoying sustained production, and 51,000 ha enjoying increases in yields due to better
drainage. The yearly phasing of benefited areas is shown below:
Phasing of Areas Benefiting Under the Project (ha)
A       B        C       D      Total
1987      1,930     -        -       -      1,930
1988      4,000     -        -       -      4,000
1989      5,700     -        -       -      5,700
1990      6,850     -        -       -      6,850
1991      8,000   1,000    5,000    5,000   19,000
1992      9,400  2,000     7,000   6,000  24,400
1993     10,875  3,000     9,000   7,000  29,875
1994     12,000  4,000    11,000   8,000   35,000
1995     13,300  5,000    13,000   10,000  41,300
1996     14,300  5,000    15,000   12,000  46,300
1997     14,300  5,000    15,000  20,000   54,300
1998     14,300  5,000    15,000  35,000   69,300
1999-    14,300  5,000    15,000  51,000   85,300
2016
A     -     Area replanted under RISDA grants
B     -     Previously abandoned area brought under cultivation
C     -     Area heavily damaged in the past due to frequent floods and now
enjoying sustained production
D     -     Area enjoying increases in yields due to better drainage
5.    Although replanting of old rubber under RISDA was financed under the project only
through 1993 (after 1993, the Second RISDA Project (Loan 3699-MA), which was a national
project, came on stream, and it was considered more convenient to include financing of
replanting in West Johor Project area under that project), the replanted areas through 1996 have
been included in the economic analysis. Of the 14,300 ha replanted through 1996, about 9,200
ha was under oil palm, 2,800 ha under rubber, and 2,300 ha under other crops (mainly fruits).
Since the replanting grant rates are the same for oil palm and most other diversified crops, and
together these crops account for 80% of the replanted area, and since there are too many
commodities in the diversified crops category for which separate analyses would have been
unnecessarily cumbersome, costs and benefits of the entire 14,300 ha have been calculated for oil
palm only. This understates the economic rate of return (ERR), since the returns from fruits and
other diversified crops are much higher than those from oil palm and rubber. The yield profile
for oil palm used is the same as at appraisal.



- 47 -
Appendix 3
Page 3 of 4
6.    For categories B and C (para. 3) also, costs and benefits have been calculated for oil palm
only, since the areas cultivated are overwhelmingly under oil palm. Although many areas in
category C were already under cultivation but suffered heavy damages, and, therefore, only
incremental benefits and incremental harvesting costs should be included in the economic
analysis, a conservative approach was taken due to lack of precise data by treating these areas as
new areas with full investment and maintenance costs and benefits included in the economic
analysis. This approach understates the ERR to some extent.
7.    For category D in para. 3, the entire area is assumed to be under oil palm and a 10%
increase in yields is assumed, consistent with the estimate in the feasibility report for the project.
Depending on the water quality, flooding with a duration of three to seven days will cause stress
and even death to more susceptible crops like coffee and cocoa. Rubber is somewhat more
tolerant and can stand inundation for up to a maximum of two weeks, while oil palm and coconut
are able to withstand more prolonged flooding provided the spear is not submerged. The flood
water, apart from physically damaging the trees, also affects the productive capacity of the trees,
arising from non-collection of latex and damage to fruits, pods, berries, etc. The assumed 10%
increase in yields is equal to 2 tons of ffb/ha, since the oil palm in the area is mostly mature,
yielding 18-20 tons of ffb/ha/year. The benefit was thus calculated on the basis of 2 tons of
ffb/ha. Moreover, a substantial reduction in transport cost of ffb has occurred due to road
construction in these areas (transport cost of ffb/ton ranges from RM15 for bad roads to RM10
for good roads in the project area), and, therefore, a transport cost saving of RM5 per ton of ffb
(with a yie]d of 20 tons of ffb/ha) was included as a benefit in the economic analysis.
8.    As regards intercropping of coconut with cocoa, coffee and fruits (15,000 ha expected at
appraisal), by mid-1996 only about 3,870 ha of cocoa and 2,510 ha of coffee had been planted.
These benefits are minor and have not been included in the economic analysis.
9.    Although benefits from pumping of water from the Bekok river for water supply could
not be quantified, they are substantial. Therefore, as assumed at appraisal, 48% of the costs of
the dam and appurtenances, and the same proportion of land acquisition and consultancy costs
associated with the dam, have been allocated to water supply and excluded from economic costs.
10.   The replacement and strengthening of bridges, which now not only have increased
lengths required for the widened rivers but also wider roads to cater to expected increased traffic,
has led to an increase in the volume of traffic and savings in transport costs. However, these
benefits could also not be quantified. Therefore, only 20% of the cost of bridges, which can be
ascribed to flood protection, was included in the economic analysis.
11.   Precise estimates for the pre-project flood damage to property, the cost of evacuation of
affected people to the relief centers, and the cost of relief centers, were not available. Therefore,
the appraisal estimate of RM2 million a year in 1985 constant terms (converted to RM3 million a
year in 1996 constant terms) was used in the economic benefit stream.



- 48 -
Appendix 3
Page 4 of 4
12.   The economic farmgate prices for oil palm used in the analysis of benefits (in 1996
constant terms) are based on actual prices from 1987 to 1996 in the project area, and projected
prices from 1997 onwards using the Bank's commodity price projections of August 1996.
Economic Costs
13.   The actual and projected expenditure for the project from 1987 onwards in current prices
is shown in Table 1. These costs were converted to 1996 constant terms, and adjustments made
as mentioned in paras. 9 and 10, and taxes and duties (5% of civil works costs) excluded, to
derive economic costs, which are shown in Table 2 along with economic benefits. The re-
estimated net present value at a discount rate of 10% is RM57.8 million, and the economic rate
of return 13%, compared to the appraisal estimate of 14%.



Appendix 3
Table 1
MALAYSIA
SECOND WES1 ERN JOIIOR AGRICULTUJRAL DEVELOPMIENT PROJECT
ACTUAL AND PROJECTED EXPENDITURE BY YEAR (RNI '000)
UP TO LOAN CLOSING ON JUNE 30, 1996                                                                                    AFTER LOAN CLOSING
COST ITENI                                                                                  ~~~~~~~~          ~         ~~~~~~~~~~~~JAN I TO  JULY I TOTOA
1987      1988       1989       1990      1991        992       1993       1994      1995    JUN  I TO        TOTAL        DEC 11 1 996     1997       1999       COST TILL        1999     2000      2001       2002
CO61IPLETIOJN
I CIVIL WORKS
BEKOK DAM                                    3,156     3,906      6,090      3,937     2,314        720       -          804       -           -             20,927                                                  20,927
FLOOD RETARDING EMB                          ,               -               -          -           747      2,231      1,174       548                       4,700                                                   4,700
CATCHMENT SEPARATOR BUND                                                                            714      2,035       909                                   3,658                                                  3,658
RIVER WORKS   - SEMBRONG                                                      530        685        9S1      1,896      -            25                       4,117                                                   4,117
- BEKOK                                                               -          1,537      1,249     1,267       926                        4,979                                                  4979
- KANAN                                                               8,500      4,437     8,642      2.476                                 24.055                                                 24,055
- KIRI                                          2,795      4,502      4,723      2,013       423        958                                 15,414                                                  15,414
BRIDGES                                                           2,216      3,933     9,634      8,900      9,267      5,404       336            48        39,738                                                  39,738
DRAINS AND ROADS                                                                         634        608      1,486      9,561     12,387        5.693        30,369           11,000    16,000      4,500            61,869
SUBTOTAL                   3,156      3,906    11,101     12,902     26,490    20,657    27,229    22,553       14,222         5,741       147,957          11,000     16,000     4,500            179,457
2 BUILDINGS                                                                     -         -           457         27       -          567           631          1.682                                                   1,682
3 LAND ACQUISITION                            25,890     4,627     12,246      1,526       663        540      6,232      1,603       992           330         54,649           1,000     2,000      4,000            61,649
4 EQUIPMlENT AND VEHICLES                       265       .                      251        125       145        206        311                      50          1,353                                                   1,353
5 INCREMENTAL ADMINISTRATION
PNIU                                         200       400        610        644        780        762       728        390        390           200         5,104             400        750       750              7,004      700      700
DID                                          896       872        935        941      1.208       839        574        612        793           400         8,070             500       870        840             10,280      810      810      1,500      1,500
SUBTOTAL                   1,096      1.272      1.545    I.SS        1,988      1.601      1302      1.002     I.IS3           600         13174              900      1.620      1.590            17.284    t 510    1.510      1.500      1.500
6 MAINTENANCE DURING                            .         .                     .           285       482        465      1,135       943           646          3,956             700      2,000      3,000            9,656    4,000    5.010       8.509      8,500
CONSTRUCTION
7 AGRICUL1 URE DEVELOPMIENT a)                 2.896      5,166     6,104      5,795      6,457     6.526      6.881     (6.570)   (6,261)        (5,590)       39,825                     (3,450    (1,8511          39,825      (807) (190)         (110)      )35)
8 TRAINING                                                                      . .       -          .            80        284       624                         988                                                     988
9 CONSULrANCIES                                .           944       1,142     1,654      1,660      2.318      1,855     1,736      1,068           198        12,575                                                  12,575
1' TOTAL. COST                                 33,383     15,9105    32,138     3,71t3    37,668    32,7Z6    44,277    28.64        19,599         8,196      Z76,I89           13,600    Z .620    13,0              314.469 2,410    6,5           18.1808    10,00
a)                                                                                            ..g grIIn parenlhess are expenditures  inanced unde the Second RISDA Project (Loan 3699-MA) hrouch 1996, and to he fnanced by the Government outside the Second Western J)h.r ProJct
f-rn 1997 on-ards The total of R1 39,825,000 cscludes these e.pendit.es in parentheses I.owvo, those eupendiurer are included in eeononic analysis



Appendix 3
Table 2
MALAYSIA
SECOND WESTERN JOHOR AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ECONOMIC STREAMS
(M$ MILLION)
1987 1988 1989 1990 1991  1992 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006-2016
INCRENMEN I-AI    : I S
FLOOD PROTECTION /a                                    -    -    -    -   30   3 0   3.0  3.0  3.0  3.0  3.0  3.0  3.0  3.0   3 0   3.0  3,0  3.0   30               3.0
AGII)CULTUJRE /b                                5.4  5.8  4.7  3.5  4.8  8.9  12.2  26.0  42 4  44.5  49,2  59.0  68 1 72,2  76.3  78.4  77.7  75 0  71.7    60.0
AGRICLILI,tREl/c                                  -    -    -    -   2.2  26   28   50   67   6.1  8.8  14.7  20.4  19.0  18.4  179  173  168  16.3    16.3
SUI3TOTAL INCRENtENTAL EENEFITS                      5.4  5.8  4.7  3.5  10.0  14.5  18 0  34,0  52.1  53 6  61.0  76.7  91.5  94.2  97.7  99.3  98 0  94 8  90.0    79.3
(In 1996 Constant Terms)
INCREMENTAL COS'I S
INVESININ-I: INFRAS1RUC1I-JRE/d                     22.7  7.8  18.6  14.2  24.3  18.4  30.4  22.4  17.5  19.3  18.8  9.9    -    -    -    -    -    -    -           -
AGRICt)L-TURE/e                     4.3  6.1  6.7  6.8  19.6  17.4  18.9  21.0  19.1  16.1  8.4  5.3  2.3         -    -    -    -    -    -          -
-rl
(0IlRAl ION ANI) MAINIENANCIE:
INFRASTRUCtJCURE                  -    -    -    -  0.3  0.6  0.6  1.2  1.0  1.3  2.0  3.0  5.5  6.5  100  100  100  10.0  10.0    10.0
AGIRICIJLTURI./f               -    -    -    -  1.5  3.0   43   5.2  104  136  17 2  19.7  23.0  24.8  24.3  23.8  23 1 22.1  21 5          16 0
SULBTOTAL INCRFIMENTAI, COS lS                       27.0  13.9  25.3  21.0  45.7  39.4  54.2  49.8  48.0  50.3  46.4  37.9  30 8  31.3  34.3  33.8  33.1  32.1  31.5    26.0
(In 1996 Constant -crnis)
INCREMFNTrAL. NET BEN-FITS                          (21.6) (8.1) (20.6) (17.5) (35.7) (24.9) (36.2) (15.8)  4.1  3.3  14.6  38.8  60.7  62.9  63.4  65.5  64.9  62.7  58.5    53.3
INTERNAL RATFE OF RETUt RN - 13%
/a Urban damage avoided
/b 34,300 ha (assumed to be new planting or replanting with oil palm) Includes benefits from sale of rubberwood in replanlings under RISDA grants.
Ic 51,000 ha (benefit assumed to accrue from increase in yields and reduction in transport cost of oil palm)
/d Infrastructure cost less estimated cost of waler supply and savings in transport costs due to construction and strengthening of bridges, and net of taxes and duties of 5%. Also includes costs of land
acquisition, equipment and vehicles, buildings, incremental administration, training and consultancies.
/e 34,300 ha of new planting or replanling with oil palm
/f For 34,300 ha



MAP SECTION






IBRD 18871
MALAYSIA                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ERUS  . THAILAND
SECOND WEST JOHOR AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          KEDAH,-  - -
PENANG: ,          i
Proler Bo-ed-ry                                               EXISTING BEFORE PROJECT                                                                                                                                                                                          PERAK
-Blok B-udories                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                MALevees  /        M LS JLA
Land Above 1 5 reer Elevor-on                 Dom  -nd Reser-e>                                                                                                                            \A
Area Flvvded 25 Ye-rs Rethv  Perivd                             Roods                                                                                                                                                                                                           "             PAHIANG
SELANGORI
Area Flooded Alter the Pro1evt                                WATER SUPPLY EXTRACTION POINTS             /-                                                                                                                                                                          iO@
*       Evisting Before rIse,Prv1et                                                             vI/Rpur 'NEGRI\.
CIVIL WORKS COMPLETED UNDER PROJECT                    I        Co-str-vred Drine9 Pr1evt Perivd
-- River Evrgemeet vnd ReagnmentELA
* *. Levees
- - - -   MiM  Dr-i-s lprovemeet                                                                           /                                                                                                                                                                    INDONESIA
.A~   .   Cotchmeet Separator B3nd                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               (Sumoterc)                          SINGAPORE
3       Drainage Ootlet S-t..ores
Ne-eBeRdge Works/Strengthening
LI-    GeDm end Reserir
Flood Retarding Ei-borket Tv. r
\l~~~~~~~~~~~~~ /                                                                         !        -r  s                        -        Corrte Ovodir
J-\  LOCiI rK {    \        \d5   g L 0 C K   I 1                                                                         -g
<iI                               -or      L            S ) /. JverdtepnieI A
rnop.rlLrbPoetr--uEtlolT.odd 1t   Z/TPno eut13
Bowa 9 ki                                                                                     PmS                                                                                                                                                 eIS        2-
v.          --oudq_n^*hXgisb~solen>lufy wolly                                                                   ~                                                                                             \                       I     I     l_    s     |Ht
203                       Pot~&   P
5.~~ SI                                                                              B1 .. ._.
K  b                  BATU PAHAT~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Kloe                                                                                               --
Srr-v of Ia/occoc
Kg tMirak
,PI vs - hdv.S  6- -v ae  o,t. w,se,                                                                                                                                                               5             *      rIol  In                                                   I
-rev vrvrerner.o-vh 6-yd-v.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   KiLOMIETERS                  in                                    0 3 01
DECEMBER 199T









I'MAG   N X
,LEFt ',e t  L ->         :102O0
Typ' e:  I C R



