Docomes of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-.-MA.K
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
T THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$55.0 MILLION
TO MALAYSIA
FOR THE
SECOND WESTERN JOHOR AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
June 19, 1986
o This document has a resticted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance.
|of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.|



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Ringgit M$
Average 1985              December 1985
US$1 = M$2.48             US$1 = M$2.43
M$1  = US$0.40            M$1 = US$0.41
FISCAL YEAR
Government of Malaysia: January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric system
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
DID      -   Department of Irrigation and Drainage
DOA      -   Department of Agriculture
ffb      -   fresh fruit bunch (Oil Palm)
JKR      -   Department of Public Works
MOA      -   Ministry of Agriculture
HPIB     -   Malaysia Pineapple Industry Board
RISDA    -   Rubber Industry Smallholders Development Authority



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MALAYSIA
SECOND WESTERN JOHOR AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:                 Malaysia
Loan Amount:              US$55 million equivalent
Terms:                    Repayable in 15 years including three years of grace,
at the standard variable interest rate.
Project Description:      The project would support the Government's ongoing
program of flood control and drainage in the valuable
farmlands in the southwest of Johor State. It would
complement the first Bank-assisted project for the
same purpose and would extend over a further 210,000
ha worked by 30,000 smallholders. The project would
finance (i) constsuction of a dam with a storage
capacity of 92 Mm for flood control and water supply
to nearby small towns; (ii) construction of 100 km of
embankments and other flood control works along the
rivers of the Batu Pahat river basin amounting to 10
M mn of earthworks; (iii) completion and upgrading of
ongoing drainage and road works; (iv) replanting of
14,500 ha of senile rubber with oil-palm, high-
yielding rubber and diversified crops; and (v)
support to project administration. The project would
reduce flood damage to farms and towns, increase
incomes from higher value crops, provide safe drink-
ing water to communities and improve road access for
commuters to employment. Without the project,
recurrent flooding would continue to cause crop
losses and urban damage; and the poor drainage and
transport system would continue to restrict
replanting of old rubber with oil palm.
Risk:                     The main project risks would be delays in on-farm
development should government budgetary problems re-
occur and delays in land acquisition. Government has
reaffirmed the priority it gives the project and
incremental staff are already in place to expedite
land acquisition.
Thbis document has a rstricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performane
of their officiai duties. its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii-
Estimated Cost:
Local    Foreign   Total
(US$ million) --
Civil works                                          25.5       32.8      58.3
Equipment and vehicles                                0.1        0.2       0.3
Consultants                                           0.5        1.2       1.7
Project Staffing                                      5.4         -        5.4
Crop Production                                      13.5        5.9      19.4
Land acquisition                                     30.2         -       30.2
Base Cost                                        75.2      40.1    115.3
Physical contingencies                                3.5        4.6       8.1
Price contingencies                                  14.6       10.3      24.9
Total Project Cost /a                            93.3      55.0    148.3
Financing Plan:
IBRD                                                  0.0       55.0      55.0
Government                                           93.3        0.0      93.3
Total                                           93.3       55.0    148.3
Estimated Di sursenents:
Bank FY           1987  1988  1989  1990  1991  1992  1993  1994  1995
--       -   - -(US$ million) ----
Annual             1.3   4.7   8.4  10.0   8.7   7.1   6.7   5.7   2.4
Cumulative         1.3   6.0  14.4  24.4  33.1  40.2  46.9  52.6  55.0
Rate of Return:            14Z /b
Staff Appraisal Report:  No. 6076-MA, dated June 25, 1986
MAP: IBRD 18871
/a Including taxes and duties amounting to US$8.0 million.
7_ Does not include benefits of access roads and water supply.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO MALAYSIA FOR THE
SECOND WESTERN JOHOR AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan to
Malaysia, for the equivalent of US$55.0 million, to help finance the Second
Western Johor Ag-icultural Development Project. The loan would have a term of 15
years, including 3 years of grace, at the standard variable interest rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The latest economic report, "Malaysia:  Development Strategies and
their Financing" (No. 5560-MA), is dated September 3, 1985. This section
reflects also the findings of a Bank mission which visited Malaysia in July 1985
for a general economic review with particular emphasis on agriculture and
industry, and of a follow-up mission in April 1986.
3.        By most economic indicators, Malaysia's economic performance was out-
standing in the 1970s. The per capita income of US$1,990 in 1984 is among the
highest in Southeast Asia. In the last decade, per capita GDP growth has
averaged about 5.5% p.a., somewhat higher than the 4% p.a. per capita growth
achieved in the 1960s. This sustained good performance was a reflection of
several factors, including the country's wealth in natural resources, especially
ample reserves of cultivable land and oil and gas; an outward-oriented growth
strategy; favorable developments in the world economy; good economic and
financial management; and, not least, stable social and political institutions.
Three specific elements have been important: first, substantial attention and
priority has been given to agriculture, resulting in high productivity gains in
the sector which have cushioned it against occasional steep price declines;
second, manufacturing growth has been rapid, at about 12% per annum, in the last
two decades, following first an import substituting pattern, but later
increasingly oriented towards exports; third, in a very open economy, with
exports and imports recently averaging more than 50% of GDP, exports have
diversified from an initial large dependence on rubber and tin to include palm
oil, petroleum and manufactured goods.
4.        Malaysia is a multiracial society with approximately 55% of the popula-
tion indigenous Malays, 35% Chinese, and the remainder largely Indian. The
country inherited deep divisions in the distribution of income between ethnic
communities. The incidence of poverty covered all ethnic groups, but was dispro-
portionately high among Malays; "heir average per capita incomes were only half
those of the Chinese community. In 1971, the Government declared a New Economic
Policy (NEP), and accorded the highest priority to eradicating poverty and
reducing the racial imbalances in income, employment, and ownership of assets.
By 1983, some progress had been made in reducing the number of households living
below the poverty line, particularly in rural areas. In addition, there has been
substantial progress towards reducing interracial disparities in income and asset
ownership.



-2-
5.        The Malaysian economy has been undergoing some important structural
changes.  Industry has joined agriculture as the major contributor to GDP and
exporting manufactured goods has replaced import substitution as the cutting edge
of industrial growth. In particular, there has been a remarkable and dominating
increase in exports of electronic goods over the last 15 years. Export
diversification (particularly through palm oil, petroleum, and more recently LNG)
has proved important, as some of Malaysia's traditional major foreign exchange
earners show signs of flagging vitality. Tin production steadily declined in the
face of weak prices, the exhaustion of many mines, and increasing costs of
extraction, and was severely disrupted recently by the suspension of
international tin trading. Although timber production has recently been buoyant,
exploitation of the resource has led to detrimental environmental consequences,
and the Government has restricted logging in Peninsular Malaysia. Finally,
rubber production has been fluctuating across a declining trend for several
years. While factors specific to the cultivation of rubber have been at work, an
important reason has been the migration of the young and educated from the farms
to the towns. This has fostered a major structural change in the Malaysian
economy, as it appears that the agricultural labor force may now be peaking in
absolute numbers. In turn, this suggests rather different strategies to be
followed in the agricultural sector in years to come, both to maintain
agricultaral production as well as to tackle the large extant problem of rural
poverty. In the tree crops sector, for example, production growth is being
pursued through productivity and efficiency gains rather than increased
acreage. As for food crops, further growth in rice production may well prove to
be uneconomic and entail considerably higher subsidies than the rice sector
already receives. It is therefore appropriate that the Government has moved
gradually away from its previously proclaimed goal of rice self-sufficiency and
is emphasizing greater crop diversification.
6.        While, in general, the economy has performed well in the last few
years, this progress has been punctuated by periods of occasional difficulty.
This has been particularly true in the most recent international commodity price
cycle. Between 1977 and 1980, prices for palm oil, rubber, timber, and petroleum
increased rapidly, and export receipts nearly doubled. The terms of trade
improved by about 13% in the game period, and real national income grew by more
than 11% p.a. In 1980, however, the prices of virtually all of Malaysia's export
commodities began to fall and, over the next two years, the terms of trade
declined by more than 8Z, represencing a loss of national income of about 5.
Anticipating, in 1980, a short international recession, the Government introduced
a countercyclical fiscal policy, comprising large expenditure increases and tax
cuts, in an attempt to maintain domestic income levels. This combination of
falling commodity prices and an expansionary fiscal stance led, in 1981 and 1982,
to very large fiscal and balance of payments deficits; thus, in 1981-82, the
current account deficit on the balance of payments averaged 12% of GNP, while the
overall public sector deficit averaged 18% of GNP. Overall, GDP growth averaged
6Z p.a., and inflation initially accelerated before falling to 6% in 1982.
7.        To finance these large deficits, the Government had to borrow heavily,
both domestically and abroad. Domestic borrowings were largely noninflationary,
from the Employees Provident Fund, the national oil company and the commercial
banks. Even so, the ratio of domestic debt to GNP grew from about 37% to nearly
48% between 1980 and 1982.  Increasing proportions of the deficits had to be



-3-
financed from abroad, and the level of disbursed public external debt almost
doubled between 1980 and 1982 (from 16X to 32Z of GNP); there was, in addition,
an important shift in the sources of borrowing, away from project financing
towards market borrowings. Because of the low levels of external borrowing in
the previous decade, this surge in the 1980-82 period did not give rise to a high
burden of debt service. As a proportion of exports, debt service on private,
public and publicly guaranteed MLT debt was 14.5Z at the end of 1985.
8.        The unsustainability of deficits of the magnitude experienced in 1981
and 1982 was recognized by the Government, and a policy of expenditure restraint
was implemented through 1983-85 and affirmed in the 1986 budget. The overall
public sector deficit halved from almost 23% of GNP in 1982 to 11% in 1984. Both
the Government and public enterprises registered equally sharp adjustments. In
1983 and 1984, federal government development expenditures declined by 16% and
11%, respectively, and the federal government budgetary deficit fell from almost
18Z of GNP to 6Z. The reduction in the deficit of public enterprises, on the
other hand, came about from substantial increases in internal savings which more
than absorbed a continued expansion in development expenditures. To some extent,
the impact on the external account of the shrinking public sector deficit was
offset by private investment expenditures which rose by 17% in real terms during
1983-84.- Nonetheless, the balance of payments current account deficit improved
considerably from 14% of GNP in 1982 to 6% in 1984.
9.        Malaysia's growth performance in 1985 was its worst in over two
decades. Nominal GNP fell by 2.1% under the combined weight of continued
adjustments in public sector expenditures, lower international commodity prices,
stagnant exports of manufactures and higher interest payments on external debt.
On the other hand, the public sector succeeded in cutting its overall deficit
further to 6.8Z of GNP, and the external current account deficit followed suit by
shrinking to 3.1% of GNP. The slack pace of domestic economic activity and the
consequent closures or cutbacks in the manufacturing, mining and construction
sectors added substantially to the unemployed. In response, the Government
introduced modest reflationary measures including a major new low-cost housing
scheme to be implemented over the next three years.
10.       1986 marked the beginning of Malaysia's fifth five-year plan with its
objective of generating a pattern and pace of economic growth that would create
sufficient employment opportunities for its expanding labor force and yet be
consistent with a prudent level of external debt. However, the precipitous fall
in international prices of petroleum and palm oil, and possibilities of only a
modest recovery over the medium term, has unequivocally altered Malaysia's
resource position and given it considerably less room in which to maneuver.
Though the internal and external balance are likely to deteriorate this year,
1/   This was largely the consequence of higher outlays by quasi-public
agencies misclassified as part of the private sector in the national
accounts. According to the Government's classification, nonfinancial
public enterprises like PETRONAS (the petroleum company) and HICOM (the
heavy industry corporation) are not included as part of the public sector
in the national accounts.



-4-
Malaysia could continue to reduce its external and internal imbalance over the
medium term, provided the Government exercises restraint in public expenditures
and promotes exports, particularly of manufactures. With relatively heavy
external borrowing undertaken in recent years, and with continued external
deficits till the turn of the decade, the debt-service ratio is expected to rise
initially and then stabilize at just below 20Z. The possible impact of public
investment cutbacks on growth prospects underscores the critical importance of
ensuring greater efficiency in the public investment program. In addition, new
growth sources will need to replace those that propelled the economy forward in
che 1970s. International price prospects for rubber, palm oil, petroleum and tin
suggest that commodities production will be of less importance to Malaysian
economic growth than in the past. Even in the manufacturing sector, Malaysia
faces stiff competition from its populous neighbors in international markets for
labor-intensive products such as textiles and electronics assembly.
11.       The Fifth Five Year Plan includes a strong emphasis on resource-based
industrialization, the bulk of which would need to be financed by the private
sector. In preparing the ground for encouraging greater private sector
investment, the Government liberalized partially the investment licensing laws
and continued with its policy initiative of privatizing some sectors of the
economy. A cogent, comprehensive and well-coordinated industrial and trade
strategy will be central to Malaysia's economic future and its ability both to
compete internationally and transcend sudden shocks inflicted by changes in the
world economic environment.
PART II - BANK GROUTP OPERATIONS IN MALAYSIA
12.       The Bank has, to date, approved 66 loans to Malaysia, totalling
US$1,712.21 million for projects in agriculture, education, population, power,
water supply, sewerage, telecommunications, ports, railways, roads, and urban
transport. As of March 31, 1986, the effective loans to Malaysia held by the
Bank amounted to US$1,291.55 million; a total of 46 loans to Malaysia had been
fully disbursed. Annex II contains a summary of Bank loans and IFC investments.
13.       Up to a few years ago, during years of a relatively comfortable foreign
exchange and fiscal situation and prospects, the Bank's lending strategy towards
Malaysia aimed at assisting the Government to alleviate poverty in the country,
and was thus focussed upon rural development and education. The agricultural
projects enjoyed major success in raising the incomes of the beneficiaries,
substantially increasing the foreign exchange earnings for the country, and
contributing to a high economy-wide growth. Although, as mentioned above, the
economic situation and prospects have, since then, changed considerably,
Malaysia's commitment to assist its low-income groups has not diminished, and the
Bank therefore intends to continue to allocate a substantial share of its
assistance to the agriculture and education sectors.
14.       However, responding to a government request, the Bank has increased and
diversified its program of cooperation to cover both the commodity producing
sectors as well as supporting social and physical infrastructure. The assistance
is aimed at maintaining a high overall rate of growth for the economy and at
raising productivity, efficiency, and cost effectiveness. Consequently, the Bank
is now also assisting in sectors where serious structural problems or



-5-
institutional deficiencies exist. The Bank has increased its coverage to lend to
such sectors as industry, transport, power and water supply, and is thus also
making a more substantial contribution to alleviating Malaysia's balance of
payments and fiscal constraints over the medium term.
15.       Although overall implementation of Bank-financed projects in Malaysia
has been satisfactory, it has in recent years been seriously affected by the
country's budgetary constraints. This has also been reflected in project dis-
bursements, which dropped from US$137 million in FY83 to US$87 million in FY84
and to US$100 million in FY85. Disbursement performance, measured in terms of
the rates of actual disbursements to cumulative undisbursed amounts, was 0.22 in
FY83, 0.14 in FY84, and 0.17 in FY85 (compared to regional averages of 0.20,
0.21, and 0.22 respectively, in the same years).
16.       Apart from lack of counterpart funding, the major problems causing dis-
bursement delays in Malaysia have been: delays in project start-up due to
manpower shortages and time-consuming land acquisition procedures, and the
limited capacity of the Public Works Department and the local contracting
industry. To improve the situation, the Bank has held various project imple-
mentation reviews with the central and implementing agencies in [uala Lumpur (the
last one in November 1985). These reviews and the corrective action taken by the
agencies subsequently are having a positive impact on project implementation.
Further reviews will be undertaken with the Malaysian authorities when
necessary. It is also proposed to continue to reinforce the implementation
reviews with occasional seminars on disbursements and procurement (the last
disbursement seminar took place in September 1985, and the next procurement
seminar is scheduled for mid-1986) for the benefit of the implementing agencies.
17.       IFC has made six investments in Malaysia totalling US$21.19 million.
The total investments held by IFC, as of March 31, 1986, amounted to US$12.50
million (Annex II).
18.       In 1985, Malaysia's debt service ratio on private, public and publicly
guaranteed debt was about 14.5%. In the same year, debt service on Bank obliga-
tions constituted about 8X of total debt service. With the rapid increase in
market borrowings in the last three years, the proportion of Bank disbursed debt
in total disbursed debt has fallen from about 15Z in 1979-80 to less than 3.5% at
end-1985. Various projections, on a variety of assumptions, suggest that the
Bank share in debt service and total disbursed debt of Malaysia is likely to
remain well below 10% through the rest of the decade.
PART III - TEE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
19.       The agricultural sector continues to play a dominant role in the
Malaysian economy though its relative importance is declining as the country
proceeds toward industrialization. In 1985, the sector contributed about 23% of
GDP, 40% of total merchandise exports and 35% of total employment. In the 1960s
and early 1970s, agriculture grew at 7% p.a., but slowed to an average 5.5% p.a.
during 1976-80 and to 3.7Z p.a. during 1981-84. Agricultural production has been
primarily export-oriented, with Malaysia being the world's largest producer and
exporter of rubber and palm oil, producing about 40% of the world's natural
rubber and more than half of its palm oil. Malaysia's share of world exports is



- 6 -
about 45Z for natural rubber and 70% for palm oil. It is also a major exporter
of wood and timber.
20.       Malaysia's climate and soil conditions provide a strong comparative
advantage for tree crop development, particularly rubber and oil palm. About one
third of Peninsular Malaysia and less than 5% of East Malaysia (Sabah and
Sarawak) are under cultivation, while most of the remaining area is still tropi-
cal forest. The total cultivated area is about 4.5 million ha, of which about
2.0 million ha are under rubber, 1.3 million ha oil palm, 300,000 ha coconut,
200,000 ha cocoa and 500,000 ha rice. About half of the rice area is double
cropped. Minor crops include sugarcane, pineapple, tobacco, coffee and pepper.
The entire rice area and about two thirds of the tree crop area are in small-
holdings averaging 1.2 ha; the remainder is mainly in estates.
21.       With the strong performance of the Malaysian economy until recently,
poverty incidence has been reduced from about 49% in 1970 to 18% in 1984. How-
ever, it remains higher (25%) in the rural areas which account for about two
thirds of the nation's poor. This is particularly the case among paddy, rubber
and coconut smallholders, primarily because of small farm sizes. With increasing
industrialization and low incomes in the sector, the rural youth are migrating to
urban areas, reducing the agricultural labor force and further contributing to
the slowdown of farm output.
Government Policies and Strategy
22.       Government efforts in agriculture have traditionally been oriented to
poverty alleviation through programs of land settlement, technology transfer,
subsidies and infrastructure. In view of the downturn in agricultural growth and
increasing migration to urban areas, the Government reviewed its sectoral
objectives and announced its National Agricultural Policy (NAP) in 1984.
Maintaining the emphasis on poverty alleviation, the NAP objectives are:
(a) maximization of farm incomes to improve the quality of rural life and facili-
tate retention of productive labor in the sector; and (b) expansion of production
of traditional and new export and food crops to revitalize the agricultural
sector.
23.       The Government's main objectives have been pursued through two basic
strategies: (a) land development and settlement schemes providing viable farm
sizes and adequate incomes, and expanding tree crop production for export; and
(b) in situ development projects designed to consolidate small farms, rehabili-
tate idle lands, increase productivity and improve farm management. This has led
to development of large land settlement schemes by the Federal Land Development
Authority (FELDA) and the State governments; irrigation and drainage projc a by
the Ministry of Agriculture; land rehabilitation programs by the Federal Land
Consolidation and Rehabilitation Authority (FELCRA); and rubber replanting and
mini-estate development programs by the Rubber Industry Smallholders Development



-7-
Authority (RISDA).21 Under the NAP, these strategies will continue, but greater
attention will be given to the problems of uneconomic farm units, unremunerative
crops and low productivity in the in situ development projects. This includes
promotion of group farming with centralized management, support to farm
mechanization, crop diversification, the intensification of integrated support
services and provision of credit for selected crops.
Government Strategy
24.       The success of government programs has been limited by the faster rise
in real wages for nonfarm work, the reluctance of urban migrants to sell land
they no longer cultivate and falling prices for agricultural commodities. Most
affected has been the rice-growing industry where production has fallen from a
peak of 1.8 million tons of rice in the early 1970s to 1.2 million tons in the
mid-1980s, despite an increasingly more expensive output price support scheme
coupled with free fertilizer and other input subsidies. The rubber industry has
suffered from declining international competitiveness. The scarcity of rubber
tappers has led to increasing areas of mature untapped rubber, even though wages
for Malaysian rubber workers are double those of neighboring producers.
Government policy now accepts the desirability of structural change within the
sector and has abandoned explicit paddy production goals, trimmed some subsidy
programs and is concentrating on supporting change within high productivity
areas. This has led to a decreased emphasis on rice, rubber and coconuts in
favor of oil palm, fruit trees, and cocoa, all of which have a lower labor demand
and a higher value added.
Bank Sector Strategy
25.       The B_rvk has consistently supported the Government's objectives and
institution building efforts in agriculture. Initially, Bank lending in agri-
culture concentrated on land development, settlement and irrigation. More
recently, emphasis has also been given to programs designed to raise productivity
in existing smallholder areas such as irrigation and drainage improvement,
rehabilitation of tree crops, land consolidation, agricultural research and
extension. To date, the Bank has made 24 agricultural loans amounting to
US$781.3 million, nearly 45% of total lending to Malaysia. Of these, the most
successful have been the six loans to assist implementation of FELDA projects in
the states of Pahang, Johor and Negeri Sembilan (Loans 533,672, 885, 967, 1044
and 1590-MA). These projects cover some 66 settlement schemes, comprising
development of IY,750 ha, construction of basic infrastructure and settlement of
29,450 families.-   Favorable circumstances for these projects included fertile
soils in unoccupied lands, and readily exported crops (oil palm and rubber).
2/   Production cooperatives or mini-estates are formed from contiguous areas
of about 40 ha or more of old smallholder rubber in which the individual
owners caveat their land titles from the time of land clearing for about
15 years, until development costs have been reimbursed from production,
for the benefits of higher standards of management.
3/   PPAR Nos. 2122, 3024, 3978 and 4221.



-8-
Success has been mixed among the area development schemes for existing small
farms producing foodcrops, particularly rice. Problems have been smallness of
farm size, shortage of irrigation water and low returns relative to non-farm
employment. However, in ecologically favored areas, there have been notable
successes, such as the MUDA Irrigation Projects (Loans 434 and 1717-MA) which
have led to a doubling of cropping intensity, increased yields and strong
institutional development. Now that Peninsular Malaysia is running out of long-
run supplies of land available for new settlement schemes, government policy has
reemphasized the need to concentrate on development of older areas with
entrenched rural poverty. ThZ Bank supports this view and is assisting the
program of structural change._
26.       In view of the sector's contribution to national output and poverty
alleviation, an important thrust of future Bank assistance to Malaysia will
continue to be for agriculture along the lines proposed in the NAP. Particular
attention will be given to the solution of structural problems facing the sector,
through land consolidation and improved efficiency and management of smallholder
agriculture; and to strengthening the land development and settlement programs,
as the most effective way of providing viable farm units and improving rural
incomes.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
27.       Johor has the second largest population of Malaysia's states and one of
the highest population growth rates; average per capita incomes are below the
national average and rural incomes are about one half urban incomes. Johor is
the Federation's largest agricultural producer, responsible for some 15% of
sectoral GDP. However, the annual growth rate of farm output at 1.6Z for 1981-84
is only one-half the national average. The slow growth rate reflects the high
average age of tree crops and the depressed pineapple industry.
28.       The southwestern part of the State, settled with smallholders, is
mostly poorly drained and flood prone, and has been minimally involved in the
nationwide replanting of rubber with oil palm. Less than 10% of the rubber and
pineapple areas have been converLed to oil palm, compared :o 40% statewide.
Public land schemes and private estates are mostly located on higher elevations
of low flood risk and lower development costs. In the early 1970s, a 300,000 ha
block of these lowlands was selected for infrastructure development to assist
smallholders diversify into oil palm, vegetables, cassava, groundnuts and other
crops. Too large to be managed as a unit, it was divided into two blocks for
sequential development. The first block was appraised in 1973 as the Western
Johor Agricultural Development Project (Loan 973-MA), which became effective in
August 1974 and was completed in October 1984.  The second block comprises
Phase II and is the project p=oposed in :his report.
4/   OED Impact Evaluation Report No. 3587 on the Muda and Kemubu Irrigation
Projects.



Experience under the First Project (Loan 973-MA)
29.       The first project financed construction of two flood control dams,
river works, a drainage system, roads, a coastal embankment and agricultural
development in an area of some 135,000 ha. The project was completed in 1984,
five yea5 later than expected at appraisal, and experienced a 31% cost
overrun._r The major causes of delay and cost overruns were inadequate
preparation of engineering works and budgetary shortfalls, implementation of
additional works not included at appraisal, and staffing shortages. Consequent
cost overruns and delays reduced the IRR from 15% forecast at appraisal to 1OZ.
Expected benefits from vegetables, cassava, groundnuts and agroindustry did not
raterialize with farmer interest centered on replanting old rubber with oil palm
mnd underplanting coconut with cocoa. Nevertheless, participating farmers
benefited significantly and important secondary benefits were generated in terms
of road access and improved living conditions.
30.       The PPAR's main findings were that:  (i) changing economic
circumstances adversely affected the project leading to farm labor shortages;
(ii) smallness of farm size often relegated farming to a secondary occupation
with reduced interest; (iii) civil works were inadequately prepared at time of
appraisal and appraisal premature; (iv) initial weakness in project organization
delayed implementation; (v) shortage of staff for land acquisition delayed
progress of works; and (vi) time could have been saved by switching earlier to
LCB procedures on roads and drainage civil works after little interest in bidding
was shown by foreign firms.
31.       During preparation of the second project these findings have been
incorporated into project design. The cropping pattern to be supported,
predominately oil palm, has a lower labor demand per hectare than the mixed
cropping pattera proposed for the first project.  The proposed project envisages
formation of mini-estates, that is, producer cooperatives in support of
government strategy to overcome the problem of smallness of farm size. The
problem of inadequate preparation has been avoided by not appraising until after
completion of detailed design (now finished) of the Bekok Dam which is the major
project civil works component. During the ten-year implementation period of the
first project a satisfactory project organization eventually evolved. It is
proposed to continue using the same arrangements. The initial la-nd acquisition
delays due to staff shortages for title processing were eventually overcome by
increasing the staffing for the purpose. These staff positions specifically
created and filled for project land acquisition are temporarily still in place
and the starf are already working on land acquisition for the proposed project.
During implementation of the completed project, after 13 ICB contracts had been
satisfactorily executed by local firms and given the negligible response from
foreign contractors, changes were made to allow for LCB on remaining civil works
for drains and agricultural roads. Under the proposed project, the ICB contracts
would be large enough to attract foreign bidders and the smaller contracts for
works to be carried out under LCB would be open to foreign bidders. The problem
of cost overruns has been addressed by adequacy of detailed design before
5/   Draft PPAR, December 2, 1985.



- 10 -
appraisal. Implementation delays have been dealt with by readiness of
preparation and by allowing a seven year implementation period.
The Project
32.       In 1981, the Government submitted a feasibility report to the Bank
which included a follow-up agricultural development plan and engineering
proposals including a consultant's detailed design of the Beliok Dam. After
review by the Bank, it was agreed to engage international consultants to:
(a) review the general infrastructure plan with emphasis on the hydraulic works
and a study of the flood control options; (b) prepare preliminary designs, cost
estimates and schedule of implementation for the selected option; (c) prepare a
long-term agricultural development plan and a specific program for the project
implementation period; and (d) review detailed designs for the Bekok Dam. The
work was financed under the National Small-Scale Irrigation Project (Loan
1444-MA). The draft proposals for the least-cost solution were reviewed and
agreed to by the Bank in 1983, and detailed design was begun. A final report was
accepted by the Government in 1985 and proposed to the Bank for appraisal. The
project was appraised in April 1985, and postappraised in November 1985 to adjust
final appraisal to the allocation made under the Fifth Plan. Loan negotiations
were held at the Bank in March 1986, with the government delegation led by
Mr. Nik Najib Husain, Principal Assistant Secretary of the Treasury. A staff
appraisal report (No. 606-MA dated June 25,1986) is being distributed separ-
ately. Supplementary pro_ect data is given in Annex III of this report.
Rationale and Objectives of Bank Involvement
33.            The difficult hydrology of the Batu Pahat river basin required
long preparation and complex modelling. Bank assistance led to design changes
and a satisfactory resolution of choice among alternative engineering
solutions. In addition to continuing assistance to the MOA in project
preparation and implementation, the Bank project would strengthen the integration
of farmer support services and assist the Government's attempts at land
consolidation through use of the mini-estate concept.
34.       In support of the Government's in situ development program, the project
would (i) construct flood-control structures in the Batu Pahat river basin to
protect towns and farm property, (ii) rehabilitate and complete the existing
drainage and access roads network, (iii) support RISDA's replanting activities in
the drained areas, and (iv) provide potable water supply to the adjacent towns
from water stored in flood-control structures.
Project Description
35.       The proposed project would control floods and improve drainage over
98,000 ha in Western Johor (IBRD Map No. 18871) and would replant 14,500 ha of
senile rubber on smallholdings during the construction period. The works would
increase yields of younger existing plant stands, and would enable the develop-
ment of a further 70,000 ha after completion of the works as part of the ongoing
programs under several agencies. The civil works would consist of:



- 11 -
(a) construction of a dam on the Kembong River and a 6.5 km long channel to
direct river flows into this reservoir;
(b) construction of extensive river improvement works on the Simpang Kiri,
Simpang Kanan, Bcrnk a"d Sembrong Rivers, including river enlargement
(79 km), river realignment (14 km), and new levees along tidal reaches
(55 km);
(c)  construction of a catchment separator bund (12 km) between the Simpang
Kiri and Bekok Rivers and a small flood-retarding embankment on the
Simpang Kiri River beside a future expressway;
(d) construction of a main drainage system consisting of high level drains
(146 km in nonflooded areas and 69 km in flooded areas) and associated
structures, and lower level drainage outlet works on the lower rivers,
and replacement or construction of bridges;
(e) replacement of eight existing bridges on the main rivers;
(f) flood protection for the town of Parit Sulong; and
(g) development of three coastal blocks through construction of secondary
drains (85 km), new agricultural roads (112 km), resurfacing of
existing roads (920 km) and maintenance tracks along existing secondary
drains (350 km).
36.       Agricultural development would involve about 14,500 ha of smallholdings
during the project construction period through:
(a) conversion of about 10,000 ha of old low yielding rubber to oil palm of
which about 3,000 ha would be developed as mini-estates;
(b) replanting of 3,000 ha of old rubber with high yielding rubber; and
(c) conversion of 1,500 ha of old rubber to diversified crops.
This development would form part of the 85,000 ha expected to be developed in the
project area over 20 years as a result of the drainage and flood control works.
It would be the first time-slice in the replanting of some 50,000 ha of old
rubber, the bringing of about 20,000 ha of swamp and scrub lands into production
with oil palm and diversified crops, and the intercropping of another 15,000 ha
of coconut with cocoa, coffee and fruits.
37.       In addition, support would be given to project management in the form
of engineering consulting services, equipment and vehicles, administration
buildings, equipping of a soils laboratory, and incremental project staff.
Project Implementation
38.       The project would be implemented by the Department of Irrigation and
Drainage (DID) for civil works and by RISDA for the agricultural program. Both
agencies are involved in implementation of ongoing Bank projects and are familiar



- 12 -
with Bank standards and procedures.61 The MOA, through its project office, would
be responsible for planning, coordination, monitoring and coordination of project
activities. Its Department of Agriculture would be responsible for agriculture
support services, primarily for farmers with crops other than industrial rubber
and oil palm which are covered by RISDA. Extension services for mature oil palm
would be provided in association with the Palm Oil Research Institute of Malaysia
for technical advice and new crop production technologies. Other services
include farmer training, supply of planting materials and monitoring of soils.
DID has already engaged consultants for design of remaining works and for
construction supervision.
39.       The project would be implemented over a seven-year period beginning
1987. Bidding documents for construction of the Bekok Dam were available to pre-
qualified contractors in May 1986 and construction would start in early-1987 at
the end of the flood season and is expected to be completed by end-1989. Stored
water would be available in 1990 for distribution through the new Batu Pahat
system which is expected to be completed in the same year. Following pre-
qualification of contractors, bids for river improvement works would be called in
November 1986 and construction would start in mid-1987. Other works would be
undertaken progressively between 1988 and 1990 as land acquisition progresses.
Agricultural development would be an expansion and intensification of ongoing
operations.
40.       Land Acquisition.  The proposed infrastructure works require acquisi-
tion of about 3,100 ha of land. Crop compensation would also be made to a small
number of families now living on about 950 ha of government lands legally
developed within river reserves; they would be relocated. There are no
households presently in the Bekok reservoir area. Under the previous project,
land acquisition problems were a major source of delay until the project financed
the appointment of 48 staff positions in the State Lands Office. This ensured
timely processing and would continue to do so, although land owners have recourse
to time-consuming legal appeal. Work has already begun on land acquisition for
the Bekok Dam site giving a lead time of more than one year before start of
construction. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that Government would
make appropriate arrangements for timely land acquisition and for resettlement or
compensation of the families to be displaced, in accordance with a plan of action
satisfactory to the Bank.
41.       Dam Safety.  To assist DID in ensuring the safety of the Bekok Dam,
assurances were obtained that, by December 31, 1986, the Government would appoint
a panel of experts, whose qualifications and terms of emp'loyment would be
acceptable to the Bank, and whose responsibility would be to review: (a) con-
struction quality and progress; (b) revisions in design and construction
practice; and (c) the adequacy of the maintenance and safety program. Assurances
6/   RISDA's extension and farmer training services are among its most
important and beneficial roles for rubber smallholders. A network of
district and subdistrict offices are maintained with close farmer
contacts at the village level. RISDA also assists farmers in rubber
marketing.



- 13 -
were obtained that DID would carry out a maintenance and inspection program for
the Sembrong Dam, and the Bekok Dam after its campletion, to determine any actual
or potential deficiencies in the conditions of the structures or in the quality
of maintenance or methods of operations which might render the dams unsafe, and
initiate a1-7 necessary remedial action. Copies of each inspection report would
be furnished promptly to the Bank.
42.       Operation and Maintenance.  DID would be responsible for operation and
maintenance (O&M) of the Bekok and Sembrong Dams, and all river and drainage
works down to secondary drains and roads. The operating rules of the flood
mitigation system were defined during the feasibility studies and would be
included in the operating manual. During construction, DID would continue to
operate and maintain existing schemes in the area and would take over the new
works as completed. DID is responsible for operation and maintenance of both
drainage works and roads in the Johor Phase I area, which is satisfactory. Staff
and equipment for the Phase I project would be redeployed over both project
areas, supplemented by contract works in line with government policy. Assurances
were obtained that the Government would ensure that, promptly after construction,
drainage works would be transferred to Johor State for operation and maintenance.
43.       Monitoring and Evaluation.  The Project Office would continue its
project monitoring role, under the Phase I project economist. The surveys of
social and agricultural conditions during project preparation are adequate for
baseline analysis. Lessons learned from the previous project indicate the need
for closer coordination between the monitoring and planning functions and for
better balance between data collection and processing into a usable form (draft
PPAR, December 2, 1985). Evaluation would be made by a body external to the
Project Office.
44.       Agricultural Credit.  Agricultural credit needs are supplied by the
Agricultural Bank. Credit demand is generally low for treecrops because of the
funding supplied by RISDA to farmers contributing to the cess fund. Direct
provision of inputs by the DOA under diversification programs also reduces credit
lemand, and the Agricultural Bank's main work in Western Johor is in supplying
credit to farmers not qualifying for other funds. In the area of the first
project, the Agricultural Bank lends about M$3 million annually for cocoa,
coffee, coconut and pineapples. Interest rates for agricultural deve7opment by
smallholders are generally 0% or 2%, while estates pay market rates.-
45.       Cost Recovery.  The direct beneficiaries of the project works would be
users of the town water supply, urban property owners and farmers. Costs of the
7/   The Government introduced subsidized interest rates through the Agricul-
tural Bank in 1981 as a way to assist the poorest farmers. This conces-
sional lending is financed by substantially interest-free loans and
grants from the Government. The Agricultural Bank now seems to have
problems with the quality of its portfolio, but we have little informa-
tion on its operations and financial condition. This is expected to be
corrected following a study of Development Finance Institutions, which is
currently being carried out.



- 14 -
town water supply would be recovered through the revenue measures agreed for the
Johor Water Supply Project (Loan 2654-MA of US$62 million), for which the loan
was signed on March 26, 1986. Recovery of costs for protection of urban land
from floods would be made through reassessment of the taxable value of the
property for annual land tax payment. Recovery of costs for agricultural land
improvement would be made through the established practice of adding a betterment
levy to the land tax upon completion of project works. Recovery of planting
costs would be made through cess funds and export taxes on rubber and palm oil.
Assurances were obtained that the Federal Government would ensure that Johor
State would gazette areas benefiting from project drainage, and would collect and
periodically review these charges.
46.       Environmental Effects.  The environmental impact statement concluded
that the project would have a beneficial effect on the environment by providing
drainage facilities in an area presently suffering from flooding and poor
drainage. Improved water supply and drainage wouLd help to control water-borne
diseases and malaria. Although the project would bring about a temporary
increase in the turbidity of rivers during construction, this short-term negative
effect is considered minor and is outweighed by the social and economic benefits
of the project. The project does not entail any forest clearance.
Project Cost and Financing
47.       The total project costs in 1986 prices are estimated at US$148.3 mil-
lion, inclusive of US$8.0 million of taxes and duties, with a foreign exchange
component of US$55.0 million or 37%. Quantity estimates were prepared for the
project works based on feasibility designs for the Bekok Dam, feasibility designs
for river improvement and drainage works and on prefeasibility designs for road
works. Unit prices were based on recent contracts for similar works carried out
for DID in Johor. The costs of equipment and vehicles are based on recent bid
prices. Project base costs are calculated from January 1986. Physical contin-
gencies of 10% were applied to works where detailed designs were available, and
15% for other civil works and 10% for other components. Physical contingencies
amount to 7% of base costs. Price contingencies have been calculated at the
following rates of projected increases, using censtant purchasing parity exchange
rates. Price contingencies amount to 22% of total base costs.
1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991-93
Local inflation rates (X)              5.0    5.0    5.0    5.0    5.0        5.0
Foreign inflation rates (Z)            7.0    7.0    7.5    7.7    7.6        4.5
48.       The proposed Bank loan of US$55.0 million would finance the foreign
exchange requirements of the project. The Government's contribution of US$93.3
million would be provided through annual budgetary allocations to the agencies
involved in project implementation.



- 15 -
Procurement
49.       Procurement arrangements are summarized in the table below.
PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS /a
(US$ million)
Item                          ICB       LCB       Other     NA       Total cost/b
------- (Including contingencies) -------
Civil works                  44.7      34.8         -         -            79.5
(25.6)   (19.4)        -         -           (45.0)
Land acquisition                -        -          -      34.1            34.1
(0)            (0)
Agricultural development        -      10.0       14.8        -            24.8
(3.4)     (4.0)       -            (7.4)
Equipment and vehicles          -       0.5         -         -             0.5
(0.4)                              (0.4)
Consultancies                   -        -         2.2        -             2.2
(2.2)                   (2.2)
Administration                  -        -          -        7.2            7.2
(0)            (0)
Total                   44.7      45.3       17.0     41.3          148.3
(25.6)   (23.2)      (6.2)      (0)          (55.0)
Number of contracts             3       50
/a   Figures in parenthesis include amount of Bank financing.
50.       Civil Works.  Three contracts for construction of the Bekok Dam
(US$20.9 million) and for river dredging works (US$23.8 million) would be awarded
following international competitive bidding (ICB) according to Bank Group guide-
lines. The remaining river improvement and drainage works would not be large
enough for ICB and would therefore be carried out under contracts to be awarded
following local competitive bidding procedures (LCB) which are satisfactory to
the Bank and in which foreign bidders would be eligible to participate. The con-
tracts for secondary drains and agricultural roads, which would be small and
scattered in space and time, would not be of interest to foreign contractors and
would be awarded after locally advertised competitive bidding. The total cost of
LCB works would be US$34.8 million. All ICB and LCB bidders would be prequa-
lified by DID to standards acceptable to the Bank.
51.       Goods and Services.  Purchases of O&M equipment, service vehicles and
supplies totaling US$0.5 million would be grouped into packages for procurement



- 16 -
under LCB procedures in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines. Small off-the-
shelf items, costing less than US$35,000 each and totaling not more than
US$0.2 million, would be procured through normal government procedures
satisfactory to the Bank. Local competitive procedures are acceptable and
foreign firms are allowed to participate. The fabrication and supply of gates
and hoists for water control structures would be carried out through force
account at an estimated cost of less than 1% of the total project cost. DID has
been fabricating its own gates and hoists for more than 30 years. Consultants
would be selected in accordance with Bank guidelines.
52.       Contract Review.  Civil works contracts over US$2.0 million and supply
contracts over US$0.2 would be subject to prior review. This would cover about
80% of the total value of all contracts. Other contracts would be subject to
selective post-award review.
Disbursements
53.       Disbursement of the proposed loan over 8 years would be as follows:
(a) 65% of the cost of civil works; (b) 55% of the replanting and conversion
g-ants; (c) for equipment and vehicles, 100% of the foreign exchange cost of
directly imported items, 100% of the ex-factory cost of locally manufactured
items, net of taxes, and 75% of the cost of imported items procured locally; and
(d) 100% of expenditures for consulting services. For disbursements made against
statements of expenditure, documentation would be retained by the implementing
agencies for Bank review and scrutiny by auditors. The loan is expected to be
disbursed over eight years. A one-year lag between project expenditure and
disbursements has been allowed to account for disbursement application delays.
Project completion is expected by December 31, 1993. The disbursement schedule
is six months faster than that for the standard profile for Bank loans to
Malaysia for area development on the basis of the readiness of engineering,
progress ir. land acquisition, and the experience in implementing the previous
project. A special account with an authorized allocation of US$2.7 million,
corresponding to four months' expenditure, would be established to facilitate
disbursements.
Accounts and Audits
54.       The agencies involved in the project are all subject to normal govern-
ment control and audit procedures. Assurances were obtained during negotiations
that all agencies involved in project implementation would maintain separate
project accounts; that the special account and the accounts of implementing
agencies and the Project Office would be audited annually by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank; and that the auditors' reports would be furnished to the
Bank within nine months of the end of the Government's fiscal year.
Benefits and Risks
55.       Benefits.  The project benefits would be (i) reduction of flood damage
of farms and villages resulting from Bekok dam construction and river training,
(ii) increased value-added from replanting old rubber trees with new clones and
oil palm, bringing swampland into production, and from diversification of coconut
and (iii) increased provision of drinking water to Keluang and associated small



- 17 -
towns. Other nonquantifiable benefits would accrue, such as improved road access
for comuuters to urban employment and institutional strengthening. The project
would directly benefit some 30,000 smallholder families. At full production, it
would result in an incremental annual output of 4,100 tons of rubber, 40,000 tons
of palm oil and 900 tons of diversified crops. After the project works are
completed, another 72,500 ha would remain to be planted which should produce
another 20,000 tons of rubber, 200,000 tons of palm oil and 4,500 tons of
diversified crops annually. Flood control benefits to agriculture are captured
in the estimation of incremental production with and without the project. Flood
control benefits to urban areas are assessed on the basis of the annual value of
recorded damage during recent years, varying between M$1 million and M$4
million. Most of the direct project benefits would accrue to about 30,000
smallholder families. The smallholders, over 95% in the poverty target group,
have average annual incomes of US$350 per capita. With the project, average
incomes are expected to rise to about US$580 per capita per year. While this
would be above the absolute poverty level of US$360 per capita per year it
remains below the average per capita income of about US$2,000 per year.
56.       Economic Return.  The economic rate of return for the project is
estimated at 14% and is relatively insensitive to variations in basic assump-
tions. For example, commodity prices would have to fall another 25% from their
present depressed levels before the internal rate of return switches below 10%.
Costs would need to rise 40% to produce the same effect.  Exclusion of urban
infrastructure benefits entirely reduces the IRR by only less than 1Z. Labor is
costed at the full wage rate assuming the marginal opportunity cost of labor is
equal to the market wage.
57.       Risks.  The major risk is from land acquisition delays and reoccurrence
of government budgetary problems. In the previous project, land acquisition,
which became a serious impediment to project implementation, was eventually
overcome by the recruitment of an extra 48 professional staff in the Lands
Office. Nevertheless, landowners are entitled to time-consuming legal appeals.
Budgetary restrictions have been maintained for the Fifth Malaysia Plan, although
adequate provision for the project has been made. Unplanned further spending
cuts could influence the rate of implementation. These two risks have been
incorporated into the project design by having a conservative pace of implementa-
tion over seven years, including a lead time of one year (1986) prior to
commencement of works during which land acquisition and further detailed design
would proceed.
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
58.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles of
Agreement of the Bank, and recommend that the Executive Directors approve the
proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
June 19, 1986
Washington, D. C.



- 18 -                                      Annx I
TA *L: It                                         Page  1  of  6
AOCUL   tICAD  D                 UT S ST
MALAYSIA                    RSP~~lerENS  MrIs (HEIGMTSD AVUSESI la.
win'                      (onS ISCEUT  MIMTAT) /b
a16 97k.IDKS INURE    "                   mI     rT a
ImaLlb  suTb *StASIA & PACFric                  LAT. ASMICA & CA
a     Ciiuum. mu)
TOAL                               329.6       329.6       329.6
AGRICULTURAL             -          34.5        39.6        43.6
-  PEE CUIA A     )                     ..          .. 100.0    /               1011.1                   h1u7.9
aNtV  anin.uur  FM cz.:a
(EILOCRANS OF OIL WUIVALENT)       610.0       455.0       669.0             Sfl.a                     "3.6
L       . AM  ViTAL   TEU
POULATIUN.NID-YAR (CUUSams)   6205.0    10663.0    14863.0
URA  POPULATION Cl OF TOTAL)        25.2        27.0        30.7               35.9                     07.7
POWULAnDON OJEcYItOI
POPULATiOY  IN MEP 200 (DLL)                              20.5
STATI0ZI POPULATION (MILL)                                33.0
PaPULAYEOn MOMNETUM                                        1.5
PoPUmAIN DOSrr
Fi so. at.                        24.9        32.9        45.1             36b.9                      48.0
PU SQ. 1C  AGRI. LAND            235.3       273.2       333.2             1591.2                     91.1
POPULATION SEg STUCTURE (2)
0-14 YRS                         45.1        45.4        37.7               30.2                     36.5
15-  TMs                          51.2        31.4        55.4              57.7                      57.1
65 AND ABOVE                       3.6         3.0         3.7                3.5                      4.2
POPULATIO  CIIOU  RATE t2)
TOTAL                              2.7         2.6         2.3                2.3                      2.4
URBAN                              4.9         3.5         3.4               4.1                       3.6
CRUDE 3IXTR1 KATY (P8 13W0)         U.3         35.7        29.1              30.1                      3U.9
CR3DC  hSI RATE (PE  TllW)          14.9         9.2         6.4               9.4                       0.0
CROSS RPUDOUCN hIaT                  3.4         2.6         1.8                3.9                      2.0
rAMILY PLASUIC
ACCEPTRS.  AU      (n s)           ..         54.0        61.1 Ic
US*   a or OF lRs  WOMN)           ..         33.0 /d    42.0               56.5                      45.3
FM m   nwlrn
MU110  OF No 1o. PER  CAPITA
C1969-71-100)                       65.0        99.0       133.0             124.4                     109.6
PR CAPrTA sumP  or
CALORIES (C or BQUIUSUNT)        302.0       109.0       122.0              115.7                    113.2
PROrES (CRAMS t  DAX)             46.0        so.0        66.0              60.3                      69.4
Of MUCR ANIMAL AS  PULSE         17.0        16.0        23.0 1.            14.1                     34.2
CHILD (ACES 1-4) DEAH RATE           7.5         3.4         1.0               7.2                       4.3
SWAM
Lift ElPECY. a EXWE (1ARS)          53.9        61.2        66.9              60.6                      MA
WAlEAr MOT. RATE CPU THOUS)         72.0        45.5        29.0              64.9                      59.7
ACCESS TO 5AFZ WATK CTWIN)
TOTAL                              *          29.0       66.0j/             46.0                      65.3
1                                  ..         75.0        90.0 77           57.6                      76.5
RURAL                              ..          1.0        49.0 T            37.1                      44.2
ACCZSS TO EKCRETA DISPOSAL
( Or POPULATION)
TOTAL                              *-         59.0        70.0 /c            50.1                     50.3
URBAN                               .        100.0       100.0 7c            52.9                     73.4
RURAL                              *-         43.0        55.0 /C           44.7                      1.5
POPULATION PD. PHYSICIAN          7060.0      4310.0      7910.0 1          7751.7                    1909.7
POP. PEE IIR1151C tESOI           1600.0      1120.0       940.0 7T         244.8                      ao6.2
POP. PER OSPITAL DC
TCTAL                            270.0       e90.0         ..              1112.1                    362.C
URBN                             110.0       140.0         ..                51.4                    422.0
RULAL                           5710.0      1760.0         ..             2596.9                    2716.7
ADSISSIONS PER HOSPITAL lED          ..         18.4         ..               41.1                      27.5
AVERE SIm 0o  USEHOLD
TO.AL                                          5.6 /f
cEAN                               ..          5.9 7        .
RURAL                              ..          5.5  F
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/ROOIu
Tt7tlL .I                                      2.6 If
gURa                                .          2.3 7r
RURAL                              ..          2. 7 F
PERCENTAGE OF DULLIHCS M1ii ELECT.
TOTL                               ..         43.4 If
URBAN                             -_          6.7 7!       ..                 ..
L                                  ..         30.1 Tf      .
1/ US$1,990 in 1984.



-19 -                                        ANNEX I
Page 2-of 6
NM                       CNN! UiW  IITIM4T)
I'eal      19oLk ,umAu             ASIA & PuaPCm          LAT. ANmuc  A CA2
ADJUBM~ ~ ~ ~ UMCLLS                                          OW    LUD
a:u.u  innjiw  EATE
PUM        To=9-0   * 7-0                            97-0             1O0.7      I     O     U    .t
IUB -                 10.0        O1.0        97.0             104.4                    103.5
motw                   83.0   U    4.0        97.0              97.2                    104.6
U1COUDANI TOeAL                  19.0        34.0       72.0               47.6                     44.2
an                     23.0       40.0        72.0              50.6                     43.7
IW.3                   13.0       33.0        72.0              44.6                     44.9
VOCATIOUA (5 W BIU00DhM)            4.6         2.9        1.6               13.4                     13.3
11PIL-!UAC   RATIO
DAIXNM                           26.0        31.0       25.0               30.4                     29.9
SEDART                           33.25.0     26.0       22.0               22.2                     16.7
PASSIIUaM CA IPI1    PO            11.6        21.9       423.6J             10.1                      6.0
RDIO UCRI9 2I005I  PM 01J.9                    39.6      415A               172.3                    326.3
TV mUzYR/EOIE   POP                 3.32       12.0       *-9                56.5                    112.4
WiElDrs C"DAZLY GUER*
InNEI) CZIA!IW
U   UOI  I010=T9                  60.0        '2.1      163.3               65.3                     61.1
A3UNMAL. AETMA/CPIC        A       16.0        9.4         2.6  g            3.4                      2.4
X-
TOTA LAM.U YO   (20S)            2300.0      3644.0     5431.0
1323.3 ZmCRC                     V2          31.4       31.6               33.6                     23.6
AI NJ RU   I(UIE)                63.0        56.0       50.0 Li            53.2                     31.4
IUUITITC1REU1) 13.0                          14.0       16.0 L             17.9                     24.3
PARTZCI1ATZN RAZI (lMCPET)
TOTAL                            34.1        33.6       36.5               36.9                     33.5
INS                              48.         45.7        69.3              50."                    51.3
IAUE                             16i         21.5       23.2               26.8                     15.9
I iONic DvCm Rf RMO                 1.4         1.4         1.3               1.1                      1.3
R          5 X or Ultl30 OUI U-O6  34.0        .0        ..                 ..
LINEIT 2S35 or 3091             61.2         6.6        ..                44.0
WIll 2001 Of  OUSZIUM             3.2         3.3        ..6.4
LOt IIWUI140Z0 Uof   oL           9.6        10.6        ..                15.5
m  naim Deosm
LUL CM  PU CAW)
RAN..                                       123.6      314.4 e              ..                     288.3
RURAL                             ..        111.6      2B9.2 e            151.9                    185.3
LUnL (CM 111 CAPITA)
..                                           ..         ..               177.9                    519.8
RURAL                             ..          ..         ..               164.7                    359.7
ISTIAZID POP.  LusoM
PvsRLC  zucm  LEVI? CZ)
claw                              .21.3                 12.6               23.5
58.7       37.7  -            37..
NrU AVLICLA3Z
* INOT *I1 AIT
MOTh 
/ Th group mraga  for oac  Indicator arm po_o1atIow.1htad aritl_tSc _man.. Coura  of countrim
am_  thu Indicators dopondaon aval2mbUty of data ad Is not uiform.
/b   blama ocbatda noted. "Data for 1960" roter to an yar between 1959 ,d 1961; 'Data for 1970" betwem
1969 ad 1971; and dat for "Sht Vacant SetI        tu I as 191 and 1963.
/e  1980; Id 1974; /j 1977; /f Peninsular Malaysia;    1 1978; /b 1 .
JUNE. 965



A!NRi I
-20-                                             Page 3 cf 6
DD1FNiONS OF SOCL INDWA1U
Nosw: _Mo  ihedotman dre. feah moome am lly judpd bm mo auhhadm ve adM, it aboi am bm matedi shethe amy ao be iemmatiWs
coMParabec_e1 of th lak of mdrdirnd deaitiam ad mept mmd by dlerm cmn In caetlegoil M daIs Th da am. anewtbe metal to
dbcib e nee of oepitdel la _dkm  trade, ma charseeft anim m_jor dMiamian betwm  ountrie.
The .Ihrse  proe en (1) Wse ioanry pqup or  bime couItry a_ (2) a *ouity poop wih _ eehat hiher aw*a  u thd ima country
prop of  sbjeot can" (_sup for "High IncomeOl Eapore" pop wper "Middle lowm Norh Afrda md Midle Emit" clamen bweAn of tronr
auocaukurl bamitiIn lh   nb   paup date tavuat   - p*_uam wih  aithemeti mrm fw inc indicor ai dI    oily whm majoyri
orthe coumlrie Ina puul hu das forthat ddimla. Slm tdo acvemoe oauoti among the ldice  depend. on the avauIty ofbdat ai is nol ifom
cauno muo b reid ab  n avim.e of ow rladat to maodee Tie awvenw am oniy umefis ammenng h value of oen indit at a tme among
th counuy ad mI   PuaP
AREA (thousand sq.kmL)                                        Caudehh hti (per thamd)-Number of live births in the year
ri-Total surface ar  ompnung lan area and inland waters;      per thouand of mid-year population; 1960.1970. and 1933 data.
1960, 1970 and 1983 data.                                     Cmr  Dewh Rot (pw r    1md)-Number or deaths in the year
Agsteubrui-Estiinoteoraltul  m   u.d t                or      per thousand of mid-ycar population; 1960. 1970 oan  1983 data.
pemanendy for cropatur. markt and kitchen gardens or to    CGret Repsehele Raw-Averg number of daughtes a woman
He falow, 1960, 1970 and 1982 data.                           wiF bear in her normal reproductive period if she ex
pr t a-speiic fetiity rates; usually five-year avge endig
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)-GNP per capita estimatc- at curret       in 1960, 1970. and 1983.
mrwket prices. calculated by sme  convrsion mediod a  World it                       n  Am     (damnd)-Annual num-
Bo* A das (198143 baim); 1983 data.                           ber of aeptors of birtb-ctroldeice under auspce of  ti.nal
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PElt CAPM-Annual apparent                  family panning program.
consumption of commeial primay energy (coal and lignite,      &ud(*f - lm* -Va-fp (pmit efma ini  w m)--Tbe paen-
petroleuo, natural gs and hydro-. nuckr and geothemalc lar    tage of manied wouen of cbild-bearing age who are practicing or
ticity) in kilograms of oii equivalent per capita; 1960, 1970, and  whoe husbands re prcticing any form of contraception. Womeo
1982 data.                                                    of child-bearing ae are generasy wme aged 15-49. although for
some counties contraceptive -ag  is meured ror other age
POPULATION AND VITAL STATIStlCS                               groups
Teed PhpEIat   Mi,MMYe  (thosmds)-As of July 1; 1960. 1970,   FOOD AND NUTriMON
and 1983 data.
E46m  opsiltion pffca   of  wd)-Rdo ofurbm  o to 1 A&*  ef Food Aoecde se Per Cipilts (1965-71 - 160)--lndex of per
Urban ?.pdatim  (per   o fJ tpf  anuRtio of urban to toa                     producti  of all food commodi     odu
popution; different definit    of urban areas m- affet comnpar-  excudes anma fad an sed for agrictur  Food commodites
ability of data anong countris; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.        pe         commodities (eg. sugareane instead of suar)
Rg.ktim Pf*ceiow                                              which are edible and contain nutrients (cg. coffee and tea am
Populaon in yaw 200-The projection of population for 2000,    excuded) they comps cral  root crops. pules, oil seds.
made for each economy separately. Starting with information on  vegeabes fruit nuts, su_ ae  and augr beets livesock, and
total population by age and sxx, freflity rates. morality rates, a-  livestock products Aggregt production of each country is based
intrationa migration in the base year 1980. these parumeters  on national avea  producer price weights; 1961-65. 1970. and
wvre projected at five-year intervals on the basis of generalied  1982 data
assumptons until the population became stationary.             rr CG_a SNPlb qCofm.dez (percet ofrqmf mmmu)-Comput-
Stadoeay popubalnm-ls one in which ag  and scx-specific mor-    ed from caloric equivaient of net food supplies available in country
taihty rates have not changed over a long peiod, while age4pecific  per capita per day. Avaiable supplies comprise dometic produc-
frtility rates have simultuneouly remaied at eplacement level    tion. import less exports. and changes in stock. Net supplies
(net reproduction rate-1). In such a population, the birth rate is  exdude animal feed, seeds for use in agricultum. quantitics usd in
omstant and equal to the death rate. the age structure is also  food processig and losses in distribution. Requiremcnts we
constant. and the growth latc is zero. The staionary population  estmuated by FAO based on physiologial needs for normal activity
size was estumaed on the basis of the pojected characteristic of  and bealth considering envonmental tenperature, body weights,
the population in the year 2000. and the rate of decie of fc7tility  age and sex distribution of populion, nd alowing 10 percent for
rate to replament lvd.                                        waste at household level; 1961, 1970 and 1982 data
Popudatwio Momenawa-Is the tendency for popultion growth to   Pew Ca    SW& qf rwa_ (grumtr per aly-fProtein content of
continue beyond the time that eplment-level fertility has been  per capita net supply of food per day. Net supply of food is defined
acbeved; thats. even after the net reprodution  te has re ace  as above. Requirements for all countries estabed by USDA
unity. The momentum of a population in the year t is meaured as  provide for minimum allowances of 60 gams of totd protein per
a ratio of the utimate stationary population to the population in  day and 20 gams of animal and pule protein. of which 10 grms
the year t. given the assumption that fertity remains at replace-  should be animal protein. Thesc standardsare lower than those of
meat lvd from year r onward. 1985 data.                       75 grams of total protein and 23 gamns of animal protein as an
_Al-doa D  siy                                                average for the world. proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Per sqJkr.-Mid-'ear population per square kLometer (100 hec-  Supply; 1961, 1970 and 1982 data.
tares) of total area; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.              Per CGita PWti Spp  &m Admd and Plabr-Protein supply
Per sq bn. qrfcdaal lnd-Computed as above for agnciadtiar     of food dered from animals and pulss in gamms per day; 196165.
land only. 1960. 1970, and 1982 data.                         1970 and 1977 data.
Pepubt. Age Sbctwre (jw     tChildren (0-14 years). work-     ChI (ags 1-4) Deat   i R (   hossmnd)-Number ordeaths of
ing age (15-64 years) and rerd (65 years and over) as prcentage  children aged 1-4 years per thousand children in the same age
of mid-year popuation 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.              group in a given year. For most developing counties data derived
Arpuluie Grot Rot (prcessr)-te.d-Annual growth rates of       from life tabks; 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
total mid-year population for 1950-60. 1960-70, and 1970-83.  HEALTH
Pw           Grwthh   (e    )        Annual growth rates      Le Expeetmcy at  ith (ymsD-Number of years a newbom
of urban popultion for 1950-60, 1960-70. and 1970-83 data    infant would live if prevailig patterns of mortality for all people



- 21-                                             ANNE  I
Page 4 of 6
at the time of of its birth were to sty the same throughout its life.  Pspi-teacher Ratio - primary. and serodary-Total students en-
1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                       rolled in primary and scondary levels divided by numbers or
Infaw Maidty Rat (per thuusendI-Number of infants who die       teachers in the corresponding levels.
before reaching one year of age per thousand live births in a given
year 1960. 1970 and 1983 data,                                  CONSUMPTION
Awess n    Stp Watr (ptU0 o,f p_ Ihtln)-tatm4 mb., and          Pasenger Cur (per thousand papulaien)--Passenger cars com-
rural-Number of people (total, urban, and rwral with reasonable  prise motor cars seating less than eight persons; excludes cmbul-
acess to sare water supply (includes trated surface water or    ances. hearss and military vehicks.
untreated but uncontaminated water such as that from protected  R        ,esW., (per thamdpuadoiu-All types of rceivers
borehoks, sprin and sanitary wils) a peentoges of their rspec-  for rdio broadcasts to genea  public per thousand or population:
tive populations. In an urban -  a public fountain or standpost  excudes un-licensed rceiver in countries and in years when
lcted not more than 200 meter from a houe may be considered     egistrtion of rdio sets was in effect; data for recent years may
rea sonabe  access woud  imply tht the houewif or member of the  not be comparable since most countries abolished licensing.
housedhold do not have to spend a disproportionate part or the day  TVewdvrs (per rheusandpep.laedaJ-TV receivers for broadcst
in fetching the family's waler needs.                           to gneral public per thousand population; excludes unlicensed TV
receiver in countries and in years when registration Of TV sets was
Access to Excrct  Dsp6t (pftm of popolseim)-eteral et-.         in elec.
and rura-Number of people (total, urban, and rural) served by
excreta disposal as percentages of their rspective populations.  I Psp   CprCdha (per thae  _hpepalatle. -Shows the aver-
Excrete disposal may include the collection and disposaL with or  age drculation of "daily geneal interest newspaper." defined as a
without treatment, of human excreta and waste-water by water-   periodical publication devoted primarily to recording general news.
borne systems or the use of pit privies and similar instalations.  It is considered to be daily- if it appears at least four times a week.
Population per Physidn-fPopulation divided by number of prac    Cuane Am_ml AreeAnt per Cata per Year-Based on the
tising physicians qualified From a medical school at university kevel  number of tickets sold during the year. including admissions to
Pbpulation per Nrsing Person--Ppulation divided by number or    drive-in cinemas and mobile units.
practicing male ard female graduate nurses assistant nurses.
practical nurses and nuning auxiliaries.                        LABOR FORCE
Pop.Ad. per Hospital hi-tal, wam, end ra.ral-bpulation          Tegal LahFir ner (thowmsim-Economically active persons. in-
(totaL urban and riral) divided by their respective number of   cluding anned forces and unemployed but excluding housewives.
students. tc. covering population of all ages. Definitions in
hospital beds availabl in public ankd private, general and spzeia   aiu  ontisaent oprbe16.17  nd18  aa
hospitals and rehabilitation centers. Hospitals are establishmnents  vanous countries are not compambk: 1960. 1970 and 1983 dau.
permanently staffed by at least one physician. Establishments provw  Femal (percenri-Fenale labor forte as pemrtage of total labor
iding principafly custodial care are not included. Rural hospital  force.
however. include health and medical centers not permanently staffed  Agrikhure (perceni--Labor force in farminiL forestry. hunting
by a physician (but by a medical assistant. nurse. midwife. etc.l  and fishing as percentage of total labor forme 1960. 1970 and 1910
which offer in-patient accommodation and provide a linited range  data.
of medical facilities.                                          Inxdury (percemi-Labor force in mining. construction. manu-
Admission  er Hospital Bed-Total number of admissions to or     facturing and electricity. water and gas as percentage of total labor
discharges from hospials divided by the number of beds.         forcf. 1960. 1970 and 1980 data.
Pi*ticpatim ure (percsfl _-tol. make mndfieL-Participation
HOUSING                                                         or activity rates are computed as totaL male. and female labor force
Aver   Se of Hawehad  (person per hruseflfdj--torda  wham,      as percentages of totaL male and femal population of all ages
as d -A household consists ofa group of individuals wbo share   respectively. 1960. 1970. and 1983 data. These are based on [Las
living quarters and their main meals. A boarder or lodger may or  participation rates reflecting age-sex structure tf the population. and
may not be induded in the household (or statistical puaposes.  long time trend. A few estimates are from national sources.
Average Number of Pars= per Room-retoaL uran and rura-          Eomic Depemdency Rati-Ratio of population under 15. and
Average number of persons per room in all urban. and rural      65 and over. to the working age population (those aged 15-641.
occupied conventional dwellings, respectively. Dwellings exclude
non-permanent structures and unoccupied parts.                  INCOME DISTRIBUTION
-Percentage 'DueRigs with Electricirp-eoual, wam, and ruatl-    Percentae of Total Dispombe income (both i cash md kid)-
Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quarters as percen-  Accruing to permentile groups or households ranked by total house-
tage of totaL urban. and rural dwellings respectively.          bold income.
EDUCATION                                                       POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Ad4jned Enrollmet Ratos                                         The following estimates are very approximate measures of poverty
Primary school - total. male and femolce-ross total. male and  levels. and should be interpreted with considerable caution.
female enrollment of aH ages at the primary levd as percentages of  Estimaed Absolnte Poverty Incme Lewd fUSS per ptWa)_-arba
respective primary school-age populations. While many countries  and rural-Absolute poverty income level is that income level
consider primary school age to be 6-11 years others do not. The  below which a minimal nutritionally adequate diet pius essential
diffences in country practices in the ages and duration of school  non-food requirements is not affordable.
are reflected in the ratios given. For some countries with universal  Estimated Relaivre Poverty Income Levd (fUSS per caphai-arban
education. gross enrollment may exceed 100 percent since some   and rural-Rural relative poverty income level is one-third of
pupils are below or above the country's standard primary-school  average per capita personal income of the countrv. Urban level is
age.                                                            derived from the rural level with adjustment for higher cost of
Secondar school - total. male and female-Computed as above.     living in urban areas.
secondary education requires at least four vears of approved pri-  Etimaed Popution Belw Ahsolte Poeery Income Levd (per-
marv instruction: provides general. vocational. or teacher training  ceuri--wrban and rural- PLtrent of population I urban and rural
instructions for pupils usually of 12 to 17 years of age. correspond-  who are -absolute poor.-
ence courses are generally excluded.
Vucarsuma Enronllmei percent ofsecondary)-Vocational institu-            Comparative Analysis and Data Ditision
tions include technicaL industriaL or other programs which operate      Economic Analvsis and Projections Depanrtment
independently or as departments of secondary institutions.                              June 1985



- 22 -                                            ANNEX I
Page 5 of 6
COUNTRY DATA - MALAYSIA
CROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1905:  US$ mln 29,346                 ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH:
2 in constant prices and MS
USS mln      2        1961-70  1971-77    1978   1979   1980   iq8i   1982   1983   1984   19Vf
CNP at Market Prices            29,346   100.0           6.4       7.8        5.9    9.1    9.3    7.5    4.2    3.9    6.h    2.-
Croms Domestic Investment        9,394    32.n           6.7      11.4       R.1   11.3   20.6   1fi.9   13.2    7.R    4.4   -9.1
Groass National Saving           8,494    28.9            *         *         *       *       *      *       *      *       *       *
Exports of Goods 6 NFS          17,20n    58.9           6.0       7.5       7.6   IR.n    3.2   -0.8   in.7   12.4   14.1    4.f
Imports of Goods  NFS          15,842    54.0           2.9      8.5       12.9   20.4   20.5    5.6   13.8    9.0    6.4   -6.1
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 19R4 /a
Value Added                       Employment                 Valued added per worker
USS n1n              2              mln               2               USS               2
Agricultutre                            4,967             20.1            1.9              35.2            2,614             54.2
Industry                               9,242              37.5            1.3             24.1             7,109            147.3
Services                               10,451             42.4            2.2             40.7             4,751             9h.5
Total/Average                    24,660             100.0            5.4            10i0.            4,825             100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government                               Central Government
MS mln               Z of GNP                    MS mln               Z of GDP
198A5       19R5             1982-94             19R5        IQRS            19-.2-R4
Current Receipts                              24,853       31.7              21.6              21,861       27.9              26.4
Current Expenditures                          20,635       26.3              25.R              18,353       23.4              23.3
Current Surplus                                4,218        5.4                5.0              3,508        4.5               3.1
Development Expenditures lb                   15,103       1n.1              15.1               6,505        8.3              13.5
Foreign Borrowing (net)                          781        1.0                5.9                781        1.0               5.9
MONEY. CREDIT AND PRICES
1975    1976    197;    1978    1979    19l0    1981    19R2    19R3    1984           19R5
(Million MS outstanding end period)
Money and Ouasi-Money                10,001  12,771  14,061  17,521  21,739  27,.437  32,340  37,61R  41,154  45,859   48.920
Bank Credit to Public
Sector (net)                       1,113   1.136   1,214   1,017    -7n2         549   2,786   4,617   4,204   4,771    !,594
Bark Credit to Private
Sector                             6,077   7,471   8,971  11,626  14,641  20,346  24,97h  29,197  35,403  41,97fi  47,849
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Ouasi-Money
as 2 of GI?                         44.R    45.5    46..n    46.2    46.R    51.2    55.9    6n.n    58.9    57.6           62.3
Consumer Price Index
(1980 - 100)                        80.2    R2.3    86.2    90.5    93.7   In0.0   Inq.7   116.1   120.4   125.1    125.5
Annual Percentage
Changes in Consumer
Price Index                          4.4      2.6      4.7     5.n      3.5      8.7     q.7      5.8      3.7     3.9       0.3
Bank Credit to Public
Sector (net)                        36.9   -13.5       6.q   -16.2        *        *   407.5    65.7    -R.9    13.5    -66.S
Bank Credit to Private Sector          15.2    20.1    20.1    29.6    25.9    39.0    22.8    16.9    21.3    1R.6           16.0
*   Not applicable.
/a In 1978 prices.
7b- Includes net lending.
Note: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchanRe rate prevailing during the period covered.
May 1986



ANNEX I
- 23 -                                            Page 6 of 6
TRADE PAYMEhTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS               1983      1984     1985              MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1983-Ri)
- (US$ million)---                                          USS million       Z
Exports of goods, NFS            15,703   18,529   17,291          Petroleum                      3,568        23.3
Imports of goods, NFS            17,334   17,866   15,842          Palm oil                       1,603        10.5
Resource Gap (deficit - -)       -1,631       663    1,449         Timber                         1,611        10.5
Factor Services (net)            -1,814   -2,224   -2,295          Rubber                         1,434         9.4
Net Transfers                        -9       -39      -52         Tin                              627         4.1
Balance on Current Account                                        All other commodities           6,491        42.2
(deficit - -)                  -3,454   -1,600      -R98
Total                   15,334       100.C
Direct Foreign Investment         1,261       914      754
Net MLT Borrowing /a              2,878    1,435    3,128
Disbursements                   3,164    1,949    3,652         EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1985         USS mln
Amortization                      286       514      524/b
Public Debt, incl. Guaranteed             12,445
Subtotal                       4,139    2,349    3,882         Nonguaranteed Private Debt                 4,138
Total Outstanding 6 Disbursed             16,583
Other Items n.e.i.                2,175       819    1,439
Increase in Reserves (+)             48        80     n.a.
International Reserves                                            DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1985 /c                I
(end year)                   4,070    4,115       n.a.
Public Debt, incl. guaranteed                9.3
Fuel and Related Materials                                         Nonguaranteed Private Debt                   5.2
Imports                           1,R28    1,424      n.a.        Total Outstanding & Disbursed                14.5
Exports                           4,009    4,887      n.a.
Of which:  Crude Petroleum    3,354    3,734    3,617
IBRD/IDA LENDING (MARCH 31, 1986)        IBRD
(US$ million)
RATE OF EXCHANGE         MS per USS              USS per MS
Outstanding & Disbursed                   736.R2
1980                     2.18                   0.46          Undisbursed                               554.73
1981                     2.30                   0.43          Outstanding incl. Undisbursed           1,291.55
1982                     2.34                   0.43
1983                     2.32                   0.43
1984                     2.34                   0.43
1985                     2.48                   n.40
March 1986               2.53                   0.40
* not applicable.
/a Public/publicly guaranteed debt only.
/b Excludes refinancing of HS5,478 million in 1985.
/c Interest and amortization payments as a proportion of total earnings from exports of goods and non-factor
services.
May 1986



- 24-                             ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
THE STATUS OF BANK CROUP OPERATIONS IN MALAYSIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS /a
As of March 31, 198k
Amount in US$ million
Loan                                                                   (less cancellations)
no.    Year       Borrower                  Purpose                    Bank     Undisbursed
Forty-six loans fully disbursed                                          935.19
1493    1978   Malaysia              National Extension                   19.00       0.21
1590    1978   Malaysia              FELDA VI Land Settlement             28.00       0.32
1717    1979   Malaysia              Huda II Irrigation                   31.00       9.04
1808    1980   Nat'l Elec. Board    Power (IX)                            45.00       4.04
1899    1980   Malaysia              Kelantan Land Scheme Rehab.          25.00      20.80
1957    1981   Malaysia              Rompin-Endau Area Dev.               40.00      21.83
1960    1981   Malaysia              Trans-Perak Area Dev.                50.00      36.21
2013    1981   Malaysia              FELCRA I                             37.00      23.61
2145    1982   Malaysia              Industrial Training (Educ VI)        40.60      31.28
2146    1982   Nat'l Elec. Board    Rural Electrification (Pover X)    66.30         37.60
2147    1982   Malaysia              Malacca Agri. Development            25.40       17.36
2220    1983   Malaysia              Kedah Valleys Agri. Development    56.90        45.29
2291    1983   Malaysia              Sabah-Sarawak Road                   86.22      86.00
2438    1984   Nat'l Elec. Board    Power (XI)                            70.00      69.75
2471    1985   Malaysia              Small-Scale Enterprises              52.10      48.11
2530    1985   FELDA                 Felda Palm Oil Mills                 31.20      29.90
2550    1985   Malaysia              Sabah Forestry Technical Assis.       6.50/b        /b
2601    1986   Malaysia              Second Industrial Training           73.30       73.3U
2642    1986   Malaysia              Land Settlement Infrastructure       50.00/b        /b
2654    1986   Malaysia              Johor Water Supply                   62.007b        75
Total Loans (less cancellation) /c                             1,712.21
ot which has been repaid                                      376.77
Total now outstanding                                          1,335.44
Amount sold                     70.99
of which has been repaid                                       43.89
Total loans now held by Bank /b                                ],2Si.55
Total undisbursed _t                                                        554.73
/a The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on all
Bank/IDA financial projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and circulated
to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
/b These loans were not effective as of March 31, 1986, and have thus not been counted.
Subsequently, Loan 2642-MA became effective on April 10, 1986.
/c Subsequently, loans for a Primary and Secondary Education Sector Project
(US$127.0 million) and a Port Kelang Project (US$18.8 million) were approved on
April 29, 1986.



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT
As of March 31, 1986
Amount in
Type of            US$ million
Year             Obligor                    business      Loan    Equity  Total
1964-74   Malysian Industrial Devel-       Financing          -    1.94    1.94
opment Finance Ltd. (MIDF)
1985      SEAVI-MA                         Money and          -    1.00    1.00
Capital Mkt.
1966      Tasek Cement Ltd.                Cement          1.28    0.28    1.56
1968-69   Malayawata Steel Ltd.            Steel           2.45    1.24    3.69
1970      India-Malaysia Textiles, Ltd.   Textiles         1.25    0.25    1.50
1985      Pacific Hardwoods                Pulp and        9.97    1.53   11.50
Paper Prod.
Total Gross Commitment                          14.95    6.24   21.19
Less: repayments, sals, cancellations,
terminations and write-off               4.98    3.71    8.69
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC               9.97    2.53   12.50
Total Undisbursed                                   -    0.41    0.41



- 26 -
ANNEX III
MALAYSIA
SECOND WESTERN JOHOR AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section 1: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:             5 years
(b)  Agency preparing project:                  DID with Consultant Assistance
(c)  First presentation to the Bank:           October, 1981
(d)  First Bank identification mission:         February, 1982.
(e)  Date of departure of appraisal mission:  March 26, 1985.
(f)  Date of completion of negotiations:       March 24, 1986.
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:            October 31, 1986
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action
None
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) The Government would appoint consultants for construction supervision
of the dam and river works (already completed) (para. 38);
(b) The Government would (i) acquire land for the Bekok Dam site and land
and land rights for the other works in accordance with an action plan
satisfactory to the Bank and (ii) make appropriate arrangements for
resettlement or compensation of the families to be displaced
(para. 40);
(c) DID would by December 31, 1986 (A) appoint a panel of experts accept-
able to the Bank who would review: (i) construction quality and
progress; (ii) revisions in design and construction practice; and (iii)
the adequacy of the maintenance and safety program; and (B) carry out a
maintenance and inspection program for the Sembrong and Bekok Dam and
would initiate any remedial action considered necessary (para. 41);
(d) The Government would ensure that, promptly after construction, drainage
works would be transferred to Johor State for operation and maintenance
(para. 42); and
(e) The Federal Government would ensure that Johor State would gazette
areas benefiting from the project drainage, and would collect and
periodically review drainage charges (para. 45).



01t M TAILAND
MALAYSIA                                                                                                                                                                -- __ _
SECOND WEST JOHOR AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROCPOSED PROJET,
-    Poo1Eot-l Bo       \-di,,p                                                                                                                                                            MALAYSIA 'z
Ne-edd0d WI
A__ DooedRo- roBW                                                                        6'a
kgFloodd 25 too, BoNg Moodli
kgFlooded Af., Poojeo                                                                                                                                                     INDONESIA
EXISTING:
Doooog dokBoooe
BE=~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ A-d Ab1_.
Wo, Soply Eo  Fe            C
--. BLOCK 14                                                                                                                                    Po0-&hog
I                1/
/  A             A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
~~~f  M.f.- ~  ~       ~      ~      ~                                                                                                N,,e.






