Document of                       On  l
The World Bank FILL  kAi:
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2706-PE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
PETROLEOS DEL PERU
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE REPUBLIC OF PERU
FOR A
PETROLEUM PRODUCTION REHABILITATION PROJECT
February 13, 1980
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performace of
their oflfeial duies. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authrization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
The exchange rate is being adjusted daily roughly in line with
the difference between domestic and international inflation. The exchange
rate and currency equivalents in effect on January 31, 1980, were as follows:
Currency Unit = Sol (SI.)
Calendar 1979    January 31, 1980
US$1              =              S/. 225             S/. 255
S/. 1                          US$0.0044           US$0.0039
S/. 1,000        =              US$4.44             US$3.92
Fiscal Year
January 1 to December 31
Abbreviations
COFIDE            =     Corporacion Financiera de Desarrollo
(National Development Finance Corporation)
ELECTROPERU       =     Electricidad del Peru
(National Power Generation Company)
ERP               =     Economic Recovery Program
IPC              =      International Petroleum Company
MEM               =     Ministerio de Energia y Minas
(Ministry of Energy and Mines)
PETROPERU         =     Petroleos del Peru
(National Petroleum Company)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PERU
PETROLEUM PRODUCTION REHABILITATION PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower;                   Petroleos del Peru (PETROPERU)
Guarantor:                  Republic of Peru
Amount:                     US$32.5 million
Terms:                      Seventeen years, including three years of grace,
at 8.25 percent interest per annum plus a
guarantee fee of 0.25 percent per annum payable
by the Borrower to the Guarantor and a service
fee of 1.5 percent per annum payable by the
Borrower to the National Development Finance
Corporation (COFIDE), which will be a party to
the Loan Agreement.
Project Description:        The project's objectives-are to increase Peru's
oil production in the short term by an initial
19,600 barrels per day, to sustain the level of
petroleum production in the medium term and to
improve the financial situation and technical
capability of PETROPERU. These objectives would
be accomplished through (i) the rehabilitation of
existing PETROPERU wells on the coast and the
jungle; (ii) the undertaking of seismic surveys in
the jungle and the updating of a feasibility study
for a secondary recovery project on the north
coast; and (iii) the provision of consultants'
services and training to strengthen PETROPERU
financially and technically and to study overall
petroleum sector investment requirements and
domestic pricing policies. The project faces no
special risks.  Technical assistance would be
provided to PETROPERU under the project to train
its personnel in the use and maintenance of
equipment (also to be provided under the project)
with which PETROPERU has not had previous
experience.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contenst may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost:
Local   Foreign   Total
-----(US$ million)-----
(a) Production
rehabilitation         11.8    12.2       24.0
(b) Seismic surveys and
studies for new
production              2.2    11.3       13.5
(c) Technical assistance
and training            0.5      2.5       3.0
Baseline costs            14.5    26.0      40.5
Physical contingencies   1.7       3.1       4.8
Price contingencies        2.0     3.4       5.4
Total Project Cost        18.2    32.5      50.7
Financing Plan:
Local        Foreign        Total
---------US$ millions----------
Bank             -          32.5          32.5
PETROPERU      18.2           -           18.2
Total        18.2         32.5          50.7
Estimated Disbursements:
CY1980        CY1981       CY1982
----------US$ millions---------
Annual            5.0          16.5         11.0
Cumulative        5.0          21.5         32.5
Rate of Return:              Over 100 percent
Staff Appraisal Report:    Report No. 2705-PE, dated February 11, 1980



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE
PIRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO PETROLEOS DEL PERU FOR A
PETROLEUM PRODUCTION REHABILITATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to Petroleos del Peru (PETROPERU) with the guarantee of the Republic of Peru
for the equivalent of US$32.5 million to help finance a Petroleum Production
Rehabilitation Project. The loan would have a term of 17 years, including
three years of grace, with interest at 8.25 percent per annum. The Govern-
ment of Peru would charge PETROPERU a guarantee fee of 0.25 percent per annum
and the National Development Finance Corporation (COFIDE) would charge the
company a service fee of 1.5 percent per annum, thus bringing the cost of the
loan to PETROPERU to 10 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        A basic economic report entitled "Long-Term Development Issues:
Peru" (Report No. 2204-PE) was distributed to the Executive Directors on
April 13, 1979. This part is based on the report's findings as well as those
of more recent economic missions to Peru. Country data sheets are attached
as Annex I.
Background
3.        Peru, the fourth largest country in Latin America, is divided by the
Andes mountains into three distinct regions. The coastal region (the Costa),
constituting about 10 percent of the country's territory, is home for about
46 percent of the population. It consists of a narrow belt of dry plains,
intermittently irrigated valleys and Andean foothills. Modern economic
activity is concentrated in the Costa, particularly in Lima. The Sierra, with
44 percent of the country's population, encompasses the highlands above 2,000
meters which occupy one-fourth of the country. The remaining two-thirds of
the area is occupied by the sparsely populated Selva, vast tropical lowlands
east of the Andes. The rugged topography limits trade between the three
regions.
4.        Peru's natural resources include large deposits of varied minerals
located mainly in the Sierra and the southern coast. Another major natural
resource asset is the large fishing potential in coastal waters, although the
magnitude of this potential is subject to sharp fluctuations. Agricultural
land is limited, and most of the soils suitable for intensive agriculture
are already being farmed. (Energy resources are discussed in detail in
paras. 34-36.)
5.        After three decades (1930-1960) of rapidly falling mortality rates,
the rate of population growth had risen to 2.9 percent p.a. In the early
1960's, birth rates started a gradual fall, mainly caused by the urbanization
1/   The section is substantially unchanged from the Lower Puira Irrigation
Rehabilitation President's Report of November 6, 1979 (Report No. P-2642PE).



- 2 -
process and by improved education. But as death rates continued to fall,
population has continued to grow at about 2.8 percent p.a. Since death rates
are expected to fall further, population growth is likely to remain at around
2.8 percent p.a. over the next 25 years, unless an effective demographic
policy is adopted. Given the normal lag between the drop in birth rates and
its impact on the growth of working-age population, the labor force is expected
to grow well in excess of 3 percent per year during the next 15 years.
Past Development Policies
6.        Since the military came to power in 1968, the Government has followed
a development strategy directed at achieving economic growth and at narrowing
the sharp differences in wealth and opportunities between population in various
income classes and geographical regions. The Government has tried to correct
class and regional imbalances by expanding the role of the State in the
economy, changing the pattern of asset ownership, reducing foreign ownership
of national resources, orienting industry and agriculture toward producing
essential goods for the domestic market, stimulating the deconcentration of
economic activity out of Lima, and reforming the educational system to make it
more responsive to local economic and social needs. Through nationalization
and creation of new enterprises, the State has taken direct control of over
150 enterprises in key economic sectors, and its share in total capital
formation has risen from less than one-fourth in 1968-70 to about one half in
1974-1978. By imposing complex legislation, the Government has also strictly
controlled the operations of the private sector.
7.        As a result of these actions, the pattern of asset ownership in
the economy has changed drastically. Through nationalization, the share
of assets owned by foreigners fell sharply. A sweeping land reform redistri-
buted 45 percent of the country's best farmlands to workers' cooperatives
benefitting some 25 percent of all rural families. Through other laws,
industrial workers were given shares in the firms which employed them and,
in the mining sector, a share in profits. The Government has also given a
strong autarkic orientation to its agricultural and industrial sector policies
and strengthened the incentives for industries outside of Lima.
8.        The Government's programs have benefitted large numbers of Peruvians,
but they have hardly reached the poorest half of the population which continues
to live in abject poverty. It is estimated, for example, that about three
quarters of rural families, mostly "minifundistas" (those farming less than
2 ha) and the landless seasonal workers, have not been reached by social
programs. The Government imposed controls on prices of a number of domestic-
ally produced goods and heavily subsidized imported petroleum and foodstuffs.
Most of the subsidized products, however, were more important in the consump-
tion basket of high and middle-income Peruvians than in that of the poorest
groups. Moreover, the maintenance of artificially low prices for some
products--such as meat and cereals--actually hurt the poor who produced these
items, and affected production negatively.
9.        In the final account, one of the most significant achievements
of the Government was the promotion of the cultural and political integration
of the country. Owing in great part to the land reform, an important segment



- 3 -
of the rural population has become better organized and is able to communicate
its priorities in a more forceful and articulate way. Unfortunately, although
many of the policies and structural changes carried out since 1968 were meant
to achieve rapid growth and more equality, the cost of these measures proved
to be excessive and their implementation inefficient.
The Economic Crisis
10.       Until 1977, the military Government followed expansionary fiscal and
credit policies. A rapid increase in spending by the public sector (including
large defense outlays) was not matched by a parallel increase in revenues.
Pricing, interest rate and foreign exchange policies until 1976 encouraged
consumption and discouraged savings, exports and, sometimes, overall production.
As a result of these policies, aggregate demand considerably exceeded aggregate
supply. This excess demand, in turn, led to widening external gaps and to
strong inflationary pressures, with a resulting loss of international reserves
and a massive build-up of external debt.
11.       This imbalance was aggravated by circumstances beyond the control
of the authorities. Anchovies, the fishing industry's principal product,
virtually disappeared as the annual catch dropped from around 10,000 metric
tons in 1968-71 to an average of 2,300 metric tons in 1975-78. Between 1974
and 1978, furthermore, Peru's terms of trade worsened sharply. Export prices,
particularly for copper and sugar (which together accounted for almost one-
fourth of merchandise exports), fell from their very high 1974 levels at a
time when import prices soared. Petroleum reserves, which in the early 1970's
were predicted to lead to a quick, major expansion in export earnings, have
taken much longer than expected to come on line.
12.       Public sector savings dropped steadily in relation to GDP from
4.4 percent in 1970 to dissavings of 2.6 percent in 1977. A major cause for
this was a massive erosion of the tax base owing to excessive tax incentives,
loopholes in the tax system and weak enforcement. At the same time, there
were rises in the budgetary cost of subsidies for foodstuffs and petroleum
products, and sharp increases in military imports and local expenditures.
Much of public investment, furthermore, was increasingly concentrated on
capital-intensive projects with long gestation periods and little immediate
contribution to the growth of output or employment.
13.       Inflation accelerated from 5 percent per year in 1970 to 38 percent
in 1977. Interest rates on domestic banking system loans, however, remained
substantially negative in real terms, discouraging financial savings and stim-
ulating capital flight. Moreover, the exchange rate remained practically
constant between 1968 and 1975, thus contributing to the overall disequilibrium.
National savings fell dramatically from 16 percent of GNP in 1970 to 8 percent
in 1977, when they financed only about one-half of investment. Following
a period of rapid expansion in 1968-74 during which GDP grew by more than 6
percent per year, the growth rate dropped progressively and became negative in
1977.
14.       The growing disequilibrium described above was reflected in the
balance of payments. The current account deficit averaged US$1.1 billion per
year in 1974-77, equivalent to nearly 9 percent of GNP. To finance this



- 4 -
deficit, Peru accumulated a massive external debt. Peru's total pri-vate
and public external debt--including short-term indebtedness--stood at almost
US$8.3 billion by year end 1977, equivalent to two-thirds of GDP and four
times exports. Much of this debt was contracted on fairly short maturities
with three-fourths of the public sector's long-term debt--which is estimated
to have totaled US$6.3 billion--scheduled to be repaid over the 1978-82 period.
15.       Beginning in 1975, successive economic teams made several efforts to
cope with the mounting economic crisis. A major stabilization program was
initiated in June 1976, when the sol was devalued from SI. 45 to SI. 65 per
U.S. dollar, fiscal and credit policies were tightened and interest rates were
raised . This program was initially successful in reducing the fiscal deficit
and the loss of foreign exchange. Nevertheless, it was abandoned later in the
year as a consequence of strong popular opposition and a lack of consensus
within the Government regarding the gravity of the financial situation.
Further attempts to stabilize the economy were initiated in March, July and
September 1977 but they were not successful. A stand-by arrangement was
negotiated with the IMF and approved in November 1977, but its targets were
not met. While these efforts proved to be false starts, they succeeded in
somewhat reducing the gap between national savings and investment from a peak
of 11.5 percent of GNP in 1975 to 8.5 percent in 1976 and 7.4 percent in 1977.
16.       By mid-1978 the economic crisis had reached grave proportions.  The
drop in GDP had intensified and inflation had further accelerated to an annual
rate approaching 100 percent. Moreover, the private sector was finding it
increasingly difficult to open letters of credit for new imports and the
banking system's net international reserves had dropped to a negative level of
US$800 million. It had become clear that the public sector was fast approach-
ing the point where it would no longer be able to fully service its external
debt. Peru was no longer creditworthy. Financial instability had reached the
point where practically all economic activities were adversely affected.
Stabilization Efforts
17.       A new economic team was named in May 1978.  Since then, the Govern-
ment has adopted a number of important measures aimed at strengthening public
finances, stimulating exports and stemming the loss of international reserves.
By means of a crawling peg, the sol was devalued from S/. 130 to the U.S.
dollar in May to almost S/. 200 to the U.S. dollar by year-end 1978; since
then the sol was devalued a further 20 percent. Most subsidies were elimi-
nated, thus closing an important drain on public savings. Other price controls
were relaxed. In addition, a number of tax measures were adopted and Government
expenditures were restrained. Interest rates on bank loans were raised from
16 to 31.5 percent per year. Peru reached agreement with foreign commercial
banks to reschedule US$185 million of principal payments due in the second
half of 1978 until January 1979. The Government also negotiated a stand-by
arrangement for SDR 184 million, which was approved by the IMF on September
15. In July 1979, this stand-by was replaced by a new stand-by arrangement
for SDR 285 million, (of which, SDR 232 million will be financed from the
Fund's supplementary financing facility) in support of the same financial
program. Peru's debt outstanding to the IMF as of June 30, 1979 was equivalent
to SDR 439.8 million. Finally, the Government refinanced the bulk of the
public external debt due in 1979 and 1980.



- 5 -
18.       The Government's financial stabilization program, supported by the
stand-by, aims at a dramatic improvement in public sector finances in 1979.
Public sector current account savings are to rise from - 0.7 percent of GDP in
1978 to 4.0 percent of GDP in 1979. To this end, the Government adopted a
1979 budget that aims at a 10 percent real increase in tax revenues, while
severely holding down current outlays. Payments for wages and salaries are
budgeted to fall by some 12 percent in real terms, partly as a result of a
planned reduction in excessive civil service employment. The elimination of
subsidies on food and petroleum products, initiated in mid-1978, will further
contribute to the control of current expenditures. The largest cut is for
defense outlays. On the revenue side, measures already adopted--including a
10 percent import surcharge, a higher tax on traditional exports and an
increased tax on interest charged on bank loans--are expected to permit
attainment of the revenue target. On the other hand, real capital expenditures
are budgeted to rise by over 20 percent. In short, execution of the program
has been very good, and as of June 30, 1979 central government current savings
exceeded the budgeted savings by 13.3 percent. In spite of this progress,
however, inflationary pressures remain strong, with the consumer price index
rising at an annual rate of 65 percent.
Debt Restructuring
19.       Major debt-relief operations carried out in late 1978 enabled Peru
to reduce substantially the debt-service burden for 1979 and 1980, postponing
repayment to the 1982-1986 period. In May 1978, the Soviet Union rescheduled
the equivalent of about US$140 million of maturities originally due in 1978-80.
These amounts are to be repaid over a 10-year period including three years of
grace. In November, at a Paris Club meeting, the OECD countries agreed to
reschedule 90 percent of principal payments due by the public sector to
governments and guaranteed suppliers in 1979 (US$250 million) and 1980 (US$263
million). These amounts are to be repaid over a period of eight years,
including three years of grace. The Paris Club agreement states that 1980
maturities will be rescheduled provided that Peru agrees with the IMF, by
December 31, 1979, on a financial program for 1980. The Paris Club creditors
also agreed to reschedule 90 percent of the principal payments due in 1979 and
1980 (about US$30 million in each year) on private sector debt guaranteed or
insured in the creditor countries. In addition, Peru has negotiated smaller
amounts of debt relief with non-OECD countries.
20.       As regards the large medium-term public debt to commercial banks,
in keeping with an agreement concluded in December 1978, Peru has been repaying
in 1979, the bulk of the US$185 million rolled over from 1978 (para. 17 above).
The agreement reached between the Government of Peru and the commercial banks
gives the Government the option of refinancing up to 90 percent of the maturi-
ties due in 1979 and 1980. The government, however, has recently indicated
that it intends to forego a large part of this debt relief, in view of the
much improved balance-of-payments situation (see para. 24).



-6-
Social Situation
21.       The economic crisis of recent years has been reflected in two conse-
cutive years of negative growth. Total Gross Domestic Income fell by 0.6
percent in 1977 and a further 0.6 percent in 1978. In this two-year period
GDP per capita dropped by over 8 percent. This situation, in turn, has been
reflected in incomes and employment. Nearly one-half of Peru's labor force is
believed to be unemployed or underemployed, i.e., earning less than the
minimum wage or working less than 35 hours a week and wishing to work more.
According to government estimates, the purchasing power of salaries had fallen
40 percent by 1978 compared to 1970 and that of wages by over 16 percent. In
these circumstances, the social situation has been unavoidably tense, and
several general strikes have taken place during the past year.
22.       In July, 1979 the military government promulgated a new constitution,
written by a popularly elected assembly. The government has called for
elections in May, 1980 and the transfer of authority to a civilian government
is scheduled to take place in July, 1980. At present the authorities are
maintaining an informal dialogue with the leaders of the major political
parties in an effort to ensure the continuity of economic policies following
the political transition.
The Economic Recovery Program
23.       With the financial stabilization program and the debt restructuring
described above, the Government has brought the fiscal and external gaps under
control.  These efforts, however, have not yet helped much in overcoming the
deep economic recession. To this end the Government conceived an Economic
Recovery Program (ERP) which would reverse the decline in GDP and lay a basis
for a financially sound economic recovery. The ERP includes, in addition to
the above-mentioned stabilization actions, measures to open up the economy,
stimulate industrial sector efficiency, promote non-traditional exports,
strengthen the tax system by broadening its base, and generally improve the
efficiency of resource allocation in the private and public sectors. In this
connection, the Government formulated a Public Sector Investment Program that
aims at redirecting public investment towards projects of clear economic
priority and positive effect on production and employment. In support of the
ERP, the Bank approved a US$115 million program loan in May, 1979. Progress
in carrying out the ERP is generally satisfactory with performance in some
critical areas--e.g., export promotion--actually exceeding expectations.
24.       The Government's program has also led to a strong balance of payments
performance in 1979, which is essential for economic recovery and to restore
net international reserves. This was achieved by maintaining an export-oriented
foreign exchange policy, realistic interest rates, and the promotion of non-
traditional exports. In addition, Peru benefitted from substantial price
increases for petroleum, silver, copper and other commodities. The Peruvian
Government also intends to improve foreign debt management by, inter alia,
making greater use of aid from official bilateral and international donors to
the extent possible. Much of Peru's large foreign short-term debt (estimated
at over US$2 billion as of year-end 1978) is expected to be rolled over or
refinanced as the gradually improving economic situation permits new trade-
related credit lines to be opened. The trade balance is expected to be



- 7 -
strengthened by a further drop in military imports, by favorable world prices
for minerals, and by the availability of a large petroleum surplus for export.
The recent completion of the Trans-Andean pipeline should allow Peru to export
an average of nearly 80,000 barrels per day in 1979-82, adding some US$850
million per year to gross export earnings. Even though about one third of the
projected gross petroleum exports would leave the country as profit remittances,
this still implies a major improvement over recent years, when Peru was spending
in excess of US$200 million per year on fuel imports. On balance, Peru can be
expected to enter the 1980s with a strong trade surplus.
25.       As economic activity recovers to an annual growth of about 6.5 per
cent in real terms during 1979-85 and the volume of petroleum exports stagnates
and eventually declines, the value of imports is expected to outpace exports.
Nevertheless, the country is expected to show a strong balance-of-payments
performance through the mid-eighties, with current account surpluses hovering
around the US$1,100 million mark and with a substantial build up of foreign
exchange reserves in spite of heavy debt repayment obligations. The situation
may, however, drastically change after 1986, eventually resulting in increasing
current account deficits. Considering the expected medium-term balance-of-
payments performance and assuming that the authorities continue to carry out
the ERP and to maintain prudent financial policies, Peru is creditworthy for
Bank lending.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PERU
26.       The Bank has made 36 loans in Peru for a total amount of US$732.1
million, net of cancellations. About 33 percent of the Bank's lending to
Peru has been for transportation (mainly highways and ports), 22 percent for
agriculture, 16 percent for the May 1979 Program Loan, 12 percent for
electric power, 11 percent for mining and industry and about 6 percent for
education and urban development.
27.       Of the US$297.1 million undisbursed as of December 31, 1979, almost
95 percent is attributable to the seven project loans and the program loan
made since 1976. The slow start-up of the project loans--only two of which
were "repeater" operations--as well as the slow progress of previous opera-
tions was due, in large part, to weak project execution capacity and to a
shortage of counterpart funds that worsened as the economic situation deteri-
orated during this period. As a result, disbursements have averaged about
US$25 million per year over the past few years (Annex II contains a summary
statement of Bank loans as of December 31, 1979, and notes on the execution of
on-going projects). In an effort to improve this situation: (i) the Bank has
recently opened a Resident Mission in Peru; (ii) the Executive Directors have
approved modifications in the Education and the Lima/Amazon Corridor Projects
(see Annex II for further details); (iii) adequate counterpart funds have been
provided by the Government for 1979 and 1980; and (iv) the Government has set
up a special commission to monitor loan execution and resolve administrative
problems. With these actions and since start-up problems facing some of the
newer projects have now been largely overcome, the pace of disbursement is now
increasing. Almost US$20 million was disbursed on project loans in the first
semester of FY 1980.



- 8 -
28.       Program Loan disbursement started slowly because of the unfore-
seen increase in foreign exchange available to Peru as the result cf booming
exports and continued depressed import levels as well as substantial debt
rescheduling. In order to accelerate disbursements, the list of eligible
imports has been expanded to include additional high priority industrial
inputs. In recent months, Program Loan disbursements have increased markedly.
As of February 4, 1980, US$41.2 million had been disbursed and applications
for the withdrawal of an additional US$17 million were pending.
29.       The main objectives of Bank lending to Peru have been to assist
in (a) the creation of the physical and social infrastructure needed to
sustain and foster development; (b) the expansion of productive capacity
in crucial sectors; (c) the consolidation of structural and institutional
changes, particularly land and education reforms; (d) the strengthening of
agencies to implement and operate projects effectively; and (e) improving
living conditions for the urban and rural poor. In the past, Bank lending
concentrated on infrastructure in the transportation and power sectors.
More recently, the Bank's emphasis has shifted to more directly productive
fields -- mining, agriculture and industry -- to aid Peru in surmounting
its balance of payments problems. Lending for social projects has also grown.
30.       The next operations that would be ready for the Executive Directors'
consideration are a small rural development project to increase agricultural
and livestock production in the Sierra, a provincial airports project and a
sixth agricultural credit project. Preparation is underway on a mining
operation and a highway maintenance project is also planned.
31.       Bank loans constituted about 7.0 percent of Peru's total outstanding
debt, including undisbursed, at the end of 1978, and absorbed about 3.7 percent
of the country's external debt service in 1978. Assuming increased recourse
to long-term bilateral and multilateral aid by Peru, the Bank's share of the
country's outstanding public foreign debt by 1985 could reach 12 percent and
its share of debt-service would be around 5.5 percent.
32.       IFC commitments to date have been US$26.5 million (US$15 million
to the Southern Peru Copper Corporation for the Cuajone Copper Mining Project)
of which US$14.0 million is held by the Corporation. A summary statement
of IFC investments as of December 31, 1979 is presented in Annex II.
33.       The other principal aid agencies lending to Peru -- IDB and USAID --
are expected to continue giving special attention to agriculture with IDB
emphasizing agricultural credit and AID stressing rural development. Total
loan commitments as of October 31, 1979 by IDB and USAID were US$500.9 million
and US$198.3 million, respectively, and their shares of debt service as of
end-1978 were 1.0 percent and 0.5 percent, respectively.



-9-
PART III - THE ENERGY AND PETROLEUM SECTORS
The Energy Sector
34.       Peru's energy resources are large and diversified but relatively
unexploited. Economically viable hydroelectric potential is estimated at
30,000-60,000 MW of which only about 1400 MW are currently being used.
Proven and probable oil reserves are about one billion barrels, while
current annual production is approximately 70 million barrels. Some coal
deposits suitable for thermal generation or metallurgical coke have been
identified but most of the country has not been adequately explored. Finally,
there are some gas reserves -- mostly non-commercial -- and possible substan-
tial geothermal potential which the Government is only now beginning to
study.
35.       Data for 1976--the latest available--indicate a total energy
consumption for the year of 75 million barrels of oil equivalent, of which
petroleum accounted for 54 percent, firewood and other non-commercial sources
34   percent, hydropower 6 percent, natural gas 5 percent and coal 1 percent.
Petroleum was even more important in terms of commercial energy requirements,
supplying about 80 percent of demand.
36.       After twenty years of dependence on imported petroleum, an almost
threefold increase in domestic production between 1976 and 1979 has enabled
Peru to meet internal demand, which has grown little in recent years, and to
produce a surplus for export. As the country's economic situation improves,
however, demand will rebound and current proven reserves are only likely to be
sufficient to satisfy domestic requirements through the mid-1980s. Although
conservation measures and accelerated development of hydro-electric and coal
resources will help meet future energy requirements and should be encouraged,
Peru will continue to be dependent on petroleum for at least 50 percent of
its energy needs through the end of this century. If the country is to
avoid again becoming an oil importer over the medium run, the Government must
rapidly increase exploration and secondary recovery efforts.
37.       The Government is just beginning to devote attention to energy
sector planning, which is now coordinated by the Ministry of Energy and Mines
(MEM). Operational responsibility for the various subsectors is divided among
autonomous Government enterprises. The National Petroleum Company, PETROPERU,
is responsible for all phases of the production and distribution of petroleum
products. In addition, two U.S. companies (Occidental and Belco Petroleum)
explore for, and produce, petroleum under contract with PETROPERU. Power
generation is the responsibility of the national power company, ELETROPERU and
various local state-owned companies handle distribution in the larger cities.
Coal exploration and development is usually undertaken by the state mining
company, MINEROPERU.
38.       An August 1979 energy assessment, jointly prepared by the Peruvian
Government and the U.S. Department of Energy, recommends the creation of an
energy institute that would do energy sector planning and study and promote
energy resources for which no agency currently has clear-cut responsibility
(e.g., geothermal power, biomass and, to some extent, coal). The Government



- 10 -
is now considering establishing such an entity. Other recommendations of the
report are to: (i) develop hydroelectric and coal resources; (ii) shift
towards the use of renewable energy resources, particularly for small
communities; (iii) improve energy efficiency in industry; and (iv) electrify,
where possible, urban and regional transport systems, the principal petroleum
users. Nuclear power is not considered a viable option before the year 2000.
1
39.       The energy assessment, plus a master plan for development of the
nation's hydroelectric resources financed by the Bank under Loan 1215-PE,
and a UNDP financed energy balance study, provide the analytical basis for
developing an energy sector strategy to guide future policy making and invest-
ment. The Bank intends to continue to explore ways in which it might further
assist the Government in this effort.
The Petroleum Sector
40.       Reserves.  Peru is comprised of three major geologic zones, each
of which contains sedimentary basins with hydrocarbon bearing potential:
(i) the Costa, particularly around Talara in the north (Brea-Parinas) where,
until the 1970s, almost all of Peru's oil production was concentrated; (ii) the
Selva region -- the low jungle plain along the eastern and northeastern areas
of Peru -- currently the source of most production and the area with the
largest potential reserves; and (iii) the Sierra, where commercial potential
appears low.
41.       In 1977, PETROPERU estimated national proven and probable reserves
for primary recovery at approximately 750 million barrels. Some experts,
however--including those from the U.S. Geological Survey--believe that this
figure is overly optimistic and that a more prudent estimate for primary
recovery is 565 million barrels. In addition, the Geological Survey estimates
that about 500 million barrels can be recovered from known reservoirs through
the application of secondary recovery methods. Total reserves, therefore,
amount to over one billion barrels. This represents approximately 14 years of
production at present rates.
42.       Estimates of the scope of undiscovered reserves vary from 2 billion
to 40 billion barrels. The higher estimates are based on expectations of
sizeable recovery from potentially large reservoirs in the Amazon basin and in
deep water at the edge of the continental shelf, the exploitation of which
will require expensive technologies which are still in the development phase.
43.       Production and Exploration.  Peru is one of the oldest oil producing
countries in the world. The first oil wells were drilled in 1863 on the
northwest coast near Talara, four years after the first commercial fields in
the U.S. were developed. The country was self-sufficient for many years.
44.       During the late 1940s and 1950s, with prices for gasoline and fuel oil
as well as producers' profit margins at very low levels, growth in domestic con-
sumption outstripped that of production. By 1958 the situation had deteriorated



- 11 -
to the point where the principal foreign oil company operating in Peru, the
International Petroleum Company (IPC -- a subsidiary of Exxon) terminated all
development and exploration activity for about two years. As a result, while
consumption continued to grow rapidly through the 1960s, production from the
traditional coastal and offshore fields in northern Peru grew slowly and Peru
became increasingly dependent on crude oil imports to meet domestic requirements.
45.       To reverse this trend, the Government undertook a major effort
in the early 1970's to stimulate exploration activity in the Amazon basin.
A few important initial discoveries gave rise to high expectations regarding
the hydrocarbon potential of this area. The Transandean Pipeline system to
connect the jungle fields to the coast -- the largest single investment
project in Peru's history -- was initiated on the basis of these expectations.
When completed in late 1977 and extended with a branch line to the Occidental
Petroleum fields in 1978, the total cost of the pipeline was over US$800
million.
46.       The initial successes were, however, followed by a large number of
unsuccessful exploratory wells. These failures, high exploration costs in
the Selva, the inflexible investment obligations stipulated by the exploration
contracts and an unfavorable change in U.S. tax legislation, all contributed
to the exodus of 15 of the original 16 foreign exploration companies by the
end of 1976. Aside from Belco, which had been operating on the coast for many
years, Occidental Petroleum was the only foreign company to remain and to
invest in new exploration in the Selva with notable success.
47.       Output stagnated through the mid-1970s as Selva production remained
at low levels and coastal production dropped. With the 1973 increase in oil
prices, Peru's oil-import bill rose sharply. It averaged over US$200 million
annually between 1975-1977, contributing to a serious deterioration in the
balance of payments. In 1977, however, production from PETROPERU and Occidental
discoveries in the Selva began to come on stream. Output increased from
46,400 b/d in 1976 to 91,000 in 1977 and to 181,000 b/d by the fourth quarter
of 1978, with the 1978 increases coming almost entirely from Occidental
operations. By mid-1978 Peru was self-sufficient in oil and net exports for
the year totaled US$145 million. For 1979, production is estimated to have
averaged over 190,000 b/d and net exports to have reached about US$670 million.
48.       Prospects.  Based on expected development of proven reserves and the
initiation of secondary recovery projects now being planned, Peru should
continue to be self-sufficient through the mid-1980s. This will require
investment on the order of US$1,000 million in the early 1980s, which is
expected to come from Occidental, PETROPERU and Belco. Domestic consumption,
however, is expected to resume growth in 1980 and to increase at about 5 percent
per year thereafter. If Peru is to meet internal demand after 1985 and to
continue exporting, significant additional investment in petroleum exploration
and development will be needed. Although the Government expects that foreign
oil firms would play an important part in this effort, it wishes to preserve a
significant role for PETROPERU, particularly in areas of the Selva and Costa



- 12 -
where the company has already invested considerable effort. Over the next few
years, PETROPERU can develop the promising areas it has begun to explore much
more rapidly than new oil companies. However, because of its limited financial
and technical resources and the enormous costs involved, Peru is expected to
be dependent on foreign firms through the mid-1980s for 70-75 percent of the
investment necessary to find and develop new reservoirs in the Selva. The
country's ability to attract approximately US$1,000 million in additional
investment to attempt to make it self-sufficient through the mid-1990s will,
therefore, depend on the adoption and maintenance of appropriate sector
policies and incentives.
49.       The history of Peru's relations with foreign oil companies has been
mixed. There were continual difficulties with IPC which culminated in its
expropriation in 1968. In 1969 foreign concessions were prohibited, but in
1970 Peru changed its policy and established a new framework for foreign
participation in the petroleum sector with the "Peru Model" contract. Under
this formula, which initially proved attractive to investors, private firms
explored for oil and operated production facilities, usually on the basis of
a 50-50 split of production with PETROPERU. The foreign oil company paid all
its exploration, development and operating costs out of its share of gross
revenues; PETROPERU paid all of the firm's Peruvian taxes.
50.       In 1977 and 1978, the Government made a new effort to attract private
companies to reinitiate exploration and development activity. It opened, for
exploration and secondary recovery, large onshore and offshore blocks in
coastal areas which had been previously reserved for PETROPERU, as well as
47 million hectares in the Amazon. A number of oil companies indicated
interest in new contracts in the jungle areas; however, only Occidental signed
an agreement. The principal factors dampening foreign firms' interest were
the high risk of new exploration combined with political uncertainty engendered
by upcoming elections and a re-evaluation by the Government of the "Peru Model"
contract in light of greatly increased world oil prices. Also, U.S. firms
found that they were unable to credit their Peruvian income taxes against U.S.
taxes under the "Peru Model" contract.
51.       After carefully considering alternative exploration contracts with
the assistance of a consortium of investment banks, led by Lehman Bros. - Kuhn
Loeb, the Government adopted new guidelines for such contracts on December 6,
1979. At the same time, it modified the tax system applicable to foreign oil
firms. Under the new laws, foreign firms would continue to contract with
PETROPERU to explore for, and extract, hydrocarbons. However, the share of
production they retain would be linked to the world price of petroleum
and their volume of production. Also, foreign firms would pay their own
Peruvian income taxes, thus enabling them, in principle, to credit such
payments against U.S. taxes. PETROPERU would receive foreign oil company
income tax payments as a capital contribution. The terms of the new tax law
have required that the existing Occidental and Belco contracts be modified.
Both companies have indicated that they are prepared to renegotiate their
contracts; renegotiations have already begun with Belco and technical dis-
cussions have been initiated with Occidental. Renegotiation of the Occidental



- 13 -
contract is expected to begin shortly. The new laws provide a framework
for attracting new investors and a number of foreign firms have indicated
their interest in initiating discussions with the Government. Assuming that
the renegotiations are successfully completed, prospects are good for substan-
tial foreign investor interest in a new round of exploration in the jungle.
52.       Pricing Policy.  The Government maintained domestic oil prices
at the same level from 1969 to 1975 in spite of the 1973 international oil
price increase. As a result, consumption more than doubled in the 1973-75
period imposing a heavy burden on Peru's balance of payments. The first
determined action by Peru to stem the rapid rise in domestic consumption came
in 1976 when gasoline prices were more than doubled. Further increases have
been imposed, particularly since 1978. Gasoline prices are now over US$1.00
per gallon, higher than the average for North and South America, although
lower than those in Europe. Consumption, particularly of gasoline, has
declined since 1975. The Government is following a policy of increasing
prices to keep up with inflation; they have been raised five times since
January 1978 -- most recently by 10 percent in January 1980.
53.       PETROPERU.  This state-owned company was established in 1969
following the nationalization of IPC. It incorporated IPC assets, a small
government-owned production company, and, in 1973, several other privately-
owned oil firms. As a result, PETROPERU now controls 100 percent of Peru's
refining capacity and markets 98 percent of the petroleum products sold in
the country. In addition to conducting all state exploration and production
activity, it owns and operates the Transandean Pipeline and produces petro-
chemicals and fertilizer.
54.       PETROPERU has a Board of Directors of nine members, five of whom are
appointed by MEM, two by other ministries and two by PETROPERU's staff. The
Chairman of the Board has broad authority in the management of the Company.
PETROPERU's senior management is generally competent and has extensive experi-
ence in the petroleum industry in Peru. PETROPERU's middle management, however,
is much less experienced and has been weakened by the loss of numerous technical
and administrative personnel in 1977/78. This has been primarily because of a
limitation placed on salary levels since 1976. In early 1979, the Government
improved the salary structure of all the major public sector enterprises,
including PETROPERU. As a consequence, PETROPERU's salaries are now comparable
with those of private petroleum companies in Peru and the departure of staff
has declined.
55.       Aside from the loss of professional staff, PETROPERU's most serious
problem in recent years has been financial. A number of factors have resulted
in a financial crisis requiring Government action to help PETROPERU avoid bank-
ruptcy. These factors included: (i) US$400 million in short term debt incurred
by the company to finance petroleum imports which were sold domestically at a
subsidized price; (ii) almost US$800 million in loans on relatively stringent
supplier and commercial terms to finance the Transandean Pipeline which, until
recently, yielded no revenue; and (iii) the requirement under the "Peru Model"



- 14 -
contract that PETROPERU pay all foreig  oi:z  companies' taxes.  The Government
has taken a series of measures to help resolve PETROPERU's financial problems
and restore its creditworthiness and further measures will be taken in connec-
tion with this proposed loan (see paras. 3-81).
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Objectives
56.       This, the Bank's first petroleum operation in Peru, comes at a
critical juncture for the future development of the sector. Without a sub-
stantial new exploration and development program in the immediate future,
Peru runs the risk of again becoming a petroleum importer in the mid-1980s.
The proposed loan would help finance an immediate expansion of production so
that Peru can meet its domestic needs and maintain an exportable surplus in
the short run. It would also finance the preparation of secondary recovery
project and seismic surveys to provide the basis for the expansion of produc-
tion in the medium term. Most importantly, however, the Bank's participation
in this project has led to the development of a financial recovery program for
PETROPERU which is expected, within a few years, to generate sufficient internal
resources to enable it to reinitiate exploration and to undertake new develop-
ment projects.    Also, the Bank's involvement has permitted it to begin a
dialogue with the Government on policy issues regarding the future development
of the subsector.
57.       The project was prepared by PETROPERU.  A Bank mission visited Peru
to appraise the project in May 1979. The appraisal report (2705-PE dated
February 11, 1980) entitled "Staff Appraisal Report -- Petroleum Production
Rehabilitation Project", is being distributed separately. Supplementary
data are contained in Annex III. Negotiations took place in Washington
from January 7 to 15, 1980 and the Peruvian Delegation was headed by Mr.
Augusto Morales, General Manager of PETROPERU.
Project Description
58.       The Project would consist of:
(a) the installation of 35 pumps to provide artificial lift for
existing wells in four reservoirs in PETROPERU's northern
jungle fields; the acquisition of two maintenance rigs to
service wells in the jungle areas; and the carrying out of
studies to improve the efficiency of exploitation of these
reservoirs;
(b) the installation of various types of pumping systems to
reactivate primary production from 300 wells in PETROPERU's
coastal fields;
(c) updating and expanding a feasibility study for a secondary
recovery project in the Brea-Parinas area on the Costa;



- 15 -
(d) 2,100 km of seismic surveying in two phases and processing
of the information obtained; and
(e) consultants services and training to strengthen PETROPERU both
financially and technically, and to study future sector
investment requirements and petroleum pricing policy.
59.       Artificial Lift for North Jungle Operations.  These fields currently
produce about 20,000 b/d/. Originally, sufficient pressure was available to
allow production without recourse to any artificial help; however, the heavy
nature of the oil and the limited gas in the solution has restricted its natural
flow. Pumping equipment would be installed in order to maintain sufficient
pressure necessary to permit production at maximum capacity.
60.       PETROPERU has acquired 12 pumps with its own resources.  Approxi-
mately 35 additional pumps would be financed under the proposed project. With
this equipment, production would be increased in the first year of operation
by approximately 18,500 b/d--93 percent greater than the present production
level of these fields--and would decline thereafter by approximately 20
percent per year. PETROPERU would also acquire two rigs to maintain and
service wells in the jungle and improve their production. Finally, reservoir
simulation studies would be carried out to enable PETROPERU to exploit
these fields efficiently in the future.
61.       Reactivation of 300 Wells in PETROPERU's Coastal Operations.  Signi-
ficant primary production can still be recovered from wells in the Talara area
that had been shut down as marginal in the period prior to the increase in
international oil prices. Three hundred wells would be reactivated under this
project with the installation of new pumping equipment. Total production of
these wells would be increased by about 1,100 b/d initially, which would
decline by approximately 5 percent annually. PETROPERU is currently identi-
fying the wells to be reactivated and determining the specific type of pumping
equipment to be used. Bank approval of PETROPERU's well reactivation program
would be a condition of disbursement for the component (Section 3.05 and
Schedule 1, para 4(b) to the draft Loan Agreement).
62.       Feasibility Study for a Secondary Recovery Project.  PETROPERU is
planning a secondary recovery project in the Brea-Parinas area aimed at
recovering some 40 million additional barrels of oil. A feasibility study was
undertaken in 1974 by Keplinger Associates, a U.S. firm. Subsequently,
PETROPERU invited proposals for implementation of the project from two Latin
American companies, both of which made detailed presentations. Considerable
information exists, therefore, regarding the proposed secondary recovery
project. However, costs must be updated, the scope of the proposed project
must be defined and design work done. This would require approximately 200
man/months of consultancy services by a qualified firm and take 4-6 months to
complete. The cost of consultants is estimated at about US$9,000 per man/month.
The qualifications of the consultants selected for this,and other technical
assistance components of the project, as well as the terms and conditions of
their employment, would be acceptable to the Bank (Section 3.02 of the draft
Loan Agreement). Bank financing would be considered for the secondary recovery
project which would result from this study.



- 16 -
63.       Seismic Survey.  Because of its financial difficulties, PETROPERU's
exploration activity has declined significantly. No exploratory drilling has
been done since early 1978 and seismic work has been curtailed. Since the
discovery of new reserves is urgent, PETROPERU is planning to reinitiate
its exploration program primarily in two producing areas of the jungle. The
initial 1,600 km phase of this program, to be financed by the proposed loan,
would focus on potential oil bearing structures which have not yet been fully
delineated. A second, more detailed phase covering 500 km, would be carried
out provided that the Bank and PETROPERU agree that a second phase is justified
based on a review of the results of the first phase. Such agreement would be
a condition of disbursement for the second phase (Section 3.06 and Schedule 1,
para 4(c) of the draft Loan Agreement).
64.       Technical Assistance and Training.  About 110 man-months of technical
assistance at an estimated US$9,000/man-month would be provided: (i) to
improve PETROPERU's financial and technical capabilities; and (ii) to study
the overall development of the petroleum sector. Under item (i), consultants
would assist PETROPERU in strengthening its financial administration, account-
ing and management information practices and procedures. The company's fixed
assets would also be inventoried. Under item (ii) of this component, a study
of the Peruvian petroleum sector's future exploration and investment require-
ments--and of the optimal institutional framework for the sector--would be
made. The domestic pricing of hydrocarbons would also been examined.
65.       The National Development Finance Corporation (COFIDE) would assist
PETROPERU in the selection of consultants for the technical assistance
referred to above. It would also help supervise and review their work (Section
3.02(c) of the draft Loan Agreement). PETROPERU would retain consultants to
carry out the financial, accounting and management information studies by
August 31, 1980 and these studies would be completed by October 31, 1981
(Sections 3.02(b) and 3.07 of the draft Loan Agreement). Upon completion
of these studies, PETROPERU would exchange views with the Bank on their
findings and on a program to put their recommendations into effect (Section
3.07 of the draft Loan Agreement). The Government would establish a com-
mittee--to include representatives of the Ministry of Economy and Finance,
MEM, COFIDE and PETROPERU--to coordinate the petroleum sector development
studies (Sections 3.01 of the draft Guarantee Agreement and 3.09 of the
draft Loan Agreement). The Government, COFIDE and PETROPERU would, upon
completion of the sector development studies and 90 days before the end of
each year for three years thereafter, exchange views with the Bank on the
actions to be taken to implement the studies' recommendations (Sections
3.08(b) and 4.07 of the draft Loan and Guarantee Agreements, respectively).
66.       In addition to the studies, about 220 man/months of experts'
services, at an estimated US$9,000/man-month, would be provided: (i) to
advise PETROPERU's production and field staff on resolving day-to-day oper-
ational difficulties that have become more acute as a result of the loss of
experienced operational staff; (ii) for the maintenance of the pumping units
which would be procured under the proposed project; and (iii) to train
PETROPERU's operating personnel in reservoir engineering practices and in
production control procedures.



- 17 -
Project Cost and Financing Plan
67.       The total cost of the project is estimated at US$50.7 million
including taxes of US$5.3 million. The proposed Bank loan of US$32.5 million
would cover the foreign exchange component, which represents about 64 percent
of total costs. PETROPERU would finance the remaining US$18.2 million in
project costs and is exploring the possibility of obtaining co-financing for
a part of this amount with commercial Banks. If co-financing on appropriate
terms is arranged, the Executive Directors' approval would be sought for the
addition of a cross-default clause to the legal documents.
68.       Retroactive financing in an amount of up to US$2 million is proposed
for consultants' services contracted after February 1, 1980 for the updating
of the Brea Parinas feasibility study and to cover down payments on orders
for pumps placed after that date (paragraph 4(a) of Schedule 1 to the draft
Loan Agreement). PETROPERU has already financed the purchase of some pumps
with its own funds but, because of its limited resources, the company is
depending on the Bank loan to help finance the continuation of this program.
Any delay in ordering the pumps would be costly for both Peru and the company
since production has declined or stopped completely in some fields.
Project Execution
69.       The project would be executed over a three-year period (1980-82).
PETROPERU would carry out all project components and would be assisted by
COFIDE--a party to the proposed Loan Agreement--in the execution of the
financial, sector investment and petroleum pricing studies. COFIDE is the
government's development finance bank and, in addition to arranging financing
for projects, it assists state enterprises in improving their financial
performance and project analysis capability.
70.       Despite the loss of some experienced technical staff, PETROPERU has
the capability to carry out the rehabilitation components of the project effi-
ciently. In order to ensure retention of qualified staff, PETROPERU would
maintain the competitiveness of its salaries with those of private oil companies
operating in Peru and would report to the Bank at least every six months on any
vacancies in professional positions in its departments responsible for explora-
tion and production and on the action it would take to fill such vacancies
(Section 4.01(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Disbursement and Procurement
71.       The Bank loan would finance:  (i) 100 percent of foreign expendi-
tures and 80 percent of local expenditures for equipment and materials;
(ii) 90 percent of services for seismic surveying; (iii) 90 percent of expendi-
tures for engineering and consulting services; and (iv) 100 percent of foreign
expenditures for training.
72.       Goods and services to be financed by the Bank loan would be procured
under international competitive bidding procedures in accordance with Bank
guidelines, except that certain contracts may be awarded through limited
international tender from not less than three member countries of the Bank and



- 18 -
Switzerland. These are (i) contracts for highly specialized drilling materials
and surface and subsurface equipment other than pumps; (ii) the first 17
pumps, which are being financed retroactively; and (iii) processing services
for seismic data, which are highly specialized and available from only a
limited number of firms. In the aggregate, such contracts will not exceed
US$3 million. Qualified local suppliers and those from Latin American Free
Trade Association and Cartagena Agreement member countries participating in
international competitive bidding would be accorded a preference representing
the difference between the prevailing duty actually applicable and the duty
applicable to goods imported from non-member countries, or 15 percent, on the
c.i.f. price, whichever is lower (Schedule 4(B) to the draft Loan Agreement).
Financial Analysis
73.       PETROPERU's financial situation has deteriorated seriously in
recent years. By the end of 1978, the company's position had become so
precarious that it found itself unable to meet burgeoning payments on foreign
oil companies taxes it owed to the Government and in danger of defaulting on
the large debt service payments due in 1979. By 1978, its current ratio had
fallen to 0.47, its debt/equity ratio was 92/8 and its debt service coverage
ratio was below 1.0. PETROPERU's seriously undercapitalized financial
structure was a result of price subsidies to consumers, rapidly increasing
tax payments and the large investment program (principally the oil pipeline)
undertaken in the first part of the decade and financed mainly by debt.
74.       In early 1979 with PETROPERU's financial difficulties mounting,
the Government set about remedying the causes of the company's financial
weakness, which were in large part the result of the Government-imposed
situation outlined in paragraph 55. Important steps were taken to strengthen
PETROPERU's position and to ensure that it would be able to meet future
debt-servicing payments. These steps included: (i) a program of frequent
domestic price increases for petroleum products; (ii) Government agreement
to assume the servicing of a portion of PETROPERU's external debt, including
short term obligations of US$388 million, that had accrued from the financing
of subsidies to the domestic market for imported crude oil and petroleum
products during the 1973-78 period; and (iii) modification of the provisions
governing payment of foreign oil firm taxes mentioned in para. 51. These
measures, plus equity infusions during the course of 1979, have helped
PETROPERU overcome a financial crisis.
75.       In order for PETROPERU to achieve long-run financial stability,
this project would support the Government's comprehensive financial recovery
program for PETROPERU, whose objectives would be to: (i) further strengthen
PETROPERU's capital structure through equity infusions; (ii) assure PETROPERU
a minimum debt-servicing capability, especially in the critical 1980-82 period
when large debt payments fall due; and (iii) maintain the company's liquidity.
76.       To strengthen PETROPERU's capital structure, the Government recently
made an equity contribution of S/. 15,500 million (US$60.8 million) to the
company and would, as a condition of loan effectiveness, assume PETROPERU's
remaining short term obligations arising from price subsidies previously borne
by the company (Section 7.01 of the draft Loan Agreement).



- 19 -
These obligations are estimated to amount to about S/. 25,000 million
(US$98 million). Provision has already been made for this action in the
Government's 1980 financial program. In addition, the Government would make
capital contributions of at least US$45 million each in 1980 and 1981 and
US$30 million in 1982, which would be used by PETROPERU to service its debt
(Sections 2.03(a) and 4.06(a) of the draft Guarantee and Loan Agreements
respectively).
77.       In order to help avoid imposing the burden of price subsidies on
PETROPERU in the future, it has been agreed that the Government would increase
ex-refinery domestic prices by 10 percent per quarter in 1980 (Section 4.03(a)
of the draft Guarantee Agreement). Thereafter, the Government would use its
best efforts to carry out a pricing policy whose objectives would be to
eliminate subsidies and enable PETROPERU to self-finance a reasonable portion
of its investment program. To this end the Government would attempt to
increase prices in accordance with the domestic rate of inflation or the
increase in prices paid by PETROPERU for the acquisition of oil for the
domestic market, whichever is greater. To the extent possible, it would also
make additional increases in order to reach international price levels
(Section 4.03(b) of the draft Guarantee Agreement). Thirty days before the
end of each year, the Bank and the Government would exchange views on progress
in carrying out these policies and on proposed actions for the coming year
(Section 4.03(c) of the draft Guarantee Agreement). In this exchange of views,
the Government and the Bank would take into account the recommendations and
conclusions of the hydrocarbons pricing study mentioned in para. 64 (4.03(c)
of the draft Guarantee Agreement).
78.       This program of capital contributions, debt relief and price actions,
as well as the modification in petroleum legislation (including tax provisions)
mentioned in para. 51, should substantially strengthen PETROPERU's financial
situation over the next few years. This will be reflected in a progressive
improvement in the company's financial indicators. PETROPERU would maintain a
minimum debt service coverage ratio of 1.1 in 1980, 1.4 in 1981, 1.9 in 1982
and 2.0 thereafter (Section 5.05(a) and (b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Within 90 days after the beginning of each year, PETROPERU and COFIDE would
submit to the Bank a program of action designed to enable PETROPERU to meet
these targets (Section 5.05(f) of the draft Loan Agreement). The Government
would take all actions necessary to enable PETROPERU to achieve the agreed
upon debt service levels (Section 4.05(a) of the draft Guarantee Loan Agreement).
Also, PETROPERU would not incur any debt without the Bank's agreement if such
debt would cause its debt/equity ratio to exceed 75/25 in 1981, 70/30 in 1982
and 60/40 thereafter (Section 5.07 of the draft Loan Agreement). For 1980, it
has been agreed that withdrawal by the Government of PETROPERU's profits would
be limited to not more than the total of any capital contributions made during
1980 less the amount of such contribution used during that year to service
debt (Section 4.04(a) of the draft Guarantee Agreement).
79.       To insure that PETROPERU would be sufficiently liquid to meet its
working capital requirements, PETROPERU would maintain a quick ratio of more
than 0.6 in 1980, 0.7 in 1981, 0.9 in 1982 and 1.0 thereafter (Section 5.06 of
the draft Loan Agreement). During 1980-81, when the company would still bear
a heavy debt burden, the Government would make arrangements to extend a
short-term line of credit to PETROPERU until December 31, 1981 to cover any
working capital deficits (Section 4.08 of the draft Guarantee Agreement).



- 20 -
80.       While PETROPERU's accounts have been audited regularly, a number
of qualifications were made on its 1977 financial statements, primarily
because of difficulties with the valuation of the company's assets. To
correct this situation, PETROPERU and COFIDE would submit to the Bank a
plan for the resolution of outstanding audit qualifications on its 1977
financial statements by May 31, 1980; the company would resolve these qualifi-
cations by December 31, 1981. To this end, PETROPERU would, by August 31,
1981, complete an inventory of fixed assets and a reconciliation of its books
regarding such assets. PETROPERU would also present to the Bank plans to
resolve any audit observations on its 1978 and 1979 statements within sixty
days of completion of these audits and would carry out such plans by December
31, 1981 (Section 4.05 of the draft Loan Agreement).
81.       If the above measures are taken and oil revenues -- which have
been projected conservatively -- reach expected levels, PETROPERU would
be put on a sound financial footing within the next four years. Its rate
of return on assets would increase from an estimated 3.5 percent in 1979
to about seven percent by 1983 and the company would generate sufficient
internal resources to enable it to re-initiate its exploration program.
Economic and Financial Benefits
82.       The economic rates of return of the two production rehabilitation
components are extremely high (estimated at well over 100 percent), primarily
because of the nature of the investment. In both cases, the projects can take
advantage of existing infrastructure--the wells have already been drilled, the
reserves are well established, and the transport pipeline systems are in place
with unutilized capacity. In addition, oil price increases over the past
several years have dramatically increased the profitability of all production
enhancement petroleum projects. Since all the project's incremental production
would be exported, or would substitute for imports, total foreign exchange
earnings (or savings) over the next ten years would be almost US$780 million
at current prices. Because the project's economic rate of return is so high,
sensitivity analysis indicates that it would not become marginal under any
reasonable set of assumptions. The project's financial rate of return to
PETROPERU is lower because of taxes, but it still averages over 100 percent
for the project as a whole.
83.       In addition to the economic and financial benefits of the project,
there are important unquantifable benefits in resolving PETROPERU's financial
difficulties and strengthening its financial administration and technical
capability. These actions and the secondary recovery and seismic studies to
be financed would lay the foundation for initiation of urgently needed ex-
ploration and secondary recovery programs that would enable Peru to remain
self-sufficient in petroleum production in the future. The sector invest-
ment study would provide guidance to PETROPERU and the Government in planning
for the future development of the petroleum sector and the pricing study
would provide the Government with the analyses necessary to adopt a rational
domestic pricing policy.



- 21 -
Project Risks
84.       The risks associated with the project are those inherent in petro-
leum production. The production history of the northern coastal and jungle
fields provides a high degree of confidence in the recoverable reserve esti-
mates and in the reservoir behavior of each of the producing fields. PETROPERU
has considerable operating experience in the Talara coastal area and in super-
vising seismic work, so that little difficulty is anticipated in carrying
out the coastal reactivation or the seismic components.
85.       There is some risk in the installation of artificial lift systems
for PETROPERU's jungle operations since the company has just recently begun
acquiring experience with electric submersible pumping equipment. Problems
in the efficient use and the maintenance and repair of this equipment will
inevitably arise. In order to reduce these difficulties, the Bank has provided
funds to finance technical services to train PETROPERU's field personnel in a
comprehensive maintenance program.
Environmental and Safety Considerations
86.       No major environmental risks are likely to result from implementa-
tion of the project. PETROPERU's crude oil from the jungle is highly saline
in content and has to be treated before transportation. The residual water
produced, which has a high salt content, is discharged into the Rio Corrientes.
Fish, however, are not affected adversely because of the rapid dilution of the
salt water. During the frequent heavy rainstorms in the jungle, local oil
spills in the vicinity of the production facilities occasionally give rise to
a thin film of oil in the Rio Corrientes. While these films are rapidly
dispersed in the fast flowing rivers of the area, PETROPERU's is endeavouring
to reduce the frequency of such occurrences. PETROPERU's overall safety
record has been good and the company's practices are in accordance with
acceptable industry standards.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
87.       The draft Loan Agreement between PETROPERU, COFIDE and the Bank, the
draft Guarantee Agreement between the Republic of Peru and the Bank and the
Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Arti-
cles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
88.       The main features of the Loan Agreement are referred to in the text
and listed in Section III of Annex III. A special condition of loan effective-
ness would be that the Government assume PETROPERU's remaining short term
liabilities (para 76). A condition of disbursement for the coastal well re-
activation program would be Bank approval of the proposed program (para. 61).
A condition of disbursement for the second phase seismic survey would be prior
agreement by PETROPERU and the Bank that the second phase was justified
(para. 63).



- 22 -
89.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
90.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachment
February 13, 1980
Washington, D.C.



- 23 -                                          AI4EX I
!A-ALI 3A                                             Page  1  of  5
PERM - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
PERU                    IREPESNCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AnYRAES
UANO AIEA (THOUSAND SQ. I.)                                               -MAOST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
TOTAL          11ir5.2                                                SAME        SAMS    NEXT HICHER
AGRICILTURAL    260.0                                MOSTt RECENT    GEOGRAPRIC   INCOME      INCOME
1960  lb   1970 lb ESTIMATE /b      REGION /c  GROUP /d   GROUP /a
GNP PER CAPITA (USU)                250.0       420.0    740.0          1124.4    1097.7       1942.6
ENERCY CONSUMlPTION PER CAPITA
(EILOGRAJS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)    445.0       619.0    642.0           943.1      730.7      1646.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOPULATION,  D-YEAR (MILLIONS)    10.2         13.5     16.4
01R1l1 POPUtATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 46.3      57.4     62.8            59.3       49.0        51.2
POPULATION PROJZCTIONS
POPULATION IN YtEA  2000 (MILLIONS)                   29.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (KILLIONS)                      55.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACMED               2085
POPUATION DENSITY
PER SQ. RM.                       8.0        11.0     13.0            23.5       44.6        28.2
PER SQ. 1XM. AGUICULTURAL LAND   33.0        44.0     54.0            80.5      140.7       100.5
POPULATION AGE STCTUtE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                        44.2        45.0     43.9            40.9       41.3        35.4
15-64 TRS.                        52.0       51.9      53.0            54.4       55.3       56.3
65 YtS. AND ABOVE                  3.8         3.1      3.1             3.9        3.5         5.1
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             2.6         2.9      2.8             2.4        2.4         1.7
URlAN                             4.7Lg       5.0      4.5             3.7        4.5         3.0
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    47.0        42.9     39.0            32.8       31.1       27.5
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    19.0        14.7     12.0             8.5        9.2         9.1
CROSS REPRODUCTION RATE             3.1/h       2.9      2.8             2.4        2.2         1.8
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (TOUSANDS)       ..         ..        ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..         ..        ..            17.7       34.7
FOOD AND NUTRITION
It.OEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71.100)        110.0       102.0     90.0            99.4      104.4       102.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                  97.0       99.0    100.0            107.0      105.0       120.8
PROTEINS (GP.AMtS PER DLY)       50.0       61.5      61.7            60.4       64.4       80.9
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE      25.0        24.0     25.3            28.3       23.5        31.3
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE    28.0        20.0     16.0             6.7        8.6         5.1
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   48.0       53.0      55.7            63.6       60.2       65.6
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            *-       122.0/f     *-            76.1       46.7       45.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                              *-       35.0      47.0            63.4       60.8       69.4
URBAN                              ..       58.0      72.0            79.5       75.7       85.1
RURAL                              ..        8.0      15.0            38.6       40.0       43.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..        36.0       ..            58.8       46.0       70.1
URBAN                              ..       52.0        ..            77.8       46.0       88.3
RURAL                              ..        16.0       ..            24.5       22.5       33.2
POPULATION PER PRYSICIAN         2200.0/t   1920.0   1580.0           1841.9    2262.4      t343.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON    3620.07T    3200.0       ..           933.7    1195.4       765.0
POPULATION PER 'dOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           490.0hL    470.0    500.0            563.4      453.4       197.6
URBAN                              ..      410.0    340.0            279.4      253.1      260.2
RURAL                              *-      3450.0   1300.0          1140.9    2732.4       1055.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSP'TAL RED          ..        19.0       ..            25.7       22.1       17.3
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                             4.9        5.5       4.9/1           5.0        5.3        4.7
URBAN                             4.8         .-       5.1/1           4.8        5.2        4.4
RUlEAL                            4.9         ..       4.7/1           5.3        5.4        5.!
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS ?ER ROOM
TOTAL                             2.3         2.3      1.9/1           1.3        1.9         1.1
URBAN                             2.0         *-       1.77?           1.3        1.6        1.2
RU'RAL                            2.7          .       2.4/1           1.5        2.5        1.2
ACCESS TO ELECTRICIT  (PERCEPT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                            26.0       32.1      32.1/1          54.3      30.0        66.0
tltlAN                           50.7         ..      54.371          80.1       71.7       95.i
RURAL                             4.0                  2.771           4 4.2     17.3



- 24 -
ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                            Page  2  of  5
PERU - SOCTAL INDICATORS DATA SIEET
u2EFEPECE GROUPS (A  ISTED A4YERAGES
PERU                           - ISST RwECEN  ESIMT           a 
SAME         SAME      NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC    INCOME        INCOME
1960 /b     1970 /b ESTIMATE /b        REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP /e
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIeARY:      TOTAL                 83.0         107.0     110.0             107.3       102.5        101.7
MALE                  95.0         114.0     116.0             109.1       108.6        110.0
9'EMALE               71.0         99.0      107.0             107.4        97.1         92.8
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                   15.0        30.0       49.0              40.5        33.5         51.2
MALE                   18.0         34.0      54.0              40.4        38.4         56.4
FEM4ALE                13.0        26.0       44.0.             39.0        30.7         43.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (Z OF SECONDARY)  20.0            17.0       23.0             18.3        11.5         18.3
PUPIL-TElACMR RATIO
PRIMARY                             34.0         40.0       40.0              37.1        35.8         27.1
SECONDARY                            12.0         23.0      23.0              17.9        22.9         25.3
A"MLT LITERACY RATE (P31CENT)          61.0           ..       72.0             77.4        64.0         86.1
CONSUMNPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAlD
POPULATION                           8.0          17.0      17.6              29.1        13.5         53.4
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          101.0        134.0     131.0             172.1       122.7       225.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            3.0         29.0      32.0              67.9        38.3        102.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PE!R
ThOUSAND POPULATION                      ..        124.0       96.0             76.1        40.0         78.5
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..              ..         ..              4.2         3.7          3.6
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FOPCE (THOUSANDS)        3100.0       4300.0    4600.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    21.0          20.7      21.9              21.5        25.0         24.5
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                52.5         44.8      40.0              30.2        43.5         28.9
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   19.6         20.1      20.0              23.8        21.5         30.6
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                  31.3         29.1       29.1             30.9        33.5         33.8
MALE                                   49.2         45.8       45.3             47.3        48.0         51.3
FEMALE                                 13.2         12.1       12.8             13.3        16.8         16.3
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 1.6          1.5        1.6               1.5        1.4          1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   39.0/k            ..        ..              23.7        20.8
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  64.4/k          61.0/1      ..              58.7        52.1         57.6
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    2.5/k           1.97        ..              2.9         3.9          3.4
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    8.07k           7.o71       ..              9.9        12.6         11.0
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..          ..      235.0             265.6       270.0
RURAL                                  ..          ..      180.0             185.1       183.3
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..          ..      293.0             396.3       282.5        550.0
RURAL                                  ..          ..      200.0             308.1       248.9        403.4
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
'NCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                  ..          ..       49.0              35.2        20.3
RURAL                                  ..          ..         ..              46.6        35.3
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group.  Coverage of countries among che
Indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless ocherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; foc 1970  between 1969
and L971; and for Most Recent Zstimare, between 1974 and 1977.
,c  *acin Amertca & Caribbean;  /d  Incermediate Middle Income (5S51-1135 per capita, 1976);  /e  Upper
t1iddle Income (S1136-2500 per capita, 1976);  /f  1970-75i;  /   1956-61;  /h  1960-65;  /i  1964;             [962;
/k  Personal income within labor force;  /1  1972.
Most Recent Estimate of GNP per capica is for 1978.
Au.gusC, 979



-25-
lae3 of S
mozm= Ot 3SIL pxcAsM
Noe  ihaithe dot. are dress frce  ooc.. g-soell  judgd the wet wrtboritsth. and reliahle, It   -4l also ho noted that tbsp Mr Mt t. iVtea--
110't 0o.r blotes. of the laok of standardiood defiolties  .0* ac0.9t  00d b  differenat noostrio. in collecting the data. fte dAte w0, s.0.0h01.0,
"Ojful to describe or60r of 0111toda, -codte trds., .0d fehract-iee cer-tain major diffeenes-  be%.*= coartlift.
Th. a4umt.d               so.0 for each Indicator wre popxlotlcus..o hsl.d  eintio me, omldiag the .*0rwms emboss of the Idicaetor oW th. etwopps*
to look of dAt.. 00. ase-fas of ell iedioo.tee fec Capital 0000la. Oil Joy'ce b.00d of diostOor of A*oeso 0. Voter aM Rosat
Mq0.80., sosalog, 1.0W mi.tribs.tim00 e.dOoorty tf, other oatry Seq osrs ppolotica-weodtod gometat..am" rithost smlumim of the ectyom v.5s .0d
temtpopuolated  &mstr7.  Sioe. the Coerg  ofoetje                 the iM.tygssaa.lhlt  of data .d Is not uitou  0.0                           A.nst heaecie
todloator at . tlea nno   U.e ouot, o  re owo eoM
(thousoand sq.to.)                                                           Ao... to  ort    oeltee.  fsolals      oo.ob.   .   ea
_____     sorfs.. 00or o0rS. * i.mln          adisland   ante..                     h.-o   epe(oa,0.0   o   wl   eot~aeeod.o. 
wM7losotorl - most recent ecoleate of egrimiumts.  za us. ad temorarily                 PM ~ts.e of their reepective VoyaleticiO  liOta disposal SWisle
orp.r0ommetly fr- crop., post-o., whet oo. kitoha  gardens or to                    tO. collesti.N sd ieposl, o1tt  ec oitact tseamtt  of how   Wrotte
lie falloo.                                                                           and5 msta~st.rt kW setw-r-beo spWt   or the 000 of plt jlerlee L-  e..atbe
by             s po,   se  l  Dma  Ata  W196et   bamt;)..              i.stlltion  s.                  *tLc  ivided by mwer of psactiolog DWioii
ooOoereoo .ethd -  hot. hookAtla.  1976-7ibasid)school at awk,a,eity 1.eval.
196o, 197O, ad 1978 data.                                                             Punais   eRriaPrm- Population didod by number of peooti.Ing Sol.
50007 CeStWT     R CAPITA - A-monl o.-soptieo  of om-LalMMerm*rmo   aces   pmmmtle mar Woe, .04 assistant mr-,.
to,  m, eabrol gaseo  tydro-, 0.1.., 00. 100-     1~ pr logoito  hod - totl. O35ea  s.  rural   POPelatice (tota, M.t-o,
tbere0l elaotriciity) soilo0rm   of col eqolalet pe  capit; 1960,                       s.   oe)dvddb  hi-roote                          r ofbpitea beds metlblAtl  In
197, .0d 1976 data.                                                                     pblic 0.d prleat. general sod epeciallsed hostpital sod rehahilitation csvtrLer.
N.spitols are eotaLWt1.~t   pecin.tly Staffed by ot least .0  Paraseol
POPULAT!iADVTLSAITC                                                                       1stolibeoto  _    dooit.  p-i00lpeJ.l  cuotodiel 000  a00 not 1003.de.. B.0,
To.tol pQO].aIso  11-n   llos   As of Io               ; 1   960, 1970, sod             hospitals, sweavr, 1wisde health e4 Mdical cectere  Mt peeinetJy staffed*
1977 dat..                                                      ty ~~~~~~~         ~~~~a .eoio  ho  b  . aedloel aesisanot, mosre,  iddeif,  tet.) eldch off o
Slot.. Po0l.tiw  (oeeetn  of total) - 50001  of octe  to  ctot1 PoPolatico.             joptic                U..nate   end p_or_Ide a illAtto  ro     of  --'oa  facilIties.
dlfferent d.fonto    or so. areas My oTfft ooq.rahtllity of data .tipm.io.e~~ Ttl~ro  admissios to or discharges fte.
aneg oootoi..; 1960, 1970, efd 1975 dot..                                           'ii1Iibia7tiero   es
EqW ich  n  ~    20M- COO-rt popWltio. pcojectioce  r.r  basod -o
1 tiiii   pjiIlIlt  ty eg. .d  -.  and thoir sortality sod fettoitty            eeoitofh5l.(or.ee  bstl)-tta.she ..5srl-
r-tes. ProJetich Paraeters for mortality, rates ocmrise or three                    A                                                                   %.-15P.1t   fagrs   fidydel  hr   .0lgqatr  sod
loOoi  osoedog Life os Otooy at tooth tocooing 00th o.0tcye                         their .01000.a..  A bo.sde  Mr lodger SW or NW  -t he' tacloded it th.
90 . cPita 1 000 .0 lvl  -d. famab  life meopetaecy stahllislog at                  hooseehld for statistieal p0s8000.
77.5 year..  lb. p-eotors for fertility rate .10 h.c. thre  lev1l                 Aversegemboer of persons      _0.  - toal osto.ed 1A0ru.1 - Aceceg, an's
asocce,ig *0tH. 10 fertility sco-ding to itome 1501 sod puatof PereosP00.   *                                    ohc  0 pora  eoop.  c.0noetiotocL deelllog,
f-ily Pi**0l*g pgrftaew.. Inch cootry is the. eawiead .0. of these                  resp.,tlvoi2.  Wallisgo ow"dod  o.-Pesset eteestoo  edaooeepted Ports.
aloe ctomiations Of 00rtoLlty sod fertility trnde for  e-ojection                 ACces. to Zleetrieitr (Portent ofMe.Io       oa.s-e    e   oa 
P-roteo.                                                                            'eoioSOl 440liog. Vith  oetriiysoleg    atos.  peec oreo
stotiotroDmaato  -  *ssoioTpopolatito ther  10 Mn P-et                                tot.1, seto, sod rua   eliosropeio
elcoti  bit   eoi   q.  othe death rate, .0d also the M.e
ete.ctOr  remsale  othateet. 70i.0 is achie00d only otter fertility ,ate.      K10rATIOlI
d-l.10. t. the rePlass.o0t level of -sit eat fepco&seti.0 rats, 'A eb00dVa.1en   ai
-h0 generatich of ofte  replscte itoolf esacty.  The stationary po.-                Prw.r  sehoe-t tal  01.0   fs- 0r0.. total, Ml.1  Osd tomb. on,vil
15ti00 sie  -0  estionto4 M0 tho b1.i  of the projecetd eharecteIteistbc              soto  .1eosa  hep1ry                 o  as Parcebtages Of roepeetlee Wowsi'r
of the pcpalatihoe  in tho y-e  2000, and the rata of dec11.. of fertility            achol-ec  popolatierool sonell  Lacledee children seed 5-1.1 yrs  but
rte" to replbcmomot 1-01.                                                             .4lotad for dir oract ls At. of pelry  sdoooatioe; for .~utri.. 00th
Soar  Utt20O   eoltt   . i  reactd - ft.e y0000. satatiosac7 poplitioh                  mi-reaol edeO*tich ooroli  ow cceed 100 peftntt sie   Mae popls
sloe te  Mee  cochd                                                                   are, beolw or ebo  the official school mge.
PPcp.i.tioe Deocit    .wsacodary school - total  .01*.  rensale   C.Wtod 00  k.0.;  -eeowoy
Pe    -050pe  Po.P.1atico Per sqor  kilWter (100 hteotr..) of                    Odoe..iOt require. at "NM. to,  er,o  apwoee  p- .7 ictsteutioo;
total are.                                                      p~~~~~~~~~~~od.igenei-ral eeetI.0.L, or toaaher troLiogM Inst-utioo, for pupil.
Per to. ko. .aiuurlload - Ccaputed 00  b.bo   for soricoltrcol 1.05-os1l of 12 to 17 year. of aeg; -ocrO*p.0dso.  -are  are gemero1y
ooly.-                                                                                secluded.
Asua I .M  Stroture loerOt) - Ctild.re  (0.-i4 year), eor.iOg-ag.                to_oiceal  saobn   poOO   feonodary) - Veo.ti.0l bsotitutions toclood
15 1Z.YW),  o  retie   (0  y         d00  ever) se p-seta.0tc   of 05*-ye.r          teotioia,  *outil  o   te    bgo    kc  opert. Independetyer0
popoltio; 1960, 1970, sod 1977 data.                                                    dpaprteat  of eocodery iostitutlows.
POpoLsOico Oroth tote (Bereoot) - tota  - hoossl cfreth rate. of total aid-             P-ol1-t.a-her ratio - oriwy              -do see*a   - Total Meanesot  .orlid L.
yea  poPilaticce  for 1950-bo, 1190-70, .04 1970-77.                                    Pr-aary  s*econdary leesdvde 7y~ eo  t.afoere to the  ore
Gre1ti owoth tote (p00.t0  - wrta  - A00.1 10-.th rato. of ortb                    sposdleg lerlel.
ppatosfor 1950-60o  1900-70, ood 19075.                                         A9645jts,sory, ptoief95 -Lt-rate  Wdaits (able to reed 0* wit.o)0
Cid   it.Rt.(e   h-ho - Ausso  love birth. per thocse-d of a0d.5                             P.i coi".of iIiIi=t pyoplaioo seed 15 Year.ssod over.
Yii PP""iiooT;00I,?i,0d 19,77 data.
Code iDatb Hote (cer Oh 0.0) - deosoa death  per thousad o' oid-Yoor                CONUMPf loss
popalatio;191  190   o 977 data.                                                    PeocrCas0oer tioo d oomlatioo) = ftssower ears tmrioe actorcr
Gross  oOO5ut    Aot-A'rea. 0.00r of d.ughtcre a                   l- e     bear*HI too iog  o   thfor, eigh  Peroo;           ~~eaft.io0ee, hearea. sod silitay
io. her .000.1  -reprdooo  Period if She  poeree    ....ett see-                        hco.
epetific fertility otto.; cesly. f1m-pey     .-rg,.0 .04100 to 1960. ,l   lcieo(e  5ue.  oolb.        l  ye t3o'  se-etvre for rodio
I970, 004 1975.                                                                     !),eo*aostogseo  phh  perAsm        thooo  o  0f populatice; aco.Id" aolic00ed
Fsa11. n1011-  cetrs             0LI (th-oosd.) - A000.  mcmer of                       Ieeier   soCOUMties sd L. years ebeo registration of rAedic to  Me is 
accetor  of blrhc5to   eie  sdr Opcoo   aiclflyeffect; data for -oeet yeas  oW sot he eoparable .00. s-ot ootri..
oloe-log p-rocr.                                                                     ehlolied Il0.ansig.
rosily assl.     sr   oreto  O.rri.  soeco  - P.-esotgeg  of   riod                   TV Oe1oivr, 10sf thsM.5opsltie) TV reciver. for b-tuo.det to geneeral
0.00  of  hil-beoiog5g. 15-M  yers)060  nebirth-oooteol devi-e           pulcprtooo   ouabo  ec..dsoli=easd TV r0tei-er  Is coOstri..
to all .0rid.        Ito 5    se  grMsp.                                              sod it Years                            ar.rgsrti.o   tots 00  00 affect.
Eeoepr CdLiy    ltooprt ors.0  e?l.oo) -                               .1te-erl  ocolto
0000 AIDti NFlt.(196-ICP0                                                           of  od.  f  .,ycpitaeral lotoro,st oeomope,s  , dt~<eOproia   olota
IAd    fro .xto                oit  16-1ic)-1*0ofprcpt                                  doeted PriWily to recording gsoerl 50.  It is  ma0ideeed to ho 'daily'
o00.1 prodittiotr of      food V..w   iti. Prod,etior eodi.se  seed .od               if it .cpwr  at best fou  tion. a oe..
feed ead is -o01.0yoo  Oasis.  Conditi.. 000.0r priwry goodo                        Ci.- dAca  Attoodecee per C.POt. -  Year00  - hosed -c the  onbe0r of tirksto
(e.g  . soaa-  i..oted of osgto) 0100 ore edible and .toetin  -ctrieot                01d coring the yewr, ioclodig ei.L=g to drie-so otieom ted ecbil
(eg  Coff.. end te.a re ccidodd). Aggregate prodoctice of  -hc 00.-tr                 'Iit.
is booed M0 -atiaL1 ovrsee prfduce  Writ.  eigbts.
Per 0.-i0. sarply of oslorooi   rotofrur.stI-C.tc to                              100  F i
esorc  eololei  f 0v  oo  suplesav ial  00 -ootry per oafP?to        16001 1.    I.-00  (t   --s.).c  -  eo  -olyetivepres,toulo    re
prday   ~alhlble 00p51000 -cari.c de-tir  p-d.5ti000, iop-ts  los.                fot    odosloyed hot  .. 1odiog hosev               t.dantt, oto. Oefi.it,-
0070000,-sd ot.sg.o it stocb.  100 supplies eoolode shina  feed, seed.,             in -eiouo cootr-c  -r  000 o...parable.
tuacoitoet Used io food p-o...ciog, sod 10..0. io rilstrlttxti.. Rtie             fplp yt) - P.-I.1  labor fore.a. porcetsgs of total 1.0- force
000.ot. c--    leate-d by FOi h..od o- phye-oigio.l oedo for to-ral               1-                 .   - labo  to-t  00 foradag, fo-etry, k.OtiOO a0nd
_Itooty and 00.1th  -ctid.riog to-oro.otal teeProtor, body ocioht.                  fih,iog so pserotace of total lobo- fote.
sge  -0  00 dostrib.ti-s,  of pep.lot-o, at.1d1-iMlO  10 pe-tet for               sodoetry  poertent) - Ibto  forte 00 J.01g,                   ansrcio, oti,c,torie, sod
1._.0  at h ...ehold le-el                                                          ol1vtriooty, cater ad g.s as pertctoge of total 1b.0  forte.
Pro-aI         'Y.00, of  roe. (01r.  Per day) - Pr.te,. c00teot  f pr              Partioootloo Rtot  (oorcett  - totl   .0adti.                Patiptior
0.00otepl   f odprdy   0  001   ffo   0Oeir   0atvt  ra00, ar  o.pqotatot,   lrand   f0solbor tort. o  per-
5000.  R.qui0eaOt. for oIl -onr-e  eatblish.d by USDA provide for a                 cet&ges of totaL, M10 sod f-osle pep.atiCo of .1U ASg. r-p7tiv.ly;
0110.i  .11-.ch0-  f 607.0* of total Proteio Per da  sod 20 graso  of               19600. 1970, sod 1975 date.  These are SID. p.rtloop.tOo   rat.  efie_tiog
;niel ad pooe protoi., of ehioh IC) gr.  should bo .01.1 prot.00.                   se-oe....et-tore of the 70P01.ti00, .00 I.g tLec treed. A to ..etintoo
Ths   toodardo ore 1eer than 0t0-  of 75 g..  of total protein 00               or  f ro  0.t10001 sortO..
23 go-Bo of .000.1 Protein0-080 a-gra  for the otrld, p-p .. d by FAO             Bq::e4y,ju"at MU.4   -  latio of PoPu1stict oOde  15 sod 65 sod tear to
00 the Third  orld Food  orrey.                                                     th foo   orce  I? go groo  of 15-64 years.
PercaptaOroel  eail  ff00 .nis. sod 001- - Protelo ocply of food
ohi,r-vd tft  00.10nd Wis10 10  1-0  per day.                                     IMM  DOSOlRlIhe
d01  (gs1--  OrtalitYtboto (oerl th-o.d( - 0000  ot.Per th000d00I5                                  l      100     (both 100t*0 .0d 600.) - R-iledr.  by rioheot
0010  ro 1        er,t   hloc1  Ohi  0106000  for soot dev..-                         5 000,  ihs  2   0000   00    20 P-erost, a0* P--00  000 pareent
0.10  00000010  hat. derived fro  life tatl-l                                         Of hou*hOlds.
HE01TH                                                                                PD1'VE  7 TAOnT GISCUVI
Life i: oo ynno ttO hirtf  aetr...    Av-rhge OZ.0o  of year. of life                 iotiont.d kb.olote  oet   0.0lvl(14-e   ai.      re   o   oa
reo.oln  toblrlro1960, 297D. .d 1977.  at                                        Ab..olopt   . Ovrty 100W   lee   . toOtl 000   lee  01. ho  a ooo
ICloo  'ttlY hate (per Otouo-       )   A-,oldrh  of Wtanto 00010 cO                       tritiOOally eoquate diet plo.... aetia1 0*0-food r-tuir0osto s.0
yeo  of epo pe- thooo.d 1-0  borthc                                                   aftorahbe.
0000,,to 10 r ~0tr  perert  S  Cp.~.o2r.  -totalorbso.000 rro    tivhtltd Relatile P-vty 100          ee   1100oot    - uba  old rurLI
.tfroo.te  -oply  iooe  00.0.oro-otroo   or.ted boiC                                  peso         - ivo  of the C-Otry. 0Ur0 level io der-vd fro  tic rura.1 ev.-
--Otho-it-e -.00   -1v, o  theo fr0.0p-t:teCde  b-reoole, ap-oog                      010h .dj..toe.vto f btgh   r 000 of 1livig 00 Orbos  Coat
too   itoivry oeUv      -r r  -g0-000  Cf 0-00-0 007   -00   0001.t,00    In        Istlinted PoOulti.. 00100 Absolute Pov..rty 100W  Leve  oper-mot .e r'. .0
200. r0b0 toot      010  fv-oti  or-Stdp..t 1oroted not sor  than                     rtrl-   oo   of PePelati.n  urbao so  rural  .0 0  '.baoluoe por--'.
200ecoro Cr0  t 0000  OaY to  -ood--e.. 0-0. cithiO  r-eaboelle
beOO   f  it h00-0,  in  -LI00  soot, -eO.1 ..  bl CO-s  -Itd iupl,
000tOo h -ui.f- -r 30000  Cf tie b-ueold do 00t hove tC 0004                                                              tonl  .nd Sioil 0.0e 0000i-
Oi,pr ,tport... -ort of tie dsy 10 f.thiog tie fa.llye. oat.r coste                                                   000.010i doalyosi  sod Projection  Depertomt
Aug.0 1979



ANNEX I
jFlgsr-f 5
f;RU
ECONOMIC DEVESbpMKENT DATA
A C T U A L                                       P6ELIM.           FST.              P R O J E C T E D                                   GROWiTH RATE (9 p.-.)               1977
1965             1970            1975            1976           1977            1978            1979           1982              1985                         1965-76   1976-78   1978-85                 GDP
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               _
(millions of US dollars at 1977 prices)
Grosf- Aesatic Product                              7470.9           9793.5         12668.7         13007.1         12848.5       12634.6          12859.5        13559.8           18678.8                         5.2        -.1        5.7                  100.0
Gains from Terse of Trade                            -81.1            274.3           -59.2           -80.9             0.0        -290.7             113.0          646.0             793.8                                                                     0
Aromaff DOmesfftic Incom                            7389.8          1oo67.8         12609.5         12926.2         12848.'       12343.8          12972.5        14205.8           19472.6                          5.2      -2.3        6.7                 100.0
Isports                                             2207.8           2247.2         7747.6           2875.7          2694.4        1895.1           2024.2         c0;-.0           3497.4                         2.4      -20.8        9.9                  21.0
ENport5                                             2081.1           2562.2          1911.5          1989.7          2137.8        2383.8           2979.7          3- ---            3642.6                        o..4       9.5        6.2                   16.6
Export., Terms of Trade Adjusted                    2000.0           2836.5          1852.3          1908.8          2137.6        2097.0           3092.7         3770.2             4436.4                       -0.4         4.7      11.3                   16.6
espource Sap, Term-   of Trade Adjusted (-:-urplu) 207.8            -589.3          1491.3           966.5           556.6        -287.9          -1068.5        --loS-.?           -939.0                                              18.4                    4.3
Total CoI muaptaon                                  1442.0           8127.1         11282.0         11402.7         11471.5       10419.9           '0046.o        v,i-;.6           14706.6                         5.8      -4.4        5.0                   89.3
I-- e...nt                                          1455.6           1751.4          2818.8          2490.0          1937.6         1636.0          1898.0         0100.0            3827.0                         5.0      -18.9        12.9                  15.0
Natiora  Savings                                    1093 1           1786.2          1116.0          1185.2          1007.4        TF71.20          23033          39015.8           4329.2                         0.7       11.4        16.7                   7.8
Dome-tic Sa-ving                                    1247.8           1940.7          1327.5          1523.5          13777C        1923.)           2926.5         3646.2             4766.0                         i.8      12.4        i3.8                  10.7
PRICES IN US DLLARS
(1977 = 100)
Export Pric- Ind.x                                    37.1             47.3            87.6            87.7           100.1         100.6             134.7          173.2            256.3                          8.1       7.1
Import Pric o Idoso                                   38.6             42.7            90.4            91.4           100.5          116.6           129.7           143.0            210.4                          8.2      12.0
Tsras of Trade Iden                                  96.1            110.7            96.9            95.9           100.0          87.8             103.8          121.1             121.8                         0.0      -4.3
Ana1 A-erage Eoclhange Oats (Solsa psr N)             26.8             38.7            40.8            56.1            82.C          165.8           224.0            --                --
OUTPUT, LAdOA F1RC6 AND PRODUCTIVITI IN                                         GNP Ac Sector                                                                 Lb4 FParc                                                              ONP psr Capita
1970 PRICES                                        Is Nil, of   Ashore               Percent of Totl               Groath Ots          IN Thuada                   P.rs.n of Total                 GroathR ate              in     Dollars         7iS  A!   r                     te
1961              1976            1961              1976          1981-1976         T     T1926                 1961             1976              1961-76         1961                         ME96-76
Aaicoltur.                                          888.9           1138.9             22.1            13.7             1.7           1708.6      2109.4            52.8             43.4               1.4          521.8            539.9        41.8      31.5           0.2
Industry                                           1465.3           3167.7             36.4            38.0             5.3            616.4      1019.1           19.1             21.0                3.4        2377.2            3108.3       190.8    181.2            1.8
derciceni                                          1666.7         42029               41.4            48.              6.0            907.0      771.6            28.1             356                  .4         1837.2           2327.8       14  5                     1.6
Tt./A-ge                                           6820.5           87.5              100.0           100.0             5.0           7227.0      4860.1              .             100.0               2.7         1245.9           1715.5       10      100.0             2.2
CENTRAL GOVERNNOT FINANCE                                                                                                                         Prelim.                         Projected
(as percsnt of Correct GDP)                        1965             1970               1975            1976             1977          1978         1979            19               1911               1992
Currsnt Renesue                                     15.2              16.1             15.9            14.5             i4.6          15.8          17.4            i8.3             18.5              18.5
Currect lopenditure                                 14.3              13.4             16.3            16.o             18.3          17.3          15.7            15.5            16.o               i6.0
Current Sa-isgn                                      0.9               2.8             -0.5            -1.5             -3.7          -1.5            1.7            2.8              2.5               2.5
Capita1  popeaditure                                 4.5               4.1              5.0             4.8              3.8           3.4           4.2             4.9              4.7               4.5
cterntol A-nist-nce (Net)                            1.2               o.6              3.0             2.0              3.3           0.9             -              -                -
CURRENT EXPENDITURE DETAILS                                       Actual                             Preslim.                       DEfAIL ON                                     19772L D vxlppe=t Plzp
( P- -ercent of total Cu-rrec.t   pend.)           1968             1973              1976             1977                         PUBLIC SECTOR                                  U  SMilli-        3i Tot1
INVESTMENT PRO0GRM
iducatiss                                           30.6              27.9             22.9            18.1
IAot,                                                9.0               6.3              6.2             0.7                         Agricultoro                                    1262.2              19.6
Agritulcors                                          3.6               44               1.8             1.3                         lndustry, Toorinc ond Mininv                   1775.1             21.7
Oth Er    - lcn S-crcoc                              5.2               4.0              5.2             3.2                         EseC                                           17 g  94.4          27.8
Oenersl lercic..                                    46.4              42.7             46.9            54.1                         Trsucport cud Coseunicusics                     892.4              13.8
Interest cn Debt                                     5.4              11.3             10.8            15.1                         S-cil sod Locnl Istc-ot Projects              1128.3             17.5
Other                                                1.8               3.3              6.2           3. 
Tctal Corrent Inpendit-rco                         100.0             100.0            100.0           100.0                         Total                                          6452.4             100.0
MONEY AND CREDIT                                   1973              1974             1975             1976             1977          1978
(Milliona of SIea nutotandina
at ths ens of pcriod)
Moepy od 0uuai-m-ncy                              87506             107012           126174           151062           198800        320900
duck Credit to Public Asstcr                      20811              19773            43567           104900           198900        289800
Bank Credit tn Pri-t S-ector                      60361              73152            95788           134900           173800       278200
Money a  peroo=t of GDP                             24.4              27.9              22.8             19.7             18.9           '9.2
Gs-erol Price In ds  isn So1s  (1977c100) o/        37.8              44.1              53.4             71.9            100.0          157.5
Assuol porosocage chonxge in:
Gensrs' Price Indna. is Solso                     14.2              i6.2.17675175
Book Crsdit tn Public Sector                      77.0              -5.0             1203             10o6.9            69.0           45.7
RBak Credit to Pr,naIt  SDctor                    18.0              21.2              30.9             37.2             49.4           37.1
a/ Isplicit GDP lDflltcr



ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
A CT U AL                                      PRELIM.      EMT.                                    lAC J EC TE D
SUtARdY UP' BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                   1922         1973        1974        1975        1976        1977          398w        T989          1900         1981        1982         1983        19834       1985
Exports (-Incldng NSF)                             1'52.9      1347.2      1828.2      1674.1    1744.6        213~7.4       2399.5       40.5       53522.6       6064.3      6669.7       7475.1      846ey.z     9355.1
Imports (-inclding NFl)                           1102.9       1400.0      2462.3      3022.0    2628.0        2694.4        2069.4       2626.2       3204.0       4000.6      4669.8       5525.3      6431.9      73519.2
Reouro  Balenc  (defct-t -                          50.2       - 52.8      -634.1     -1347.9    -883.8        -556.6         330.1       1366.3       2296.6       2063.9      13999.9      1949.8      2035.3      1975.9
Nst Footer lsron  Ooos                             122.9      -180.9       -218.5      -240.3    -366.4        -426.4       -578.0)      -907.4       -1218.7       -970.8      -949.2      -1006.3    -1019.0    -io5i.4
Net Interet Poygento                              74.2      -100.7       -175.8      _214.o    -324.0        -371.9       -516.6       -665.4       - 640.7       -572.8      -469.2      - 376.3     - 294.6     - 218.2
Uf bich ot poblie BELT On-n                    -52.0           93.1      -113.2      -186.6    -198.8        -248.20         317.1      -474.2o       527.4       -524.7      -472.3      -434.3      -399.1      -375.0
Dirent Invetmen.t1-coe-                           46.7       -80.2       - 42.7      - 26.3     - 42.4       - 54.5       -  4.4       -244.2o        370.2       -4o0.0      -500.0      -630.0      -724.5      -833.2
Bet Curet Trs-f-r                                   39.2        42.1         45.1        49.4       57.9         56.8          56.2         94.2        121.5        1029.6      118.4        127.9       138.1       149.2
Boloo-  on Current Accoun.t                      -  31.7       -191.6      -807.5     -1538.8   -1191.9        -926.2       -191.9         572.9       1187.5       1202.8      1149.3       1071.3      1154.3      1073.6
Net Diret Foreign  loet-et                          24.2         49.4       143.8       315.7      178.8         54.1          25.2         62.1      -  62.0       - 20.1        22.2         23.0        26..5       30.4
Net Public sELf Loans
Dinb- ...et                                     280.0       667.4       1378.0      1280.2    1144.4        1026.4         843.2       1523.2        826.2        754.2       833.5        941.2      1049.3      iisN.i
Aa-t-oton -. i30.4                                         -504.9       -318.4      -249.4    -505.4        -406.4       -455.4       -582.0       -889.7       -1069.0     -1028.7      -1132.8     -1134.8     -996.8
Bet dorrnin                                     149.6        362.5       759.6       850.8      839.2        620.0         387.6        941.2      -  63.6      - 314.8     - 195.2      - 191.7     -  8s.s       161.3
Net other ELT Lo.ns
Diab-r...e.t                                     20.1         47.8        80.5        84.5       87.9         74.3          61.8         8i.4         93.9        127.8       132.5        153.8       170.2       187.2
A ..rtioat-o                                     50.8       - 8.s         47.8      - 56.7     - 75.2       -74.4        -73.2           78.2       -89.9       - 98.3      - 114.2      - 134.2     - 156.7     -181.9
NetB--roon                                    -   0.3         9.3         32.7        27.8       12.7       - 01         -  1.2           3.2          4.0          9.4         18.3        i8.8        13.5         5.3
Obot-tr   oio                                       37       -124.7       243.5      -50.2    -31.7 975                    -75.           1268B                                                                        0
Othsr O potlI(et                              - 4.8        - 91.6      -90.5       -15.6         B             p            52.2      -50.2 0                                                             
Change io Aenerne (-=onoreose) 2/   -5o.4        - 13.3      -281.6        530.1      522.4        349.7       - 82.0    -1382.8        -i165.9       - 877.3     - 992.4      - 921.4    - 1108.8    -1270.6
Le  fBsRom  (t en  of the period)              400eO.3     413.6       695.2       165.1    -355.3         -725.0       -623.2        919.20       949          26.         3856.6      4760        5884.8       75.
Opeth Ratee  (8 P.e.)                 Pareeat af Total
MEBCHANDUSE TRADE                                  1972         1973        1974        1975       1976         19fl           1978        19l9        1980          1985        939UU7.j95
Food                                                75.1         85.4        96.4       165.5      219.5         185.4        162.9        196.1        224.9        496.6        30.7      -13.8          17.3              6.8            6.7
Other nonoo-  gonds                                  15.9        43.3        41.4        84.5      126.4         145.1          89.4       164.7        199.0        444.0         67.9     -15.9          25.7              5.4              0
Petroles,.-rde and doriest-v                        37.5         47.1        99.4       267.4      260.6        268.9          35.0          B            9          368.8         6.6     -63.4          48.8             10.0            5.0
Enteree.d.-t  gnoda                                334.6        339.6       564.1       962.6      602.0        624.9         532.7        719.9        894.2       1952.1         15.8     - 5.9          20.4            23.2            26.5
Cop'ino  goodn                                     197.4        317.7       469.2       750.0      675.2        468.6          458.4       678.9        863.9       2213.9         36.o     -17.6          25.2             17.4           30.2
Ad jootesots end n-enntory gold                    151.,7       199.8       638.5       160.1      216.5        473.1         3,21 .4      300.3        331.7        475.2          9.3        oi.8         5.8             17.6            6.5
Tntol gode(F..6b.)                                 812.2       1232.9      1908.9      2390.1     2100.0       2164.0         1599.8      2059.9       2513.7       5950.7         26.8     -12.7          20.6             80.3           8i3.9
Non-foetne osrtce                                  292.9        367.1       555.4       631.9      528.o        530.4         469.6        566.3        692.3       14o8.5        16.1      - 5.7          17.0             19.7           19.1
Toto1 goode ..d .0-font-o  erie                   1122.9       1400.2      2442.3      5022.0     628.0       2694.4        2069.4       2626.2       3206.0       7359.2         24.2     -  1.2         19.9            120.0          100.0~
EXPORTS
Fi.h.eal                                           219.5        137.7       201.8       1s5.8      177.5        179.0         191.8        237.4        212.8        341.s      -  5.2          4.0         8.6              8.4            3.7
C.""e                                               49.1         63.6        34.8        53.2      101.0        196.3         168.o        204.9        138.6        188.1         19.8        29.0         1.6              9.2            2.0
Other ogioultura1 goods                            198.6        203.3       3.57.1      385.8      204.o        176.6          158.2       243.6        326.8        569.0         0.7       -11.8         20.1              8.3              .
Cnpps                                               188.1       325.2       301.2       155.7      227.0        392.3          408.2       646.7        718.2       1477.1          4.8        34.2        20.2             i8.4          i1..8
Dilv-                                               6i .2        79.3       140.9       146.3      i45.1        172.5         206.9        394.4       1147.8       1894.8         24.1        19.4        37.2              8.i           20.3*
Other -irsl                                         189.3       225.0       282.9       251.3      318.6        335.7         297.2        398.8        434.0        719.4         13.9       -3.4         13.5             15.7            7.7
Fet-oms   -rde end de-icati-e                         6.5        15.0        28.2        37.3       53.3         50.2          179.8       673.8        865.9       1335.5         69.2        83.7        33.2              2.4           14.3
Na-f-ot-rd goode                                    32.7         65.2       i56.5       125.2      133.0        221.0         330.1        625.7        787.9       1691.3         42.0        57.5        25.8             10.3           11.6
,ntoI gsndo                                        945.0        111.8      1503.2      1299.6     13599.5       1725.6        194o.2      3425.3       4632.0       8i66.6          9.5        19.5        22.8             80.7           87.5
No,c-fntor  --rn...                                207.9        235.4       325.2       383.5      385.1        412.2          659.3       587.3        670.6       1168.5         16.7         9.2        14.3             19.3           12.5
Totol goodo end nan-fo-tu  oeri...                 1152.9      1347.2      1828.2      1674.1     1744.6       2137.8         2399.5      4012.,5      5302.6       9335.1         10.9        17.3        21.4            120.0          120.0
12AN COIMKITMD6TA                                                                                                                                                                                   A.toal                                             NaIl.
2822                              B          49.0        ~~~~     ~    ~~      ~~~~~~        ~~~~~26.0  O  176.1  60.0o92                                     37           17          l2i
ID                                                   2           8           B             B         B            I         MEDIUM AND LONGA-lEN PUBLIC 1DM2 (Bieborsd Oly) n/
Othe  Mo1tulsto-I                                    8            7.8        25 .9       42.0      113.4         42.1
G.eromts200.1                                                   358.5       534.0       274.5      645.1        419.9       Total Dbet Ontotedig (DOID end
S.pliro85.4                                                    217.3        138.8        83.8      139.1        404.2         sf ts period)                         io48.2       1431.5      2213.1      2998.7          3689.7          4659).2      5518.9
Fbooociol Isotitutioso                             161.2        656.1       386.1       432.9      790.8        170.7       Ianludiog Uediab-red                    1538.2      2542.3       3547.9      4012.6          5554.2          6344.7       7177.1
Asod                                                 B           8           B            8          8            1.3       Pobluo Dbet Oerei-e                      182.4       -398.1      -431.5      -436.1          -454.4          -651.6       -80D.0
Tntgl91. M&L  noI                                  446.7       1288.7      1310.8       833.2     1862.5       1038.1       Interet                                -52.0         - 93.1      -113.2      -i86.6          -198.8          -298.0        -321.0
Other MELT Lan  (eher or-iLble)                      8           I           0            0          8 
DEBT BURDEN2 (Poblin Debt)
(EXTEFOAL DENT  Dishureed  n1o)                                         Qot.tandiog R of Den. 31. 1978
Amoat       Per--t                               Dbet   -isrtn  Botin (tLTC Debt)          i5.8        29.5         23.6        26.0            26.0            30.5         33.3
IB80                                                                        385%          3.Sr                              Debt  rin/D                                2.4          4.3         3.7         3.2             3.3             5.1          7.9
Banj Drop                                                                   i85.6         3.4                               Debt IevnWoor-o Nvos15.5   .                          28.9         24.4        20.2             22.9           34.7          50.2
Other Noltilat-rl                                                           223.9         4.0
G. --t.eoi                                                                 2274.4        41.2                               ElNEa  (396156. Debt)
Durpli-r                                                                    682.4        12.4                                th878F'Etal0DlfTnl 008                    5.0          6.5         5.1         6.2              5.4            5.3           6.4
Fi-.1ena Inetutot.on.                                                      2152.6        39.2                               Tntsl Debt  ervio-/Tntal 000              17.4         27.8        19.5        14.5             12.3           i4.o          15.9
Tot.1 FPbli- MELT DbAt                          ~558.9                                  100.0                                DEPIIENDENCY8RAT0O PUB PUBLIC N & bIX
Other MELT Bobs                                                             378.2                                           Groan Dib./aporta lio1. 912)              25.4         47.7        43.8        35.7             43.5           38.1          41.9
Net T1...ef-/Oepsrto Uia1. NPU)           8.8         19.2        26.3        21.3             24.0           14.0           3.2
Net Tranfer/Oroo Disboroeet              74.9         40.4        60.o         99.6            56.0            36.0          7.7
EXPOAORE 0i FUBLIE DEBT
2022 Diab./fl-so  Dibs.                   3.5          1.3         o.8          1.4             2.1            2.5           2.8
Book Grop Dtnb./G-oa  Diob.               3.5          1.3s        o.8          1.4             2.1            2.5           2.8
I8BR  D0b/00                              12.5         9.2         6.0         6.6              4.0             3.7          3.7
Bank Group 000/DOD                        12.5         9.2         6.o         4.6              4.0            3.7           3.7
2/Adjusted forBalanc  of Fpeen..to Bjpjot moo  and r-fiiaociog.
E Innldee Us Bi55.8 sillnn  of private .otoroa  debt guarateed by tho Ooeoet                                               BBIO Debt Deri-e/Debt Dereio              8.6          4.1         4.1         4.2              4.3            3.4             8
L/Thar  ar  diffn-e..nen in olonn.ifiootin- nf -et-  -oito1 floss 00 innoe.. Flblics.  p--ote, or-ng-t-r                   Ban  GroP Debt ierv-o/Dht Serine          8.6          4.1         4.i         4.2              4.3            3.4             8
Os.sirtter  tatlimit the osap-raility of parts nf the debt oocntond-g figur-   h... at th  bottom o
-bosc  nith the flooo nhn- in the 'BAons of PnY .enn  sec tio..



- 28 -                             ANNEX II
Page 1 of 5
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PERU
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS (as at December 31, 1979) 1/
--- US$ million ---
Amount
Loan                                                              (less cancellations)
Number   Year               Borrower             Purpose           Bank      Undisbursed
25 loans fully disbursed                                          268.2
949      1973    Republic of Peru             Education            24.0           14.4
1025     1974    Republic of Peru             Roads                26.0            1.1
1196     1976    Republic of Peru             Transport            76.5          63.0
1215     1976    Republic of Peru             Power                36.0          18.3
1281     1976    CENTROMIN                    Mining               40.0          34.7
1283     1976    Banco Vivienda               Urban Dev.           21.6          18.2
1358     1977    COFIDE                       Industry             35.0          26.5
1403     1977    Republic of Peru             Agriculture          25.0          25.0
S-11      1978    Republic of Peru            Preinvestment         8.8            7.4
1693     1979    Republic of Peru             Program Loan        115.0          88.5
Total                                                   676.1          297.1
of which has been repaid                              144.3
Total now outstanding                                   531.8
Amount sold                          18.3
of which had been repaid           18.3               _
Total now held by Bank 2/                               531.8
Total undisbursed                                                      297.1
1/   No IDA credits have been made to Peru.
2/   Prior to exchange adjustments.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 5
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as at December 31, 1979)
Type of            Amount in US$ million
Year               Obligor                     Business            Loan   Equity   Total
1960        Industrias Reunidas, S.A.          Home Appliances        0.3               0.3
1960        Luren S.A. and
Ladrillos Calcareos, S.A.       Bricks                 0.3               0.3
1960        Durisol del Peru, S.A.             Building Materials   0.3                 0.3
1960;1962   Fertilizantes Sinteticos, S.A.  Fertilizers               4.1               4.1
1962;1968   Cemento Andino, S.A.               Cement                 2.2      0.2      2.4
1964;1967   Cia. de Cemento Pacasmayo          Cement                 1.1      0.5      1.6
1975        Southern Peru Copper Corp.         Mining                15.0              15.0
1978        Cia. de Minas Buenaventura         Mining                 2.0      0.5      2.5
Total gross commitments                                 25.3       1.2    26.5
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                                12.1      0.4    12.5
Total commitments now held by IFC                       13.2       0.8    14.0
Total undisbursed                                          -       0.1     0.1



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 5
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Loan 949-PE: Education Project; US$24.0 million Loan of December 5, 1973;
Effective Date: March 5, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
The project has experienced serious difficulties and is now about
40 months behind schedule. In the first 3-1/2 years after effectiveness,
there was little progress owing to delays in establishing and staffing the
project unit, weaknesses in the unit itself and a long delay in adopting the
educational reform which was to determine curricula. This last difficulty
was resolved with the reform's implementation in 1977, but project execution
continued to be hampered by weaknesses in the project unit and cumbersome
bureaucratic procedures. In order to resolve these problems, the project
was modified to reduce its scope, increase the Bank disbursement percentage
and improve administrative procedures (see President's memorandum R79-59
of March 27, 1979). As a result, the pace of project execution has improved
noticeably in recent months and disbursements now stand at about US$9.6 million.
Loan 1025-PE: Sixth Highway Project; US$26.0 million Loan of July 1, 1974;
Effective Date: August 21, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
Loan 1025-PE finances improvement of the Lima-Pucallpa highway which
connects the Amazon basin to the Pacific Coast. In view of the unusually
difficult terrain and limited government implementation capacity, the works
was divided into two stages which are financed by separate loans, 1025-PE and
1196-PE (see below). Because of initial delays and substantial cost increases,
the scope of the project was reduced in February 1978 (see President's Memo-
randum R78-360 of February 17, 1978) and the Closing Date postponed. Construc-
tion is now well advanced and should be completed early this year.
Loan 1196-PE: Lima-Amazon Transport Corridor Project; US$76.5 million Loan of
May 27, 1976; Effective Date: August 18, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982.
The project's river ports component has progressed slowly because
of technical problems which delayed completion of design, but it is now under
construction although with some cost increases. There have been serious
delays in contracting for civil works under the road component because of
slow procedures and limited government implementation capacity. These
problems now appear to be largely overcome and construction is beginning on
most project components. The project has been modified so as to increase the
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understand-
ing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 5
financing for urgently needed road maintenance and eliminate improvement of
those road sections which cannot be completed within a reasonable time. The
loan's Closing Date was also extended by two years to December 31, 1982
(see President's memorandum R79-88 of April 27, 1979).
Loan 1215-PE: Fifth Power Project; US$36.0 million Loan of September 20, 1976;
Effective Date: November 18, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1981.
The slowdown of demand in ELECTROLIMA's market in the wake of the
recent economic difficulties, as well as procurement problems, have delayed
the project's power distribution component and completion is expected
about a year behind schedule. Serious delays were also experienced in
getting the technical assistance program of the loan underway; however, some
consultants have now been retained, and with strong support promised by newly
appointed officials in the Ministry of Energy it is expected that the program
will begin to progress normally in the near future. Because of the delays,
the closing date has been extended.
Loan 1283-PE: Urban Sites and Services Development Project; US$21.6 million
Loan of October 12, 1976; Effective Date: January 10, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
Administrative difficulties, particularly the need to reconcile
Peruvian procedures with Bank guidelines for procurement, have delayed the
project by about one year. Project execution has now begun and its pace
is expected to pick up this year, as most design work has been completed.
However, because of past delays postponement of the closing date is now
being considered.
Loan 1281-PE: CENTROMIN Mining Project; US$40.0 million Loan of December 6
1976; Effective Date: May 24, 1977; Closing Date: December 31,
1982.
Initiation of the copper mining component, which the IDB is co-
financing with the Bank and which amounts to about 90 percent of total project
costs, has been delayed by about one year because of the lack of local counter-
part funds. The Government is now proceeding with the project with support
from a supplementary IDB loan which will help cover part of the financing
shortfall. Engineering and procurment acitvities on this part of the
project have been initiated. Construction of the mine-water treatment
plant has also experienced some delays but is now advancing satisfactorily.
Loan 1358-PE:  Industrial Credit Project; US$35.0 million Loan of Janaury 28,
1977; Effective Date: March 30, 1977; Closing Date: June 30,
1981.
Peru's economic recession led to a contraction of investment
and to lower than anticipated demand for the loan. In view of this, the
borrower--the National Development Bank (COFIDE)--has agreed to finance
projects identified by commercial banks and other financial institutions,



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 5
which would also guarantee these loans and provide some loan servicing.
The initial response has been encouraging and the credit line is now
60 percent committed, with full commitment expected by mid-FY1980.
Loan 1403-PE: Irrigation Rehabilitation Project; US$25.0 million Loan of
May 20, 1977; Effective Date: August 2, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983.
DEPERTC, the executing agency, has completed the design for civil
works in two of the six valleys where irrigation systems are to be improved
and construction has started. The project's implementation is behind schedule
but is expected to catch up over the next 12-18 months as construction
proceeds.
Loan S-l1:     Water Supply and Power Engineering Project; US$8.8 million Loan
of December 22, 1978; Effective Date: June 27, 1979; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981.
Consultant's studies have commenced and are proceeding on schedule.
Loan 1693-PE: Program Loan; US$115 million Loan of May 17, 1979; Effective
Date: May 24, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
The economic recovery program supported by the program loan is pro-
ceeding in a generally satisfactory manner. Because of better than expected
export performance, Peru' foreign exchange constraint has relaxed resulting
in a lag in disbursements of the program loan. Disbursements began to
pick-up markedly in September 1979 and stood at US$41.2 million as of
February 4, 1980.
Loan 1771-PE: Lower Piura Irrigation Rehabilitation; US$56 million Loan of
February 4, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
This loan was recently signed. The conditions of effectiveness for
the loan are in the process of being satisfied.



- 33 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 3
REPUBLIC OF PERU
PETROLEUM PRODUCTION REHABILITATION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by the country to prepare project:          Nine months
(b)  The agency which has prepared the project:             PETROPERU
(c)  Date of first presentation to the Bank,                December 1978
and date of the first Bank mission to consider
the project:                                           January 1979
(d)  Date of departure of Appraisal Mission:                May 21, 1979
(e)  Date of completion of negotiations:                    January 15, 1980
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:                         May 1980
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
A.   Financial Agreements
(i)  up to US$2 million in retroactive financing would be provided
under the proposed loan (para. 68);
(ii) as a condition of loan effectiveness, the Government would
assume PETROPERU's remaining short term obligations. In
addition, the Government would make capital contributions
to the company of at least US$45 million each in 1980 and 1981
and of US$30 million in 1982.  PETROPERU would use these amounts
exclusively for debt service (para. 76);
(iii)  the Government would increase ex-refinery domestic petroleum product
prices by 10 percent per quarter during 1980 and would, thereafter
use its best efforts to at least increase prices by the domestic
rate of inflation or the increase in prices on PETROPERU's purchase
of oil for the domestic market, whichever is greater. To the
extent possible, the Government would also make additional increases
in order to reach international price levels. Thirty days before
the end of each year the Bank and Government would exchange views on
the carrying out of this policy and proposed pricing action for the
coming year. Upon its completion, the results of the petroleum
pricing study would be taken into account in this exchange of views
(para. 77);



- 34 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 3
(iv) PETROPERU would maintain a minimum debt service coverage
of 1.1 in 1980, 1.4 in 1981, 1.9 in 1982, and 2.0 thereafter.
PETROPERU and COFIDE would, within 90 days of each year's
beginning, submit to the Bank a program of action designed
to enable the company to meet these targets. The Government
would also take action to permit PETROPERU to achieve these
coverages (para. 78);
(v) PETROPERU would, by May 31, 1980, submit to the Bank a satis-
factory plan to resolve the qualifications raised on its 1977
financial statements and it would resolve such qualifications by
December 31, 1981. Programs to resolve any qualifications on 1978
and 1979 statements would be presented to the Bank within 60 days
after the respective audits are completed and qualifications would
be resolved by December 31, 1981 (para. 80);
(vi) PETROPERU would maintain quick ratios of over 0.6 in 1980,
0.7 in 1981, 0.9 in 1982 and 1.0 in 1983 and thereafter;
the Government would make arrangements to provide PETROPERU
with a short-term credit line until December 31, 1981 to
cover any working capital deficits (para. 79);
(vii) PETROPERU would not incur any debt without Bank approval
if such debt would cause its debt/equity ratio to exceed
75/25 in 1981, 70/30 in 1982 and 60/40 in 1983 and thereafter;
for 1980, distribution of PETROPERU's profits would be limited
to not more than the total of any capital contributions from
the Government less the proceeds of such contribution used
to service debt (para. 78);
B.   Non-Financial Agreements
(viii)  PETROPERU would maintain the competitiveness of its salaries
and would report to the Bank at least every six months on any
vacancies in its departments responsible for exploration and
production and on how it planned to fill those vacancies (para.
70);
(ix) Bank approval of PETROPERU's well reactivation program in the
Talara area would be a condition of disbursement for the
component (para. 61);



- 35 -
ANNEX III
Page 3 of 3
(x) the qualifications of the consultants selected to provide
the technical assistance under the proposed project, as
well as the terms and conditions of their employment, would
be acceptable to the Bank (para. 62). COFIDE would assist
PETROPERU in the selection of consultants for the project's
technical assistance component and in the supervision and
review of their work. The consultants selected to carry out
the financial, accounting and management information studies
would be retained by August 31, 1980 and would complete their
studies by October 31, 1981. Once these studies are completed,
PETROPERU and the Bank would exchange views on their findings
and on a program to put their recommendations into effect
(para. 65);
(xi) a condition of disbursement for the second phase of the
seismic survey would be prior agreement between PETROPERU
and the Bank that such a second phase is justified based on
a review of the first phase's results (para. 63); and
(xii) the Government would create a committee with representatives
of the Ministries of Economy and Finance, MEM, COFIDE and PETROPERU
to coordinate the studies related to the development of Peru's
petroleum sector and to the pricing of hydrocarbons. Upon
completion of the sector development studies and for three years
thereafter, PETROPERU, COFIDE and the Government would exchange
views with the Bank on their petroleum sector development strategy
and investment program (para. 65).






IBRD- 14470
a<20  r alk ,/ ,K    ~       a   ora  El-00' SEPTEMBER  1979
2C^ol                                          ,"f  "m  ,/'   /                                                       4-10/
P    A   C   I  F   /   C, /         nf'  af'           /         .x=    p     i
,'SE'WAlTE2 1TiAKE i  .==-= 
,,,  IPELAATfR & f=R XS 
'v~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
0           ,//-   = A                                               /'
S = g~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Po- -.                        I fi._  ,ld- 
,   ./     X            t  _:-_   =         .                                                1~~~~~~~~~~~~~  '
I@';&}  RI  /   f ,9   7                                             /
CCWfe'''~~~~~~~ 1('K')                             
$ ' s  s  -  g  C   +          C                               ~~~~~~      ~     ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~P E RU  4'30'
'  \   C   ''  l    *-         ,                           ~~~~~~~~~~Petroleum  Sector
a   \\ X         iic=000Af   02   0)                          PACIFIC COAST OPERATIONS
\   's  C07    X        i   2                         i   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i OCC,DfNf   AL/BPI DAS
~~~ ~'~~~-  A     ' /      \--m   '                          1   Crude oil fisco irotion stOtioPs
__--', ,   S  AREpRT20: , . J                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Crude oil pipelines
o  T-ok forms
To~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Relfiry
PA    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~    ~ ~ ~            Wal~~~~~~~~er nlcioc p-mp staion
Z  -           0~~~~~~~~~~MKK44             4q                            -Water injeotior' roes
, ,*Waler treorment pl.rt
5,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.d
ttC~~~~~~~~~~~_                                                                   Ro'd lie inK feeL=LX
tj~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~et
l'/if                                                                       -<-                  I  -;===</t
4+t i tzpmbewi~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~zl: L;:E00X;=0X;v-  >   X          ;                   4'40~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'4'
KILO'AETEPS 0    1   2    3   4    5  0 7 d   9    ID
\, m~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ IAES                              0         34Si
g d Tf  0i                        09 i. 9   9 i P 9   m 8 9  -i9
s  i   t   E] 210   \                       81 10                   c-i ;nce s/such i ou farjes 9   ot rv tem5ivi2'  99999n99a9i 9999






IBRD  14471
PERU                                                                  76                                                                                                74                         SEPTEMBER 1979
Petroleum Sector
NORTHERN JUNGLE OPERATIONS
2                         Existing oil fields:                                                                CUCL/NA M9                                                                                                                           2-s
_ OCC/DENTAZ
PETROPFRU                                      \                                                     :_
Occidental concession areas
_n-  Pipelines                                                   \N \                E /SHIV/IAC    Marse(lact
0  Pump stations                                                                            termrnahty,
T Terminals                                                                    B9rt CA 9  
tRivers                                                 CAP AH                 Tote LopeT
2           / (  <A       ''                      P         t IAJ
VA Z EIVC/A     6     
sJ   X   X     WV                    angticg}                                   ~~~~~~~~~                           ~~~~CAPR N  
k1t         2               /                           \    S                                               )\s                               ,                                                     Iquitos terminal
I/  TROMPT                                                                                                                                                                        IQUITOS 
(2 roposed", b  
-4                        pump stationn,g41r
C)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
< /    t; _ ,                 >     \                                                                ~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sarm 
rt     -I            . ,2_ tj          <:                         tS                                                                PurmpKILOMETERS 0s2
3MILES 0                                                                                                    10    20       30     40     50
sD .* X n S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~YANVAYACU
VA NA VA CU         T~~7his map has'l bea IIn poordby tho Worl bosh~ a1f stai -ssiOY for the -ssas,-s
24~~~~( a                                                             of tha roadatrs of thet report to ,hrchpit,satched rhat danosssahOo sCane andth
s04 km                                                               hs ja,shos sr, a dost,ph, so tpo pa of. ab Wor   k Pood,St
fihhow- any _somo  -ste mIsh siss ,y tastr or as-ad--aso o
6 J7-                                                                                                                                                                              -0-TVOVtTr  AttepEants -Xtuh b-tJndhaoao
78  7,6-        C3O                                                                               74-



