LOAN NUMBER 1806 PE
Loan Agreement
(Petroleum Production Rehabilitation Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
PETROLEOS DEL PERU
and
CORPORACION FINANCIERA
DE DESARROLLO - COFIDE
Dated                             , 1980


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1806 PE
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMEY' dated                             , 1980, between
INTERNATIONAL BiN FOR RECONSTRUXION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank) and PETROLEOS DEL PERU (hereinafter called the
Borrower) and CORPORACION FINANCIERA DE DESARROLLO - COFIDE
(hereinafter called COFIDE).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Petr6leos del Perd" means a company, wholly owned
by the Guarantor, established by and operating under the Gua-
rantor's Decree-Law No. 20036 (Ley Org5nica para la Empresa
Petr6leos del Peru'-Petroperu) as published in El Peruano on
May 30, 1973, or any successor thereto;
(b) "Estatutos" means the Borrower's By-laws as approved by
the Guarantor's Supreme Decree 013-78-EM/DGH, as published in El
Peruano on July 24, 1978 and the term includes Decree-Law No.
20036 referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section;
(c) "Original Price" means the base price of a contract
plus the automatic monetary adjustments to such price provided for
in such contract;
(d) "Sol" and "S/." mean the currency of the Guarantor;
(e) "Royalty" means any royalty or charge on the production
of hydrocarbons in P.aru, including, but not limited to, those
referred to in paragraph 7.7 of the Contractual Basis approved by
Decree Law No. 22774 of the Guarantor, as published in El Peruano
on December 7, 1979;


﻿-2-
(f)  "Fiscal Year" means the Borrower's Fiscal Year or the
Guarantor's Fiscal Year, both of which concide with the calendar
year;
(g) "Taxes" means all taxes levied by, or in the terri-
tory of, the Guarantor, other than the following: (i) tax on
goods and services (Impuesto de bienes y servicios) governed by
the Guarantor's Decree-Law No. 21497, as published in El Peruano
on May 30, 1976 as amended up to January 15, 1980; and (ii) tax on
sales of petroleum and petroleum products (Impuesto Fiscal a las
ventas de petr6leo y derivados) governed by the Guarantor's
Decree-Law No. 22664 published in El Peruano on September 9,
1979;
(h) "Committee" means the committee to be established for
purposes of Section 3.01 of the Guarantee Agreement; and
(i)  "COFIDE" means Corporaci6n Financiera de Desarrollo,
a finance corporation wholly owned byte Guarantor established
and operating under the Guarantor's Decree-Law No. 18807, as
published in El Peruano on March 19, 1971, as amended, or any
successor thereto.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
thirty-two million five hundred thousand dollars ($32,500,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expen-
ditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and services (other than services for
Part I (a) (ii), Part II (b), Part III and Part IV of the Project)
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be governed
by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.


﻿-3-
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be January 31, 1983
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eight and twenty-five hundredths per cent (8.25%) per annum on
the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time.
Section 2.07. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Guarantor
and COFIDE in dollars a guarantee fee of twenty-five hundredths of
one per cent (0.25%) per annum and a service fee of one and one
half of one per cent (1.50%) per annum, respectively, on the
equivalent in dollars of the principal amount of the Loan from
time to time outstanding, such equivalent to be calculated for
each withdrawal from the Loan Account at the prevailing lawful
exchange rates between dollars and each of the several currencies
disbursed by the Bank at the time of such withdrawal, as reason-
ably determined by the Guarantor.
(b) COFIDE shall charge and collect from the Borrower the
service fee referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section.
Section 2.08. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.09. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appro-
priate engineering, financial, administrative and petroleum
exploration and production practices.


﻿Section 3.02. (a) In order to assist the Borrower in the
carrying out of the studies included in Part I (a) (ii) of the
Project, in the maintenance and repair of pumping equipment
acquired for purposes of the carrying out of Part I of the Pro-
ject, and in the carrying out of Parts II (b), III and IV of the
Project, the Borrower shall employ specialized consultants and
experts whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions
of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank; provided, how-
ever, that the Borrower shall not employ any consultants or
experts for purposes of Part IV of the Project without the prior
approval of the Committee.
(b) The Borrower covenants to contract the consultants
for Part III (a) of the Project not later than August 31, 1980.
(c) COFIDE shall assist the Borrower, directly or through
its representative in the Committee, in the process of selection
and hiring of the consultants to be employed by the Borrower for
purposes of Parts III (a) and IV of the Project, and in the
supervision and reviewing of such consultants' work.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, all goods
and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
used exclusively for the Project until its completion.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules
for the Project, and any material modifications thereof or addi-
tions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably re-
quest.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project (in-
cluding its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan for, and to disclose their use in, the Project; (ii)


﻿- 5 -
shall enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit the
facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to
examine the goods financed out of such proceeds of the Loan and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the
Bank at regular intervals of 90 days all such information as the
Bank shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost
and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it,
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall rea-
sonably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank and COFIDE of
their respective obligations under the Loan Agreement and t-',*
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.
(d) The Borrower shall enable the Bank's representatives
to examine, in connection with the Project, all plants, installa-
tions, sites, works, buildings, property and equipment of the
Borrower and any relevant records and documents.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall, before inviting bids or
soliciting price quotations, as the case may be, for purposes of
awarding any contract in respect of Part I (b) of the Project to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan: (a) furnish to the
Bank a report on the precise location of each of the wells the
production of which will be reactivated under such Part of the
Project, the pumping system to be used for each such well, and
the   technical and economic justification for all of the afore-
said; and (b) afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to express
its views thereon.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall not undertake any detailed
seismic survey under Part II (a) (ii) of the Project, unless it
has been agreed between the Bank and the Borrower that such survey
is technically and economically sound and justifiable.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall: (i) as preliminary findings
and recommendations are proposed from time to time under the
studies included in Part I (a) (ii) of the Project, exchange views


﻿- 6 -
with the Bank with respect to such proposed findings and recommen-
dations; and (ii) complete the studies included in Part III (a) of
the Project not later than October 31, 1981 and, promptly upon
such completion, and, together with COFIDE, exchange views with
the Bank on the findings and recommendations thereof and on the
carrying out of a phased program of action to be taken by the
Borrower in order to put into effect such recommendations or, on
the basis of the findings of such studies, other alternative
measures.
Section 3.08. With respect to the evaluation and putting
into effect of the recommendations and other conclusions contained
in the documepts prepared for purposes of Part IV of the Project
by the consultants referred to in Section 3.02 (a) of this Agree-
ment, including reports and drafts thereof:
(a) during the carrying out of Part IV of the Project,
the Borrower and COFIDE, both through the Committee, and the Bank
shall from time to time exchange views on said recommendations and
conclusions; and
(b) upon completion of each of the studies included in such
Part of the Project, the Borrower and COFIDE, both through the
Committee, shall exchange views with the Bank and the Guarantor on
the final recommendations and conclusions relating to Part IV of
the Project and on the action the Guarantor or the Borrower may
take (including a timetable therefor) for the carrying out of such
recommendations.
Section 3.09. The Borrower and COFIDE shall take all such
action on their part as shall be necessary to enable the Committee
to operate in accordance with Section 3.01 of the Guarantee
Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Management ard Operations of the Borrower
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall at all times manage its
affairs, maintain its financial position, plan any future expan-
sion and carry on its operations in accordance with the Estatutos
and appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and petro-
leum production practices under the supervision of experienced and
competent management assisted by experienced and competent staff
in adequate numbers.


﻿-7-
(b) For purposes of (a) above, the Borrower shall: (i) take
all such action as shall be necessary to ensure the competitive-
ness of the salaries paid, and other staff benefits provided by
the Borrower as compared with salaries paid and other benefits
provided to employees hired in Peru" occupying equivalent posi-
tions in private petroleum companies operating within Peru; and
(ii) inform the Bank until the Closing Date, at regular intervals
of not more than six months, on any vacancy in any of the profes-
sional positions in the Borrower's departments (including field
offices) responsible for exploration and production and on the
action the Borrower intends to take or has taken to fill such
vacancy or vacancies.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall at all times take all
steps necessary to maintain its corporate existence and right to
carry on operations, including the Project, and shall, except as
the Bank shall otherwise agree, take all steps necessary to
acquire and to retain such land, interest in land and properties
and to acquire, maintain and renew such concessions, licenses,
consents, franchises or other rights as may, from time to time, be
necessary or useful for the construction and efficient operation
of the facilities included in the Project and the conduct of its
operations.
(b) The Borrower shall maintain, renew and repair its
facilities, equipment and property as required for their efficient
operation.
(c) The Borrower shall not, unless the Borrower and the Bank
have otherwise agreed, sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose
of any of its property or assets which shall be required for the
efficient operation of its business and undertaking.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to the
Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall take all action as shall
be necessary to ensure that the execution and operation of Parts I
and II of the Project will be carried out with due regard to
ecological and environmental principles and practices.
Section 4.05. Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall
otherwise agree:


﻿- 8 -
(a) the Borrower and COFIDE shall prepare and furnish to the
Bank: (i) not later than May 31, 1980, a program, satisfactory to
the Bank, of action to be taken by the Borrower on the basis of
the observations already made by the Borrower's external auditors
to the Borrower's financial statements for Fiscal Year 1977; and
(ii) not later than 60 days after the Borrower's external auditors
have furnished to the Borrower a report or reports on the audit by
such auditors of the Borrower's financial statements for Fiscal
Years 1978 and 1979, a program or programs, satisfactory to the
Bank, of action to be taken by the Borrower on the basis of the
observations made, if any, by such auditors to each of such
financial statements. Each of the programs referred to in this
paragraph shall include a timetable under which all action under
such program shall be completed by December 31, 1981 unless the
Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree;
(b) notwithstanding the provisions of, and as part of the
programs referred to in, paragraph (a) above, the Borrower shall
complete not later than August 31, 1981, the carrying out of Part
III (b) of the Project; and
(c) COFIDE shall assist the Borrower in the carrying out of
Part III (a) of the Project and in putting into effect every
action included in each of the programs referred to in paragraph
(a) of this Section.
Section 4.06. (a) The Borrower shall take all such action as
shall be necessary on its part to enable the Guarantor to comply
with its obligations under Sections 2.03, 4.05 and 4.07 (ii) of
the Guarantee Agreement and shall utilize the proceeds of the
contributions to be made by the Guarantor to the Borrower's equity
pursuant to such Section 2.03, and up to the amounts referred to
therein, for the sole purpose of servicing debt of the Borrower.
(b) For purposes of this Section, the provisions of para-
graph (c) (i) and (ii) of Section 5.05 of this Agreement shall
apply.
ARTICLE V
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordanze with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.


﻿- 9 -
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall: (a) have its accounts and
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each Fiscal Year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (b)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not
later than five months after the end of each such year, (i)
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as
so audited and (ii) the report of such audit by said auditors,
of such scope and in such detail as the ,ank shall have reason-
ably requested; and (c) furnish to the Bank such other informa-
tion concerning the accounts and financial statements of the
Borrower and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
time reasonably request.
Section 5.03. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date
of this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security
for any debt.
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree; (i) if the Borrower shall create any lien on any
of its assets as security for any debt, such lien will equally and
ratably secure the payment of the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan, and in the creation of any such lien
express provision will be made to that effect, at no cost to the
Bank; and (ii) if any statutory lien shall be created on any
assets of the Borrower as security for any debt, the Borrower
shall grant, at no cost to the Bank, an equivalent lien satis-
factory to the Bank to secure the payment of the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan; provided, however,
that the foregoing provisions of this paragraph shall not apply
to: (A) any lien created on property, at the time of purchase
thereof, solely as security for the payment of the purchase price
of such property; or (B) any lien arising in the ordinary course
of banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than
one year after the date on which it is originally incurred.
Section 5.04. The Borrower and COFIDE shall, by a date which
shall be agreed between the Bank and the Borrower but not later
than 90 days before the end of each of the Borrower's Fiscal
Years, exchange views each year with the Bank on the Borrower's
capital investment program which will be in effect as of the
beginning of the Fiscal Year next following such annual exchange
of views, and the financial sources therefor, and the Borrower


﻿- 10 -
shall take all such steps as shall be necessary in order to revise
such program consistently with the agreements reached in such
exchange of views.
Section 5.05. (a) Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall take all such action during
each of its Fiscal Years specified in paragraph (b) of this
Section as shall be necessary or convenient to maintain for such
Fiscal Year the applicable debt service coverage ratio set forth
in such paragraph (b).
(b) For purposes of paragraph (a) above, during the follow-
ing Fiscal Years the applicable debt service coverage ratio shall
be as indicated below:
(i) for Fiscal Year 1980, 1.1;
(ii) for Fiscal Year 1981, 1.4;
(iii) for Fiscal Year 1982, 1.9; and
(iv) for Fiscal Year 1983 and each Fiscal Year
thereafter, 2.
(c) For purposes of this Section, the debt service coverage
ratio shall be obtained by dividing the net revenues of the
Borrower for the year in question, by the debt service require-
ments of the Borrower for such year, and the following terms have
the following meanings:
(i)  "debt" means any debt incurred by the Borrower
payable by its terms on demand or maturing more
than one year from the date on which it is ori-
ginally incurred;
(ii) debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under
a contract, loan agreement or other instrument
providing for such debt, on the date, and to
the extent, the amount of such debt has become
outstanding pursuant to such contract, agreement
or instrument; and (B) under a guarantee agreement,
or other instrument guaranteed by the Borrower,
on the date the agreement or instrument providing
for such guarantee has been entered into or issued,
as the case may be, but only to the extent that
the guaranteed debt is outstanding;


﻿- 11 -
(iii) the term "net revenues of the Borrower" means
the gross revenues from all operations of the
Borrower, less the sum of the operating, mainte-
nance and other administrative expenses of the
Borrower and provision for Taxes and Royalties (or
payments in lieu thereof) accrued during the
Fiscal Year in question and for which the Borrower
is statutorily or contractually liable, but before
provision is made for depreciation, interest and
other charges on debt; and
(iv) "debt service requirements" means the aggregate
amount of amortization (including sinking fund
payments, if any), interest and other charges
on debt, deducting from such aggregate and only in
respect of Fiscal Years 1980 to 1982, both inclu-
sive, the contributions made by the Guarantor to
the Borrower's equity pursuant to Section 2.03 of
the Guarantee Agreement up to the following maximum
amounts: (A) in r:spect of Fiscal Year 1980,
$45,000,000 equivalent; (B) in respect of Fiscal
Year 1981, $45,000,000 equivalent; and (C) in
respect of Fiscal Year 1982, $40,000,000 equiva-
lent.
(d) Whenever in connection with this Section it shall
be necessary to value in Soles debt payable in another currency,
such valuation shall be made at the prevailing lawful rate of
exchange at which such other currency is, at the time of such
valuation, obtainable by the Borrower for the purposes of servic-
ing such debt or, if such other currency is not so obtainable, at
the rate of exchange that will be reasonably determined by the
Bank.
(e) If, during any Fiscal Year the Borrower, or the Guaran-
tor on behalf of the Borrower, has prepaid debt maturing in
one or more Fiscal Years following the Fiscal Year during which
such prepayment has been made, such prepayment shall not be taken
into account for purposes of the calculation described in para-
graph (c) of this Section; provided, however, that this paragraph
shall apply only: (i) if one or more contributions have been made
to the Borrower's equity; and (ii) up to the extent the proceeds
of such contribution or contributions have been applied to any
prepayment of debt hereunder.


﻿- 12 -
(f) The Borrower and COFIDE shall: (i) prepare and furnish
to the Bank, not later than 90 days after the beginning of each
Fiscal Year, a program of action to be taken by the Borrower
during such Fiscal Year for purposes of maintaining, throughout
such Fiscal Year, the applicable debt service coverage ratio; and
(ii) exchange views with the Bank on such program and the probable
consequences of each action thereunder.
Section 5.06. (a) The Borrower shall conduct its operations
and affairs in such manner as shall be necessary to maintain, at
all times, the ratio set forth in paragraph (b) of this Section
not below the limit referred to, in respect of each Fiscal Year,
in paragraph (c) of this Section.
(b) The ratio referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section
shall be obtained by dividing the value of the Borrower's limited
current assets by the value of the Borrower's limited current
liabilities.
(c) The limit referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section
shall be determined, in respect of each Fiscal Year referred to
below, by the quotient obtained by making, in any moment during
such Fiscal Year, the division referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section:
(i) in respect of Fiscal Year 1980, 0.6;
(ii) in respect of Fiscal Year 1981, 0.7;
(iii) in respect of Fiscal Year 1982, 0.9; and
(iv) in respect of Fiscal Year 1983 and each
Fiscal Year thereafter, 1.
(d) For purposes of this Section, "limited current assets"
means cash, accounts receivable due within twelve months, other
than accounts receivable in arrears, prepaid expenses properly
chargeable to operating expenses within the next twelve months
following the date on which such prepaid expenses were made and
all other assets, other than inventorias, which could, in the
ordinary course of business, be converte& into cash within twelve
months; and "limited current liabilities" means accounts payable
within twelve months, customer advances, profits available for
withdrawal by the Guarantor, Taxes and Royalties, bonuses, and all
other liabilities (including debt payable by its terms on demand


﻿- 13 -
or maturing less than one year from the date on which it is
originally incurred and excluding debt maturing more than one year
from the date on which it is originally incurred) which will
become due and payable, or could under circumstances then existing
be called for payment pursuant to their terms, within twelve
months.
(e) The provisions of paragraphs (c) (ii) and (d) of Section
5.05 of this Agreement shall apply mutatis-mutandi to this Sec-
tion.
Section 5.07. (a) Except as shall be otherwise agreed between
the Bank and the Borrower, the Borrower shall not incur any debt
if, after the incurring of such debt, the ratio between all the
Borrower's outstanding debt and equity would be greater than:
(i) 75/25, in respect of Fiscal Year 1981;
(ii) 70/30, in respect of Fiscal Year 1982; and
(iii) 60/40, in respect of Fiscal Year 1983 and each
Fiscal Year thereafter.
(b) The provisions of paragraphs (c) (i) and (ii) and (d)
of Section 5.05 of this Agreement shall apply to this Section.
(c) For purposes of this Section, the term "equity" means
the unimpaired paid-in capital, including capital contributions
made to the Borrower pursuant to Article 17 of the Guarantor's
Decree-Law No. 22775, free-reserves and retained profits, all of
the Borrower, determined in accordance with sound accounting
practices.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) that the Estatutos shall have been amended, suspended,
repealed or waived so as to materially and adversely affect the
ability of the Borrower to comply with its obligations under this
Agreement;


﻿- 14 -
(b) that any action taken: (i) by the Guarantor, including
but not limited to, any Resoluci6n Suprema or Decreto Supremo
of the Guarantor, or (ii) by the Borrower, all for purposes of
Section 7.01 of this Agreement shall have been amended, suspended,
repealed or waived so as to materially and adversely affect the
financial condition of the Borrower; and
(c) that COFIDE shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under this Agreement.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the Gen-
eral Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) that any event specified in paragraphs (a) or (b) of
Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur; and
(b) that the event specified in paragraph (c) of Section
6.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period
of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Bank to COFIDE.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Condi-
tions, namely, that the Guarantor and the Borrower have taken all
such action, satisfactory to the Bank, as shall be necessary on
their part for the Guarantor to pay to the Borrower the unpaid
balance of the amounts due to the Borrower pursuant to the Guar-
antor's Resoluci6n Ministerial No. 0774-78 EM/OSP dated Octo-
ber 18, 1878 and Resoluci6n Ministerial No. 0375-79 EM/OSP
dated April 27, 1979.
Section 7.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank, namely, that all action taken by the
Guarantor and the Borrower for purposes of Section 7.01 of this
Agreement has been taken in accordance with the Guarantor's
laws.


﻿- 15 -
Section 7.03. The date          3, is hereby speci-
fied for the purpose of Sectn 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Addresses
Section 8.01. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Borrower:
Petr6leos del Peru'
Paseo de la Rep6blica 3361
Lima 27
Peru'
Cable address:                       Telex:
PETROPERU                           25592 PE
Lima, Peru'                         20303 PE
For COFIDE:
COFIDE
Avenida Garcilaso de la Vega 1456
Lima 1
Peru'
Cable address:                      Telex:
COFIDE                              20162 PE
Lima, Peru                          25356 PE


﻿- 16 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
/I                   Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
PETROLEOS DEL PERU
By
By                 Authorized Representative
CORPORACION FINANCIERA DE
DESARROLLO - COFIDE
By /4vLtA
Authorized Representative
By Is   F/--4
Authorized Representative


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Equipment and                 14,200,000        100% of foreign
materials for                                  expenditures
Part I (a) and                                 and 80% of
Part I (b) of the                              local expendi-
Project                                        tures
(2) Seismic surveying             10,300,000        90% (repre-
services under                                 senting the
Part II (a) of                                 estimated
the Project                                    foreign
exchange
component)
(3) Consultants' and               5,000,000        90%
experts' services
for Part I (a)
(ii), Part II (b),
Part III (a) and
(b) and Part IV
of the Project
(4) Training under Part           1,000,000         100% of for-
III (c) of the                                 eign expendi-
Project and consul-                            tures
tants' and experts'
services therefor
(5) Unallocated                   2,000,000
TOTAL             32,500,000


﻿- 18 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Guarantor and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Guarantor; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.    The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the
Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Guarantor on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply there-
of; to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
decrehses or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Bank.
4.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expen-
ditures:
(a) prior to the date of this Agreement, except that with-
drawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent
of $2,000,000 may be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures before that date but after February 1, 1980 in respect of:
(i) Category (1), for equipment; and (ii) Category (3), for con-
sultant services for Part II (b) of the Project;
(b) in respect of Category (1), for equipment procured for
purposes of Part I (b) of the Project, unless the Bank has noti-
fied the Borrower that it accepts the justification contained in
the report referred to in paragraph (a) of Section 3.05 of this
Agreement; provided, however, that the Bank may accept such
justification in respect of only certain of the well locations and
well pumping systems covered by such report and may deem this
condition met only in part in respect thereof; and


﻿- 19 -
(c) in respect of Category (2), for any survey under Part II
(a) (ii) of the Project, unless the Bank and the Borrower have
reached the ageement required by Section 3.06 of this Agreement
in respect of such survey.
5.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Cate-
gory, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate
to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that
further withdrawals under such Category may continue until all
expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.    If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expen-
ditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under
the Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents
the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of:
Part I:   Rehabilitation of Production
(a) Restoring of declining primary production from the
following oil fields in the Peruvian Amazon jungle: Corrientes
(also known as Trompeteros), Pavayacu, Capirona and Yanayacu,
comprising: (i) acquisition and utilization of pumping equipment
(approximately 35 pumps), a workover rig and a pulling unit, all
for the aforesaid purpose; and (ii) execution of reservoir simula-
tion studies for each of the above-mentioned oil fields.
(b) Reactivation of primary production from 300 temporarily
abandoned wells in the Talara area by means of a combination of
pumping systems (mechanical - both permanent and moveable, mecha-
nical with central electrical system and swabbing), including
acquisition and installation of pumping equipment and other
accessory equipment and facilities therefor.
Part II: Development of New Production Potential
(a) Reactivation of the Borrower's exploration activities
comprising:
(i) semi-dctailed seismic surveying, in a length of
about 800 line-kilometers in each of the Borrower's
Blocks 8 and 31 located in the north-eastern and
central Peruvian jungle, respectively;
(ii) detailed seismic surveying, in an aggregate length
of about 500 line-kilometers, in either or both of
the Blocks referred to in (i) above; and
(iii) processing of the information and data obtained in
the carrying out of (i) and (ii) above and the
preparation of comprehensive reports on the basis
of such information.
(b) Updating of an existing feasibility study for a future
secondary recovery project in La Brea-Parifas area.


﻿- 21 -
Part III: Improvement of the Financial and Technical Capabilities
of fla Borrower
This Part of the Project comprises:
(a) studies on the Borrower's financial administration,
accounting and management information practices and procedures;
(b) an inventory of the Borrower's fixed assets and a
reconciliation of the Borrower's books in respect of such assets;
and
(c) training programs for the Borrower's staff on main-
tenance and repair work of new facilities acquired under the
Project, reservoir engineering practices and production control
procedures.
Part IV:   Overall Developmei,t of the Guarantor's Petroleum Sector
(a) A study on the future exploration and development
investment requirements of Peru in order to maintain petroleum
production at a level which would ensure the Guarantor's self-
sufficiency in crude oil throughout the period 1981-1990; such
study will, inter alia, analyze and recommend institutional
development strategies for the Borrower in the future development
of che hydrocarbon sector in light of the overall investment
requirements in the sector, institutional capacity and the Guar-
antor's policy objectives, as well as the legal, economic and
financial framework, policy initiatives and specific incentives
required to achieve the investment level necessary for the devel-
opment of the hydrocarbon sector.
(b) A study concerning pricing of hydrocarbons which will
recommend policy alternatives to maximize the hydrocarbon sector's
contribution to the economic development of Peru. The study
will analyze pricing policies and price levels on a product-by-
product basis to recommend pricing policies that would ensure
rational allocation of resources and the financial viability of
the Borrower. The impact of such policies will be assessed in
financial and economic terms, taking into account, inter alia,
effects on other sectors, opportunity costs, social implications,
demand elasticity, supply constraints, alternative sources of
energy, and the measurement and costs of explicity and implicit
subsidies.


﻿- 22 -
(c) A study to assess the economic and technical feasi-
bility, with specific recommendations on the optimal timing
therefor, of various alternatives for the expansion of the Ramal
Norte (Northern Branch) of the North Peruvian Pipeline.
The Project is expected to be completed by July 31, 1982.


﻿- 23 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each June 15 and December 15
beginning June 15, 1983
through   June 15, 1996                      1,160,000
On December 15, 1996                              1,180, 000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 24 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                              Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                              1.45%
Not more than three years but
not more than six years before
maturity                                     2.90%
Not more than six years but
not more than eleven years before
maturity                                     5.35%
Not more than eleven years but
not more than fifteen years before
maturity                                     7.30%
Not more than fifteen years
before maturity                              8.25%


﻿- 25 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and services for
Part I and Part II (a) (i) and (ii) of the Project shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement
under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of
international competitive bidding as described in Part A of the
Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, and in addition to the requirements
of paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and
forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not
later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the pub-
lic of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such
form and detail and containing such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request; the Bank will arrange for the publication of
such notice in order to provide timely notification to prospective
bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and works in
question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary information to
update such totice annually so long as any goods or works remain
to be procured on the basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; and (ii) customs duties and other
import taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken
into account in the evaluation of the bids.
B.   Preference for Domestic and Regional Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in


﻿- 26 -
Peru' or in a country which is a member of the Latin American
Free Trade Association or a party to the Cartagena Agreement
may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and
subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following four groups:
(a) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Peri if the bidder shall have established to
the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank
that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes
a value added in Perfi equal to at least 20% of
the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(b) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(c) Group C: bids offering goods manufactured in a
country other than Perfi which is a member of
the Latin American Free Trade Association or a
party to the Cartagena Agreement.
(d) Group D: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest evalu-
ated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as
a result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph
3 above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C or group D, all
group C and group D bids shall be further compared with the lowest
evaluated bid from group A after adding to the evaluated bid price
of the imported goods offered in each group C and group D bid, for


﻿- 27 -
the purpose of this further comparison only, an amount equal to:
(i) the amount of customs duties and other import taxes which a
non-exempt importer would have to pay for the importation of the
goods offered in such group C bid or group D bid; or (ii) 15% of
the c.i.f. bid price of such goods if said customs duties and
taxes exceed 15% of such price. If either the group A bid or the
group C bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be
selected for the award.
5.   If, as a result of the further comparison under para-
graph (4) above, a bid from group D is the lowest, and provided
there are taxes actually payable for the importation of goods
offered in the lowest evaluated bid from group C, as determined
under paragraph (3) above, all group D bids shall be finally
compared with such lowest evaluated bid from group C, after adding
to the c.i.f. bid price of goods to be 4iported offered in each
group D bid, for the purpose of this final comparison only, an
amount equal to the smaller of (i) the positive difference, if
any, between the amount of customs duties and other import taxes
which would actually be payable for the importation of goods
offered in such group D bid and for the importation of goods
offered in the group C bid, or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. price of
goods to be imported offered in such group D bid. If the lowest
bid in such comparison is the group C bid, it shall be selected
for the award; if not, the lowest evaluated bid from group D, as
determined under paragraph (3) above, shall be selected for the
award.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
Contracts for: (a) drilling materials and surface and sub-
surface equipment other than pumps; (b) the first 17 pumps to
be acquired for purposes of Part I (a) (i) of the Project; and
(c) the provision of services for Part II (a) (iii) of the Proj-
ect, may be awarded after soliciting price quotations from sup-
pliers or contractors, as the case may be, satisfactory to the
Bank from not less than three countries (member countries of
the Bank and Switzerland); provided, however, that the aggregate
amount of contracts so awarded shall not exceed the equivalent of
$3,000,000.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of a list of contractors for contracts included in
Part B hereof.   The Borrower shall, before price quotations are


﻿- 28 -
solicited, inform the Bank in detail of the procedure to be
followed, and shall introduce such modifications in said procedure
as the Bank shall reasonably request. The list of contractors,
together with a statement of their qualifications, shall be
furnished by the Borrower to the Bank for its comments before
price quotations are solicited by the Borrower, and the Borrower
shall make such additions to, deletions from, or modifications in,
the said list as the Bank shall reasonably request.
2.   Review of invitations to bid or of price solicitations and of
proposed awards and final contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equiv-
alent of $200,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid,
or the price solicitations, as the case may be, and the specifi-
cations and other bidding documents, together with a description
of the advertising procedures to be followed for the bidding, and
shall make such modifications in the said documents or procedures
as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any further modification to
the bidding documents, or the solicitation, as the case may be,
shall require the Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids or price quotations, as the case may be, have
been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before a final
decision on the award is made, inform the Bank of the name of the
bidder or quoter, as the case may be, to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison of
the bids or quotations received, and such other information as the
Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines
that the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on
which bids or quotations were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the delivery
to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds from
the Loan Account in respect of such contract.


﻿- 29 -
3.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after
its execution and prior to the delivery to the Bank of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in
respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such con-
tract, together with the analysis of the respective bids or
quotations, as the case may be, recommendations for award and
such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request. The
Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the contract was
not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
4.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 10% of the Original Price, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the nroposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and state
the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this   RP     day of       , 1984
FOR SECRETARY


