Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 15046-EGT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
POPULATION PROJECT
FEBRUARY 26,1996
Human Resources Divison
Country Department II
Middle East and North Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of January, 1996)
Currency Unit = Egyptian Pound
US$ I = LE3.4
LE I = US$0.29
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CPR           Contraceptive Prevalence Rate
GOE           Government of Egypt
ICB           International Competitive Bidding
IDA           International Development Association
IE&C          Information, Education and Communications
IMR           Infant Mortality Rate
MLG           Ministry of Local Government
MOHP          Ministry of Health and Population
MOI           Ministry of Information
MOSA          Ministry of Social Affairs
NCB           National Competitive Bidding
NGO           Non-Governmental Organization
NPC           National Population Council
OM            Operating Manual
PAP           Population Activities Program
PIU           Project Implementation Unit
SA            Special Account
SFD           Social Fund for Development
SOE           Statement of Expenses
TFR           Total Fertility Rate
UNFPA         United Nations Population Fund
USAID         United States Agency for International Development



THE ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
POPULATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
1.  SECTOR BACKGROUND ....................................................... I
Population Trends ......................................................... 
Population Policy ........................................................                                     3
Sector Financing ........................................................ 4
Main Sector Issues ........................................................                                   4
2. BANK ASSISTANCE STRATEGY AND RATIONALE FOR BANK
INVOLVEMENT .......................................................                                              7
3.  THE PROJECT ....................................................... 8
Objectives ........................................................ 8
Project Description ........................................................ 8
4. COSTS and FINANCING ....................................................... 9
Procurement ........................................................                                         I I
Disbursement ........................................................                                        12
5. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .......................................................                                        13
Project Management Arrangements ........................................................ 13
Accounting and Auditing ........................................................                             14
Supervision Requirements and Monitoring ........................................................             14
6.  SUSTAINABILITY  AND PARTICIPATION .......................................................                            14
7.  PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS .......................................................                                   1 5
Economic Analysis.                  ........          ................................................ 1 5
Benefits ......................................................... 16
Risks ........................................................ 16
8.  AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION ................                                   ....................................... 17
Recommendation ........................................................                                      17
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited Egypt in October 1995. The team was led by
David Steel (MN2HR) and consisted of: Randy Bulatao (Senior Demographer, PHN), Maria MacDonald (Principal
Population Specialist, ASTHR), Egbe Osifo (Health Specialist, MN2HR), Pietronella Van Den Oever (Human
Resource Specialist, EDIHR) and Prod Laquian (Consultant). The report was put together by Kamar Yousuf, Jackie
Perry, and Sabine Mabrouk. Peer Reviewers are Maryse Pierre-Louis (Senior Health Specialist, MNIHR) and Ruth
Levine (Population Specialist, AF2PH). The lead adviser is Paul Shaw (Principal Human Resource Specialist,
EDIHR). The Division Chief is Jacques Baudouy (MN2HR) and the Department Director is Inder Sud (MN2DR).



ii                                                               Population Project
THE ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
POPULATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS (CONT.)
ANNEXES
I.  Letter of Population Sector Policy
2.  Fertility Determinants and Strategies to Address Them
3.  The Institutional Framework in the Population Sector
4.  Management Structure of the Population and Family Planning Departrnent, MOHP
5.  MOHP Population and Family Planning Department Three Year Business Plan
6.  Training and Research Programs for Population and Family Planning Department, MOHP
7.  Management Structure of the Community Development Department of the Social Fund
8.  Operational Manual for Population Activities Program and Memorandum of Understanding
9.  Illustrative Subproject Costs in Population Activities Program
10.  Performance Indicator and Monitoring and Evaluation Systems for PAP
11.  Beneficiary Consultation Process Proposal
12.  Project Cost Tables
13.  Project Implementation Unit - Terms of Reference
14.  Procurement Arrangements
15.  Implementation Schedule
16.  Economic Justification of Project
17.  Supervision Plan
18.  Mid-term Review Terms of Reference
19.  Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
POPULATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                  Arab Republic of Egypt
Executing Agencies:        Ministry of Health and Population
Social Fund for Development
Beneficiaries:             Not applicable.
Povrtye Calegory:          Programs of Targeted Interventions (PTI). Project interventions will be
targeted on low-income couples of reproductive age in areas of Egypt
where fertility remains high, mainly in rural areas of Upper Egypt. This
is expected to have a positive impact on the condition and status of
women and children in those areas.
Amount:                    SDR 11.9 million (US$17.2 million equivalent)
Terms:                     Standard IDA with maturity of 35 years
Commitment Fee:            0.5 percent on undisbursed credit balance, beginning 60 days
after signing, less any waiver.
Financing Plan:
F                        US$ (million)
Government   Beneficiary    IDA         Total
of Egypt    Contribution
Capacity
Building         0.6                        2.0        2.6
Population
Activities
Subprojects      1.0            1.9        15.2       18.1
Total            1.6            1.9        17.2       20.7
Economic Rate of Return:   19 percent.
Environm=enaL RatMng:      "C"
Staff Appraisal Report:    Report No. 1 5046-EGT
Mu:                        Map No. IBRD 27482



Population Project                                                                                     1
THE ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
POPULATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
1. SECTOR BACKGROUND
Population Trends
1.1     Egypt, the most populous Arab nation, has an estimated population of 57 million (1993) - almost
six times greater than its population at the turn of the century. Population growth was highest in the early
1980s at 2.6 percent but has since declined to its current rate of 1.9 percent. Regardless of fertility
decline in the short term, the population will reach between 63 and 64 million by the millennium.
Thereafter, differences in the rate of fertility decline would show a noticeable impact on achieved
population size (Figure 1). Assuming average fertility decline used in Bank projections, the population
is expected to exceed 95 million by 2035. A more optimistic fertility decline scenario as demonstrated in
figure I suggests that a population of 5 million less could be achieved in 2035.
Figure 1: Population Projections for Egypt, 1995-2035
110 
100 -1- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - ------ -_- Slow Fertility Decline
E 90   - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -; - - ---                    -.- Standard Fertility Decline
_ /                                                                        -- Rapid Fertility Decline
C
77 _ s   -  -> -  -  - -   --   -_                                   
0.
0 6   7 0   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -          
50                               
1995    2000    2005    2010    2015    2020    2025    2030    2035
Years



2                                                                               Population Project
1.2    The rate of population growth depends on the rate of natural increase determined by fertility and
mortality and the net rate of migration1. The demographic transition in Egypt is underway as indicated by
a drop in total fertility rate from 5.0 children per woman in 1980 to 3.8 children in 1993. The drop in
fertility has been due to a rise in age of marriage (increased by two years over the last 25 years); and a
fall in the demand for children (four in 1980 to three in 1992) resulting in increased contraceptive
prevalence from 21 percent in 1980 to 47 percent in 1992.
1.3    Mortality rates have fallen substantially over the last few decades and average life expectancy at
birth increased from 46 years in 1960 to 64 years in 1993. The changes in mortality rates have also
affected fertility trends - the substantial drop in infant (43 percent) and child (57 percent) mortality over
the last fifteen years is partially responsible for the reduced demand for children2. However fertility
levels in Egypt remain significantly higher than for other lower-middle income countries (Table 1). This
is largely related to the relatively low levels of female education and formal female employment.
Table 1
Selected Demographic and Health Indicators in Egypt and
Selected Lower-Middle-Income (LMI) Countries3 (1990 - 1993 estimates)
TFR   Contraceptive      Infant          Life      Female Share     Girls
Prevalence    Mortality Rate   expectancy   of Labor Force   Primary
Enrollment
M/F
Egypt           3.S47                     64      ..    ..-.         ,. 11  .        _3
Morocco         3.6        42             66           62/66           21            57
Jordan          5AI        40             27           68/72           11           105
Tunisia         3.1        50             42            67/69          25           112
Turkey          3.3        63             62            65/69          34           107
Syria           5.8        40             36           65/69           18           103
LMI Countries    3.0        N/A            45           64/70           31            97
Source: WDR 1995, Social Indicators of Development, 1995
1 Although migration has been important in Egypt over the last two decades, due to poor statistics and
volatile trends it will not be discussed here.
2 In countries with high infant mortality rates parents appear to take into consideration the probability of
survival of their infants, and as a result have more children than they really desire.
3 Countries with 1993 GNP per capita between $696 - $2785.



Population Project                                                                              3
1.4    The Egyptian population is young with 37 percent of the population under 15 while 4 percent are
over 65. The proportion of the population in the reproductive age group (15-49), the target age for the
family planning program, is expected to increase from 48 percent of the population in 1990 to 54 percent
in 2020. Urbanization is increasing and the urban population is projected to increase to 75 percent of the
total population by 2025 from 47 percent in 1990. Population density varies by govemorate fluctuating
from 22 persons per square kilometer in Suez to 128,000 per square kilometer in parts of Alexandria.
1.5    Regional Variation.  The overall reduction in fertility levels in Egypt masks significant
disparities within the country as demonstrated in Table 2.  Higher fertility levels in rural areas
particularly in Upper Egypt are associated with lower educational levels and contraceptive prevalence.
This is related in tum to the lower age of first marriage (four years earlier than urban governorates) and
the higher demand for children (one child greater than urban governorates). In addition to the greater
demand for children, rural women particularly in upper Egypt are less likely to achieve desired fertility
rates.
Table 2
Selected demographic indicators by region, 1992
Residence     Total Fertility Rate    Contraceptive    Infant Mortality Rate % of ever-married
Prevalence                         women with no
education
Urban Governorates       2.7               59.1               54.5              27.2
Lower Egypt - Urban      2.8               60.3               43.7              30.0
Rural        4.1               50.5               73.0              60.3
Upper Egypt - Urban      3.6               48.1               65.0              34.4
Rural         6.0              24.3              119.1              70.1
Source: Egypt Demographic Health survey, 1992.
Population Policy
1.6    Egypt has had a formal population policy since 1964. It is based on seven premises: (a) each
family has the right to decide on its fertility voluntarily on the basis of its religion and values, and to
obtain information to make decisions within the framework of its religion; (b) the avoidance of the use of
abortion or sterilization as a means of family planning; (c) recognition of a citizen's right to migrate and
to move from place to place within Egypt; (d) adoption of a positive incentive system based on increased
awareness of the role of the individual and the community and the avoidance of any coercion or negative
incentives; (e) educational, cultural and health development of individuals to increase productivity; (f)
assignment of local government bodies with the responsibility for implementing programs; and (g)
encouragement of voluntary efforts and community participation in the solution of population related
problems.
1.7    The population program  remains a national priority for the government and in 1993 several
targets were set for the year 2007. These targets include reducing the annual population growth rate to



4                                                                          Population Project
1.8 percent, the total fertility rate to 2.7, and raising the contraceptive prevalence rate to 65 percent.
These targets, although ambitious, are achievable with sustained effort.
Sector Financing
1.8    Total expenditure on population and family planning activities was estimated at approximately
US$22 million in 1991 (assumes exchange rate of 3.3L.E=$1.00). Of this, 72.8 percent was spent in the
not-for-profit sector (the public and NGO sector) and the rest in the for-profit sector. Table 3 provides
an estimate of the relative contribution of the Government, donors mainly United States Agency for
International Development (USAID) and United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA) and individuals to
the program. USAID and UNFPA funding has concentrated mainly on supporting family planning
supply and related programs. The cost per Couple-year of Protection in 1991 (CYP) was $5.40 in the
not-for-profit sector compared to $2.40 in the for-profit sector. The major reasons for the disparity in
costs are the differences in contraceptive mix and the service levels of both sectors. Both sectors are
subsidized by donor agencies (table 3), which are committed to supporting population and family
planning programs for the next 3-4 years.
Table 3
Estimate of the relative contribution of the Government, Donor and Individual
contribution to the Population and Family Planning Program
Public and NGOs                   Private Sector
GOE                           44.4%                              5.1%
Donor Agencies                51.5%                             69.5%
User Fees                      4.0%                             25.4%
Total                        100.0%                            100.00/%
Source: Report on Trends of the Costs of the Family Planning Progran in Egypt, 1992.
Main Sector Issues4
1.9    Family Size and Family Planning Demand. The demographic transition in Egypt has now
entered a new phase, in which interventions to increase demand for smaller family size and for family
planning services become essential if fertility rates are to fall further and contraceptive use to continue to
increase. To achieve the targets of the national population program, it is necessary both to meet the
present identified unmet need for family planning and to stimulate new demand, mainly in poor rural
areas. Increasing demand for family planning services is not only essential to ensure growth of the
program but it is also required to maintain its present success if the USAID contraceptive subsidy is
4 Fertility determinants and strategies to address them are reviewed in detail in Annex 2.



Population Project                                                                    5
withdrawn (see below). The fact that six in ten births in the five years preceding 1992 occurred to
mothers with one or more risk factors5 reinforces the need to extend the program.
1.10   Fertility levels in Rural Upper Egypt. The total fertility rate in rural Upper Egypt remains
extremely high due to a combination of factors - higher demand for children, earlier age of marriage
(median age is four years lower than in urban governorates), lower educational levels, greater proportion
of women's family planning needs are unmet, and less urbanization. Creating a social climate that is
more conducive to fertility decline in this region would require a multi-pronged approach. In addition to
addressing broader developmental issues which affect demand for children (such as female education
and gender role) specific issues such as access to family planning methods and attitude towards family
planning need to be addressed. Upper Rural Egyptian women are ten times more likely than those in
urban areas not to know a source for modem family planning methods, and only 60 percent of couples in
Upper Rural Egypt approve of family planning methods compared to 80 percent elsewhere. These issues
require involvement of religious and civic leaders at central, governorate and local levels.
1.11   National Leadership in the Population Sector. Although Egypt has had a population policy in
place for many years, a consistently weak area has been the successive institutions responsible for
sectoral leadership and population policy and planning.  Part of this weakness stemmed from
Government policy which until about eight years ago emphasized fertility reduction occurring as a result
of economic development. The National Population Council (NPC), established in 1984, although
effective at stimulating change at the local level, was not so effective in providing national leadership.
To remedy this situation the Government established a Ministry of Population and Family Planning
(MOPFP) in November, 1993 and then merged it into the Ministry of Health to create a new Ministry of
Health and Population (MOHP) in January, 1996 as part of a streamlining reform. The purpose of
raising population to ministerial status is to ensure that Government plays plays an active leadership role
and helps accelerate the demographic transition in Egypt. The NPC will continue with policy,
coordination and advocacy functions, but population questions are now brought directly to the attention
of the Cabinet. The Population Department of the MOHP is in the process of capacity building.
Progress is being made in defining structure, functions and staffing of the ministry and appointments to
key management positions were made in January, 1996. A Three Year Business Plan is being prepared
to provide a strategic framework to guide the Ministry (Annex 5). Consultants will play a role initially in
helping with capacity building.
1.12 At the governorate level, local Population Councils chaired by the Governor direct and
coordinate efforts and aid the planning and programming for their governorates. The governorate offices
of the Population and Family Planning Department of the MOHP also provide staff, information and
office space to carry out these activities. All governorates encourage voluntary activities, for example
Women's Committees that work to mobilize communities to become actively involved in solving
population related problems and utilizing family planning services. All governorates have a network of
Local Information Centers (LIC) operated by the State Information Service of the Ministry of
Information (MOI), which coordinate and conduct a wide range of Information, Education and
Communications (IE&C) programs at the community level, including the population sector. The
Ministry of Social Affairs (MOSA) operates a variety of population related programs and regulates
5 Associated with reduced child survival and maternal mortality.



6                                                                       Population Project
NGOs. In many governorates links have been established with other institutions. For example family
planning clinics have been set up in local agriculture cooperatives and factories, and village level IE&C
activities are carried out by Ministry community social workers in association with NGOs. Although the
level of local government involvement in population activities is very variable, the level of effectiveness
is steadily improving. A large number of other institutions, both private and public play important roles
in the sector. Their roles are described in Annex 3.
1.13   Expanding and Improving Reproductive Health Services. Although Egypt now has an
extensive network of health care facilities and service quality is improving, quality remains a problem
because of the expanding universe of clients and the need for continued face to face counseling
particularly in the more conservative areas of the country. In the provision of family planning services
there are two main quality issues: (i) limited level of provider/client communication; and (ii) the narrow
range of methods available - 86 percent of current users are on the pill or IUD. These issues contribute
to the high contraceptive discontinuation rate and the relatively high fertility level given the present
contraceptive prevalence rate. About 60 percent of all births are in high-risk categories.6 Consequently
improvement in family planning services provided particularly to women in high risk categories would
improve the health status of women and children. Quality issues are now being addressed by the MOHP
through its "Quality Improvement Project", supported by USAID, which is raising standards at 3200
clinics over five years. The contraceptive mix will be expanded through the introduction of new long
acting contraceptives to the program. Workplace clinics and mobile clinics are also being introduced on
a selective basis with bilateral donor support. There will need to be strong sectoral leadership (which
will be encouraged by the proposed project) to ensure a sustained effort to improve quality of services
provided.
1.14   Strengthening the Private Sector. The private sector and NGOs play an important role in the
provision of family planning services in Egypt. Private doctors and pharmacies provide 63 percent of
contraceptives under the family planning program and are an important source of IE&C as well to the
population at large. There are about 400 NGOs of various size and capacity in the population sector. In
addition to providing services, many of the NGOs are involved in general education, social marketing
and IE&C activities. Religious organizations also provide population and family planning services
through mosque based health and welfare centers. It is Government policy to further involve NGOs and
to maintain the role of the private sector. However the sector has been heavily subsidized, which places
financial limits on its further participation and absorptive capacity of NGOs is still limited. And the
quality of family planning services (particularly in provider/client communication) rendered by private
pharmacies needs improvement. The potential exists to try new public-private partnerships with less
experienced NGOs. Raising the quality of the services provided by pharmacies through training of
pharmacists and assistant pharmacists is one focus of USAID assistance. The Government intends to
strengthen private sector involvement through a two pronged approach - capacity enhancement to
improve the cost effectiveness of NGOs, and a more targeted approach to meeting the needs of the poor.
6High-risk births refer to infants who have a greater probability of dying because they are born to
mothers who are too young or too old, born after a short interval or born to mothers with more than 3
children.



Population Project                                                                      7
1.15   Decentralization. Although Egypt is relatively homogeneous in terms of language and culture,
there are pronounced regional differences in values regarding the family and the status of women, which
affect the utilization of family planning services, which consequently must fit the perspectives of local
populations. Addressing this diversity will require decentralization and systematic testing of innovative
approaches to lower social barriers to the use of family planning and to change reproductive behavior. It
is Government policy to decentralize implementation of population activities to the governorate level to
the extent possible, and one of the factors against which the performance of Governors is evaluated is
their success in incorporating population concerns into their programs. As noted above the role of the
private sector at the local level will be strengthened. These policies and programs will need vigorous
implementation in support of demand stimulation now needed to accelerate Egypt's demographic
transition.
1.16 Contraceptive Subsidy Policy. Two thirds of current users of modern methods of family
planning services obtain their methods from the private sector. The private sector is heavily subsidized
by USAID. In 1992 a monthly cycle of pills purchased in the private sector cost the user on average
$0.137, a subsidy of approximately 60 percent. The Government's contraceptive policy aims to: (i)
ensure that contraceptives are affordable to poorer sections of the population; (ii) expand the method mix
available; (iii) strengthen social marketing programs; and (iv) have richer users pay market price. The
Government also expects domestic production of certain contraceptives to begin soon. The Government
has stated its commitment to continue addressing all these factors in a Letter of Population Policy to IDA
of October 9, 1995 (Annex 1).
2. BANK ASSISTANCE STRATEGY AND RATIONALE FOR BANK INVOLVEMENT
2.1    Poverty remains a serious problem in Egypt (particularly in Upper Egypt) with between 22-30
percent of all households living in poverty. A resumption of economic growth and measures to increase
productive employment opportunities for the poor are the first conditions of success for poverty
reduction in Egypt. Given the heterogeneity of the poor, these reforms must be supported by human
capital formation and welfare interventions targeted to needy groups, of whom women and children form
a disproportionate proportion. These should include structural measures to improve equity and cost
effectiveness of public expenditures in population, health and education, to provide an enlarged role for
the private sector and NGOs in the provision of social services, and to achieve more efficient targeting of
all secondary transfers. Population pressures on the education and health systems, social services, the
employment market and labor migration, urban areas and the natural resource base will intensify for the
foreseeable future, and will strain the Government's capacity to provide social services.  The
Government must improve its management of population growth, and provide the leadership and
encourage the efforts of others if the social, employment, health and education status of women and
children are to improve, and if fertility rates are to fall further.
2.2    Within this broad context the Bank is pursuing a two track human resources strategy. The first
track supports the Government efforts to strengthen its social safety net as it deepens its economic
7UNFPA, 1993.



8                                                                    Population Project
reform program and attempts to resume economic growth. IDA is preparing a second Social Fund
Project to assist with this. The second track helps achieve realistic progress in the longer term effort in
population, health and education.
2.3   The proposed project is in conformity with the Bank Group's Country Assistance Strategy
described in the Memorandum of the President for the Agricultural Modernization Project (Report No. P-
6203-EGT) of March 3, 1994. The project addresses the longer term needs in the population sector at a
time when the demographic transition has entered a distinct new phase. The project would help the
Government incorporate more thoroughly the impact of population related factors into development
planning, play an enlarged leadership role at the national level and encourage public and private
interventions to stimulate increased demand for smaller family size and for family planning services.
The project will also help deepen the Government's commitment to population and family planning
programs, which is at present confined to a small high level group, assist in the institutional development
of the new MOHP and by supporting NGO and local community activities, will expand their role and
open a dialogue between the Government and a group of stakeholders, who have been relatively ignored
until recently. Finally if successful, the project could have a demonstration effect for the Middle East as
a whole, where population growth rates remain high by global standards.
3. THE PROJECT
Objectives
3.1   The overall goals of the project are to help Egypt: (a) better manage population growth and
prevent avoidable population growth by giving the MOHP the institutional capacity to play the lead role
in the population sector; and (b) improve the conditions and status of women and children in areas where
fertility remains high, mainly in rural areas of Upper Egypt, by stimulating additional demand for smaller
family size and for family planning services. These objectives will reinforce and expand the goals of the
national family planning program.
Project Description
Part A: Capacity Building ($2.6 million)
3.2   This component would help install capacity in the Population and Family Planning Sector of
MOHP for a set of key functions including policy and program development, business planning, sectoral
manpower development and training, research programming, planning, resource mobilization,
supervision, monitoring and evaluation, and public/NGO/local community program coordination, all
based on a 'functional matrix' agreed with the Government. It would complement support being
provided under an ongoing UNFPA funded Management Development Project, which will be completed
in 1997. A Three Year Strategic Business Plan will provide the overall framework, a set of organizing
principles and objectives, indicators against which to monitor progress, and resource requirements for the
installation of this capacity. The project would finance project management costs, technical assistance
for the priority functions, policy studies, and training for Sector managers and staff. By project
completion, the Ministry would have capacities in the population sector to: (a) conduct high level



Population Project                                                                    9
advocacy and research; (b) undertake strategic leadership of planning, management and
interdepartmental coordination for population growth; (c) monitor and evaluate the overall progress of
population programs; (d) mobilize and allocate resources for population programs in an efficient way;
and (e) support NGO and local community initiatives.
Part Ri Population Activities Program (_18.1 milion.
3.3    The Population Activities Program (PAP)8 is designed to stimulate demand for family planning
and smaller family size where fertility remains high and demand low, mainly in rural areas of upper
Egypt. This component would support grants to NGOs, local community organizations and relevant
public sector agencies for small, decentralized proposals. These would include projects to increase
awareness of population issues, to strengthen motivation for couples to plan their families, to facilitate
access to and use of reproductive health services, and to educate and motivate people in such related
areas as child nutrition, safe motherhood, male awareness, and delayed age of marriage. It would also
include projects to extend and improve the quality of social change agents, development of capacity to
produce local informational material, rural internships for urban youth and professionals, counseling and
referral programs for youth, and youth-to-youth campaigns/programs. To ensure that activities are well
targeted, proposals would be evaluated using a strategic framework and a typology of interventions with
clear, simple criteria, transparently applied. The activities would be monitored and evaluated against
specified outcome indicators. By project completion, a series of population activities and interventions
would have been carried out, which would contribute to attitudinal and behavioral change in the
population of targeted areas towards some of the key determinants of fertility. A project implementation
period of five years is required to achieve results. Annex 8 describes the Program in more detail.
4. COSTS AND FINANCING
4.1    The total cost of the project is estimated at US$20.7 million, net of taxes and duties, including
US$2.6 million for the capacity building component for the MOHP and US$18.1 million for the PAP
component. Foreign exchange costs amount to US$5.5 million and local costs to US$15.2 million. The
proposed IDA credit of US$ 17.2 million would finance US$2 million of the capacity building component
and US$15.2 million of the PAP component, or 83 percent of the project costs (foreign and local). The
Govemment would finance 7 percent of the project costs and NGOs and local community organizations
would finance at least 10 percent of the PAP costs. The project has been designed in collaboration with
The Family Development Project is an ongoing example of the kind of project that would be financed
under the PAP. It is an innovative approach being carried out by the MOHP and the SFD to encourage
30,000 newly married couples in three poor Governorates in Upper Egypt to lower their fertility rates
through a process of "family empowerment". Social Change Agents, who are well educated and
trained members of their local communities, provide peer counseling, motivational, and family
advisory services to 50-75 target families, and guide families to such services as wellness care, health
and family planning, literacy programs, job search assistance, access to credit and income generating
opportunities. Participating families must pay monthly dues of US$0.30. The project draws from
similar programs tried earlier. The project was launched in late 1994. It is too early to evaluate results.



10                                                                       Population Project
UNFPA and with USAID, which is supporting Governorate level capacity building as well as national
family planning programs. Detailed project costs are shown in Annex 12.
4.2   It is expected that about 87 percent of project funds would be provided to NGOs and local
community organizations (public and private) under the PAP. It is estimated that the PAP would finance
around 100 projects and programs over a five year period, that average project size would be about
$180,000, and that average grant size to a single community or village would be about US$20,000 under
any single project. Any increase in the average grant size would result in a reduced number of projects
funded. Average project size is estimated as a composite average of nine sub-project categories using
cost data from the Social Fund for Development (SFD) (see para. 5.2) and several NGOs, which are
already implementing these kinds of programs. Beneficiary organizations would make a minimum
contribution of 10 percent of project costs, and could contribute more if they wish. There is evidence
from  ongoing programs to suggest that they will contribute substantially more.  Beneficiary
organizations could also seek additional funding from other sources for a project, provided that this was
justified during project evaluation.
4.3    Since the largest project component is a demand driven financial internediary type operation,
there are no physical or price contingencies under this component. Physical contingencies amount to
US$0.1 million and price contingencies to US$0.3 million uider the capacity building component.
Table 4
Summary Project Costs
(US$ million)
Local                 Foreign              Total
Capacity Building              1.2                    1.1                2.3
Population Activities         13.8                    4.2                18.0
Subproject          l                     l
Total Baseline Costs          15.0                    5.3                20.3
Physical Contingencies        0.0                     0.1                 0.1
Price Contingencies            0.2                    0.1                 0.3
Total Project Costs           15.2                    5.5                20.7



Population Project                                                                    11
Table 5
Financing Plan
(US$ million)
Government of    Beneficiary       IDA              Total
Egypt        Contribution
Capacity Building   0.6                             2.0              2.6
Population
Activities
Subprojects         1.0             1.9             15.2             18.1
Total               1.6             1.9             17.2             20.7
Procurement
4.4    The majority (87 percent) of the procurement under the project is related to the PAP component.
It will be carried out under SFD Procurement Procedures using its community participation in
procurement procedures, which are in accordance with World Bank Procurement Guidelines (1995). The
SFD will use its standardized local bidding procedures and contract forms. These were developed for the
Social Fund Project (Cr. 2276-EGT) and the SFD has now had extensive experience with this type of
procurement administration, which has proven to be economic and efficient. There will be no civil
works contracts financed under the project. The implementing NGO or community organisation would
sign contracts and procure goods in accordance with the SFD's procurement guidelines. Small items of
equipment, materials and supplies for programs and interventions funded under the PAP would be
purchased by the implementing NGO. Contracts for goods would be in the range of US$1,000-20,000,
and for services in the range of US$5,000-40,000. Because of the demand driven nature of the sub-
projects it is not possible to estimate the cost of respective components in advance. About one-quarter of
bid documents (those for contracts with a value of US$100,000 or more) will be subject to the Bank's
prior review. However as indicated above the SFD is familiar with the Bank's procurement requirements
and uses them well. Packaging of sub-projects in adjacent communities would be undertaken by the SFD
and the implementing NGO only when significant implementation efficiencies would result. The SFD
will apply its normal ex-post review procedures, which are satisfactory to the Bank.
4.5    Given the small total cost (US$0.6 million) and the small size of contracts within this amount, it
is expected that about two-thirds of the goods to be procured under the capacity building component will
be contracted through national shopping procedures. Goods estimated to cost less than US$50,000 per
contract up to an aggregate amount of $0.2 million will be procured through local shopping procedures
soliciting at least three bids from qualified suppliers. In those cases where there is grouping of contracts
for goods as a result of packaging of sub-projects, goods estimated to cost between US$50,000 and
US$250,000 per contract will be procured through international shopping. Contracts estimated to cost
above US$250,000 will be procured following international competitive bidding (ICB) procedures.
4.6    Consultants will be appointed following the World Bank Consultant Guidelines using the World
Bank's standard forms of contract for consultant services. Many consultant assignments will be small in



12                                                                      Population Project
value and will require specialized staff with knowledge of local language and traditions working on long
term assignments. This will necessitate their selection from among local consultants. Egypt has
qualified local consulting firms with the expertise required. The threshold for prior review of individual
consultants is US$50,000 and US$100,000 for firms. The SFD will be responsible for monitoring
procurement activities of project beneficiaries, and compliance of suppliers with contract provisions.
Detailed procurement arrangements are spelt out in Annex 14.
Disbursement
4.7    The proposed IDA credit will be disbursed over a period of about five years and be completed by
June 30, 2001, which is the project completion date. The last date for presentation of sub-projects to the
Social Fund is expected to be about September 30, 2000. The Closing Date of the IDA credit will be
December 31, 2001. The expected disbursement profile is shorter than for MENA projects in the social
sectors, but is consistent with the profiles for social fund type projects. The schedule of estimated
disbursements is shown in Table 6.
Table 6
Estimated Disbursement Schedule (Summary)
(US$ million)
Fiscal Year   1997    j 1998        1999       {2000       12001       j2002
Annual      1.7         3.4          5.1         4.25        1.7         1.05
Cumulative   1.7      15.1          10.2        14.45       16.15        17.2
Percentage    9.9%      29.7%       59.4%       84.1%        94%         100%
4.8    The proceeds of the credit will be disbursed against the following categories of expenditure: (a)
Equipment, furniture, vehicles and supplies: 100 percent of eligible foreign expenditures, 100 percent of
local expenditures (ex-factory cost) and 80 percent of locally procured items; (b) Consultant services and
training for MOHP: 100 percent of eligible foreign expenditures and 80 percent of local expenditures;
and (c) PAP subprojects: 100 percent of disbursements by the SFD against eligible subprojects.
4.9    Disbursements for expenditures under contracts of less than US$100,000 for goods and
consulting firms, and less than US$50,000 for individual consultants will be made on the basis of
statements of expenditure (SOE) and payments under grants for which supporting documents would be
maintained by the MOHP and the SFD and made available for review by Bank staff. Supporting
documents will include subproject agreements and subproject contracts. Because the average subproject
cost will be less than US$100,000, and most of the consultant contracts will be less than US$100,000, it
is expected that the large majority of subprojects and contracts will be documented on the basis of SOEs.
To get a prompt start to implementation under the capacity building component, retroactive financing up
to US$140,000 is proposed for expenditures incurred after February 1, 1996 but before credit signing for
consultant sevices and office equipment. To ensure that funds are readily available, two Special
Accounts for the capacity building and the PAP components respectively will be opened in a commercial



Population Project                                                                    13
bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA. An initial deposit of US$0.2 million to the Special
Account for the capacity building component and US$1.0 million to the Special Account for the
population activities program, corresponding to about four months of expenditures under each part of the
project, will be advanced to the account from the IDA credit. The Special Accounts will be replenished
monthly.
5. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Project Management Arrangements
5.1    The MOHP will be responsible for implementation of the capacity building component of the
project and for general oversight of the PAP. A PIU in the Population and Family Planning Sector of the
MOHP will be responsible for implementing the capacity building component. The PIU's terms of
reference are set out in Annex 13. The MOHP is preparing a Three Year Strategic Business Plan to
provide a framework for the Capacity Enhancement component agreed with IDA (Annex 5). Terms of
reference, a timeframe and funding for consultants to assist with the final steps of project preparation
have been agreed. These final steps are completion of the Business Plan for the Population and Family
Planning Sector of the MOHP, establishing capacity within the MOHP to oversee the PAP component,
and a review of "social change agent" experience to benefit the PAP component. This work will be
completed by June, 1996. The Government will strengthen the MOHP in accordance with the mission
statement in the Outline Business Plan. At negotiations the Government agreed that the MOHP
would implement the capacity building component in accordance with a Strategic Business Plan
satisfactory to IDA, and maintain a PIU with a Project Director and staff and resources under
terms of reference satisfactory to IDA.
5.2    The MOHP will contract with the SFD to administer the PAP component, including funds
management. An Executive Committee chaired by the Minister of Health and Population will provide
general management. Govemorate level committees will oversee the program at the local level and have
authority to approve projects of less than US$20,000. The SFD was selected because it is a competent
national secular organization. The SFD is a semi autonomous agency established in 1991 that is exempt
from Government personnel and procurement policies and regulations and is run on private sector lines.
It is responsible for managing US$650 million of funds. Its Community Development Department has a
proven management and financial track record, and selection/targeting criteria and operating and
monitoring procedures are in place. As feasible the SFD will use qualified NGOs to act as promoters and
"wholesalers". During the life of the project certain responsibilities for management of the PAP will be
transferred from the SFD to the MOHP. The SFD will provide training and other support to the MOHP
to help with this transition. These arrangements are set out in the Operating Manual (see Annex 8). At
negotiations the Government agreed to ensure that the SFD manage the Population Activities
Program in accordance with an Operating Manual satisfactory to IDA, and that the MOHP
conduct evaluations of the Program, using procedures and indicators satisfactory to IDA. The
Government also agreed to furnish IDA with annual reports on the implementation of the project
and ensure that the MOHP and the SFD carry out an annual review of the PAP. The Government
agreed to ensure that the SFD submits semi-annual and annual progress reports on the PAP within



14                                                                      Population Project
three months of the end of each semester or fiscal year. Annex 15 shows the project implementation
schedule.
Accounting and Auditing
5.3    The MOHP and the SFD would maintain separate accounts for all expenditures under the project.
Private external auditors acceptable to the Bank would conduct annual audits of all project accounts.
They would cover MOHP's project accounts; the SFD's project related accounts; procurement
compliance with the Guidelines; adequacy of internal controls system.  At negotiations the
Government agreed that auditors acceptable to IDA would conduct annual audits of project
accounts, including those for the Special Accounts, and that certified copies of the audit would be
submitted to IDA within nine months of the end of the Government's fiscal year. Under the PAP,
the SFD would maintain consolidated accounts for the component and detailed accounts for each sub-
project grant. Implementing NGOs and beneficiary agencies would be required by the SFD to establish
appropriate accounting systems in the subproject agreement. The SFD and the implementing NGOs
would assist beneficiary agencies to develop appropriate accounting systems.
Supervision Requirements and Monitoring
5.4    The project will be supervised three times in the first eighteen months, and twice a year
subsequently. Staff involved in the preparation of the project will be involved in project launch and
supervision. The project is well suited to supervision by the Egypt Resident Mission, which will be
given this responsibility at an early date. At negotiations the Government agreed to carry out a mid-
term review of the project to evaluate progress to date, to make recommendations for adjustments,
and to implement the actions agreed with the Bankl Annex 16 sets out the supervision plan and
Annex 17 contains draft terms of reference for the mid-term review.
6. SUSTAINABILITY AND PARTICIPATION
6.1    The resources, both investment and recurrent, ($0.3 million per year during the life of the project
and $0.05 million thereafter) required from the Government are affordable (less than 1.0 percent and
one-sixth of I percent respectively of current expenditures in the population sector). The population
sector falls within the priority human resource sectors slated for expanded resources under the current
Five Year Plan. The project does not include any expansion of family planning services, which donors
are committed to supporting for the next 3-4 years at about present levels. By contributing to the
efficiency of the MOHP, the project will help limit the incremental recurrent costs of the MOHP to a
level compatible with public sector budget constraints. Over the short term the population activities
program will help develop a sustainable supplement to public sector programs. Over the longer term it
will help to reduce future pressures on Government services and the natural resource base. The
sustainability of individual proposals under this program would be assessed when they are presented. A
principal assessment criterion is that beneficiaries must contribute to ensure financial sustainability. The
project incorporates two participatory tools - a beneficiary assessment and a community level monitoring
and evaluation system, which will build in continuous consultation and adjustment and ensure that
impact can be assessed. Annexes 10 and 11 provide further details. The Social Fund, which will



Population Project                                                                   15
implement the program, has a proven management and financial track record and will keep
administrative costs lean (under 10 percent of program costs).
6.2    The Bank has engaged the stakeholders and the principal donors in the capacity building
component in an ongoing dialogue over the past year. There is a consensus on the overall role and
strategic direction of the MOHP in the population sector. There has been broad consultation with the
stakeholders in the PAP component (the implementing agencies, interested public sector agencies,
potential NGOs, local community organizations and local Governorate offices of the Ministry of Social
Affairs, Ministry of Information, Ministry of Education with programs requiring support, beneficiary
communities and donors, which support similar interventions). This component will support an
expansion of an approach that has proved successful in a pilot phase. The basic approach is to work
closely with local organizations, which help families feel "empowered" to decide on family size and
related family issues. This is consistent with the Government's policy of "voluntary choice" with respect
to contraceptive use. The Bank's Economic Development Institute will support a Population Workshop
on plans for the next five years in Upper Egypt for a wide range of stakeholders at the same time as the
project launch.
7. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
Economic Analysis
7.1    Population growth is a fundamental problem facing Egypt today. Further reductions in the
fertility rate and improvements in planning for and managing population growth are basic to achieving
the overall sustainable growth and poverty reduction strategy adopted by the Government following its
successful stabilization program. Egypt must increase its contraceptive use rate by nearly 50 percent
(from 50 to 74 percent) over the next 20 years to achieve the Government's long-term goal of a net
replacement rate of one (equivalent to a two-child family) by 2015. The project is expected to contribute
to fertility reduction, to be cost effective and to improve the planning and management of population
growth. An internal rate of return (IRR) for the project has been calculated using the following
assumptions: (a) project benefits are based on the number of births averted in rural Upper Egypt; (b) 75
percent of project exrnditures will be in upper rural Egypt; and (c) the public expenditure saving per
birth averted is $470 . It is estimated that the project would account for about 15 percent of all births
averted in rural upper Egypt between 1996-2015. On this basis the project has an estimated IRR of 19
percent. If the number of births averted by the project declined to 10 percent of all births averted, the
IRR would be 12 percent. If on the other hand 15 percent of all births were averted by the project but the
saving per birth averted was $350, the IRR would be 14 percent. The economic analysis is conservative
as it assumes that the only benefit is aversion of births. It excludes maternal health or education benefits,
benefits to other family members or to the local community. The IRR is also likely to be underestimated
as savings are based on public expenditure only and do not take into account any private savings, which
are substantial.
7.2    The project will be monitored against four performance indicators for the capacity building
component and fourteen for the population activities program (eleven process and three outcome
9 'Me cost-benefit study of family planning in Egypt: NPC and RAPID IV



16                                                                      Population Project
indicators). A community level evaluation system will measure the impact of the population activities
program. It will measure change in three fertility preference outcome indicators and three resulting
behavioral indicators. Cost effectiveness will be measured by relating changes in these indicators to the
cost of particular interventions. Surveys will be done just before the mid term review and again at the
end of the project's life. Survey results will be compared with data covering communities not included
in the project using statistical analysis. This will cover descriptive tables for fertility and fertility
preferences, their levels and differentials, trends and tabular comparisons between project and non-
project communities, and multivariate analysis to isolate to the extent possible any project effects. The
surveys and beneficiary assessment will be supplemented by a few qualitative studies, which will
concentrate on a few of the most interesting project communities to document plan versus actual
operation, effective mechanisms, and any side effects of the project whether bad or good on social
patterns in the community. The capacity building component is not susceptible to economic analysis but
is necessary to help achieve the goals of the national population program and includes explicit cost
control objectives.
Benefits
7.3    The project would, first of all, contribute to increasing the present level of contraceptive use. It
would do so by addressing the root causes of families' fertility decisions and in doing so would facilitate
and catalyze the effectiveness of already available family planning services. Secondly, the project would
contribute to broadening support for family planning among hitherto reluctant audiences, by
incorporating the social complexity which leads to fertility decisions in the first place. Third, the project
would develop capacity within the MOHP to produce good quality population planning, analysis and
evaluation within the Government, and the introduction of the population dimension into national
economic and sectoral planning. Fourth, the project would raise the visibility of population issues and
the level of debate among national decision makers, and enlarge the voice of NGOs and similar
organizations in that debate and in population policy planning. Fifth, the project would coordinate and
concentrate now scattered population activities undertaken by NGOs and PVOs, and encourage
operational public-private partnerships and cooperation in pursuit of the common goal of accelerating
Egypt's demographic transition. Sixth, the project would contribute to improved donor coordination in
the population sector. Seventh, the project will stimulate concurrent improvements in the social,
employment, education and health status of women and children.
Risks
7.4    The main risk in the capacity building component is the inherent difficulty of establishing an
efficient and effective public sector organization in Egypt. This risk has been addressed in the following
ways. There is a prior consensus between the Government, IDA and other donors on the broad roles of
the MOHP and of the other ministries and agencies involved in the population sector. There is up-front
agreement on the functions, management and staffing structure of the new Population and Family
Planning Department in the MOHP incorporated in the Three Year Business Plan, which will be the
"blueprint" for implementation.
7.5    The PAP component faces three short term risks: insufficient demand, lack of selectivity when
choosing projects and ineffective project implementation (including poor targeting). There are many



Population Project                                                                    17
organizations in Egypt operating population related programs, and the demand issue will be more one of
supporting the most effective and ensuring that they operate in areas of need. There is a "pipeline" of
projects with a cost of about $5 million, which are being prepared and will be ready by about June, 1996.
The project selectivity and implementation risks have been addressed by devising clear criteria for
project selection and by entrusting implementation to the SFD, which now has a proven track record in
working with private and public sector agencies at the community level. It is effective at promotion,
project evaluation, targeting and supervision. The sustainability of individual sub-projects would be
reviewed during appraisal, and the SFD would provide technical support to strengthen the capacity of
NGOs for fund raising, operations and administration.
7.6    The third risk would be if effective family planning services were not accessible to new clients.
This risk is being minimized by the enlarged role given to NGOs and the private sector in providing
clinical services as well as by the MOHP's "Quality Improvement Project", which is raising quality
standards at 3,200 MOH health clinics. The first phase of the USAID supported project in 2200 clinics
resulted in MOH clinics increasing their share of clients from 24 to 32 percent of all clients served
nationally.
8. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
8.1    During negotiations the Government agreed:
(a) that the MOHP would implement the capacity building component in accordance with a
Strategic Business Plan satisfactory to IDA, and maintain a PIU with a Project Director and staff
and resources under terms of reference satisfactory to IDA (para. 5.1);
(b) that the Social Fund for Development would manage the Population Activities Program in
accordance with an Operating Manual satisfactory to IDA, and that the MOHP would conduct
evaluations of the Program, using procedures and indicators satisfactory to IDA (para. 5.2);
(c) to furnish IDA with annual reports on the implementation of the project and ensure that the
MOHP and the Social Fund for Development carry out annual reviews of the Population
Activities Program (para. 5.2);
(d) that the Social Fund for Development would submit semi-annual and annual progress reports on
the Population Activities Program within three months of the end of each semester or fiscal year
(para. 5.2); and
(e) to carry out a mid-term review of the project to evaluate progress to date, to make
recommendations for adjustments, and to implement the actions agreed with IDA (para. 5.4);
Recommendation
8.2   Subject to the above assurances and conditions, the proposed project would constitute a suitable
basis for an IDA Credit of US$17.2 million equivalent to the Government of Egypt on standard IDA
terms.



ANNEX I
Page I of 6
Pvliiiistry  of                                                        ae1o 
Population & Family Planniiig
Cairo, Egypt
9.10.1995
Mr. Caio Koch-Weser
Vice President
North Africa and Middle East Region
World Bank
Dear Mr. Koch-Weser,
In the context of the renewed collaboration in the population sector between the
Government of Egypt and the World Bank, I would like to update you on the
Governnent's current population policy, status and issues.
The Government considers the annual population growth of 2.2 percent (1992) as
one of the central constraints to the country's performance in per capita income,
productivity, education and health. The Government remains firmly committed to
reducing fertility levels - through encouraging and facilitating the voluntary practice of
safe and effective contraception - and to managing the inevitable increase in population
size in a perspective of minimizing negative environmental impact. The President, H.E.
Mr. Hosni Mubarak and influential religious leaders such as the Grand Mufti and the
Pope of the Coptic Church frequently call attention to the importance of family planning
and the consequences of rapid population growth.
Earlier Developments in the Population Sector.
The first systematic effort on the part of the Egyptian Government to address
population issues dates from 1953 when the National Commission for Population Affairs
was established. The Commission considered that population growth was an obstacle in
raising overall standards of living and its conclusions generated dialogue in the country
and a rising awareness of the issue. In 1965, the Supreme Council for Family Planning
was established as a coordinating body for population policy; the Council was chaired by
the Prime Minister and included the Ministers of Health, Education, Information, Waqf,
Planning, Local Government, Agriculture, Social Affairs and the chairman of CAPMAS.
In each of the 25 governorates a similar group was formed: the governorate Family
Planning Advisory Commnittee. The focus was on broadening access to family planning
services affordable to the population. Though modest increases in contraceptive
prevalence were achieved and access to services improved, the results of this first .phase
of the program were considered disappointing.



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 6
Ministry  of
Populatioii &  Family  Planiiing
Efforts over the next decade were directed at changing the underlying social
factors in high fertility in addition to promoting and providing family planning services
mainly through community outreach. The new broad approach to population issues, the
Population and Development Planning (PDP) initiative, received major donor support
with the World Bank participating through two projects (1973-77 and 1979-84). By the
late 1970s, USAID also became a donor to PDP and the overall Egyptian population
effort and remains the largest donor until these days. Evaluations and surveys
undertaken in the early/mid 1980s to assess the impact of the PDP approach could not
find evidence that contraceptive prevalence or fertility had been affected by the
program's social development activities nor that economic development had improved.
In hindsight, it is acknowledged that access to quality family planning services had been
relatively neglected and that socio-economic activities were too scattered and low
intensity to have measurable impact. The practical weaknesses of the program had
overwhelmed the apparent conceptual strength of the approach.
Since 1985 contraceptive prevalence has risen sharply - to 47 percent in 1992 - and
fertility has fallen dramatically - to 3.7 children per women in 1992 - which is credited to
a number of program improvements and developments: refocused mass media programs,
private sector/NGO involvement, expanded method choice and quality of services and
greater management capacity and commitment in the MOH. In addition, the creation of
the National Population Council (NPC) in 1985 (taking over from the Supreme Council)
- with fill authority to manage all the functions of the family planning board - and, most
importantly, the enhanced political commitment by Egypt's highest leadership - the
President and the Governors - were major factors in legitimizing the use of contraception
at the community level. This, together with changes in the social environment, had a
cumulative effect on contraceptive prevalence and fertility. Though the results of the
efforts over the last decade have been encouraging, the challenges for the future remain
immense. For instance, to achieve the contraceptive prevalence goals, the number of
contraceptive acceptors is projected to increase from 4.5 million in 1994 to 6.7 million in
2003 which implies reaching more rural, poor and illiterate clients.
Current Population Efforts and Chalenges
Strong political commitment and increased awareness of the importance of
population issues to the national development effort culminated in October, 1993 in the
creation of a Ministry of Population and Family Planning which, together with the NPC,
are under my leadership as Mnister of State and Secretary General respectively.
Elevation of the status of the program has the advantage that the population program
now has a direct voice in the Cabinet. The MOPFP is charged with strategic leadership
in the multi-sectoral population sector and with oversight responsibilites for farmily



ANNEXI
Ministry  of                                                           Page 3 of 6
Population & Family Planiiiiig                                                 -
planning service delivery of the MOH and NGOs/private sector. The NPC - Technical
Secretariat is being reorganized as a strategic think-tank on inter-sectoral population
issues in close coordination with the MOPFP.
The quantitative goals of the overall population program are by 2007 to reduce the
annual rate of population growth to 1.8 percent, to increase contraceptive prevalence to
65 percent and to reduce the total fertility rate to 2.7 children per women. Nine
strategies have been adopted to guide future action. Six of those strategies are
concerned  with creating a social context conducive to fertility decline: Population
Information &  Communications; Family Planning; Maternal and Child Welfare;
Education and Eradication of Mlliteracy; Improving the Status of Women; and Youth
Programs.  The other three strategies are concemed with minimizing the negative
consequences of population growth and density: Labor and Employment; Land Use and
Population Distribution; and Environmental Protection. The role of MOPFP is to ensure
that the various ministries concemed take into account the relevant population facts in
their respective functions and contribute their share of efforts needed to realize the
potential of the synergistic national strategy to reduce population growth and ensure the
sustainability of Egypt's development efforts.
Main Issues in the Population Sector
Four main issues presently limit the ability of the sector to achieve the stated
objectives
Role and Capabilities of MOPFP.  The new Ministry is in the process of
operationalizing its role and mission and of implementing a new organizational structure.
This will require staff with a background in different disciplines, efficient management
and administrative systems, modem human resource management practices and further
introduction of office technology and communication systems. Recruiting highly
qualified staff to carry out those functions - and retaining such staff - is hindered by the
low level of salaries in the public sector and the competition from the private sectors and
donor agencies which also are in need of such expertise.
Improving and Expanding FP/MCH services.   Though Egypt now has an
extensive network of health care facilities and much improved quality of services, the
challenge of meeting client expectations for an expanded range of services of higher
quality for the vastly expanding universe of clients - because of the age structure and the
higher prevalence to be achieved- remains a severe financial and operational challenge.
Furthermore, even if clients live close to service points, cultural and financial barriers to
making use of those services remain significant and face-to-face counseling continues to
be a necessity, particularly in more conservative areas of the country.



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 6
Ministry  of
Populationi &  Family  Plaiiiiing
.                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-IN
Privte Sector Capacity.   NGOs as well as the for-profit private sector have
played an important role in the achievements so far - as pioneers and service providers.
It is Government policy to firther involve NGOs in achieving the goals of the population
policy. However, both NGOs and the private sector have been heavily subsidized posing
financial limitations to their participation and absorptive capacity is still quite limited.
The potential exists to extend public-private partnerships to new and inexperienced
NGOs - many of which were formed in the aftermath of the International Conference on
Population and Development - but this will require capacity building over an extended
period.
Decentralization.   Though Egypt is relatively homogeneous in terms of language
and culture, there are pronounced underlying differences in values regarding the family
and the status of women which affects the utilization of family planning services. in
particular in high fertility areas, promotion and delivery of family planning services needs
to fit the perspectives of the local populations and overcome barriers of illiteracy,
customs favoring early age at marriage, and limited mobility of women. Addressing the
diversity of local needs and values will require decentralization and systematic testing of
innovative approaches to lower social barriers to the use of family planning and to
change reproductive behavior.
Future Policy Directions
The Government will take the following approaches to the issues identified above:
Institutional Development. MOPFP and NPC are undertaking a concerted effort
to acquire the expertise and systems needed for effective and efficient implementation of
the Government's population policy and to maximize the impact of the new Ministry and
role of NPC. The new organizational structure for MOPFP/NPC - which corresponds to
carefilly identified roles and functions - is being implemented through the development
of clear mission statements and operational plans for each department. Recruitment and
reassignment of staff is underway. The overall and departmental operational plans will
be expressed through a three-year Business Plan with quantifiable goals and identified
products to be updated year-by year. These efforts are being supported by UNFPA and
the Government has requested assistance from the World Bank to supplement and add to
the scale and scope of the institutional development effort.
Expanding and Improving FP/MCH Services. The MOH will continue to be the
key provider of clinical family planning methods through its network of facilities which
now are reasonably accessible to the large majority of the populatiori. Concerted efforts
will be made to meet the reproductive health needs of women and to improve the quality
of services overall through a pased program of pre- and in-service training of staff and



ANNEX I
Page 5 of 6
Miniistry  of
Population & Family Planninilg                                             -
through upgrading of facilities and equipments. The contraceptive method mix will be
further expanded through the introduction of long-acting contraceptives new to the
program e.g. injectables and implants. USAID and other bi-lateral donors are assisting
the MOH and private sector providers to achieve those goals. In addition, mobile
reproductive health services are being expanded to reach remote and nomadic
populations who have difficulty in accessing the network of static facilities. These
mobile services are supported by the Governors and receive assistance from a variety of
bi-lateral donors and private sources. MOPFP is also active in facilitating the creation
of FP/MCH clinics in the workplace such as agricultural cooperatives and small
factories.
Strengthening the Private Sector.  Ifn accordance with Government policy and
MOPFP's record of partnership with the private sector, MOPFP will henceforth register,
support and coordinate NGOs active in the population sector. The Governent intends
to strengthen private sector involvement through a two-pronged approach: capacity
strengthening to improve cost-effectiveness of NGO operations; and, a sharper focus on
meeting the needs of the poorest sectors of the society. To that end, the Government
has requested World Bank support for a Population Activities Program - which would
address social factors inhibiting the use of family planning - to finance a number of sub-
projects designed on the basis of systematic beneficiary assessments and with strong
participation of the target communities. MOPFP will engage the assistance of the Social
Fund to administer the support to NGOs making use of instruments developed by the
Social Fund to promote, facilitate, appraise and monitor NGO sub-projects which would
be targeted at high fertility and poor areas in particular in Upper Egypt.
Decentralization.   It is Government policy to decentralize implementation of
population activities to the governorate level to the extent possible. MOPFP is in the
process of strengthening its offices in the governorates which work closely with the
Governors and the inter-sectoral Population Committees at that level. USAID is
supporting that effort. These offices take the lead in developing population plans - to be
implemented by the relevant sectoral departments at that level - and monitor
implementation of those plans in close coordination with the Governors. To make
communications more efficient and speed up solution of problems encountered, MOPFP
intends to create a Local Area Network between the central office and the governorate
population offices.  It is to be noted that the performance of Governors is evaluated by
Government partially on the basis of their diligence in incorporating population concerns
into their initiatives.



ANNEX I
Page 6 of 6
Ministry of
Population & Family Planninig
Potential for Success
While further progress in lowering the rate of population growth remains a challenge, the
Govermment is confident that a major breakthrough can be achieved in the years ahead.
Determinants of fertility are moving in a positive direction: female literacy, education
and participation in the workforce are up while infant and child mortality are down. Less
measurable, but noticeable, is a spreading public preference for smaller families - with
healthier and  better educated mothers and children - and political commitment is
broadening. In addition, family planning service delivery has achieved a solid capacity
and can be relied upon to build and improve on the achievements so far. The potential
for future success is further strengthened by the fact that donor support to the
population sector remains strong and - as demonstrated by the joint USAID, UNFPA,
World Bank Mission in 1994 - donor agencies are effectively collaborating with the
Government and each other to support the Egyptian program in a coordinated way.
The Government appreciates the intention of the World Bank to renew its technical and
financial support to the program after an interval of more than a decade and, because of
it, is the more confident that the demographic transition will be completed in Egypt in
the foreseeable future.
Yours Sincerely,
r  Dr.=Maher Mahran
Minister of State for Population and Family Planning
cc. - H.E Dr. Atef Sedki, Prime Minister
-H.E.Dr. Yousef Boutros-Ghali, Minister of International Cooperation
.                                                                            ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



ANNEX2
Page 1 of 10
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
POPULATION PROJECT
FERTILITY DETERMINANTS AND STRATEGIES TO ADDRESS THEM
1.    Egypt's population is about 56 million and is projected to reach 73 million by 2010 and
86 million by 2025. Population pressures on the education and health systems, social services, the
employment market and labor migration, urban areas, and the natural resource base will intensify
the foreseeable future. Recognizing the impending problems, the Government of Egypt has made
population a national priority, setting targets for raising contraceptive prevalence to 65 percent by
2007, which should bring total fertility down to 2.7 and population growth to 1.8 percent.
2.     This challenge can be met, with appropriate effort, because fertility is already on the
decline. The forces behind this decline are similar to those in some other developing countries: a
family planning program that, after many fits and starts, seems to have hit its stride; long-term
improvements in human capital; and, at the same time, a perceived economic squeeze on
households that discourages having large families. The prospects for fertility are also typical of the
prospects in many other countries: continued fertility decline appears likely but is not guaranteed.
The path to replacement-level fertility is still long, and stalls in decline are always possible. In fact,
as will be discussed below, some factors that could produce stalls are already evident.
3.     Recent trends in the total fertility rate, from national survey data, are shown in Figure 1
(El-Zanaty et al. 1993:34). The downward trend is unmistakable (but the sharp downturn at the
end may be illusory, due to variations in survey procedures). Nevertheless, total fertility remains
high, just under four children per woman. And fertility is of course variable across regions, being
higher than the national average by 50 percent, or two children per woman, in rural Upper Egypt
(Figure 2; El-Zanaty et al. 1993:33).
Figure 1. Total fertility rate, 1979-92
1.23
1.0
4.J
4A'
4.2
4.0
7J
iF7B  1060  602  064  064  606  ItO  1002



ANNEX-2
Page 2 of 10
Figure 2. Total fertility rate by region, 1990-92
Urbon governorates
Urbon Lower Egypt
Rural Lower Egypt
Urban Upper Egypt
Rural Upper Egypt
0        1       2        3        4        5        6
4.      Because all these total fertility rates are still so far above replacement fertility-and because
of previous population momentum--population growth is still rapid. Figure 3 illustrates this by
comparing crude birth and death rates: the gap between the rates remains large and allows
population growth of 2.1 percent a year (Robinson and El-Zanaty et al. 1995:15).
Figure 3. Crude birth and death rates, 1980-93
50__                                           _ _ _ _ _ _ _
45
40-                       398
3.
35~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
30-
25-
20
10.0
10 -      -              9i4_  
S-                                Crude deoth rote
078
1978   1980   1982   1984   1986   19B8   1990   1962   1994



ANNEX2
Page 3 of 10
Fertility decline
5.     Recent fertility decline has been predominantly due to increased contraceptive use. As the
topmost line in Figure 4 shows, contraceptive prevalence has risen fairly steadily and is now close
to 50 percent. Analysis of the "proximate determinants" of fertility, which attempts to partition
change in fertility into its inmmediate behavioral causes, confirms that contraceptive use has played
the largest role in fertility decline in Egypt as a whole (Osheba 1992). In 1980, contraceptive use
accounted for under 30 percent of the difference between actual fertility and maximum theoretical
fertility (around 15 children per woman); marriage delay accounted for 40 percent and
breastfeeding for 30 percent. By 1992, however, contraceptive use accounted for 45 percent of the
difference between actual and maximum fertility, marriage delay for 35 percent, and breastfeeding
for 20 percent (Robinson and El-Zanaty 1995:74). The importance of contraceptive use increased
substantially even in Upper Egypt, though in that region its contribution to lower fertility is still
roughly on a par with that of marriage delay.
Figure 4. Contraceptive prevalence, total and selected methods
50
40
30  217.9
20       2 22.8 
16 66           1 6.5              51
1 0                                                       1 2.9
411
0        r I- i                   r             -v--  w--  -     -
1978    1980    1982    1984    1986    1988    1990    1992    1994
K -- All methods    - Modern melhods  r Pills  -X lUDs
6.     Figure 4 raises the question whether contraceptive use has reached a plateau. The last two
surveys appear to have shown little increase. However, various reasons exist to doubt that this is
anything more than a statistical aberration. As Figure 1 showed, fertility actually declined more
sharply than usual over roughly the same period. Also, the second line in Figure 4 shows that
prevalence of modern contraceptive methods did not plateau. It kept increasing, suggesting that
any decline in prevalence was due largely to traditional methods, the identification of which is



NNEX 2
Page 4 of 10
notoriously unreliable from survey to survey. The bottom two lines in Figure 4 provide the most
important evidence. IUD use has expanded significantly, while pill use continued a secular decline.
Given the substantial evidence that many Egyptian women do not follow the proper regimen for
contraceptive pills, this switch to a more reliable method could in fact account for lower fertility.
At the same time, one should not entirely discount the possibility that pill use may have declined
for supply-side reasons, because of some disorganization in provision.
7.    Improved supply of contraceptives has been an important reason for fertility decline over
the 1980s and into the 1990s. The family planning program has been massively supported by
international donors and seemed finally, in the mid-1980s, to have put all the essential pieces
together. Figure 5 juxtaposes the contraceptive supply situation with the growth in contraceptive
prevalence (estimated from service statistics) over the same period (Robinson and El-Zanaty
1995:42). While both grew together, the difference in their tracks is an important comment on the
initial ineffectiveness of the family planning program and its much improved performance in the
last decade.
Figure 5. Family planning service delivery points and estimated contraceptive prevalence
4500                                               --- 60
-50
4000 1
X40
3500
Family planning                                   30
3000  service points  //Estimoled
se                            2/ contraceptive  -20
I / / ~~~~~~~~~~~prevoulence
2500'/~l
2000 -- T-   -T                                   -v,,,C
1965    1970    1975    1980    1985    1990
8.     Robinson and El-Zanaty (1995) chronicle the changes in population program strategy over
the period represented in Figure 5. Beginning in the mid-1960s with the growth of population
awareness and an official commitment to family planning, the program has gone through three
distinct phases, each lasting about a decade. Initially the Government of Egypt created an
interministerial Supreme Council for Family Planning and began to deliver services through
Ministry of Health facilities (and to some extent through NGOs supervised by the Ministry of



ANNEX2
Page 5 of 10
Social Affairs). With these services treated as incremental to other health services, funding was
limited, staff were inadequately trained, and even the contraceptive supply was uncertain.
9.     Results were predictably disappointing, and the program was transformed in the mid-
1970s, adopting a trendy "population and development" approach. Instead of focusing on
contraceptive supply, the program now emphasized creating demand with a broad range of local
development activities. Village outreach workers (called raidat, or "pioneers") were added and
assigned to work with village women not only on family planning but also on "nutrition, sanitation,
environmental concerns, female income-generation activities, maternal and child health" (Robinson
and El-Zanaty 1995:32). Since many earlier weaknesses of the contraceptive supply system were
not addressed, and since the raidat, though strongly motivated, were clearly overstretched, this
phase of the program made limited progress and was quietly deemphasized by the mid-1980s.
10.   The third phase saw management of the program passing to a new National Population
Council. Perhaps the most significant result was new leadership with a considerable appetite for
public promotion of family planning. In previous phases, IEC efforts were low-key and general,
not focused specifically on promotion of contraceptive use. By the time the new council was
instituted, however, IEC strategies had developed and a variety of media were used to provide
direct factual straightforward information, underpinned by stronger and more frequent
endorsements from top leaders. At the same time, contraceptive supply improved in two critical
ways: social marketing of pills quickly became a major source for the public, and an improved
IUD became increasingly popular. This third phase of the program appears to have been associated
with the most recent, most rapid growth in contraceptive use. Yet this success itself probably
represents not an entirely new departure but the cumulative effect of many previous investments
in the program.
11.   To some extent the growth in contraceptive use also reflects general improvements in
human capital. As Figure 6 shows, infant mortality has fallen over the decades, while female
education and literacy have risen. Attitudes toward fertility have changed, creating receptivity as
family planning services have also become more available.



ANNEX2
Page 6 of 10
Figure 6. Female education, literacy and infant mortality, 1960-90
1 80                                           60
1960    195    90     17    19       95     90
Fertilyty reoosnpet
1 4 0\/                                       - 40
1 20                                     F./1  so
XoO0                     t-20
80                                        \        0t
6                                             0'     
1 9 60   1 9 65   1 970    9'75  1 980  19 85  1990
Fertility prospects
12.    Declines in fertility as substantial as those in Egypt over the last two decades are unlikely
to be reversed and are usually followed by further declines at least until replacement-level fertility
is reached. Nevertheless the pace of future declines is uncertain, and stalls often characterize the
process. Stalls can occur, and have occurred in developing countries, for all kinds of different
reasons: because of limits on the types of contraceptives available, which fail to meet the needs of
all potential users; because of ethnic, regional, cultural, religious, or linguistic barriers that
hamper the diffusion of the idea of fertility control; because of son preference, which sets a limit
on how low fertility can fall; or because of contraceptive supply interruptions. Enough such factors
exist in the Egyptian setting to cause concern.
13.    Consider first issues of contraceptive supply. The Egyptian program remains essentially
a two-method program, with IUDs and pills accounting for 87 percent of all contraceptive use.
Sterilization--now the leading method in many developing countries (even in some other strongly
Islamic ones)--is largely unavailable, and interestingly, at the other end of the continuum of
methods, condoms can hardly be discussed in public. Couples who need, want, or could be
attracted by such methods as these are correspondingly more difficult to reach. Injectables are
slowly being introduced, and could fill some of the need, but the program may limp along
essentially with one hand tied behind its back.
14.    A reliable supply of the contraceptives in the program is not currently guaranteed. Relying
substantially on foreign donors, the program has gradually irnproved its logistics but is vulnerable
to interruptions should donor policies change. The potential problems were heralded a few years



ANNEX 2
Page 7 of 10
ago when the local agency responsible for social marketing had to be replaced, and supplies were
temporarily disrupted.
15.    A related problem is the poor quality of family planning and related reproductive health
services, particularly in the public sector. The network of facilities is in general sufficiently dense
across Egypt to provide reasonable access to family planning, but technical standards and the
quality of care require considerable improvement, and reproductive health care is generally
deplorable (Zurayk, Younis, and Khattab 1994). The limitations probably contribute to much
ineffective contraceptive use.
16.    Potential barriers to increasing contraceptive demand also exist, including regional
differences. Figure 7 shows how contraceptive prevalence and unmet need for contraception vary
across governorates (excluding the frontier governorates, which were not covered in the
Demographic and Health Survey; the data are from unpublished tabulations). In practically all the
urban governorates and the governorates of Lower Egypt, contraceptive prevalence is above 50
percent; in all but one of the governorates of Upper Egypt, contraceptive prevalence is below 35
percent. Unmet need, which averages around 15 percent in the urban governorates and in Lower
Egypt, averages around 25 percent in Upper Egypt. Whereas satisfying unmet need would bring
prevalence in Lower Egypt up to 70 percent, in Upper Egypt it would bring prevalence only up
to 55 percent. Clearly demand for family planning still needs to be increased, particularly in Upper
Egypt.
Figure 7. Contraceptive prevalence and umnet need by governorate, 1992
90 1 -    
90 T   Urban
so    Goveernorotes   Lower Egypt            Upper Egypt
7 0 -~~
701
30 -~
20 -~
10 -~
0   t  r i
Cairo Porl Soid    DamitlaoSha,kKofr-[I Shihnouli  Ismailia  Bei Suel ktenyc  Souhog  Aswon
AI.oodrio S,ez  0Oak.hNi. Kcyubio Gho,bio  Behero  Gio   Foyoum  Assiul   Oeno



ANNEX-2
Page 8 of 10
17.   Some further understanding of the psychosocial barriers to expanding contraceptive use
can be obtained by looking at women's reasons for not using family planning. Table I compares
reasons from the Egypt Demographic and Health Survey with reasons given in other recent Middle
Eastem surveys (Westoff and Bankole 1995:16). Four things are especially worthy of note. First,
health concems are prominent in Egypt, but no more than in other countries; concem with side
effects, in particular, appears muted by comparison. Second, infrequent sex is a common answer,
more common than in the other Middle Eastem countries and indeed than in any of two dozen
countries surveyed recently. Combined with the frequency with which women report difficulty in
getting pregnant, these responses indicate a need for better understanding of sexual relations and
possible sexual problems. Third, a fatalistic view of childbearing is more common in Egypt than
in any other country. This may reflect cultural pattems that need to be understood and addressed
by IEC efforts. Finally, religious and social opposition are decidedly minor factors in nonuse.
However, this may change, and the influence of militant Islamic ideology merits attention,
especially in parts of Upper Egypt.



ANNEX-2
Page 9 of 10
Table 1. Reasons for not using contraception, Egypt and three other Middle
Eastern countries, around 1990
Egypt          Jordan    Morocco          1hrey
Percent not intending to use       43.8            54.9        44.8           37.0
Wants children                     12.0            11.2        23.9           14.0
Difficult to get pregnant          25.3            27.1         3.9           32.6
Infrequent sex                     13.0             2.6         8.0           12.5
Health concerns                    15.5            11.5        18.0            3.1
Fatalistic                         12.7             9.1         0.7            5.4
Partner opposed                     6.3             8.0        11.7            4.9
Side effects                        5.3             7.4        18.5            5.0
Religion                            1.4             6.8         4.1            6.9
Opposed to family planning          0.8             1.1         0.7            0.4
Inconvenience                       0.5             1.5         0.5            1.6
Lack of knowledge                   0.3             2.0         6.3            4.3
Costs too much                      0.2             0.2         0.7            0.4
Others opposed                      0.1             0.2         0.2            0.0
Hard to get                         0.0             0.0         0.2            1.1
Other reasons                       3.5             6.1         2.2            3.7
Don't know                          2.4             5.1         0.0            4.0
18.    All these individual obstacles to greater contraceptive use would be less daunting if there
were some agency capable of anticipating them, planning to overcome them, and marshalling
resources and efforts from all the other agencies involved in family planning to implement
preventive or corrective measures. Such an agency now exists in the new Ministry of Health and
Population.
19.    Donors have not been insensitive to the pitfalls lying in wait for the Egypt population
program. USAID is continuing its substantial involvement with the program, including providing
contraceptives and improving the quality of clinical services. UNFPA is committed to
strengthening central program management. Other donors such as the European Union and some
European countries have targeted particular governorates and are attempting to improve services
or promote contraceptive demand. How such contributions mesh with government resolve and
private-sector efforts will determine whether the fourth phase of the population program, which
can be said to have started with the new ministry, will continue the successes of the third phase.



ANNEX 2
Page 10 of 10
References
Cochrane, Susan H., and Emest E. Massiah. 1995. Egypt: Recent changes in population growth.
HRO Working Paper 49. Washington, D.C.: World Bank.
El-Zanaty, Fatma H., et al. 1993. Egypt Demographic and Health Survey 1992. Cairo, Egypt and
Calverton, Md.: National Population Council and Macro Inernational.
Osheba, I. K. 1992. The proximate determinants of fertility change in the regions of Egypt. Cairo
Demographic Center Working Paper 26. Cairo.
Robinson, Warren C., and Fatma H. El-Zanaty. 1995. The Impact of Policy and Program on
Fertility in Egypt: The Egyptian Family Planning Success Story. Cairo, Egypt, and
Washington, D.C.: National Population Council, USAID/Cairo, and Options for
Population Policy.
Westoff, Charles F., and Akinrinola Bankole. 1995. Unmet need: 1990-1994. Demographic and
Health Surveys Comparative Study 16. Calverton, Md.: Macro International.
Zurayk, Huda, Nabil Younis, and Hind Khattab. 1994. Rethinking family planning policy in the
light of reproductive health research. Intemational Social Science Journal 46(3):423-438.



ANNEX-3
Page I of 3
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
POPULATION PROJECT
THE INSTITUTIONAL FRAMEWORK IN
THE POPULATION SECTOR
1.    The institutional environment in the population sector in Egypt is well developed.
However the effectiveness of the different institutions varies. A consistently weak area has been
the successive institutions responsible for sectoral leadership and population policy and
planning. Part of this weakness stemmed from Government policy which until about eight years
ago emphasised fertility reduction occurring as a result of economic development The National
Population Council (NPC), established in 1984, although effective at stimulating change at the
local level, was not so effective at providing national leadership. To remedy this situation the
Government established a Ministry of Population and Family Planning (MOPFP) in November,
1993 and then merged it into the Ministry of Health to create a new Ministry of Health and
Population (MOHP) in January, 1996 as part of a streamlining reform.  The premier
demographic research institution in Egypt, the Cairo Demographic Center (CDC) reports to the
Central Agency for Public Mobilization and Statistics (CAPMAS), Egypt's central statistical
organization. The purpose of raising population to ministerial status is to ensure that the
Government plays an active leadership role and helps accelerate the demographic transition in
Egypt. The Population Department of the MOHP is in the process of capacity building.
Progress is being made in defining structure, functions and staffing of the ministry and
appointments to key management positions were made in January, 1996. A Three Year
Business Plan is being prepared to provide a strategic framework to guide the Ministry (Annex
5). Well qualified consultants will play an important role initially in helping with capacity
building.
2. As the primary governmental body responsible for family planning service delivery, the
MOHIP has over 3800 public health care facilities including hospitals, outpatient clinics, health
bureaus, MCH centers, health centers and units. Through this range of facilities, the MOHP's
Population and Family Planning department, with support from USAID and UNFPA, offers
integrated family planning serves throughout urban and rural Egypt. The MOHP is also
responsible for the importation, approval and quality control of locally produced contraceptives.
Clinical training in family planning is carried out by the Regional Training Center at Ain Shams
University.
3.    The NPC will remain an interministerial body with policy research, advocacy, and
interministerial coordination functions. The NPC is obtaining institutional development support
from USAID.
4.    At the governorate level, local population councils chaired by the Governor direct and
coordinate efforts and aid in the formulating of detailed planning and programming for their
governorates. The governorate offices also provide staff, information and office space available
to carry out these activities. All governorates have organized Women's' Committees that work
to mobilize communities to become actively involved in solving population related problems and
utilizing family planning services. All governorates have a network of Local Information
Centers (LIC) operated by the State Information Service of the Ministry of Information (MOI),



ANNEX3
Page 2 of 3
which coordinate and conduct a wide range of Information, Education and Communications
(IE&C) programs at the community level. In many governorates links have been established
with other institutions. For example family planning clinics have been set up in local agriculture
cooperatives and factories, and village level IE&C activities are carried out by Ministry
community social workers in association with NGOs. Although the level of local government
involvement in population activities is very variable, the level of effectiveness is steadily
improving.
5.    Of the other agencies involved in the population sector, the most important is the State
Information Service (SIS) of the Ministry of Information MOI). The SIS manages and operates
a full spectrum of IE&C programs at the national and local levels in cooperation with both
public, private and NGO agencies. These range from national mass media campaigns and
television productions to targeted community level programs through the LICs.
6.    The Ministry of Social Affairs (MOSA) and the Ministry of Local Government (MLG)
operate a variety of population related programs. These range from targeted income supplement
and training to child care, illiteracy and rural resettlement programs. They are of varying
effectiveness. The MOSA also regulates Non Governmental Organizations (NGOs) under Law
32 of 1964. However the MOHP has been given supervisory authority over population and
development NGOs including those that provide contraceptive services such as the Egyptian
Family Planning Association. MOSA is also responsible for the training of workers and
community leaders involved in population policy implementation and family planning. The
Ministry of Education incorporates population education into both formal and non formal
education.
7.    The private sector and NGOs play an important role. Private doctors and pharmacies
provide 63 percent of contraceptives under the family planning program and are an important
source of IE&C as well to the population at large. There are about 400 NGOs of various sizes
and capacity in the population sector. In addition to providing services, many of the NGOs are
involved in general education, social marketing and IE&C activities. Religious organisations are
also an important source of population and family planning services through mosque based
health and welfare centers.
8.    The Social Fund for Development (SFD) is an autonomous institution established in
1991 (with the assistance of the Bank and many donors) to create job opportunities, minimize
adverse effects of economic reform and raise the living standards of the poor (especially in rural
areas). The Social Fund's Community Development Departnent has a US$40 million program
supporting a wide array of community programs, many of which are related to population. It has
helped strengthen the role of NGOs working in population and development in Egypt. It has
effective management, operating, and financial policies and procedures in place. One major new
initiative is an innovative Family Development Project implemented by the Egyptian Family
Planning Assciation, a major NGO. It contains many components of a population demand
project, and is testing a new type of social change agent at the community level, who is a
qualified peer counselor and motivator dealing with all aspects of family life. The Social Fund
will establish a Population Program Office to implement the Population Activities Program
included in the proposed project.



ANNEXi3
Page 3 of 3
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
POPULATION PROJECT
POPULATION SECTOR-FUNCTIONAL MATRIX
Fundon/Agency               MOHP    NPC         SIS    GO VS   NGOs   Private   Pubic(l)         Eh
_____   ____ _   _ _ _ _  __ ___  _ ____Sham             s
A. Strategic Leadership
Policy Development                      X         X        X        X        X        X          X
National Population Program                       X
Legal/Regulatory Affairs                X
Strategic Plans                         X
National Advocacy                       X         X
Local Advocacy                          X         X        X        X        X
International Cooperation               X
Community Mobilization                  X         X                 X        X
Interorganizational Coordination                  X                 X
NGO/Private Sector Coordination         X
Research                                X         X        X
Domestic/International Resource         X
Plans
B. Service Delivery
Strategic Directions                    X
Program Development                    X(2)
Resource Mobilization                   X                           X        X                   X
Operations Plans                        X                  X        X        X        X          X
Clinical Services                       X                           X        X        X          X
Outreach                               X(3)                X        X        X        X
C. ProcurementtLogistics
Procurement Plan                        X
Procurement                            X(4)                                X(5)
Logistics                               X                                             X
D. Human Resource Development
Sector Manpower Planning                X
Management Training                     X                                    x
Population Training                     X
Clinical Training                       X                           X        X                   X          X
IEC Training                            X                  X        X        X
Other Training                          X                           X        X                   X
E. Monitorlng/Evaluation
Quality/Standards                       X                  X        X        X        X          X
Follow-Up and Monitoring                X                  X        X        X        X          X
Evaluation                              X         X        X        X        X                   X
EQOTNOTES
I.      Public includes Ministries of Defense, Interior etc.
2.      Translation of strategic directions into specific programs to be carried out by public and private sector service delivery
organizations.
3.      Includes MOHP experimental projects of limited scope and duration
4.      MOHP procures except for EFPA and other NGOs.
5.      IPPF supplies to EFPA.



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
POPULATION PROJECT
Management Structure of the Population and Family Planning Sector,
Ministry of Health and Population, Arab Republic of Egypt
IMINISTER 
|Minister's Technical Ofrice|I
POPULATION AND FAMILY
GA for Foreign Affairs and                              PLANNING SECTOR                                             Unit for Administration and
Agrements                                       PLNIG SECTO                                                       Decision Support
CA for Training, Research, and                    CA for IE&C and Population Education ||                    CA for Population and Family
Population Statistics                                                                                  Planning Services and Methods
GA for IE&C and IE&C Materils                GA for NGOs and Private    GA for Contraceptve and   GA for Public Sector
GA for Research                              Production                              Sector Services        Logistics Management           Services
| GAfor Training  lGA for Population Education and                                                            Forecastng and
GA for Training  Rned2t Rifisat          Planning Unit            Distribution Unit         Planning Unit
GA for Population Statistics                                                          Registration *nd Control  Availability and Prieing    Monitoring and
Unit                     Unit                 Evaluation Unit
|Monitoring and Evaluation    Monitoring and Control
Unit                      Unit
li7ooilo        a& and '~~n



ANNEX-5
Page 1 of 7
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
POPULATION PROJECT
MNISTRY OF HEALTH AND POPULATION (MOHP)
POPULATION AND FAMILY PLANNING SECTOR
OUTLINE BUSINESS PLAN
I.    INTRODUCTION
1.    National Population Objectives
The Ministry of Health and Population (MOHP) was created in January, 1996 as the Govenument
of Egypt's leading institution in the population sector. The Government's Population Policy
specifies quantitative targets for population growth, fertility and contraceptive prevalence - up to
the year 2012 - and has adopted nine strategies to guide future action. Six of those strategies are
concerned with creating a social context conducive to fertility decline: Population Information
and Communications; Family Planning; Maternal and Child Welfare; Education and Eradication
of Illiteracy; Improving the Status of Women; and Youth Involvement. The other three
strategies aim to minimize the negative consequences of already inevitable population growth
and resulting density: Labor and Employment; Land Use and Distribution; and, Environmental
Protection.
The family planning program is singled out as of the highest immediate priority because of the
significant level of unmet needs for family planning recorded for all parts of the country and
because improvements in the social context will lead to further demand for family planning and
will need to be met to achieve the desired fertility decline.
2.    Mission and Role of MOHP with respect to Population and Family Planning Sector
As presently formulated, the mission of MOHP with respect to the Population and Family
Planning Sector can be classified under six basic functions as in Table 1:



ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 7
Table 1. Main functions of the Population and Family Planning Sector in Ministry of Health and
Population (MOHP)
*   Report on population progress to Government and People's Assembly
*   Promote legal, policy and regulatory reform
*   Establish population, family planning and reproductive health objectives
*   Develop sectoral plans
*   Conduct and apply policy and JEC research
*   Review progress in sector
*   Conduct human resource development in sector
*   Conduct contraceptives planning, logistics and management
*   Conduct and support govemorate population planning
Service delivery and Support
*   Provide public sector family planning and reproductive health services
*   Provide technical support to private and NGO population program and family planning service providers
*   Support and provide IEC programs
Resource mobilization
*   Liaise with international agencies for resource mobilization purposes
*   Mobilize public sector resources and assist NGOs and private sector with resource mobilization
*   Monitor and evaluate public, NGO and private population program and family planning services
*   Monitor and evaluate IEC and population education
*   Promote population policies
* Promote demand for smaller family size and for family planning
There are in addition internal functions that need to be handled, such as administration, finance
and human resources development within the Population and Family Planning Sector of MOHP
itself.
3.      Organizational Structure of the Population and Family Planning Sector in MOHP
To implement the strategies and functions mentioned above, the Ministry is now in the process
of defining the division of work within the Population and Family Planning Sector, establishing
priorities and acquiring the staff expertise and systems needed to fulfill its mission. During the
on-going formative period, a flexible strategy has been adopted to gradually shift staff with
appropriate skills from other parts of the MOHP as well as some qualified staff from the former
Ministry of Population and Family Planning.
4.      Capabilities. To achieve its mission and shape the new organization into an efficient and
effective implementing agency, the following capabilities have to be developed in the different
Central Administration Departments of the Population and Family Planning Sector of the
Ministry:



ANEX 5
Page 3 of 7
Table 2. Capabilities to be developed in Population and Family Planning Sector of the Ministry of Health
and Population (MOHP)
Unit           Main function               Capabilities to develop
Undersecretary's  Decision Support System   Population Sector decision support system
Office
CA for Training, Policy, research, statistics  Ability to plan and manage policy, research and statistical programs and
Research and    services, sectoral manpower   sectoral manpower and training. Ability to interpret research reports from
Population      development and training    any source and formulate and present their policy implications within and
Statistics                                 outside MOHP.
Ability to manage extemal contracts for research and evaluation.
CA for IEC and   Planning, promotion, delivery, Ability to plan, promote, deliver, support and monitor national and local
Population      support and monitoring      IEC and Population Education Programs.
Education                                   Ability to conceptualize IEC needs and discuss them with professionals
who can design promotional campaigns.
Ability to promote and monitor population education programs.
Ability to formulate appropriate specifications for market research.
Ability to manage contracts with external agents for IEC campaigns and
market research.
Ability to plan, manage and evaluate national community development
worker programs.
CA for          Population and Family       A continuously updated database on population and family planning
Population and   Planning service delivery,  activities nationwide.
Family Planning  planning, support, monitoring   A system to manage population, family planning and reproductive health
Services and    and evaluation              services.
Methods                                    A monitoring system for population and family planning services.
Ability to formulate important operational research questions and
develop requests for proposals
Ability to manage external contracts for evaluation and research
Ability to digest, summarize, interpret, and present data on population
and family planning services in a timely manner
Ability to set quality standards for family planning and reproductive
health services
Ability to assess clinic, provider, and outreach worker performnance
against standards
Ability to coordinate service provision among all public and private
agencies
Ability to mobilize resources to pay for contraceptive commodities from
donors and government sources
Ability to provide central support to local level population and family
planning programs
Unit for       Internal administration and  Ability to conduct financial follow up
Administration   finance                    Ability to plan and manage funds (disbursements to executing agencies,
and Finance                                project accounts administration, internal auditing)
Ability to manage and support grantees
5.     Staffing
The staff strength for the Population and Family Planning Sector of MOHP will be about 150, of
which about 50 will have been appointed by the end of FY 1995/96. The distribution of those
posts will be approximately:



ANNEX5
Page 4 of 7
* 5 for the Undersecretary's Office
* 40 for the Central Administration (CA) for Training, Research and Population Statistics
* 40 for the CA for IEC and Population Education
* 60 for the CA for Population and Family Planning Services and Methods, and
* 10 Unit for Administration and Finance.
About 30 percent of those posts would be filled during FY1995/96, including all senior
appointments. Task Forces will be convened in the near future to further analyze specific
staffing needs for each of the different Units of the Population and Family Planning Sector in
accordance with their specific functions, prepare the corresponding job descriptions and continue
the recruitment process.
6.     Staffing Strategies
Given that it is difficult to attract high level experienced staff at current levels of civil service
salaries, a judicious mix of permanent staff and consultants may be desirable to achieve the
required technical quality of the Population and Family Planning Sector staff at the earliest
possible date. Staffing decisions would therefore be guided by a strategy aimed at the use of
some qualified consultants for senior technical positions who will, in addition, have the
immediate responsibility to mentor junior civil servants whose potential for excellence is
recognized. Criteria for selection of new staff and consultants needs to be guided by the
capabilities described in Table 2 and job descriptions prepared accordingly.
7.     Population and Family Planning Sector Budget for FY 1996/97: Bab 1, H and m
To be further specified during preparation of full Business Plan.
II. OUTLINE BUSINESS PLAN FY1997-1999
8.    Objectives of Business Plan
The completed Business Plan for FY1997- 1999 will provide direction to the process of
institution building in the Population and Family Planning Sector of the MOHP by linking the
key functions of the Sector, as expressed in Table I to specific organizational units and the
priorities (to be) identified for the period 1997-1999 under the Action Agenda for each Unit.
The Business Plan is meant to be a flexible instrument to be reviewed on a yearly basis to reflect
achievements so far and functional and institutional needs arising for the following three-year
period.
The "Mission Statements" expressed in the "Business Plan for FY1997-1999" reflect the role
and function of each Unit contributing to the overall objectives of the Population and Family
Planning Sector of the MOHP over the medium-term. "Capacity" provides a baseline
(beginning 1996) from which each Unit starts in terms of staff strengths and expertise. The
Budget for FY 1997/98 will record an actual baseline for resources allocated to specific Units.
The "Action Agenda" (to be completed) describes planned activities for the next few years
including references to donors support. World Bank support for the action agenda will be
focused on:



ANNF.X5
Page 5 of 7
*  selected organizational Units specific to their mission and future agenda;
*  selected Units supporting institutional development objectives across the board; and
*  a new (temporary) unit charged with the implementation of World Bank support to the
Population Sector (which includes the Capacity Building Component as well as a Population
Activities Program).
The World Bank's Egypt Population Project will support capacity building in the Population and
Family Planning Sector of the MOHP. The total amount allocated to this component is
approximately US$ 2.4 million for five years, including an "unallocated" category in the budget
(approximately US$ 300,000 ), the use of which will be specified during the mid-term review of
the Egypt Population Project in 1999. Two consultants will help finalize the Business Plan by
June 30, 1996, and the Capacity Building component will be used to help the Sector achieve its
key objectives.
9.    Strengthening Organizational Units in MOHP
A.    The Undersecretary's Office
Mission Statement:  The main function of the Undersecretary's Office with respect to
population, family planning and reproductive health issues is to support the Minister of Health
and Population to: i) meet the expectations of the country's top leadership i.e. the President, the
Prime Minister, the Cabinet and individual ministers/ministries regarding policy development,
information and program implementation on population, family planning and reproductive health
issues; ii) channel policy and program relevant information - from diverse sources - to the
Minister; iii) manage advocacy and promotional work; and iv) advise and support the Minister in
his role of chief executive of MOHP and prime advocate for the population sector.
Capacity: Ability to make informed planning, management and policy making decisions and
recommendations with respect to the Sector. Ability to conduct planning, implementation,
advocacy, promotion and resource mobilization work on population, family planning and
reproductive health matters and to support Minister and other senior Government officials at
central and Governorate levels with the same. Ability to monitor and evaluate overall Sector
programs and service quality and effort, and to stimulate the provision of quality programs and
services by NGOs and the private sector.
Action Agenda: The Undersecretary's Office will, in addition to its ongoing tasks:
*  periodically organize and support Senior Management Meetings linking the policy function
of the Undersecretary and her Office with the line functions of the Population Sector
(vertical co-ordination) and strengthening co-ordination between the GAs (horizontal co-
ordination);
*  the Population Activities Program under the Egypt Population Project will be managed
through a new Executive Committee to be chaired by the Minister of Health and Population
or the Undersecretary as his appointed deputy and with participation from at least one Social
Fund for Development representative, MOHP staff, an NGO representative and such other
membership as considered desirable.  This Committee will require staff support and
systematic follow-up to its decisions by the Undersecretary's Office.
*  It has been agreed that the Capacity Building component of the World Bank Egypt
Population Project would be managed by a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) with a
Project Director, a Training Officer, an Administration Officer, a Project Accountant, a Data



ANNEX S
Page 6 of 7
Management Specialist and support staff. The Undersecretary's Office will be responsible
for installing and staffing the PIU.
Population and Family Planning Sector Budget FY 1997/98: To be further specified during
preparation of full Business Plan.
B.      Central Administration for Training, Research and Population Statistics.
Mission Statement: This Unit's mission is to develop policies for population, family planning
and reproductive health, plan and develop the human resources required for population, family
planning and reproductive health programs, manage and disseminate the results of biomedical
and operational research programs in order to maximize their benefits, and to provide statistics
and information for management and policy making purposes.
Capacities:
*   Ability to plan and manage policy, research and statistical programs and sectoral
manpower and training.
i   Ability to interpret research reports from any source and formulate and present
their policy implications within and outside MOHPAbility to manage external
contracts for research and evaluation.
Action Agenda: to be further specified during preparation of full Business Plan.
Budget FY 1997/98: to be completed during preparation of full Business Plan.
C.      Central Administration for IEC and Population Education
Mission Statement: This CA's main objectives are to create awareness about population issues
and about family planning and reproductive health among all segments of society in order to
increase demand for smaller family size as well as for family planning and reproductive health
services. The CA will give a special focus to population education both inside and outside the
formal education system.
Capacities:
*   Ability to plan, promote, deliver, support and monitor national and local IEC and
Population Education Programs.
*   Ability to conceptualize IEC needs and discuss them with professionals who can
design promotional campaigns.
*   Ability to promote and monitor population education programs.
*   Ability to formulate appropriate specifications for market research.
*   Ability to manage contracts with external agents for IEC campaigns and market
research.
*   Ability to plan, manage and evaluate national community development worker
programs.



ANNEX-
Page 7 of 7
Action Agenda: to be further specified during preparation of full Business Plan.
Budget FY1997198: to be completed during preparation of full Business Plan.
D.      Central Administration for Population and Family Planning Services and Methods
Mission Statement: The objectives of this Unit are to provide quality population, family planning
and reproductive health programs and services to all segment of society regardless of ability to pay
through the public sector; to provide an appropriate enabling regulatory environment for NGOs and
the private sector and to stimulate the provision of quality programs and services by the same; to
mobilize resources for these programs and services from international donors as well as from
domestic private and public sources of finance; to improve the quality of programs and services by
addressing issues of access, client satisfaction and program and service delivery standards in both
the public and private sectors.
Capacities:
*   A continuously updated database on population and family planning activities
nationwide.
*   A system to manage population, family planning, and reproductive health services.
*   A monitoring system for population and family planning services.
*   Ability to formulate important operational research questions and develop requests for
proposals.
*   Ability to manage external contracts for evaluation and research.
*   Ability to digest, summarize, interpret, and present data on population and family
planning services in a timely manner.
*   Ability to set quality standards for family planning and reproductive health services.
*   Ability to assess clinic, provider, and outreach worker performance against standards.
*   Ability to coordinate service provision among all public and private agencies.
*   Ability to mobilize resources to pay for contraceptive commodities from donors and
government sources.
*   Ability to provide central support to local level population and family planning
programs.
Action Agenda: to be further specified during preparation of full Business Plan.
Budget FY 1997/98: to be completed during preparation of full Business Plan.
10.    Further Analysis
Several Population Sector Units have not been analysed for Business Plan purposes i.e. the Unit for
Administration and Finance. They will also need to be reviewed individually for the completion of
the Business Plan. The two consultants preparing the full Business Plan will include these units in
their work.



ANNEXS
Page 1 of 2
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
POPULATION PROJECT
SUMMARY OF TRAINING ACTIVITIES
COMPONENT                       SUBJECT                         PARTICIPANTS                   YEARI COST (S)
Proed Managmen    Tearn Building #1                    Project Steering Conmmittee                 2           15,000.00
Tearn Building #2                Project Steering Committee                  4           15,000.00
30,000.00
Bud         Planning &    Staff Upgrading              Mamgers and Deciion Support Staff                       10,000.00
Prfic Deepmu    Staff Upgrading                       Managers and Decsbion Support Staff         2            14,000.00
Staff Upgrading                  Mangers and Decision Support Staff          4            4,000.00
Monit. & Eval.                   Population Sector Staff                     2           16,000.00
Monit. & Eval.                   Population Sector Staff                     3           16,000.00
Mnt. h Eval.                   Population Sector Staff                     4           16,000.00
onit. & Eval.                  Governorate Staff, PlU Director, NPC        4           16,000.00
verseas Study Tour -Dec. Support   Populat. Sector Staff, PIU Director, NPC  2          53,000.00
Promotion &        raining for NG  Leaders          NGO Leaders12 145,000.00
Promutot n &      Training for NGO Leaders         NGO Leaders                                 2            15,000.00
Commonitks,    Training for NGO Leaders              NGO Leaders                                 3            15,000.00
Montoring &       Training for NGO Leaders          NGO Leaders                                 4           15,000.00
EvWulon          Training for NGO Leaders         NGO Leaders                                 5            15,000.00
and PAP Support    Traing. for Community Leaders     Community Leaders                           2            15,000.00
raing. for Community Leaders    Community Leaders                           3           15,000.00
Traing. for Community Leaders    Comnmunity Leaders                          4           15,000.00
Traing. for Community Leaders    Community Leaders                           5           15,000.00
Overseas Study Tour              Religious Leaders                           3           30,000.00
Overseas Study Tour              Religious Leaders                           4           23,000.00
EEC Training                     Population Sector Staff                     2           15,000.00
C Training                     Population Sector Staff                     3           15,000.00
EC Training                      Population Sector Staff                     4           15,000.00
EC Training                      Population Sector Staff                     5           15,000.00
Population Education             Population Sector Staff                     I           10,000.00
Population Education              opulation Sector Staff                     2           10,000.00
Population Education             Population Sector Staff                     3           10,000.00
Population Education             Population Sector Staff                     4           10,000.00
Population Education             Population Sector Staff                     5           10,000.00
Overseas Study Tour              Community Leaders                           2           53,500.00
Monitoring & Evaluation          Population Sector Staff                     3           16,000.00
Monitoring & Evaluation          Population Sector Staff                     5           16,000.00
Teambuilding for PAP             Population Sector Staff                     1           15,000.00
Teambuilding for PAP             Population Sector Staff                     2           15,000.00
Teambuilding for PAP             Population Sector Staff                     3           15,000.00
Teambuilding for PAP             Population Sector Staff                     4           15,000.00
Tearnbuilding for PAP             opulation Sector Staff                     5           15,000.00
443,500.00
Gen. Adminiration   Management Training                Population Sector Managerent                2           10,000.00
& Managment        Managemnent Training              Population Sector Management               3            10,000.00
Management Training              Population Sector Management                4           10,000.00
Mangement Training               Population Sector Management                5           10,000.00
Finance Training Workshop        Population Sector Finance Staff             1            6,000.00
Finance Training Workshop         opulation Sector Finance Staff             4            6,000.00
52,000.10
670,500.00



ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 2
SUMMARY OF RESEARCH ACTIVITIES
COMPONENT                              1TEM                            IMPLEMENTED BY:    YEAR    COST (SD
Pobcy D _ebpnit   Annual Report on Egyptian Population       CA for Training, Research, and      2             10,000.00
and Family Planning Achievements                                                  3            10,000.00
Population Statistics              4             10,000.00
_ _________________      ___________________________________           ________________________          S             10,000.00
40,000.00
Promotn &         (1) Evaluation of Mass Communications        |CA for IEC & Populaton              2             15,000.00
COnm         s 1cado (2) Evaluadon of Interpersonal Communications   4ducadon                                       15,000.00
_ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _   _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _                   30,000.00
Qual=ty Laprovwet  (1) Study on Client Satisfaction                                                     2             20,000.00
Research        (2) Study of Provider KAP                     CA for Training, Research, and      3             20,000.00
1(3) QOC Research                             Population Statistics               4             20,000.00
-__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  .__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   60,000.00
MI-TemI         1() Preparation                              |Unit for Administration and    1   2              10,000.00
Evaluti         1(2) Follow-up Workshops                      |Decision Support                |   3             20,000.00
30,000.00
TOTAL                   160,000.00



ANNEX7
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
POPULATION PROJECT
POPULATION ACTIVITIES PROGRAM (PAP)
MANAGEMENT STRUCTURE OF THE COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
DEPARTMENT OF THE SOCIAL FUND
Board of Directors
Executive Committee
Managing Director
Community
Development
l                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ProgramPPExctv
Social          Income            Women in               Director General        /Committee
Development       Generating        Developmentl/
Activities                              Population ProgramoI
OfSteering
I   _   0     .         l                    l                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Committee
Admin.        Senior Operations       Fnancial Officer         |2 Project Officers|
Assistant           Officer                                     I                                 1
i                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SFD Regional
Office
Managers
|Population |
I Officer    I



ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 10
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
POPULATION PROJECT
THE POPULATION ACTIVITIES PROGRAM
OPERATIONAL MANUAL
1.     The Population Activities Program is a program for funding community activities that
promote smaller families and create social conditions conducive to lower fertility. The program
will operate for five years from late 1996 as one component of the Egypt Population Project,
supported by an IDA credit from the World Bank. This manual first discusses the substance of the
program, describing community and activity coverage and listing the criteria to be used in
evaluating applications. Then it describes how the program is managed and explains the application
process to be followed.
2.     The primary objective of the program is to create social conditions favorable to lower
fertility, especially in disadvantaged, high-fertility communities in Upper Egypt. Favorable social
conditions would encompass, but are not limited to, such things as a better educated population,
especially better educated women, later age at marriage, greater public awareness of population
issues, and greater acceptance of contraception.
3.     The program operates by providing grant funds to local organizations to implement
activities clearly focused on promoting lower fertility. The activities to be funded include many
types of informational, educational, and welfare-enhancing activities, especially those that benefit
women in low-income communities. Examples of possible activities are given below. Specifically
excluded is the delivery of clinical family planning services. However activities which increase the
impact of existing family planning services by making communities more receptive to them are
covered under the program.'
Communities Covered
4.     A substantial gap exists between levels of contraceptive use in Lower Egypt and in Upper
Egypt. In practically all the urban govemorates and the governorates of Lower Egypt,
contraceptive prevalence is above 50 percent; in all but one of the governorates of Upper Egypt,
contraceptive prevalence is below 35 percent.2 Accordingly this program concentrates on
communities in Upper Egypt, especially rural communities, where prevalence is generally only half
as high as in urban areas.
In this context only and to provide outreach, supply side support items not to exceed 10 percent of any grant may be
covered. These might include some supplemental payments and training for clinicians and clinic staff, basic equipment
such as sterilisers and painting of clinics.
3 Fauta H. El-Zanaty et al., 1993, Egypt Demographic and Health Survey 1992 (Cairo, Egypt, and Calverton, Maryland:
National Population Council and Macro International), p. 75.



ANNIEX-8
Page 2 of 10
5.     To the extent possible, promotion and outreach for the program will cover all eight
govemorates of Upper Egypt. The initial focus will be on the capitals of each govemorate, in order
to obtain official sanction for the program within the govemorate and because some of the possible
activities should be carried out at the governorate level. Subsequently the focus will shift to rural
areas in these govemorates. The priority areas to reach will be those where officials are most
receptive and contraceptive use is particularly low.3 To a large extent, the program is meant to be
demand-driven, so that, once initial promotion is completed, program focus should depend on the
volume and quality of proposals approved, as assessed against the criteria given below.
Activities Covered
6.    A variety of activities that promote small-family preferences and the acceptance of
contraceptive use may be funded under the program. Activities may be funded in such areas as
nonformal population education, population and family planning communication and public
advocacy, measures to improve women's status in the home and in the community, outreach
activities supporting the clinic network. In each case, however, a reasonable link must be drawn
between the activity and lower fertility.
7.    Here are illustrations of possible projects.
Awareness creation. Local communities may use periodic public meetings, lectures,
household visits, and similar mechanisms to increase awareness of population issues,
as well as to educate and motivate people in such related areas as appropriate child
nutrition and the need for female education. Different groups may be targeted
sequentially, such as young girls or husbands. These activities may extend beyond
awareness creation to include, for example, parenthood education for young married
couples.
Development of a network of change agents. In governorates without community
outreach workers of this type, a similar system might be introduced. Through home
visits, these workers provide motivational support and information for family planning
as well as other forms of household assistance.
Development of capacity to produce information-education-communication
materials. The paucity of print material in clinics and in communities may be due
partly to the absence of capacity to produce such material locally. This capacity could
be developed, where it does not now exist, in the major cities of each governorate,
through staff training and the provision of some necessary equipment.
For refernce, levels of conrctive use in each governorae (as of the 1992 Denograpthc and Health Survey, in percent)
are as follows: Giza 50. Beni Suef 29, Fayoum 33, Menya 22, Assiut 28, Souhag 20, Qena 25, and Aswan 32.



ANNEX-8
Page 3 of 10
Training for community influenftals. Such professionals as teachers, nurses, and
even doctors are not always adequately informed about population issues and the
rewards and risks of family planning. Training programs for such professionals, public
officials, and other influentials working and living in small communities might be
conducted at appropriate training sites, with provision being made to allow them to be
absent from their regular duties during training.
Population education for religious leaders. The endorsement of family planning by
top religious leaders may not have filtered down to all local clerics, especially those
without government positions. Opportunities to communicate the message and to
educate the religious leaders of small communities need to be created. These might be
training seminars, visits by senior clerics, distribution and organized discussions of
materials on Islamic views of family planning, and similar approaches.
Rural internships for urban youth and professionals. Organized programs to put
urban students or young professionals to work for some period in rural communities
may increase their sensitivity to rural problems as well as acting as a modernizing
influence in these communities. Appropriate training prior to postings will be needed,
and specific work programs for them will have to be defined in advance. Programs
that involve medical professionals would be especially useful.
Family planning competitions. As already happens on television, governorates may
wish to establish annual competitions in the family planning area, providing prizes for
communities that have made the greatest improvements, service providers and
outreach workers who have performed the best, and possibly even couples or
households who have contributed in particular ways to population stabilization.
Other activities. The preceding activities do not cover all the possibilities. This
program is meant to encourage experimentation, and new approaches to the problem
of promoting lower fertility will be welcomed.
8.    The program generally does not fund research. The only exceptions are community needs
assessments and pilot testing of particular community interventions. The community would have
to be actively involved in the assessment or the pilot test and be ready to implement appropriate
activities afterwards.



AMEX 8
Page 4 of 10
Criteria for Approval
9.      Proposals will not be approved unless the following three essential criteria are met:
*   The activities proposed have reasonable probability to reduce fertility preferences and
are of sufficient scope and weight, by themselves or in connection with other
concurrent interventions, eventually to affect fertility.4
*   The community is committed to the project, as evidenced in some consultative process,
and is willing to make some contribution, in cash or in kind, to ensure its success.
*   The proponents can demonstrate that the proposal is likely to be effectively
implemented.
10.     A proposal that meets these three criteria will be considered more favorably the more of
the following characteristics it has:
*   effective targeting of interventions to the lower-income population
   the presence of adequate contraceptive supply, so that any increased demand is likely
to be satisfied
*   sustainability of the proposed activities or of their effects, such that they will be able
to continue, or their effects will be permanent, even after the termination of the grant
*   a favorable impact on health and welfare, in addition to the fertility impact
*   synergies in the activities proposed, such that they are mutually reinforcing or
reinforce the effects of other development initiatives.
11.    Most grants will not exceed LE 65,000 and will cover periods of two years or less. The
program will attempt to expedite approval of such grants, but larger grants will require the
approval of the Executive Committee that oversees the program.
Researchers have determined that the main proximate determinants of fertility-the behaviors that result direcy in higher
or lower fertility-are marriage timing, breastfeeding, contraceptive use, abortion, and sterility. These behaviors in turn
are more or less common depending on an individual or couple's socioeconomic characteristics. For instance, later
marriage and more frequent contraceptive use tend to be more common when the wife is more educated, sometmes but
to a lesser extent when the husband is more educated, when the wife is employed, when the community level of infant
mortality is low, when the household has a higher income, and when they reside in an urban area. Access to good quality
contraceptive services and effective information-education-communication also of course help to raise contraceptive use.
Any project that involves an attempt to directly influence proximate determinants may be assumed to be fertility-related
for purposes of this program. Any project to affect acceptance of services may also be assumed to be fertility-related. A
proposal to affect some of the socioeconomic characteristics related to the proximate determinants may or may not be
acceptable under the program, depending on the closeness of the link to fertility.



ANNEX-8
Page 5 of 10
Program Administration
12.   General oversight of the program will be provided by an Executive Committee chaired by
the Minister of Health and Population. The four other committee members may represent the
Ministry of Health and Population (MOHP), the Social Fund for Development, the Ministry of
Economy and International Cooperation, NGOs or whomever the chair selects, except that the
Social Fund for Development should always have at least one member (see Figure 1).
Flre1
Egypt Population Project: Population Activities Program (PAP)
Proposed Implementation Structure
Responsibilities
Executive Committee     Policy and program management
World Bank             Chair: Minister, MOHP     Project approval (above LE
reports   4 additional members    65,000)
Financial oversight
Ex-post monitoring
Responsibilities
Governorate Steering    Project approval (up to LE 65,000)
IDA                         Committees          Promotion, outreach
I funds                                            Semi-annual portfolio review
decisions 1  t reports
Responsibilites
Funds management
Ministry for               Social Fund for       Managing and supporting grantees
Economy and                 Development           Promotion, outreach
International  fi&ndsfor  (Population Program    Project appraisal
Cooperation     PAP      and regional offices)   Field supervision
Reporting
funds for
1 capacity               fiunds       proposals
building
Responsibilities
MOHP         pro-          NGOs and            Proposal preparation
rnotion,   governorate agencies   Project execution
support                           Reporting



ANINEX-8
Page 6 of 10
13.   The Executive Commnittee's deliberations will follow written procedures it wiDl adopt at its
first meeting. The Executive Committee will be responsible for approving the Operating Manual
for the program, for policy and program management, financial oversight, individual project
approval (though it may delegate this responsibility for grants up to LE 65,000), and ex-post
monitoring.
14.   A Project Approval Authority will be established in each governorate of Upper Egypt with
a representative from governorate office of MOHP and a representative from the regional office
of the Social Fund for Development. As determined by decision of the Executive Committee, it
will have authority to approve grants up to LE 65,000 and will conduct semi-annual portfolio
reviews. A key role for the MOHP representative will be reviewing the link of the proposed
project to the main determinants of fertility.
15.   Execution of the project will be the responsibility of the Social Fund for Development,
through a newly established Population Program and through regional offices. It will administer
the program in accordance with its established operating policies and procedures, except where
specified otherwise in this manual or determined subsequently by decision of the Executive
Committee. The fund wil receive and be accountable for donor funds and be responsible for funds
management. It will provide promotion and outreach, appraise projects, manage and support
grantees, supervise projects in the field, and prepare reports on the program for the Executive
Committee.
16.   Additional promotion and outreach for the program and support for grantees will be
provided by MOHP, which will also be responsible for mobilizing governors and relevant
governorate agencies to assist in this effort. Under the direction of the Executive Committee,
MOHP will also be responsible for systematic monitoring and evaluation of the effects of the
program as a whole. Each individual project will also have its own monitoring system, which will
be implemented by the proponent.



ANNEX8
Page 7 of 10
Table 1
Capabilities for MOHP to develop to allow it to take over increased management of
the Population Activities Program and equivalent programs
A. By effectiveness
Initial capability to support Executive Committee
Some promotion and outreach capability
B. By midterm review
Policy and program review
Financial follow up and portfolio review
Ex-post monitoring and follow up
C. By end of project life (capabilities to be effective for equivalent future projects)
Funds management (disbursements to executing agencies, project accounts
administration, internal auditing)
Management and support to grantees
Functions to be left with executing agencies:
Project execution (preparation, appraisal, supervision)
Field supervision
Reporting
Disbursements to grantees
17.   The ministry will develop the capability to handle, on its own, many of the tasks initially
assigned to the Social Fund for Development (see Table 1). Depending on progress in this regard,
participating agencies may discuss with the donor the transfer of certain responsibilities for
program administration to the ministry at the time of the midterm review of the World Bank-
supported Egypt Population Project. However, certain functions listed in Table 1 will remain with
other agencies, as it is the intention of MOHP to be a facilitator and program manager, not an
executing agency.
The Application Process
18.   The application process will be designed to minimize delays and to provide as much
assistance as possible, from the Social Fund for Development and from MOHP, to small
nongovernmental associations (NGOs) in preparing their proposals.
19.   Applications may be accepted from any NGOs of any size. Small, informal community
associations with little previous project experience will be given equivalent attention to large NGOs
with wide experience. Governorate agencies will also be invited to apply. The "sponsoring"
arrangement envisioned for the Community Development Program, where larger national NGOs
team up with several smaller local NGOs to prepare and implement projects, will be one possible
arrangement, but direct applications from smaller NGOs will also be encouraged.



ANNEX8
Page 8 of 10
20.    Applicants should have or will have to obtain independent legal status so as to be
authorized to receive grants and to carry out activities in the specific sector, whether it be
population or more generally education, health, communications, or other areas of community
activity.
21.   Initially, an applying organization should provide a brief description of the proposed
project to the Social Fund, at its central office or govemorate offices. If this is acceptable in
principle, the organization will be invited to submit a formal proposal. Appendix A explains what
this proposal should contain.
22.   One part of the proposal should be a detailed budget, covering items necessary for the
project, such as operating costs, supplies and equipment, and training. The budget should not
include recurrent organizational costs unrelated to the proposed project, nor can it include
infrastructure or construction. Administrative costs (excluding technical inputs) generally should
not exceed 10 percent of total project costs. Whenever possible it is preferred that the proposing
organization or the beneficiaries contribute to the project, financially or in kind, to cover, for
example, 10 percent of project costs.
23.    Projects of LE 65,000 or less may be approved at the govemorate level. Larger projects
require the approval of the Executive Committee for the program. Upon approval, a framework
agreement will be signed between the Social Fund for Development and the grantee specifying
terms and conditions of the grant and the obligations of the grantee.
Responsibilities of Grantees
24.   A grantee (or "sponsoring agency") is responsible for executing a project in accordance
with the framework agreement. Funds are to be spent only for the designated purposes.
25.   Funds for approved projects will usually be provided in tranches. The first tranche will be
deposited in the grantee's bank account upon signature of the framework agreement. Subsequent
tranches will be provided upon receipt of expenditure statements and accompanying progress
reports from the grantee and their review and approval by Social Fund for Development staff.
26.   In procuring goods and services under this program, the grantee should follow World Bank
procedures as specified in the loan agreement for the Egypt Population Project. This involves local
purchasing procedures, obtaining reasonable prices after consulting at least three suppliers, with
due regard for such factors as the reliability of the goods, delivery periods, and after-sale services.
27.    Through the life of a project, the grantee will provide access to its facilities and activities
to program staff after receiving adequate notice of a request for a visit.
28.   The grantee will submit periodic reports on project activities, as specified in the framework
agreement, as well as a final report covering all project activities and some discussion of their
impact.



ANNEX 8
Page 9 of 10
29.    The Social Fund for Development will irnpose on grantees the general conditions it applies
to its community development projects, as well as additional conditions as may be necessary for
effective and efficient project implementation. In all cases, however, these conditions will be
reflected in the framework agreement.
Appendix A. Outline for a project proposal
The project idea should initially be discussed with the Social Fund for Development. For
this discussion, all that are needed are (a) a general description of the project concept and how it
would be implemented and (b) identification of the communities and organizations involved.
If this initial discussion is favorable, a formal proposal should be prepared, covering such
items as the following.
1.     Project title. Provide a concise title reflecting the main activity of the project and its
geographical coverage. Use this title on all documents.
2.     Objectives. State what the project seeks to achieve either quantitatively or qualitatively,
as precisely as possible.
3.     Organizations involved. Specify the agencies to irnplement the project and briefly describe
them. List addresses, telephone numbers, and key contact persons. If an organization is registered,
provide registration information. (For nongovernmental organizations, or NGOs, also fill out
Social Fund for Development Form 13.)
4.     Beneficiaries. Indicate which communities, groups, or agencies will benefit from the
project. If any groups are specifically targeted, make this clear, and indicate any specific focus on
women, youth, or other social groups.
5.     Rationale. Provide any relevant historical background to the project. Describe the motives
and experiences leading up to it and the community setting or settings in which it is to be
implemented. Where appropriate, provide statistics. Explain how the project is expected to reduce
fertility.
6.     Project description. Describe the specific activities that constitute the project, as well as
any goods or services to be provided. Give the location and frequency of each activity.
7.     Method of implementation. Specify how these activities will be organized and supervised,
who will be responsible for each aspect of them, what initial training will be needed, what
assistance from other agencies is desired, and how follow-up will be provided if needed.
8.     Period of implementation. Give the period required for implementation, and divide it if
desirable into phases, with specified goals for each phase and the costs associated with each.
9.     Monitoring plan. Explain how project activities will be monitored, their outputs tracked,
and their outcomes assessed. Discuss how this monitoring process will be used to improve the



ANNEX-8
Page 10 of 10
project over time.
10.   Budget. Include in the budget all the expenses connected with the project, classified into
such categories as equipment, salaries, training, supplies, etc. Specify which costs can be covered
from other sources and for which costs funding is being sought. As noted above, applicants are
encouraged to make provision to cover, on their own or from beneficiary contributions, 10 percent
or so of total project costs.
11.   Organizational aspects. Note any special legal, financial, managerial, and organizational
aspects of the project. If more than one organization is involved, clarify their respective roles.
12.   Additional information. Provide other relevant information, such as (a) community
endorsements of the project and indications of local demand for it, (b) guarantees for sustainability
or success, (c) possible side effects that can be anticipated and for which provision should be made,
and (d) environmental impacts and measures for dealing with any negative impacts.



ANNEX-9
Page 1 of 5
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
POPULATION PROJECT
THE POPULATION ACTIVITIES PROGRAM
ILLUSTRATIVE PROJECT COSTS
1.    This document provides illustrative costs for three hypothetical projects that might be
funded under the Population Activities Program and, on this admittedly limited basis, attempts to
estimate an appropriate level of funding for the program. Costs are given in local currency (LE)
unless indicated.
Family Development Project
2.     This illustrative project is assumed to be an extension to new areas of the current Family
Development Project, supported by the Social Fund for Development in three governorates of
Upper Egypt. Like the current project, this illustrative project basically involves the use of well-
trained outreach workers (called "change agents") to provide households with a continuing
source of education and motivation and a reliable link to social services. Unlike the current
project, this illustrative project does not include a small-loan component (which, if desirable,
would have to be funded outside the Population Activities Program).
3.     Costs are estimated per governorate, assuming that this project should be initiated at the
governorate level. It should be implemented, however, not in all governorate villages but only in
those villages where the need exists, other outreach workers (such as the raidat) are not active,
and where village leadership is favorable. The current project reaches 12,500 households per
governorate, a small fraction (typically around 2.5 percent) of all households. This same scope is
maintained in the illustrative project, recognizing that an actual project, particularly in a more
backward province, might prefer wider coverage.
4.    It is assumed that the project will last 41/2 years, but the first few months will be mainly
organizational. Change agents are expected to be active for 31/2 years, one year longer than under
the current project because enough should have been learned to allow a quicker start. The project
director is expected to be able to manage three governorates at a time, with the help of assistant
directors in each governorate. As Table I indicates, total costs under these and other assumptions
are LE 2.5 million.
IEC Capacity Building
5.    This illustrative project involves development of the capacity to produce printed IEC
materials in a governorate, presumably within governorate State Information Services offices. If
such materials could be prepared locally, they could have substantial local content, relate to local
perceptions, and respond to local issues.



ANNEX9
Page 2 of 5
Table 1. Illustrative costing for a "family development" project in one governorate
Item                                Units Cost per  Months     Total       Subtotals
Unit
Salaries                                                                  1,739,220
Project director                 0.33    1,000     54       17,820
Assistant director               1        750      54       40,500
Supervisors                     10       200       42       84,000
Change agents                 250         150      42    1,575,000
Secretary                        1        175      48        8,400
Driver                           1       250       54       13,500
Training                                                                    120,000
Program preparation                                         10,000
Training materials                                          10,000
Program implementation                                     100,000
IEC                                                                         240,000
Materials for home visits                                   50,000
Weekly meetings               360        250                90,000
Conferences                    20       5,000              100,000
Equipment and maintenance
Vehicle                          1                          70,000
Operating costs                           350      54       18,900
Financial and technical support                                             250,000
Health unit support             10     25,000              250,000
Administrative costs (5% of all other items)                                117,461
TOTAL                                                      LE 2,466,681
6.     Over three years, three regular staff, who will remain on the government payroll, will
receive an average of two months' training each in Cairo in materials production or market
research. Trainers will supervise them and visit them subsequently in the governorate to provide
technical assistance. Equipment for desktop publishing will be provided; such additional
equipment as video decks and overhead projectors are assumed to be already available from
other donors, but may be added if necessary.
7.     Staff will then produce pamphlets and posters relating to family planning. At least some
of these materials will be entirely pictorial so as to reach illiterates. For instance, pictorial guides
to proper pill use or pictorial explanations of Islamic teaching about family planning might be
produced. An important aspect of the project will be the conduct of materials pretests and market
research to determine the types of messages that are needed and the types of materials that can
best reach the desired audience.
8.     It is expected that staff will not be occupied full-time on these materials and will also be
able to apply the expertise they develop to other development communication initiatives. The
total cost for the illustrative project is LE 390,000.



ANNEX-9
Page 3 of 5
Table 2. Illustrative costing for an IEC capacity-building project in one governorate
Item                                 Units Cost per  Months      Total       Subtotals
Unit
Salaries                                                                           5,400
Incentives for fEC staff             3        50      36         5,400
Training                                                                          45,960
Travel (round-trips to Cairo)        6       660                 3,960
Subsistence                          3     5,000       2        30,000
Course materials                     6     2,000                12,000
Equipment and supplies                                                           104,800
Computers, printers, software        3    20,000                60,000
Office furniture                                                16,000
Office supplies                              800      36        28,800
Materials production and distribution                                             64,000
Booklets, pamphlets              5,000         2       4        40,000
Posters                          2,000         1       12       24,000
Market research                                                                   76,000
Surveys, focus groups                3    20,000                60,000
Materials pretesting                16      1,000               16,000
Technical assistance                                                              72,840
Materials production expert       0.25      1,500     36        13,500
Market researcher                 0.25      1,500     36        13,500
Travel (round trips from Cairo)     24       660                15,840
Subsistence                          2     5,000       3        30,000
Administrative costs (5% of all other items)                                      18,450
TOTAL                                                        LE 387,450
Awareness creation project
9.     An awareness creation project for a village might begin with a locally conducted needs
assessment, followed by various nonformal education activities and some community
improvement initiatives. All these activities may be coordinated by a community development
association, with possible assistance from a larger NGO or from technical experts provided by
MOHP.
10.    A three-year project is used as an illustration, with elements that may or may not apply
for any specific community. The estimated cost is approximately LE 120,000, more than half of
this for sending influentials, such as professionals or clerics, for population training.



ANNEX9
Page 4 of 5
Table 3. Illustrative costing for an awareness-creation project in one vilage
Item                               Units  Cost per Months      Total        Subtotals
Unit
Salaries                                                                     20,700
Community director (incentives)  1        50     36         1,800
Community assistants         2           200     36        14,400
Health unit incentives       1           150     30        4,500
Training                                                                     66,000
Visits to other communities  12          500               6,000
Population training for influentials 12  5,000            60,000
Community outreach                                                            3,000
Meetings and seminars        2            50     30        3,000
Community improvement initiatives (costs per year)                            10,500
Community services improvements        1,500      3        4,500
Youth group activities                   500      3         1,500
Women's handicrafts                    1,000      3        3,000
Hygiene and beautification campaigns     500      3         1,500
Needs assessment                                                               1,000
Initial study                                               1,000
Technical assistance (NGO-provided)                                          14,000
Advisers on community activities                           5,000
Lecturers                    2           150     30        9,000
Administrative costs (5% of all other items)                                  5,760
TOTAL                                                                LE 120,960
Appropriate program funding
11.    Assuming these three projects are somewhat typical in regard to their costs of projects to
be funded under the program, we can make a stab at estimating an appropriate funding level.
Table 4 summarizes three alternatives.
Table 4. Estimated alternatives for total program costs
Cost  per Saturation approach   Medium approach   Minimalist
project                                          approach
Family development  2,500     29       72,500     13      32,500     5      12,500
IEC capacity       400        40       16,000     24      9,600      8      3,200
Awareness creation   120      1,600    192,000    80      9,600      40     4,800
ToTAL (LE)                    1,669    280,500     117    51,700    53      20,500
TOTAL(US$)                             82,500             15,206            6,029
Mean project cost (LE)                 168                442               387



ANNEX 9
Page 5 of 5
12.   In the saturation approach, we assume that each governorate should get the equivalent of
three family-development type projects (counting the three projects that already exist). This does
not mean that each of the projects would be similar. They might be quite different but, we
assume, would have roughly equivalent total costs. Similarly, we assume that each governorate
would have five IEC-capacity type projects and that each village in Upper Egypt should get an
awareness-creation type project. All these projects across all governorates would then cost LE
280 million, or US$82 million. Recall that this is only for demand-creation activities, including
outreach, and includes clinical support only to the extent of possible incentives for providers.
13.   The minimalist approach, on the other hand, assumes one family-development type
project in each govemorate (again counting those that already exist) and one IEC-capacity type
project, plus awareness-creation projects in 2.5 percent of Upper Egypt villages. Total cost
would be LE 20 million, or US$6 million.
14.   In the wide gap between these two estimates, we can define a third, intermediate
approach: two family-development type projects per governorate (including existing projects),
three IEC-capacity type projects per governorate, and awareness-creation type projects for 5
percent of Upper Egypt villages. This intermediate approach cost LE 52 million, or over US$15
million.
15.   Note how this compares with Community Development Program experience to date.
After two years, that program has approved 47 projects totaling LE 125 million (US$37 million).
This total amount is 31/2 times the total from the intermediate approach above, which covers five
years rather than two. This could provide some justification for applying a slight increase to the
intermediate approach above. However, a fund to create demand for lower fertility is more
limited in the activities it can cover than a community development fund and can seldom justify
coverage of such expensive items as infrastructure. Therefore a total amount substantially
smaller than that committed to date by the Community Development Program may have some
justification.
16.   Among the Community Development Program projects to date, mean project size has
been LE 2.7 million, but median size is much lower, at LE 500,000. This suggests that our
estimates lean too heavily toward small projects. It is much more likely that larger NGOs, or the
govemorates themselves, would "package" several small village projects together and present
them as one. This would raise mean project costs but should affect totals only marginally.



ANNEX 10
Page 1 of 6
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
POPULATION PROJECT
THE POPULATION ACTIVITIES PROGRAM
PERFORMANCE INDICATORS AND THE MONITORING AND EVALUATION
SCHEME
1.    This document describes indicators to be used and procedures to be followed to (a) monitor
individual projects under the Population Activities Program, (b) monitor the program as a whole,
(c) evaluate its effects and cost-effectiveness, and (d) learn from program experiences.
Monitoring Individual projects
2.    Monitoring an individual project under the Population Activities Program will be the
responsibility of the grantee, who will be required to include a monitoring plan in the proposal.
This plan should be specific to each project, since projects will involve a variety of activities linked
to fertility in different ways. The plan should emphasize indicators that reflect the actual activities
to be carried out. Indicators may also be suggested for fertility or the fertility-related variables
meant to be affected by these activities, but these need not be emphasized: accurate measurement
is difficult, and impacts of fertility may be delayed. The purpose of individual project monitoring
is to enable the grantee to keep track of progress and adjust effort accordingly.
Monitoring the program as a whole
3.    To monitor the program as a whole, the Ministry of Health and Population (MOHP) and
the Social Fund for Development should use simple statistics, collected by govemorate, updated
at least every quarter, and included in all progress reports. Here is an initial list, subject to
modification based on experience. Track the number or quantity of
*  Villages contacted for promotional purposes, through actual visits or other contacts
with community leaders
*  Villages actually visited
*  Proposals submitted
*  Proposals approved
*  Funds committed
*  Funds disbursed to grantees or "sponsoring agencies"
*  Projects currently in progress
* Current projects whose progress is rated satisfactory or unsatisfactory, or unrated
(because of lack of data, because the project has just started, or for other similar
reasons)
*  Projects completed with satisfactory reports
*  Projects terminated for other reasons
*  Ceremonial visits to project sites (as an indicator of the time grantees lose greeting
dignitaries).



NEX10
Page 2 of 6
4.     Except for "projects currently in progress" and "project ratings," these indicators are more
conveniently reported as cumulative totals within the governorate. "Project ratings" are the one
subjective set of process indicators; once a proposal is approved, staff should devise criteria for
rating progress on the project.
Evaluating the program
5.     Neither the monitoring system for individual projects nor the monitoring system for the
program as a whole will give any idea of whether the ultimate goal of the program-creating
demand for contraception and reducing fertility--is being met. Day-to-day or even quarter-to-
quarter monitoring is ineffective for this purpose. It does not provide reliable measures of fertility,
and fertility anyway changes too slowly to be observed on a quarterly basis. To ascertain any real
progress in fertility reduction, one must rely instead on an occasional evaluation. Evaluation does
not provide data for day-to-day management decisions about the program, but should instead
provide information for longer-term strategic decisions, such as which types of projects should
receive greater encouragement in the latter years of the program.
6.     To evaluate the program, one can focus on six key output or outcome indicators, three
having to do with fertility preferences or related attitudes and three having to do with resulting
behavior:
*  Desired number of children-number of living children plus any additional children
desired
*  Approval of family planning
-  Intention to use contraception, among nonusers
-  Contraceptive prevalence
-  Contraceptive discontinuation rate (excluding discontinuation deliberately to become
pregnant, because of reduced exposure to risk, or to switch methods)
-  Total fertility.'
7.     Other variables may become equally important indicators if several projects focus on them.
For instance, birth interval length may become an important indicator if some projects attempt to
promote longer birth spacing. Additional indicators will also be needed for cost-effectiveness, but
these can be devised by relating changes in the key indicators above to the costs of particular
projects.
8.     Ascertaining progress on these key indicators is not a simple process. The data have to be
gathered in a systematic fashion and have to be representative rather than biased. Fair comparisons
have to be made between project areas and other areas. And one has to take into account the effects
of other variables that can influence the indicators--for example, a poor harvest that makes
economic conditions even more difficult and leads couples to restrict childbearing regardless of
program effects.
9.     The following sections discuss what needs to be done to provide the necessary data on
these indicators and to interpret them properly.
'The period to which this indicator applies-typically a year or two preceding the survey-should be carefully noted.



Page 3 of 6
Variables to consider in evaluation
10.   Because the indicators camot be interpreted in a vacuum, it will be necessary to measure
a number of other variables at the same tirne. Table 1 illustrates the types of variables that need
to be measured, including the indicators themselves. Some of the added variables are alternative
measures of the indicators that can be used to verify indicator levels. Others are "control" variables
that might affect the levels of the indicators regardless of any specific project, and which therefore
need to be held constant in interpreting the results.
Table 1. Variables needed for evaluation
Topic               Variables
Fertility preferences   desire for more children, ideal number of children, child spacing
preferences
Fertility           children ever born, birth intervals
Contraceptive use   current method use, ever use, consistency of use, discontinuation
and method switching, unmet need for contraception
Knowledge and       knowledge of methods and sources, knowledge about how to use,
attitudes toward    approval of use, intentions to use, reasons for nonuse
contraception
Other proximate     age at marriage, breastfeeding practices
determinants
Socioeconomic       age, parity, education (wife and husband), urban-rural residence,
determinants        wife's work status
Community facilities  distance to nearest clinic, level of schooling available in
community
11.   Good measures of these variables can be obtained from demographic surveys, and in a few
cases from censuses. In fact, current data on most of these variables should become available from
the Demographic and Health Survey in late 1995, from a survey of 70,000 households by the
Center for Public Mobilization and Statistics (CAPMAS) about the same time, and from the 1996
census. Later data may also become available from a Demographic and Health Survey in 2000.
However, these data may not cover the specific communities to be included in the program and
therefore may not have anything to say about the program effects. It will be necessary therefore
to mount specific surveys of the program communities.
Timing and sample for evaluation surveys
12.   Because of the effort and expense involved in such surveys, they will be conducted only
twice: in late 1998 and in 2000. The first survey should provide data for the midterm review, and
the second for evaluation of the program at the time it is scheduled to terminate.
13.   Doing only two surveys is a necessary simplification. Ideally, one would survey each
project community both before and after the project, but this would lead to dozens of small
surveys, which would be very difficult to manage. Doing only two surveys will not give as good
data, but with appropriate analysis of the results could still be adequate for evaluation.



ANNEX 1Q
Page 4 of 6
14.   Communities implementing projects under the program will be included in the midterm
and final surveys. Where projects have been implemented for the entire governorate, a random
sample of communities, perhaps one in 10, will be drawn within the governorate. Households will
be selected randomly in the communities to be studied, taking perhaps one in 20 households or
some similar fraction. The same questionnaire will be used in all project communities. However,
separate modules may be added to it in different project communities relating to the specific
intervention implemented there.
15.   Project communities will be included in the midterm survey only if their projects are
completed or well-advanced. A simple criterion might be that the project should have been active
for at least 1 'h years. The same criterion will hold for the final survey, which means that all those
studied in the midterm survey will be covered a second time. Since project communities may be
studied soon after completion of the intervention, some time later, or even before completion, one
may be able to assess both transient and lasting intervention effects.
Interpreting and reporting on evaluation surveys
16.   A critical part of the interpretation of midterm and final survey results will be making
comparisons with nonproject communities. It will not be enough to show, for example, fertility
decline in project communities; one also has to show the absence of a similar decline in nonproject
communities, to indicate that the projects did make a difference. Such comparisons will require
using data not only from these surveys themselves but also from other surveys, probably the
Demographic and Health Surveys, which cover communities in Upper Egypt where projects under
this program will not be implemented.
17.   Such comparisons also have to be done statistically, because many complex influences on
fertility and fertility preferences have to be taken into account. The statisfical analysis should cover
these areas:
*  Descriptive tables for fertility and fertility preferences, their levels and differentials
*  Trends and tabular comparisons between project communities and nonproject
communities, the data for the latter coming from Demographic and Health Surveys or
similar sources that may become available
*  Multivariate analysis to isolate, to the extent possible, any project effects.
18.   The descriptive tables should be similar to tables produced for Demographic and Health
Surveys, but less extensive given a more limited variable list. The comparison tables should
differentiate among project communities subject to different types of interventions. The
multivariate analysis will focus on project effects on contraceptive use and fertility preferences.
19.   One report should be prepared on the midterm survey and another on the final survey.
Besides laying out the analysis and drawing appropriate conclusions, these reports will address the
implications of the findings for the Population Activities Program and for future MOHP activities
that may seek to stimulate contraceptive demand. The report on the midterm survey should be
prepared in time for and become a critical part of the midterm project review, and the report on
the final survey should be a critical part of the final evaluation of the Egypt Population Project.



ANNEXJ1
Page 5 of 6
Learning from program experiences
20.   These survey reports should provide a reasonably reliable verdict on the different projects
funded under the program: which worked and which did not work. They may not provide enough
explanation, however, for why some things worked and others did not. And, if few things worked,
they may provide only limited insight into what else might be tried.
21.   The two surveys will be supplemented, therefore, with a few qualitative studies focused
on particular communities: a baseline consultation of a few Upper Egypt communities and
subsequent studies, at least one a year, of the most interesting project communities.
22.   The purposes of the baseline consultation2 will be to verify the assumptions underlying the
Population Activities Program and to provide additional ideas about the types of projects it should
support and the ways in which they should be implemented. In a sense this baseline consultation
will be an attempt to determine how acceptable the projects envisioned under the program are
likely to be to potential beneficiaries.
23.   Since so many studies on these types of questions have already been conducted, the first
part of the baseline consultation will be a thorough review of the literature (in Arabic, English, and
French) on fertility, family planning, family structure and decision-making, community structure,
and the status of women in Upper Egypt. This review and its implications for the study will be
completed and discussed with the MOHP before any fieldwork is conducted.
24.   Fieldwork will be conducted in not fewer than three and not more than six villages of
Upper Egypt. It will be guided by specific research questions tied to the purposes of the baseline
consultation, formulated based on the literature review. These questions may nevertheless change
in the course of fieldwork. Interviews with key informants, observation, and possibly focus groups
will be the main tools in fieldwork. A report will be prepared summarizing the fieldwork and
addressing the specific research questions, as well as the main purposes of the baseline
consultation.
25.   If the results warrant it and funding is available, these baseline consultations will be
extended over the life of the project, with the same communities being visited periodically to
determine how conditions change over time. This may occur whether or not these communities
become part of the program.
26.   A few communities that do become part of the program, at least one a year (except in the
first year) should be studied in detail. Whereas the evaluation surveys will verify project impact,
these community studies will have different purposes: to document how the project actually
operated in practice, as opposed to its initial design; to further elucidate the mechanisms through
which the project had its effect; and to identify any side effects, intended or not, positive or
negative, the project may have had on social patterns in the community.
27.   The particular communities to be studied, to be determined by the Executive Committee,
should be those with projects with the greatest potential impact, from the perspective of effect on
MThis study is to be funded, outside the Egypt Population Project, by a grant to be arranged out of World Bank trust funds.



ANNEX-10
Page 6 of 6
fertility, replicability, cost-effectiveness, sustainability, and similar factors. Since the types of
projects to be studied cannot be predicted in advance, a particular design for these community
studies will not be proposed here. It is anticipated, nevertheless, that, like the baseline
consultations, these studies will require conmmuity observation, focus groups, intensive interviews
with key informants, or some similar qualitative approach, coupled with review of any available
records and quantitative data.
Implementing the monitoring and evaluation scheme
28.    MOHP will supervise the monitoring and evaluation scheme,. It will conduct monitoring
itself with assistance from the Social Fund for Development. For evaluation, it will select
contractors to implement the surveys and the community studies, review the reports, and send them
to the Executive Committee for further review and transmittal to the donor. It will also assure that
the reports, or appropriate condensations of them focusing on key evidence and policy issues, are
widely disseminated within the population community in Egypt in uncensored form.
29.    The contractor for the surveys, to be chosen from a short list prepared by MOHP and
approved by the World Bank, will be an agency capable of mounting national sample surveys and
following up this effort over time. The contractor will be responsible for each phase of the
evaluation scheme: designing the sample; drafting, pretesting, and revising the questionnaire;
recruiting, training, and supervising field staff; entering and verifying data; conducting analysis;
and preparing survey reports and responding to questions on them.
30.   The contractor for the community studies, which may or may not be the same agency, will
similarly be selected from a short list. It will be responsible for providing experienced staff for the
community studies, providing logistical support for their efforts, and producing the appropriate
reports. The baseline consultation may be contracted for separately, under the terms of a grant still
to be arranged.



ATTACHMENT I
Page 1 of 3
DRAFT
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN THE MINISTRY OF HEALTH AND
POPULATION (MOHP) AND THE SOCIAL FUND FOR DEVELOPMENT CONCERNING
THE ADMINSTRATION OF A POPULATION ACTIViTIES PROGRAM
Introduction
1.1   The Ministry of Health and Population (MOHP) is initiating a Population Activities Program
(PAP) to fund community level activities that promote smaller families and create social conditions
conducive to lower fertility, especially in disadvantaged high fertility communities in Upper Egypt. The
Program will operate for five years beginning in late 1996. The Program is one component of a
Population Project to be supported by an IDA Credit from the World Bank. The program will operate by
providing grant funds to local organisations (NGOs and Governorate level public agencies) to implement
activities that are clearly focused on promoting lower fertility. The MOHP has agreed with the Social
Fund for Development that the Social Fund will assist the MOHP with the administration of the Program.
This Memorandum of Understanding describes the responsibilities of each agency and the support the
Social Fund will provide.
Overall Implementation Arrangements
2.1    General management and oversight of the Program will be provided by an Executive Committee
chaired by the Minister of Health and Population. The Committee would have four other members
including at least one from the Social Fund. It would also be desirable to have one member as an NGO
representative. Executive Committee's deliberations will be governed by written procedures to be
adopted by the Committee at its first meeting. The Executive Committee will be responsible for
approving the Operating Manual for the Program, for policy and program management, financial
oversight, individual project approval (although for projects involving grants up to LE65,000 it may
delegate responsibility as described below), and for ex-post monitoring. It will be responsible for
approving the first ten projects presented to the Program.
2.2    A Project Approval Committee will be established in each Governorate in Upper Egypt with a
representative from the Governorate office of the Ministry of Health and Population and a representative
from the Regional office of the Social Fund for Development and a member to represent NGOs. As
determined by decision of the Executive Committee, it will have authority to approve grants of up to LE
65,000 and will conduct semi-annual portfolio reviews. A key role for the Ministry representative will
be reviewing the link of the proposed project to the main determinants of fertility.
2.3    Execution of the Program will be the responsibility of the Social Fund for Development through
its Community Development Department and central and Govemorate offices with representation from
permanent staff, as feasible. It will administer the program in accordance with its established operating
policies and procedures, except where determined otherwise as set out in the approved Operating Manual
for the Program (e.g. certain decentralised project approval authority) or determined subsequently by
decision of the Executive Committee. The Social Fund will receive and be accountable for donor funds
and will be responsible for funds management. It will provide outreach and promotional services,



ATTACHMENT I
Page 2 of 3
appraise projects, manage and support grantees, supervise projects and provide regular reports to the
central Executive Committee. Under agreement with the Ministry of International Cooperation, the
Social Fund will resource the Incremental Operating Costs resulting from the Program from sources
other than the IDA Credit from the World Bank.
2.4    Additional promotion and outreach for the program and for support to grantees during the
application process will be provided by the MOHP and govemorate offices as feasible and as capacity
develops. The MOHP will also be responsible for systematic monitoring and evaluation of the effects of
the program as a whole.  The MOHP is also expected to mobilise the Governors and relevant
Governorate level agencies to assist with promotion and outreach efforts. Each individual project will
have its own monitoring system, which will be implemented by the proponent.
2.5    The sponsoring agencies, in the case of this program NGOs, other community level bodies with
legal entity, and governorate level and below public agencies, will be responsible for preparation and
presentation of their proposals, for project execution and for fulfilling reporting requirements. The
obligations of the Sponsoring Agency will be set out in a Framework Agreement between the Social
Fund for Development and the Sponsoring Agency.
Transition of Responsibility Arrangements
3.1    As part of a broader effort to strengthen the capacity of the population and family planning
operations of the MOHP in key functional areas, certain responsibilities for management of the Program
will be transferred from the Social Fund for Development to the MOHP during the five year life of this
project. At the start of the Program, the MOHP will begin to develop capacity in policy and program
review, financial follow-up and portfolios review, and ex-post monitoring and follow up. The objective
is for the MOHP to achieve these capacities by mid project (1999).
3.2    The MOHP will also develop capacity in funds management (disbursements to executing
agencies, project accounts administration, and internal auditing), and in program management and
support to grantees (promotion and outreach, project preparation advisory services, and capacity
development services for NGOs and other sponsoring agencies) with the objective of being able to take
over these functions from the Social Fund for Development by the end of the Program's life (2001) for
future equivalent activities. All other functions will remain with sponsoring agencies, as it is the
intention of the MOHP to be a facilitator and program manager, not an executing agency.
3.3    The Social Fund for Development agrees to provide the following categories of support to the
MOHP to help it achieve its capacity building objectives with respect to management of the Program.
The exact types and quantities of support will be determined on the basis of joint discussion. It will
provide "on the job" training for senior MOHP managers and staff responsible for the Program, it will
provide initial "check lists" or guidelines to help ministry staff responsible for supporting the Executive
Committee with policy and program review, financial monitoring, and ex-post program monitoring
review and follow up. It will train certain Governorate level staff of MOHP so that they are able to
undertake promotion and outreach work, and to support the Ministry representative on the Govemorate
Project Approval Committees.



A1TACHMENT I
Page 3 of 3
3.4    With respect to funds management, and management and support to grantees, as well as how to
manage and present the reporting system for the Program, the Social Fund will provide training slots in
its own training courses on a selective basis to Ministry staff who will have these responsibilities.
Attachment
For: Ministry of Health and Population
For: Social Fund for Development
Date:
Cairo, Egypt



ANNEXI1
Page 1 of 4
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
POPULATION PROJECT
PROPOSAL FOR ACTION RESEARCH FOR EGYPT POPULATION PROJECT
BENEFICIARY CONSULTATION PROCESS
Background and Justification
1.    Preparations have been completed for an Egypt Population Project, under the auspices of
the Ministry of Health and Population (MOHP), to be financed with assistance of the World
Bank. The primary objective of the Project is to support activities that would strengthen
couples' motivation for having smaller families, and to practice family planning to achieve that
goal. The main strategy of the proposed Project is to promote activities which are likely to
influence social patterns and conditions, such as early age at marriage, low level of schooling
especially of girls, relatively low status and decision making opportunities of younger women in
the family, and others that contribute to keeping fertility at a high level in several areas of the
country. Activities will be conducted by a variety of MOHP partners, under the overall umbrella
of a Population Activities Program (PAP).
2.    At present, contraceptive prevalence is lowest in the predominantly rural Govemorates
of Upper Egypt. While for Egypt as a whole almost 50 percent of all married couples are using
some form of contraceptive, the aggregate percentage in Upper Egypt is only 31 percent. The
latter includes the more urbanized parts of the region. Contraceptive prevalence in the 7 rural
Govemorates ranges from 19.8 percent in Souhag to 33.3 percent in Fayoum (CAPMAS 1994).
Therefore, to narrow the gap in contraceptive prevalence and fertility between different regions,
Upper Egypt has been selected as the primary target area for activities proposed under the PAP.
Objectives of Action Research
3.    Activities conducted under a project of this kind need to be inspired by the reality of
families' lives. Therefore, a process of consultation - or action research - with potential future
target groups will be initiated, prior to the Project's launching, expected in early fall 1996. This
activity represents the first stage of a series of on-site consultations and action-research
activities, intended to gather information and to keep track of changes over time in people's
motivations, preferences, and actual fertility behavior during the life of the Project. Specifically,
it allows the MOHP to achieve the following two immediate objectives:
*  Consultation with potential beneficiaries before the actual Project starting date, to identify
barriers to contraceptive use by interested couples who are as yet non-users, and to explore
underlying motivations for large families amongst other groups of non-users. This
information will serve to better focus field activities to be undertaken under the Project's
Population Activities Program;
*  Gathering of qualitative baseline data to complement other baseline data and Monitoring and
Evaluation (M&E) systems to measure and monitor progress of the Population Activities
Program at regular intervals, and its ultimate impact over the 5-year Project period.



ANNEX 1I 
Page 2 of 4
4.     Subsequent stages of the consultation process, undertaken while the Project is underway,
will accomplish the important longer-term objective of:
Assessing the relative effectiveness of different types of interventions in changing couples'
fertility preferences, contraceptive acceptance, and, ultimately, fertility decline. This
knowledge is a sine qua non for a Population Project of this kind, which is experimental in
nature, and has as yet not been tried in a systematic way, either in Egypt or in other
countries.
Research Design and Special Considerations
5.     The main purpose of the initial phase of the client consultation, or action research,
presented in this paper, is to collect baseline data, before the starting date of the Population
Project. It will consist of intensive village surveys in 5 randomly selected nual localities in
Upper Egypt, which will subsequently serve as "sentinel" sites for comparison with other
villages in which activities under the Population Activities Program are taking place. A first
repeat research will be undertaken at the Project's mid-term review, and a second one by the end
of the Project. At each repeat research, additional villages will be randomly selected from
regions in which Project activities have taken place. Findings from both groups of villages will
be compared, to make inferences about the most effective strategies to accomplish optimal
impact, and to report and disseminate the results to interested parties.
6.     To achieve the specific objectives of this action research, predominantly qualitative
research methods such as focus groups, in-depth interviews, participant observation, etc. will be
used. These will complement information from aggregate data sources such as the Egypt
Demographic and Health Survey (last issue in 1992, new version scheduled to appear in 1996),
the Egypt Population Census, scheduled to take place in 1996, and the USAID survey on "Unmet
Need", to be carried out in several high-fertility Governorates in Upper Egypt during 1996.
These sources of data provide the larger context for the Action Research. They provide the
framework for comparisons between aggregate populations, sentinel villages, and other villages
included in the survey.
7.     To ensure maximum effectiveness, an initial survey will be carried out in one pilot
village, serving as a test site for methodological approaches and content of research
instruments. The test results will be summarized and presented by the executing agency to the
MOHP Population and Family Planning Sector's Research unit, which will comment on it and
give its approval for further work, provided that strict criteria of quality and appropriateness are
met.
8.     Hence the first phase of the action research will consist of the following five steps, to be
carried out within a four-months interval in the early part of 1996:
* Preparation (selection of executing agency, briefing, establishment of initial contract,
preparation of survey personnel, selection of locality for pre-test);
*  Pre-test of data-gathering instruments, and presentation of methods and content to MOHP;
*  Refining methodology, random selection of sentinel villages and on-site research;



,ANNEX I I
Page 3 of 4
* Data processing and analysis;
* Reporting.
9.    It is expected that on-site research teams will be composed of about four persons, of
which half or more should be women. Recruitment of highly qualified, culturally sensitive
researchers is essential, given the delicate nature of the subject to be explored. Researchers
should have degrees in one of the social sciences such as sociology, anthropology, ethnography,
social work, community development, or related disciplines. In addition, researchers should
have extensive prior field experience in qualitative research.
Information to be gathered
10.    The details of questions to be asked and information to be gathered in the survey villages
will be the task of the Executing Agency, in agreement with the responsible parties at the
MOHP. However, the following seven different categoriesof information need to be gathered in
the initial Beneficiary Consultation Process, in order to achieve its intended immediate and
longer-term objectives.
Fertility:
Present fertility (family size, child spacing, etc., trends during the past five years
and actual Total Fertility Rates (TFR) of the survey villages;
Contraceptive use:
Present contraceptive use, and trends during the last five years, perceptions/unmet
demands and needs;
Fertility preferences:
Ideal and actual number of children, son preferences, of various groups of
household members;
Proximate determinants of fertility of survey population;
Current marital status, presence of spouse, postpartum abstinence, etc.
breastfeeding, age at first marriage;
Education/labor force participation/attendance of development programs (literacy, adult
learning, etc.), household production, and male/female division of labor;
Household and community communication patterns and decision dynamics:
Flows of information among and between household members, and community
members and groups. Who decides on what subjects in the household.
Roles/rights/responsibilities of men and women, of older people, children, friends,
community influentials, government officials;
Village infrastructure, and economic, social and cultural capacity/capital:
Village amenities: Schools, health services, cooperatives, traditional and modem village
organizations, including women's groups, cultural heritage/resources.



ANNEX I I
Page 4 of 4
Implementation Arrangements
11.   Eunding for the initial action research, to be carried out in the first half of 1996, will be
provided by the Canadian - Consultant Trust Fund for Egypt and other grant funding being
identified. Repeat research, reporting, packaging and dissemination, as well as regular input of
relevant information into the Population Project's M&E system will be funded by the Project.
12.   Oversight of the action research will be the responsibility of the MOHP, which will also
be in charge of coordination and quality control of subsequent action research activities, and
summarizing and dissemination of findings for use by agencies and persons involved in the
implementation of activities under the Population Activities Program and other relevant
audiences. The Research Unit will prepare a request for proposal (RFP), appraise proposals, and
select the most promising one.
13.   An Egyptian Exeuting Agency will be selected according to criteria developed jointly
by the MOHP and the World Bank. Criteria will emphasize capacity of the Executing Agency to
carry out field research with avant-garde "beneficiary assessment methods," including focus
group discussions, participant observation, in-depth interviewing, Rapid Rural Appraisal,
community self-assessment, etc. In addition, the Executing Agency will be carefully scrutinized
for its experience in field research, and its capacity to explore complex social issues especially
related to fertility decisions, and to analyze family and community dynamics at grassroots level.
Timetable and Products of Action-Research for Life-of-Project
Phase 1.     Initial survey: Early spring 1996
(* Specific Product to be delivered to Research Unit of MOHP)
Step l: Preparation and advertisement of RFP: Jan./Feb., 1996
Step 2: Selection of Executing Agency: March, 1996
* Workplan to RU, March 15, 1996
Step 3: Preparation of field research: March, 1996
Step 4: Pretest: April, 1996
* Pretest Report to RU, April 30, 1996
Step 5: Fieldwork: May/June, 1996
* Progress Report to RU, June 30, 1996
Step 6: Data processing, analysis, reporting, July/August, 1996
* Final report and diskette to RU, August 31, 1996
Phase 2.     Providing data input into PAP M&E system: At time of Population. Project
effectiveness, about September, 1996
Phase 3:     Repeat field research, reporting and dissemination # l: Midterm Review
Phase 4:     Repeat field research, reporting and dissemination # 2: End of project



ANNEXI1
Page 1 of 3
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
POPULATION PROJECT
Expenditure Accounts by Years - Totals Including Contingencies
(USS '000)
Toftal Including Contingencies
9U97      971N      9U9        99/00     00/01       ToWl
1. Invesmnt Cods
A. Vehcles                            114.7      117.7         -         -          -       232.5
B. Sub-Project Activits              1,700.0   3,400.0    5,100.0    4,250.0    2,550.0    17,000.0
C. Equipment                           94.1      87.1                    -          -       181.2
D. Overseas Training                      -     131.7       45.8      48.7       17.0      241.2
E. In-country Training                 32.0     122.6      106.7     136.1       87.3      484.7
F. Intemational Consultants            26.3      27.0       27.5      28.0          -       108.6
G. Local Consultants                  131.8     139.1      130.2     109.0      120.4       830.5
H. Fumiture                            29.8      12.5          -         -          -       42.3
I. Studies                             10.7     105.3       96.6     101.1       83.1       396.7
J. Awards                              11.0       11.6      11.5       11.4      11.3        56.8
K. Project Management                 245.4     233.4      231.1     228.1      224.9     1,162.9
Total Investment Cosbt                2,396.7   4,387.9    5,749.5    4,910.5    3,094.0    20,537.6
11. Recurrent Cost
A. Operation and malntainance          13.5      21.5       21.5      21.4       21.3        99.3
C. Supplies and Consumables             6.0       5.0        5.1       5.2        5.2       26.5
Total Recurrent Costs                    19.5      26.5       26.6      26.6       26.5       125.8
Total PROJECT COSTS                    2,416.2    4,414.5    6,776.1    4,937.0    3,120.5    20,163.4
Project Components by Year - Totals Including Contingencies
(US$ '000)
Totabl Including Contingencbs
96U97     97/98     9m99       91900     00101      Tota
A. Capacity Building
Project Management                    105.0      88.4       71.0      87.6       70.1      422.2
Business Planning                     114.3     233.4      110.3     121.5       51.8       631.3
Promotion and communication            21.7     202.7      158.7     176.6      130.4       690.1
Monitoring and Evaluation & PAP suppo  208.2    211.9       70.7      53.7       48.0       592.4
General Administration and Managemen   45.0      44.7       34.3      19.5       45.2       188.8
Subtotal Capacity Building              494.2     781.1      445.0     458.9      345.5     2,524.8
B. Population Activies Program        1,921.0   3,633.4    5,331.1    4,478.1    2,774.9    18,138.6
Total PROJECT COSTS                    2,416.2    4,414.5    5,776.1    4,937.0    3,120.4    20,1143A
ANX12A.XLS



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
POPULATION PROJECT
Components Project Cost Summary
(LE. V00)                                           (USS '000)
%     % Total                                        %     % Totai
Foreign   Bae                                       Foreign   Bae
Local    Foreign     Totdal   Exchange  Coast       Local     Forign      To4ti    Exchange  Coast
A. Capacity Building
Proet Mnagmet                          951.6      316.7    1,268.3       25       2         279.9       93.2      373.0       25       2
Business Planning                     1,017.9     888.3    1,906.1       47       3         299.4      261.3      560.6       47       3
Promotionandcommunication              918.3    1,213.8    2,132.1       57       3         270.1      357.0      627.1       57       3
Monitoring and Evaluation & PAP support  637.8    1,137.6    1,775.4    64        3         187.6      334.6      522.2       64       3
General Administration and Management  340.8      226.8      567.7       40       1         100.2       66.7      167.0       40       1
Subtotal Capacity Building              3,866.4    3,783.3    7,649.7     49       11        1,137.2    1,112.7    2,249.9      49      11
B. Population Activites Program        46,818.0   14,450.0   61,268.0     24       39       13,770.0    4,250.0   18,020.0     24       89
Total BASEUNE COSTS                    50,684.4   18,233.3   68,917.7      26     100       14,907.2    5,362.7   20,269.9      26     100
Physical Contingencies                  79.0      128.3      207.3       62       -          23.2       37.7       61.0       62       -
Price Contingencies                   1,432.9     449.9    1,882.8      24        3         256.1       76.4      332.5       23       2
Total PROJECT COSTS                    52,196.4   18,811.4   71,007.8      26     103       15,186.5    5,476.9   20,663.4      27      102
Expenditure Accounts Project Cost Summary
(L.E. '000)                                         (USS '000)
#        % Total                                     %        %Total
Forign   Base                                        Foreign  Base
Local     Forelgn    Total      Exchange Costs      Local       Foreign   Total      Exchag  Costs
1. Investment Costs
A. Vehicles                             69.4      615.7      685.0       90       1          20.4      181.1      201.5       90       1
B. Sub-Proeod ActivWes               43,350.0   14,450.0   57,800.0      25      84       12,750.0    4,250.0   17,000.0      25      84
C. Equiprment                           54.1      480.2      534.3       90       1          15.9      141.2      157.2       90       1
D. Overseas Training                    77.0      683.4      760.4       90       1          22.6      201.0      223.6       90       1
E. In-country Training                1,185.5     292.3    1,477.8       20       2         348.7       86.0      434.6       20       2
F. lnternatIonal Consukants             35.0      310.3      345.3       90       1          10.3       91.3      101.5       90       1
G. LocalConsutants                    1,501.5     370.2    1,871.7       20       3         441.6      108.9      550.5       20       3
H. Furniture                            85.0       35.9      120.9       30       -          25.0       10.6       35.6       30       -
1. Studies                             372.1      556.4    1,228.5      70        2         109.5      251.9      361.3       70       2
J. Awards                              164.7        8.6      173.3       5        -          48.5       2.5        51.0        5       -
K Projec Manageen                     3,537.4         -    3,537.4        -       5        1,040.4        -     1,040.4        -       5
Total Investment Costs                 50,431.6   18,103.0   68,534.6     26       99      14,832.8    5,324.4   20,157.2      26       99
11. Recurrent Costs
A. Operation and malntainanoo          228.9       75.2      304.1       25       -          67.3       22.1       39.5       25       -
C. Supplies and Consumes                23.9       55.1       79.0       70       -           7.0       16.2       23.2       70       -
Total Racurnt Coast                      252.8      130.3      383.1       34       1          74.4       38.3      112.7       34       1
Total BASEUNE COSTS                    50,684.4   18,233.3   68,917.7      26     100       14,097.2    5,362.7   20,269.9      26     100
Physical Confingendes                   79.0      128.3      207.3      62        -          23.2       37.3       61.0       62       -
Price Cerngendc                       1,432.9     449.9    1,882.8      34        3         256.1      76.4       332.5       23       2           o
TOWa PROJECT COSTS                     52,i96A 4    ,8t11A    71,n07.8     26     103       15,186.6    6,476.9   20,811.4      27     102



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
POPULATION PROJECT
Expenditure Accounts by Components - Totals :nclud:ng Contingencies
(USS 000)
Capacity Building                                 P. A. P
Monitoring      General
Promotion        and        Administration    Population
Project      Business         and       Evaluation &        and           Activities
Management    Planning    Communication  PAP support    Management           Program      Total
1. Investment Costs
A. Vehicles                                 -             -               -         232.5                -             -      232.5
B. Sub-Project Activities                   -             -               -            -                 -      17,000.0    17.000.0
C. Equiprnent                             24.1         42.3               -          86.8             28.1             -      181.3
D. Overseas Training                        -          57.8           183.4            -                 -             -      241.2
E. In-country Training                   34.2         105.2           181.9         104.5             58.8             -      484.7
F. lntemational Consultants                 -         108.8               -            -                 -             -      108.8
G. Local Consultants                     333.8        272.2               -            -              24.5             -      630.5
H. Fumiture                               11.9            -               -         24.4               6.0             -       42.3
I. Studies                                  -          22.2           268.0         66.3              40.2             -      396.7
J. Awards                                   -             -            56.8            -                 -             -       56.8
K. Project Management                       -             -               -            -              24.3       1,138.6     1,162.9
Total Investment Costs                    404.0         608.5           690.1         514.5            181.9      18,138.6    20,537.7
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Operation and maintenance              11.3         11.3               -          74.5              2.3             -       99.3
C. Supplies and Consumables               6.9          11.6               -           3.5              4.6             -       26.5
Total Recurrent Costs                       18.2         22.9               -         78.0               6.9             -      125.8
Total PROJECT COSTS                         422.2         631.4           690.1        592.5             188.8      18,138.6    20,663.5
Taxes                                              -              -              -                       -             -          -
Foreign Exchange                         103.1        284.6           386.7        378.0              74.5       4,250.0     5,476.9
I.



ANEX 13
Page I of 4
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
POPULATION PROJECT
CAPACITY BUILDING COMPONENT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION UNIT
TERMS OF REFERENCE
A.    Organisation
I.    A Project Implementation Unit (PIU) will be established to implement the Capacity Building
component of the proposed IDA Credit supported Egypt: Population Project. The PIU will be headed by
a full time director, who will be responsible for implementation. He/she will report directly to the
Undersecretary for Population and Family Planning in the Ministry of Health and Population (MOHP).
The PIU will consist of a full time project director, an administrative officer, a training officer, an
accountant, a data management specialist, and two support staff.
2.    The PIU will be provided with office space, and will be equipped satisfactorily and provided
with operating funds.
B.    Responsibilities of the PIU
3.    Responsibilities of the PIU will include:
(a)    preparation  of Requests for Proposals (RFPs) for consultant services, evaluation,
recommendation for award of contract, and management of contracts.
(b)   assistance to the Central Administration Departments with arranging and managing consultant
services, training, overseas tours.
(c)    managing procurement of goods (vehicles, equipment, furniture, and supplies) to be procured
under the component.
(d)    open, maintain and replenish the Special Account for the capacity Building component.
(e)    preparation of semi-annual reports on project implementation progress; preparation of reports on
IDA credit status.
(f)    provision of other management and administrative services as may be needed for successful
project implementation.
C.    PIU Job Descriptions
4.    Project Director. The Project Director will be a university graduate with experience in
management and administration either in the population or a related sector. Post graduate training in
demography or medicine is desirable. The Project Director will need to be well acquainted with public
administration in the social sectors and with the institutional organisation of the MOHP in particular.
Fluency in Arabic and English is required. The Project Director will be responsible for the overall
management of the Capacity Building component, including the administration of financial resources



ANNEX 13
Page 2 of 4
and the monitoring of project accounts and costs. The Project Director will supervise the activities of all
PIU staff, and will ensure that the PIU carries out the responsibilities set out above.
5.    Administrative Officer. The Administrative Officer will be a university graduate with at least
five years experience in project administration, including goods, consultant and training program
procurement and contract administration. Fluency in English is required. The Administrative Officer
will be responsible for all procurement and subsequent procurement administration under the Capacity
Building component, including the preparation of bid documents and RFPs, administration of the bid
evaluation and award process, and subsequent contract management. The Administrative Officer will
also assist with the preparation of project implementation reports to MOHP and to IDA.
6.    Training Officer. The Training Officer will have an appropriate university degree and will have
at least five years experience in the managment and administration of population or health training
programs. Good English is required. The Training Officer will be responsible for the management and
administration of all training to be provided under the project and for supporting the Central
Administration Departments with the implementation of all training and overseas study tours. The
Training Officer will also be responsible for preparing the relevant sections of progress and
implementation reports to MOHP and IDA.
7.    Project Accountant. The Project Accountant will have a university degree in accounting and
will be well acquainted with public administration. Fluency in English is required. The Project
Accountant will be responsible for all project accounts under the Capacity Building component, for all
financial administration, including the operation of the IDA Special Account and the preparation of
disbursement and replenishment requests, and for the monitoring of project accounts and costs. The
Project Accountant will also be responsible for implementing recommendations made as a result of the
annual audits of the accounts.
8.    Data Management Specialist. The data management specialist will have a university degree in
information science or related discipline, and at least five years related work experience. He/she will
assist in procuring and installing computer equipment, help with the development of appropriate software
programs for the project, and help with the development of the Population and Family Planning Sector's
part of the MOHP decision support system.
POPULATION ACTIVITIES PROGRAM COMPONENT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS
TERMS OF REFERENCE
A.    Organisation
1.    The MOHP will contract with the Social Fund for Development to administer the Population
Activities Program (PAP). A separate Executive Committee will provide general management. This
Committee will be chaired by the Minister of Health and Population or his assigned deputy and will
have four other members of whom at least one will be a representative of the Social Fund. The
Executive Committee's deliberations will follow written procedures to be adopted at its first meeting. A
Project Approval Committee will be established in each Govemorate in Upper Egypt with
representatives from the regional offices of the MOHP, the Social Fund and a representative from an
NGO. The Social Fund will establish a new Population Program with an experienced manager to
administer the program. It will use its Community Development Department to provide technical
support. Projects prepared under the Population Program will be presented either to the Executive



ANNEX 13
Page 3 of 4
Committee (for the first ten projects and all other projects of LE65,000 or more, or to the Governorate
level Project Approval Committee (if less than LE65,000). The Social Fund will administer the
Population Program in accordance with the general plans, criteria and procedures set out in the draft
Operating Manual for the Program (see Annex 8). During the life of the project certain responsibilities
for management of the Program will be transferred from the Social Fund to the Population and Family
Planning Sector of the MOHP. The Social Fund will also provide training and other support to the
Population and Family Planning Sector of the MOHP during the life of the project. The details of these
arrangements will be included in a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) between the MOHP and the
Social Fund (see Annex 8).
2.    The Government (Ministry of Economy and International Cooperation) will ensure that the
Social Fund is provided with the necessary donor grant funds to fund the incremental operating costs of
the Program.
B.    Responsibilities of the Executive Committee, the Governorate level Project Approval
Committees, and the Social Fund for Development
3. (a)  The Executive Committee will be responsible for policy and program management, approving
the Operating Manual for the Program, project approval for the first ten projects presented under the
Program, and for projects of LE65,000 or more, financial oversight, and for ex-post monitoring.
(b)    The Govemorate level Project Approval Committees will initially be responsible for project
approval of projects that are less than LE65,000, for promotion and outreach, and for conducting a semi-
annual portfolio review of the projects funded within the Govemorate.
(c)    The Social Fund will execute the Population Activities Program and will be responsible for funds
management, managing and supporting grantees, promotion and outreach, project appraisal, field
supervision, and for regular reporting to the Executive Committee. It will appoint a full time manager
for the Program supported by a senior program manager, a financial officer, two population officers and
an administrative officer at the central office and a population officer in each of the eight Governorate
offices of the Social Fund in Upper Egypt. The Social Fund will also provide training and other support
to the Population and Family Planning Sector of the MOHP during the life of the project to help the
MOHP carry out its immediate and transitional responsibilities.
C.    Population Program Job Descriptions
4.    Program Manager. The Program Manager will have a postgraduate degree in demography,
sociology, development economics or a related discipline and at least eight years of experience operating
similar programs. Experience with NGO operations and community level programs is required. It will
be desirable if the appointment is made from within the existing staff of the Social Fund as institutional
experience within the Social Fund is strongly preferred. Fluency in English is required. The Program
Manager will be responsible for the overall management and coordination of the Program, including
relations with the Executive Committee, the administration of financial resources and the monitoring of
project accounts and costs. The Program Manager will manage and supervise the activities of all
Program staff at the central and Governorate office levels, and will ensure that the Program carries out
the responsibilities set out above. He will also be responsible for ensuring that the Community
Development Department of the Social Fund and the Governorate offices of the MOHP provide the cross



ANNEX 13
Page 4 of 4
support agreed under the Program. He will be responsible for organising the cross support and training
to be provided by the Social Fund to the MOHP.
5.    Senior Operations Officer. The Senior Operations Officer will have a university degree in
demography, sociology, development economics or a related discipline and at least five years of
experience operating similar programs. Experience with NGO operations and community level programs
is required. Fluency in English is required. The Senior Operations Officer will be responsible for
supporting the Program Manager with the planning and programming of the Program as well as for day
to day monitoring and supervision, and for regular liaison with the Governorate level Program staff.
He/she will also appraise and prepare the larger or more complicated projects.
6.    Financial Officer. The Financial Officer will have a university degree in accounting, will have
at least five years experience with financial management of similar programs and be well acquainted
with public administration. Fluency in English is required. The Financial Officer will be responsible
for the financial management of the Program, for the administration of financial resources, including the
operation of the IDA Special Account and the preparation of disbursement and replenishment requests,
and for the monitoring of project accounts and costs. He/she will be responsible for ensuring the
provision of cross support to the Program from the Finance and Administration Departnent of the Social
Fund. The Financial Officer will also be responsible for implementing recommendations made as a
result of the annual audits of the accounts.



ANNEX 14
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
POPULATION PROJECT
PRCUREMNT ARAGMN
(USS'OO0)
Category                        ICB    NCB       Other    NIF       Total
Equipment, Furniture            232               3492               581
Vehicles, Goods                 (199)            (261)              (460)
Consultants                                      1,2563              1,256
Technical Assistance                             (930)               (930)
Training                                          7262               726
(510)              (510)
PAP subprojects                                 17,000r             17,000
Goods and Services                              (15,300)           (15,300)
PAP subproject management                                  1,100     1,100
| Total                         232              19,331    1,100    20,663
(199)           (17,001)    (0)    (17,200)
E-STIMATED DISBURSEMENT SCHEDUL- (-SUMMAR
(US$ million)
IDA Fiscal      1997       1998       1999       2000      2001    2002
Year
Annual              1.7       3.4        5.1        4.25       1.7     1.05
Cumulative          1.7       5.1        10.2      14.45      16.15    17.20
Percentage         9.9%      29.7%      59.4%      84.1%      94%      100%
I Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by the IDA credit.
Procurement through international (50%/a) or local shopping (50%).
The Bank's Consultants Guidelines apply.
Procured under Social Fund Procurement Procedures. Community participation in procurement as
presented in the Bank's Procurement Guidelines.



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
POPULATION PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
96             1997              1998              1999              2000              2001              2002
ID  Task Name                                                         Dur.    Start                0304010203040Q102034 01  2 03 |Q4 0 Q2 0Q3 Q4 10102030410203
1   Capacity Building Component                                      1308d            911196                                               _
2        loan Effectiveness                                              Od           9/1/96  *   911
3        Project Management                                           1305d           9/96  __
4             Technical Assistance                                    261w            9/2/96
5             Equip for PIU                                             16w           9/V296                                             I
6             Team 8uilding iRetreat 1                                   2w           9/1/97                                                                                                    :
7             Team Buildimg Relreat 2                                   2w            911/99 
8        Business Planning and Policy Development                     1308d           9296  __
9             TA/Equilpment for Decision Support System               1308d           912196                                               _
10                 National Consultants                                200w            9/2/96
11                 Training and Technical Assistance                    13w            7/11/97
12                 Equipment Procurement                                13w           10/1/97
13                 Overseas Study Tour - Decision Support System        13w            4/3/00
14                 Business Plan Development and Updates             252 2w           11/6/96
15            Annual Report                                            213w            7/1/97
16            Train staff in Monitoring/Evaluation 1                    13w            9/2/98
17            Train staff in Monitoring/Evaluation 2                    13w            9/2/99         il
18            Train Staff in Monitoring/Evaluation 3                    13w            4/3/00                                                               I
19            Train staft in Monitoring/Evaluation 4                    13w            9/3/00
20        PronotIon and Communication                                 1308d            912/96
21            Advocacy- Awards & Publiations                           261w            9/2/96
.~~~~~~~~~__ _  .V                                                                                        _                                                          V
22            Publicatons and Disseminations                          1218d            1/6/97
23            Training for NGO Leaders 1                                 4w            7/1/97
24            Training for NGO Leaders 2                                 4w           4/29/98                                                               I                                   !
o _
0 



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
POPULATION PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
96             1997             1998              1999              2000              2001              2002
ID   Task Name                                                        Dur.        Start       Q30Q40Q1  02 Q3 Q4 01 Q20Q30Q40Q10Q2Q03104101  02  Q3 0Q40Q10Q2Q3040|1Q20Q3
25             Training for NGO Leaders 3                                4w        Mon 9/2/96
26             Training for NGO Leaders 4                                4w        Fri 10/1/99
27             Training for Community Leaders 1                          4w        Mon 9/1/97
28             Training for Community Leaders 2                          4w        Tue 9/1/98                                       3
29             Training for Community Leaders 3                          4w       Wed 911199
30            Training for Community Leaders 4                           4w         Fri 9/1/00
31             Overseas Study Tour Religious Leaders 1                   4w        Thu 4/1/99
32             Overseas Study Tour Religious Leaders 2                   4w        Mon 4/3/00
33             Training -lEC 1                                           2w        Tue 7/1/97                  |
34             Training -lEC 2                                           4w        Wed 4/1/98                               3
35             Training -tEC 3                                           4w        Fn 1011199 
36            Training -IEC 4                                            4w        Mon 1/1/01
37             Training -Pop Education 1                                 4w        Sun 2/1/98
38            Training -Pop. Education 2                                 4w        Mon 2/1/99
39             Training -Pop. Education 3                                4w        Tue 2/1/00                                                                |
40             Training -Pop Education 4                                 2w        Thu 2/1/01
41             Overseas Study Tour -Communications                      26w       Wed 10/1/97
42             Policy Research on Communications                       104w       Wed 10/1/97
43        Monitoring and evaluation & PAP Support                      998d        Mon 9/2/96
44             Vehicles/EquipmenttFumiture for PAP Support              520d       Mon 9/2/96
45             Training- Monitoring and Evaluation QOC                    4w       Thu 7/1/99
46             PAP Team building Workshop 1                              4w        Wed 7/1/98                                    3
47             PAP Team building Workshop 2                               4w       Fri 10/1/99
48             Operations Research on Service Delivery                  104w       Wed 7/1/98
1, e



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
POPULATION PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
r-           ____--_____                                ___    3_               6       t      99     i    -    1998               1-1999     ~      2000              2                  2002
ID  Task Name                _                       _                 Dur.  _  Start    002212034                                                                                                   01 Q2 03
49        Gelneral Administration and Managenient                       1087d            912t96                                        _
50             Tranzition Support                                         12w            9t2196
51             General Management Training 1                               4w           10/1/97
52             General Management Training 2                               4w           10/1/98
53             General Managernent Training 3                              4w           10/1/99
54             General Management Training 4                               4w           10/1/00
55             Training Workshop tor Finance Staff                         4w           10/1/97
56            In-House Training for Finance Staff                          4w           10/1/00
57             Finance/Administration Department, Computers Upgrading    104w            9/2/96
58        Midterm Review Preparation and Follow-up                        30            10/1/98
>



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
POPULATION PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
1996          1997          1998           1999          2000          2001          2002
ID    Task Name                                         Dur.       Start     01 IQ21 03 Q4 01 02  a304 "01  Q2 0Q3 1 04 01  00i 30Q2 400 3040 203 04   10203040
1    Population Activities Program                     1566d         1/1/96
2        Beneficiary Assessment and Monitoring         1408d         4/1/96
7        Develop capacity to support executive commite   52w         1/4/96
8        Board Approval                                    Od       1/16/96    1(16
9        Loan Effectiveness                                Od        9/9*  9/1
10        Promotion and Outreach                       239,2w         1/1/96 iiF                              _
~~~~__                               ___                   ___             I -
1 1      Sub-Project Appraisal                         186.6w         I/I/97
12        Sub-Project Approval                         186 8w         2/3/97                                         _
13        Sub-project supervision                      252 2w         3/3/97              .
14   Closure of IDA Credit                                 Od       12/31/01                                                                                         12/31
12/31 



Annex 1
Page I of 2
EGYPT
POPULATION PROJECT
ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION OF PROJECT
1.    The project is expected to contribute to fertility reduction and to be cost effective. The
US$ value of economic benefits of averting births was estimated in constant 1991 prices based
on a Government of Egypt cost -benefit study of family planning in Egypt. Deducting from
these benefits the estimated costs of the project, a stream of net benefits was projected for a
period of 20 years (1996-2015).
A.    The following assumptions have been used to calculate the IRR:
(i)    75% of project expenditure will be in rural Upper Egypt to be disbursed over five
years
(ii)    Public expenditure savings per birth averted is $470 over 20 years. Public
expenditures savings were estimated for education, health, water and sewage, food
subsidies and housing.
(iii)   15% of births averted in rural Upper Egypt between 1996- 2015 is a consequence
2
of the project.
(iv)    The population in upper rural Upper Egypt will remain stable over 20 years
B.    The economic analysis is conservative as it assumes the only benefit of the project is
aversion of births. It excludes any maternal health or education benefits, benefits to other family
members or the local community. It also does not take into account any private savings which
are likely to be substantial.
2.     Based on these assumptions, the IRR would be about 19%.
Sensitivity Analysis
Two variables (number of births averted and savings per birth averted) were found to have a
major effect on the IRR. Sensitivity analysis for these variables (keeping other assumptions
constant) for the range described below is shown.
A.    The number of births averted as a result of the project may be less than 15%. The effect
on IRR is shown in graph I for a range of births averted due to the consequences of the project.
If only 10% of the births averted in rural upper Egypt are due to the project, the IRR drops to
12%.
B.    The public expenditure savings per birth averted may be less than $470. The effect on
IRR is shown in graph 2 for a range of estimated public expenditure savings per birth. If public
expenditure saved per birth is estimated to be just $350, the IRR is 14%.
1The Cost-Benefit Study of Family Planning in Egypt, Government of Egypt, 1994.
2Assumptions derived from Annex 9.



Annex 16
Page 2 of 2
Graph 1: Relationship between IRR and percentage of births averted
in rural Upper Egypt
30
25
I +  IRR
20
15
10
i                                    15 Percentage of total births averted 20                                      25
Graph 2: Relationship between IRR and savings in public expenditure
2   5                                        -------.---------. ... . . ....  .. ..     __ _  
20
z  ;_-                                                                              :           i _  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IRRI
10
5
oL
300                                    400                                     500                                     600
Public expenditure savings per birth averted



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYIPT
POPULATI ION iRo.j ECT r
SUPEI'RVISION PLAN
I'mancial ciirs (11P)                     FY9 7                 IY98                   FY99                           FIY(OO                I:Yl)l               I:'Y02
'iuplvbl eellS \ e                                                                                    3                          4                     5
Misslown                                 launch                    7 2                             I 2  I (1LI term     2           1         2          1         2
ren ie\v)
Estimates in Staff Weeks
I isi % Lkilager (I ln/R Ni)!/             4           3          3           3          3              3               2          3          2         3          2
P'opilanoll Specialist                      2                      1          1          2              2                           ;                    I
limpimmentatmon(izX  Speciaflist            2           2          1
i)eiographer                                                                             2              2 
Imistitutional l)eveiopillcit >Spec         2           2          2          2           I             3                1         2          1          1          1
Procurement Spcclalst                      0.5
i)Ol)uiifrilfltlt ()Oicelr                0(.5
IotalS                                    I 1         7          7           h8                                        3          6          I1        5          5
I/ I he project is \scii suiIeid tol supervision by the Fgypt Resideint Nlission, which will be given this respon-sibilit) at an early dlate.



ANNEX 18
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
POPULATION PROJECT
MID-TERM REVIEW-TERMS OF REFERENCE
Objectives
The objective of the midterm review is to examine the components of the population project and
to determine what, if any, adjustments should be made in either or both component's objectives,
organization and procedures.
Capacity Building
For this component, the following questions need to be answered:
What is the progress to date? How does actual performance compare with expected performance
as indicated in the business plan (Annex 5)? Based on the answers to these questions, revision of
the three year rolling business plan and the rest of the capacity building component should be
made.
Population Activities Program
For this component, the principal set of questions to be answered are the following:
I. Are the programs objectives and role clearly defined? How agile and efficient is the PAP at
achieving its objectives?
2. Is the existing institutional framework appropriate for achieving its fundamental objective of
accelerating fertility decline? Should their be any changes in the institutional framework? Has
the MOHP attained its expected midterm milestones and making progress towards achieving
terminal milestones?
Policy and Program review         Funds management -disbursements to executing
agencies, project accounts administration and internal
auditing
Financial oversight               Management and Support to grantees
Ex-post monitoring and follow up
3. How well does the PAP coordinate its activities with other synergistic activities organized by
other agencies?
4. Have the PAP sub-projects reached the target groups? Have operations being sustained? These
questions can be answered by reviewing monitoring indicators which will be collected at least
quarterly (see Annex 10).
5. Is there any evidence of increasing demand for contraception or reducing fertility decline?
This fundamental question should be answered in the mid-term evaluation survey report which
would form a critical part of the review (see Annex 10 for further details)



MAP SECTION



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
POPULATION PROJECT
IBRD 27482
280                                 320                               360
Mediterranean  Sea                                                           I               320
O  -    1?-. o,iefth
Marsa Matruh                  Alixandr&.0,   0             4.  Said             ISRAEL    JORDAN
'~~~~~~~~~~~~~Dmou ann I4,hnur }'VZs -                                               C 
v      Shibinol            riliya
OSuez                \  !
Rd
:ElFaom 0
ARAB  REPUBLIC                                        Suef
OF  EGYPT                       ElMinyao                                                   SAUDI2
- 280 j _  _  _  _  _                                                                                        ARABIA
0
Ass ut               Hurghoda
Sohog
oQena
O      SELECTED CITIES                               ,
|   *  NATIONAL CAPITAL                                     xor
RIVERS                                  Matan  .'
CULTIVATED AREAS
-~ -. -~  GOVERNORATE BOUNDARIES
,                                                          > ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Kom COmbo
OCCUPIED TERRITORIES                                          o
240                                                                               Aswan                                 240
I                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Aswon
Dam
0      50      100    150 MILES
0   50  100 150 KILOMETERS
T hcr b-d.o-, -i-,, o ond .yoCrnrow
AI   - Ar, shoron dbism&ooi 0 on#0p000500lrd 8n                          SUDAN
Gr-p oo-y j dq- - 0n    AWi.gl 5t0  of-y t   oy, or               32y
eod-.fmenl or -cceptnce of such bondries                          32                                       360
IMARCH 1996



IMAGING
Report No:       15046 EGT
Type: SAR






