Page  1
                                                    Conformed Copy
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2830 EGT
                    Development Credit Agreement
                        (Population Project)
                               between
                       ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
                                 and
                INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                         Dated July 1, 1996
                                               CREDIT NUMBER 2830 EGT
                    DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated July 1, 1996, between ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
      WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the fea-
sibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the financing
of the Project;
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                              ARTICLE I
                   General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:
      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
      (b)   The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
            "Except as the Borrower and the Association shall other-
            wise agree, no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account
            of expenditures in the territories of any country which
            is not a member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or
Page  2
            services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the
            purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or for
            any import of goods, if such payment or import, to the
            knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision
            of the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter
            VII of the Charter of the United Nations."
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective meanings
therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
      (a)   "MOHP" means the Borrower's Ministry of Health and
Population, or any successor thereto;
      (b)   "Social Fund" or "SFD" means the Borrower's Social Fund
for Development, established and operating pursuant to Presidential
Decree No. 40 of 1991;
      (c)   "Population Policy Statement" means the statements of
the Borrower (i) set forth in the letter from the Borrower's Minister
of State for Population and Family Planning to the Association, on
population policy, dated October 9, 1995; and (ii) set forth in the
letter from the Borrower's Minister of Health and Population to the
Association, dated January 22, 1996, on the role and functions of
MOHP;
      (d)   "Strategic Business Plan" means the Borrower's plan,
agreed with the Association, for strengthening the organization and
functions of MOHP that relate to its population and family planning
operations and the carrying out of Part A of the Project, as the same
may be amended from time to time with the agreement of the Association;
      (e)   "Operating Manual" means the Borrower's manual, agreed
with the Association, for the carrying out of Part B of the Project,
as the same may be amended from time to time with the agreement of
the Association;
      (f)   "Sub-project Grant" means a grant made or proposed to be
made by the Borrower, through the Social Fund acting as the Borrower's
agent, to a Beneficiary for a Sub-Project;
      (g)   "Beneficiary" means any agency of the Borrower, non-
governmental organization, public or private community organization
or community association, established and operating under the laws
of the Borrower, to which the Borrower, through the Social Fund
acting as the Borrower's agent, proposes to make or has made a Sub-
project Grant;
      (h)   "Sub-project" means a specific project for stimulating
demand for family planning to be carried out under Part B of the
Project by a Beneficiary utilizing the proceeds of a Sub-project
Grant; and
      (i)   "Special Accounts" means the accounts referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                             ARTICLE II
                             The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development
Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to eleven
million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR11,900,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for: (i) expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for Part A of the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit; and (ii) amounts paid (or, if the Asso-
Page  3
ciation shall so agree, to be paid) through the Social Fund on account
of withdrawals made by Beneficiaries under Sub-project Grants to meet
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for Sub-projects
in respect of which the withdrawal from the Credit Account is requested.
      (b)   The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and
maintain in dollars two special deposit accounts, the first in respect
of Part A of the Project and the second in respect of Part B of the
Project, in a commercial bank, acceptable to the Association on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate
protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and
payments out of, the Special Accounts shall be made in accordance with
the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2001, or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a)  The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn
from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30
of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent
(1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the
respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower
from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as of
the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph
(a) above.  The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied
from the next payment date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of
this Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as
the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of
any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii)
in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section
4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant
to the provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semi-annually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual
installments payable on each May 1 and November 1 commencing May 1,
2006 and ending November 1, 2030. Each installment to and including
the installment payable on November 1, 2015 shall be one and one-
fourth per cent (1,%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter shall be two and one-half percent (2+%) of such principal
amount.
      (b)   Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by
them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms
of repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by requiring
the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such installment not
yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been
repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise
such modification to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase
in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an
Page  4
annual rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that,
in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the
grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to
paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower's
economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the Association may,
if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment
to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph
(a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
                             ARTICLE III
                      Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial,
economic and population practices, and shall provide, as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance
with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and consultants' services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General
Conditions and without limitations thereto, the Borrower, through MOHP
and SFD, shall:
      (a)   prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the
Association, and furnish to the Association not later than six (6)
months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed
for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a plan
for the future operation of the Project; and
      (b)   afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange
views with the Borrower on said plan.
                             ARTICLE IV
                         Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and expen-
ditures in respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of
the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part
thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower, through MOHP and SFD, shall:
            (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in para-
                   graph (a) of this Section including those for the
                   Special Accounts for each fiscal year audited, in
                   accordance with appropriate auditing principles
                   consistently applied, by independent auditors
                   acceptable to the Association;
            (ii)   furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
Page  5
                   but in any case not later than nine months after
                   the end of each such year, a certified copy of
                   the report of such audit by said auditors, of
                   such scope and in such detail as the Association
                   shall have reasonably requested; and
            (iii)  furnish to the Association such other information
                   concerning said records, accounts and the audit
                   thereof as the Association shall from time to time
                   reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from
the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure,
the Borrower, through MOHP and SFD, shall:
            (i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                   with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                   accounts reflecting such expenditures;
            (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Asso-
                   ciation has received the audit report for the
                   fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from
                   the Credit Account or payment out of the Special
                   Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                   invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                   evidencing such expenditures;
            (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine
                   such records; and
            (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are included
                   in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b)
                   of this Section and that the report of such audit
                   contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to
                   whether the statements of expenditure submitted
                   during such fiscal year, together with the pro-
                   cedures and internal controls involved in their
                   preparation, can be relied upon to support the
                   related withdrawals.
                              ARTICLE V
                             Termination
      Section 5.01. The date one hundred and twenty (120) days after
the date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                             ARTICLE VI
             Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 6.01. The Minister of Economy and International
Cooperation or the First Undersecretary for International Finance
of the Ministry of Economy and International Cooperation of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministry of Economy and International Cooperation
            (International Finance Sector)
            8 Adly Street
            Cairo, Arab Republic of Egypt
            Cable address:            Telex:
                   Ministry of        20967 MICIFUN
                   Economy and
Page  6
                   International
                   Cooperation Cairo
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:            Telex:
                   INDEVAS            248423 (MCI) or
                   Washington, D.C.    64145 (MCI)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in Cairo, Arab Republic of Egypt, as of the day
and year first above written.
                         ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
                         By /s/ Nawal El-Tatawy
                                          Authorized Representative
                         INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                         By /s/ Kemal Dervis
                                            Regional Vice President
                                       Middle East and North Africa
                             SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the
Credit to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so
to be financed in each Category:
                              Amount of the
                                 Credit              % of
                                Allocated        Expenditures
                              (Expressed in          to be
      Category               SDR Equivalent)       Financed
(1)   Under Part A of the
      Project
      (a) Goods                   280,000        100% of foreign
                                                 expenditures,
                                                 100% of local
                                                 expenditures
                                                 (ex-factory
                                                 cost) and 80%
                                                 of local
                                                 expenditures for
                                                 other items
                                                 procured locally
      (b) Consultants'            900,000        100% of foreign
          services and                           expenditures and 80%
          training                               of local expenditures
(2)   Sub-project Grants        9,650,000        100% of amounts
      under Part B                               paid through the
Page  7
      of the Project                             Social Fund
(3)   Unallocated               1,070,000
                               __________
      TOTAL                    11,900,000
                               ==========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of
the Borrower; and
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior
to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals may be made in an
aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of (a) SDR30,000 in
respect of Category 1 (a); and (b) SDR70,000 in respect of Category 1
(b), on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but
after February 1, 1996.
4.    The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to
be made on the basis of statements of expenditure under such terms and
conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower
for: (a) payments made under Sub-project Grants; and (b) expenditures
under Part A of the Project for contracts costing less than the equi-
valent of (i) $100,000 for goods; (ii) $100,000 for services of con-
sulting firms, and (iii) $50,000 for services of individual consultants.
                             SCHEDULE 2
                     Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are to: (i) strengthen the organiza-
tion and functions of MOHP that relate to its population and family
planning operations; and (ii) finance population activities as will
promote smaller families and create social conditions conducive to lower
fertility, all in accordance with the Population Policy Statement.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
      A program to strengthen (through the provision of vehicles,
office equipment, furniture and materials, staff training, technical
assistance and policy studies) the organization and capacity of MOHP
to facilitate the efficient carrying out of its key population and
family planning functions, including policy and program planning,
program coordination, resource mobilization, sectoral manpower
development and training planning, and monitoring and evaluation of
population and family planning programs.
Part B:
      The provision of grants for the carrying out of specific
projects to stimulate demand for family planning and smaller family
size, mainly in rural areas in Upper Egypt with unfavorable demo-
graphic indicators.
                                * * *
      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2001.
                             SCHEDULE 3
Page  8
                Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods
Part A:     General
      Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of
Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 (the Guidelines) and
the following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the
provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix
1 thereto.
2.    The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph
1 of this Part B.
      (a)   Grouping of contracts
      To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped
into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or more
each.
      (b)   Preference for domestically manufactured goods
      The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and
Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory
of the Borrower.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    International Shopping
      Goods estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent per contract,
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $750,000 equivalent, may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6
of the Guidelines.
2.    National Shopping
      Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract,
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $200,000 equivalent and
required for Part A of the Project, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with
the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.    Community Participation
      Goods estimated to cost less than $ 50,000 equivalent per contract
and required for Part B of the Project shall be procured in accordance
with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part D:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Procurement Planning
      Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for
bidding or to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for
the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review and
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix
1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be
undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been
approved by the Association and with the provisions of said paragraph
1.
Page  9
2.    Prior Review
      With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs
2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.    Post Review
      With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of
this Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to
the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
1.    Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded
in accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guide-
lines). For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts shall be
based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued
by the Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the
Association. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been
issued by the Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Association
shall be used.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association
review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures,
letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts
shall not apply to (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms
estimated to cost less than $100,00 equivalent each or (b) contracts
for the employment of individuals estimated to cost less than $50,000
equivalent each. However, said exceptions to prior Association review
shall not apply to (a) the terms of reference for such contracts, (b)
single-source selection of consulting firms, (c) assignments of a
critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Association, (d)
amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising
the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above, or (e) amendments
to contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising the
contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
                             SCHEDULE 4
                       Implementation Program
      The provisions of this Schedule shall apply for the purposes of
Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement.
A.    Overall Project Implementation
1.    The Borrower shall: (a) maintain arrangements, satisfactory to
the Association, for the overall coordination and supervision of
Project execution by MOHP; (b) employ, through MOHP, consultants,
with qualifications and terms of reference satisfactory to the
Association, to assist in the carrying out of the Project; and (c)
ensure, through MOHP, that the training under the Project shall be
carried out in accordance with programs, including time-schedules
for the implementation thereof and criteria for the selection of
candidates thereunder, agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
2.    The Borrower, through MOHP and SFD, shall: (a) maintain pro-
cedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate, on an ongoing
basis, in accordance with indicators agreed with the Association, the
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives
thereof; (b) prepare under terms of reference satisfactory to the
Association, and furnish to the Association: (i) by November 30 of
each year, a report, integrating the results of the monitoring and
evaluation activities performed pursuant to subparagraph (a) above,
on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during
the period of 12 months preceding the date of such report, and (ii)
on or about June 30, 1999, a mid-term report, integrating the data
and other information contained in the reports prepared pursuant to
Page  10
subparagraph (b) (i) above, on the progress achieved in carrying out
the Project during the period preceding the date thereof and setting
out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of
the Project during the period following such date; and (c) review
with the Association each such report and, thereafter, take all
measures required to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project
and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the con-
clusions and recommendations of such report and the Association's
views on the matter.
B.    Part A of the Project
      Part A of the Project shall be carried out by the Borrower
through MOHP in accordance with the requirements and other details
set forth in the Strategic Business Plan. For this purpose, the
Borrower shall ensure that MOHP shall maintain a Project Implemen-
tation Unit with staff, including a Project Director, and other
resources and terms of reference agreed with the Association, to
be responsible for supervising the execution of Part A of the Project.
C.    Part B of the Project
1.    Part B of the Project shall be carried out by the Borrower
through the Social Fund. For this purpose, the Borrower, through
MOHP, shall cause SFD to maintain arrangements, satisfactory to
the Association, pursuant to which SFD shall: (a) select Benefi-
ciaries, approve Sub-projects and make Sub-project Grants and other-
wise carry out its activities under Part B of the Project in
accordance with the strategic framework, criteria, requirements and
other details, set forth in the Operating Manual; and (b) adopt
procedures, satisfactory to the Association, to (i) monitor against
specific outcome indicators agreed with the Association, the carrying
out by Beneficiaries of Sub-projects and the achievement of the
objectives of Part B of the Project; and (ii) prepare and furnish to
the Borrower for inclusion in the reports referred to in Part A.2 of
this Schedule, all information required to assess the progress of
Part B of the Project and the achievement of its objectives.
2.    In order to facilitate the carrying out of Part B of the Project,
the Borrower, through MOHP,  shall maintain, with membership and terms
of reference agreed with the Association: (a) an Executive Committee
headed by the Borrower's Minister in charge of MOHP, to be responsible
for the provision of policy advice and strategic guidance in the
carrying out of Part B of the Project; and (b) a Governorate Committee
in each of the Borrower's Governorates within which Sub-projects are
proposed to be carried out, to be responsible for the achievement of
the objectives of Part B of the Project within the respective
Governorate.
                             SCHEDULE 5
                           Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means, in respect of Part A
of the Project, Category (1) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and, in respect of Part B of the Project,
Category (2) set forth in said table;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of (i) the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
Part A of the Project, and (ii) amounts paid under Sub-project Grants,
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from
time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $200,000 in respect of the Special Account for Part
A of the Project and an amount equivalent to $1,000,000 in respect
of the Special Account for Part B thereof, to be withdrawn from
the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Accounts pursuant
Page  11
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the respective Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the pro-
visions of this Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the respective Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals
of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the respective Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for deposit
into the respective Special Account of an amount or amounts which do
not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the
basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
the respective Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower
shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the respective Special Account,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                   requests for deposits into the respective Special
                   Account at such intervals as the Association shall
                   specify.
            (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Association the
                   documents and other evidence required pursuant to
                   paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                   payments in respect of which replenishment is
                   requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                   Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                   withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
                   the respective Special Account such amount as the
                   Borrower shall have requested and as shall have
                   been shown by said documents and other evidence
                   to have been paid out of the respective Special
                   Account for eligible expenditures. All such
                   deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association
                   from the Credit Account under the respective
                   eligible Category, and in the respective equiva-
                   lent amounts, as shall have been justified by
                   said documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the respective
Special Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association
shall reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents
and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively
for eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule,
the Association shall not be required to make further deposits into
any Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement;
      (b)   if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the
Association, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)
(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Accounts;
      (c)   if, at any time, the Association shall have notified
the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account
pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions; or
Page  12
      (d)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories for the respective Special
Account for the respective Part of the Project, minus the total
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by
the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
with respect to the respective Part of the Project, shall equal the
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories
for the respective Part of the Project shall follow such procedures
as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that
the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts
remaining on deposit in the respective Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time that
any payment out of any Special Account: (i) was made for an expendi-
ture or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association
may request; or (B) deposit into the respective Special Account (or,
if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an
amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into any Special Account
shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made
such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time that
any amount outstanding in any Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall,
promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association
such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account[s].
      (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.
