Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 18013
IMPLEMENTAl'ION COMPLETION REPORT
KAZAKHSTAN
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Loan 4051-KZ
June 18, 1998
Private & Financial Sector Development Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
asofMay31, 1998:CurrencyUnit-Tenge(T); IT=US$0.0131; US$1 =T76.65
AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATES
1996          1997      3rd Quarter, 1997  4th Quarter, 1997    January 1998
67.30         75.44           75.55            75.55             76.09
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB   -  Asian Development Bank
ASF  -  Agricultural Support Fund
BSD   -  Bank Supervision Department
CAS  -  Country Assistance Strategy
CEL  -  Committee for External Loans
CIS  -  Commonwealth of Independent States
EBRD   -  European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EFF  -  Extended Fund Facility
ETF  -  Economic Transformation Fund
EU   -  European Union
FEDL  -  Finance and Enterprise Development Loan
FSAL  -  Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
FSU   -  Former Soviet Union
FY   -  Fiscal Year
GDP  -  Gross Domestic Product
GOK   -  Government of Kazakhstan
IAS  -  International Accounting Standards
IBRD   -  International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IBS  -  International Banking Standards
IFC   -  International Finance Corporation
IMF  -  International Monetary Fund
JSC   -  Joint Stock Company
MOF  -  Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Kazakhstan
NBK   -  National Bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan
PHRD   -  Policy and Human Resource Development
RB   -  Rehabilitation Bank
SAL  -  Structural Adjustment Loan
SPD   -  State Property Department of the Ministry of Finance
TA   -  Technical Assistance
TAL  -  Technical Assistance Loan
USAID   -  United States Agency for International Development
KAZAKHSTAN'S FISCAL YEAR
January I -December 31
Vice President: Mr. Johannes F. Linn, ECA
Country Director: Mr. Kiyoshi Kodera, ECCO8
Sector Director: Mr. Lajos Bokros, ECSPF
Program Team Leader: Mr. Albert Martinez, ECSPF
Responsible Staff: Ms. Lazzat Buranbayeva, ECCKZ



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KAZAKHSTAN
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN NO. 4051-KZ
Contents
PREFACE ...........................................................I 
EVALUATION SUMMARY ...........................................................                                                i-v
PART 1. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ...........................................................                           1
A. PROJECT ORIGIN AND OBJECTIVES ...........................................................                          I
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES .......................                                                                  2
C. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACT'ORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT ............................... 7
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY ..............................                                                              8
E. THE BANK'S PERFORMANCF ............................                                                                9
F. THE BORROWER'S PERFORMANCE.                                                              ............................ 9
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME ............................                                                                 9
H. FUTlURE OPERATIONS ..........................                                                                  , 10
1. KEY LESSONS LEARNED ..........................                                                                    10
PART II. STATISTICAL TABLES ..........................                                                                         13
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENT ............................                                                          14
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK LOANS/CREDITS ............................ 16
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE ....................                                                                      17
TABLE 4: LOAN/CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL .......................... 17
TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROGRAM  IMPLEMENTATION .........................................................    18
TABLE SA: WAIVER OF TWO CONDITIONS FOR RELEASE OF SECOND TRANCHE ................................... 27
TABLE 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATIONS ...................................... 28
TABLE 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT .................................            ,.... 28
TABLE 8A: PROJECT COSTS ............................                                 , .              ...   ,.. -.28
TABLE 8B: PROJECT FINANCING ....................                                                                     28
TABLE 9: E        CONOMIC  COSTS AND BENEFITS ...............................     . ,28
TABLE 1 0: STATUS OF LEGAL CONVENANTS ...................................              ,.,. 29
TABLE 1 1: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS ................................................ 30
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS ...............................             ,      .     ,      .,. 30
TABLE 13: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS ..............................                                                    30
APPENDICES:
A. BORROWER CONTRIBUTION4 TO THE ICR
B. SECOND TRANCHE RELEASE MEMORANDUM
C. SELECTED ECONOMIC INDICATORS AND FINANCIAL SECTOR STATISTICS
MAP
IBRD 29326



IMPLEMENTAT]ION COMPLETION REPORT
KAZAKHSTAN
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Loan 4051-KZ
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Financial Sector Adjustment Loan in
Kazakhstan, for which Loan 4051 -KZ in the amount of US$ 180 million equivalent was approved on
June 25, 1996 and made effective on July 31, 1996. The loan was closed on September 30, 1997, six
months after the original closing date March 31, 1997. The first tranche in an amount of US$ 90 million
released upon effectiveness, was fully disbursed on July 31, 1996. The second tranche of US$ 90 million
was disbursed in August 1997.
This ICR was prepared by Lazzat Buranbayeva and reviewed by Fred King (ECCO8), Klaus
Lorch (ECSPF) and Albert Martinez (ECSPF). This ICR was prepared on the basis of a financial sector
review done by Bank's Joint Assessment Mission in February, 1998 and updated by staff in the Resident
Mission in May/June 1998. It is based on materials in the project file and discussions held with Borrower
staff involved in project implementation. The Iborrower contributed to preparation of the ICR by its
Project Implementation Report (Appendix A).



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KkZAKHSTAN
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN (4051-KZ)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction.
1.  The Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (FSAL) of US$ 180 million was an adjustment
operation designed to support the financial sector reform program of the Government and the
National Bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan. The Loan was appraised in March 1996, and
approved by the Board on June 25, 1996. The Loan Agreement was signed on June 25, 1996, and
became effective, with the release of the first tranche of US$ 90 million on July 31, 1996. The
second tranche was released on August 6, 1997. The Loan was fully disbursed and closed on
September 30, 1997, six months after the original closing date March 31, 1997.
Project Objectives and Design
2.    Kazakhstan's reforms were initially implemented against a background of high inflation
and sharply declining GDP. In response to these conditions, the Government started in mid-1994
to implement tight monetary and fiscal policies with a package of structural measures aimed at a
more rapid and effective restructuring of the enterprise sector, that allowed to achieve some
macro-economic and financial stability (Project Implementation Assessment, para. 2). However,
sustaining the country's macroeconomic stabilization hinged on banks' ability to force financial
discipline on their borrowers, support enterprise adjustment and avoid a systemic banking crisis.
Strengthening the financial sector became a key element of the overall program of stabilization
and structural reforms in Kazakhstan, and in particular, the continued restructuring and recovery
in the enterprise sector.
3.    The Government's stabilization policies created favorable macro conditions for the
emergence of a sound financial sector, and determined reform policy in the enterprise sector
improved conditions for sound bank lending. The FSAL aimed to advance the structural reform
process by supporting critical reforms in the financial sector to make it sound and efficient and to
ensure a minimum of critical financial services during the transition period. It was developed as
an integral part and within the framework of the Bank's and IMF's macroeconomic stabilization
programs (PIA, para. 3). Moreover, the Loan also helped to meet external financing requirements
and support the budget of the Government.
4.    The FSAL program therefore focused on the following two key objectives: (1)
improving the sector environment to reduce the operational risks and latent instability of even
promising banks; and (2) dealing with old problem loans and problem banks that affected the
entire sector.



- ii -
Implementation Experience and Results
5.    The Program supported by FSAL successfully achieved its objectives The Borrower
implemented a number of legal and regulatory reforms to establish the appropriate framework for
prudent banking. In addition, the Borrower dealt directly with the stock of nonperforming loans
and the problem banks. Major portions of nonperforming loans were carved out to special
institutions. Nonviable banks were closed, a number of state owned banks were privatized, and
banks that were considered too big to fail were restructured with the intent of privatizing them at
a later date. The end result of these reforms was that the health of the banking system improved.
The balance sheet of the banking sector strengthened. In December 1996 Kazakhstan floated its
first Eurobond and became the third country of the former Soviet Union to obtain an
international credit rating (speculative). Two Kazakhstani banks - Kazcommertzbank and Halyk
Bank - also obtained international credit rating.
6.   Improving the sector environment for a sound banking sector. The framework for
secured lending has been strengthened in several ways. The legal system was developed to
provide better security for property rights (PIA, para.8). The institutional development of banks
has been fostered in terms of, among other things, better governance through privatization and
new bank accounting systems. The number of banks in which the State holds shares has been
reduced from 73 in 1996 to 5 in 1998: Halyk Bank, Eximbank Kazakhstan, Zhilstoybank, Central
Asian Bank for Cooperation and Development (CABCD - a regional development bank jointly
owned with neighboring Kyrgyzstan and Uzbekistan) and Bank Center Credit. All these banks,
except CABCD, are in the process of privatization (PIA, para. 9). Inter-bank payments and
liquidity management have been facilitated through new monetary and payment instruments and
inter-bank payment systems (PIA, para. 10). Progress has also been made in ensuring
competition, particularly with regard to the role of the Halyk Bank - the former branch of the
Soviet Saving Bank. Growth and strengthening of Kazcommertzbank, Bank TuranAlem and
Bank CenterCredit diminished the special position of Halyk Bank in the financial sector and
increased competition among the local banks. Easing the entry for the foreign banks contributed
to the strengthening of competition in the financial market as well (PIA, para. 11). Prudential
supervision has been tightened in a transparent, gradual process. NBK identified 29 banks which
will come into compliance with full intemational banking standards (IBS) by end-1998, and the
other banks should achieve IBS by end- 2000. To improve enforcement of the regulations, NBK
increased the number of staff in its Banking Supervision Departments and intensified off-site and
on-site inspections (PIA, para. 12).
7.  Dealing with problem loans and problem banks. The financial burden related to old
problem loans was shared between bank shareholders and the Government roughly in proportion
to their respective responsibility for these loans. The state in many ways relieved banks of bad
loans that had been imposed by authorities by transferring the loans to the specially created debt
resolution institutes or by transferring them from the banks' accounts to the budget with the
banks continuing to service the loans on an agent basis with operational cost compensation. The
removal of non-performing loans and isolation of distressed enterprises from the banking
system, which minimized the allocation of further resources to them, contributed immensely to
the healthy development of the financial system. The non-performing loans made to small and



- ill -
medium scale enterprises remained in the portfolios of the lending banks, which were urged to
establish internal work-out units to deal directly with the problem loans without government
assistance (PIA, para. 13). However, the actual resolution of bad loans is still on the agenda of
the Government, and in 1998 the Government has adopted a more aggressive approach to resolve
this problem (PIA, para. 14).
8.   The resolution of problem banks proceeded rapidly on two levels, specifically, the
streamlined handling of a large number of ordinary problem banks and the case-by-case
treatment of four very large ones. In the rnass closure of small and medium problem banks, NBK
canceled the licenses of banks which did not meet the prudential norms, including the liquidation
of the fourth largest bank (KRAMDS Bank) in September 1996. As a result of closures and
mergers, the number of banks decreased ifrom 184 banks in end-1994 to 82 in end-1997. The
case-by-case treatment of large problem banks was focused on Turan Bank and Alem Bank
(which in 1996 merged into Bank TuranAlem), Agroprom and Eximbank Kazakhstan (PIA,
paras. 16-18). The merger of Turan and Alem Banks made necessary the introduction of a waiver
of the Loan's second tranche conditions (which originally included separate conditions for each
bank). This was approved by the Board on June 23, 1997.
9.    Use of the Foreign Exchange Provided. The external financing provided by the Loan
helped sustain the country's import capacity and provided important budgetary support,
especially in view of active measures undertaken by the Government to resolve the problems of
arrears on pension and social payments. The specific reform measures introduced under the
FSAL allowed the reduction of the risk of a future banking sector crisis which has major budget
repercussions, and the enhancement of banks' ability to support adjustment and recovery in the
enterprise sector that will have positive e ffect on the fiscal situation in the longer term.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
10.   The project had significant development outcomes. Strengthening of the financial sector
increased the country's capacity to impleiment enterprise sector reform and provided the basis for
future economic growth. An improved financial sector better accumulates and allocates financial
resources and promotes increased savings. The specific reform measures implemented in the
FSAL context have considerably reduced the risk of a future banking sector crisis which has
major budget repercussions, and they have enhanced the banks' ability to support adjustment and
recovery in the enterprise sector, which is necessary for improving the fiscal situation in the
longer term.
11.   Future Bank and other donors' operations will use the improved capacity of the banking
sector to channel long-term resources to the real sector of the economy. In FY1998 the Bank will
start the long-term Agricultural Post Privatization Assistance Project (US$ 85 million, in three
phases, over approximately 10 years). EBRD opened a credit line for Small and Medium Size
Business Support (US$ 77.7 million). In the future the Bank is not going to provide direct
lending to support the development of the financial sector (except the on-going Finance &
Enterprise Development Loan), focusing instead on analysis of the financial situation in



- iv -
Kazakhstan and promoting development of new instruments (e.g. guarantees) as well as
providing rapid response TA on an ad hoc basis.
12.   The reform program supported by FSAL has yielded important lessons lessons relevant
not only to future developments in Kazakhstan but to other transitional economies. These are as
follows:
13.  A stable macro-economic framework is critical to the success of financial sector
reform. FSAL was preceded by the Bank's adjustment operations (Rehabilitation Loan of FY94
and Structural Adjustment Loan of FY95) and an IMF stand-by arrangement which provided the
macro-economic environment for implementation of the financial sector reform. It is very
important that the FSAL was prepared and implemented in parallel with IMF's EFF program,
which provided continuing support (through policy advise and conditions, but not funding as
Kazakhstan has not withdrawn funds from this facility due to its strong international reserve
position) to the macro-economic stabilization program. Close coordination and collaboration
with the IMF in preparation of the Bank's FSAL programs was highly desirable as was
simultaneous implementation of FSAL and the IMF's programs. FSAL had to follow the
program on macro-economic stabilization and not be implemented before such stabilization had
started to be demonstrated. Maintaining macro-economic stability was an imperative
requirement of FSAL.
14.   Preparation of an FSAL within the framework of a country's medium-term
assistance strategy will contribute to the success of the project. To achieve its development
objectives, FSAL was a bridge operation between the macro-stabilization adjustment loans and
investment projects to support a sector of economy through provision of resources for on-
lending. The former operations create a proper macro-economic environment while the latter
ones create incentives for financial sector participants to implement reforms and to get technical
assistance.
15.   Financial reform strategy implemented in Kazakhstan proved its viability and may
provide a useful model for late reforming FSU countries. It includes the following key elements,
which are critical for the development of a sound banking sector:
A.  Isolation of non-performing enterprises. Even if debt resolution institutions fail to provide
effective restructuring of distressed enterprises, they minimize allocation of further resources to
these enterprises, thus contributing significantly to the health of the banking sector.
B. Burden-sharing concept in resolving problem loans: Removing those credits that had been
explicitly Government directed with a corresponding amount of government/central bank
refinancing, letting the banks work out the rest, and giving banks the necessary legal framework
and political backing proved to be a better practice than keeping these loans within the banking
system for two reasons. First, the indebted enterprises continue to get access to loans from
commercial banks. Second, it is unlikely that such enterprises will be forced to undertake
restructuring or liquidation.



- v -
C.  Policy of gradual easing of access firforeign banks to local market. Protection of local
banks for 2-3 years from intensive foreign competition while pushing them to recover their
portfolio losses over that period from local margins and fresh private equity, and easing access
for foreign banks once the period is over allowed local banks to strengthen and become
competitive. Creating a strong competitive environment once local banks became stronger is
critical for further viability and development of local banks.
D.  Dividing banks into two groups - more advanced and less advanced - with appropriate
systems ofprudential standards. This approach allowed Government to cope with the initially
huge variety in banks' performance through a de facto dual prudential system that created
incentives for the better banks to achieve International Banking Standards (IBS) by providing
them the access to a wider range of bankinjg operations. At the same time, for weaker banks, such
system provided some "grace" period during which they may address their portfolio problems
and form necessary provisions, but, at the same time, restricted severely their operations. Over
the period these banks either achieved the first group requirements or converted themselves into
other vehicles or were closed by the central bank.
16.  Independence of the Central Ban]k is a key factor in the success of the financial
sector reform. Implementation of the financial reform program involves restrictive and tough
measures which usually creates strong opposition at different levels and political pressure to
soften the policy. If the Central Bank is dependent on the Government, it is very likely that it
will apply different standards to private and state banks, which decreases the effectiveness of
introduced measures (prudential standards, banking supervision) and undermine the soundness of
the financial system by keeping problem state banks open. In addition, an FSAL should be
supplemented by strict monetary policy, which also requires a high level of independence for the
Central bank.
17.   Rapid response and timely delivery of TA is very important to support FSAL
implementation. First, as they are developed, TA requirements should be broadly discussed with
the Borrower to identify the real benefits of such TA, so they would not be considered as
political requirements imposed with adjustment operations, and the Borrower would be
interested in receiving this TA. Second, TA projects should have a more flexible structure to
address ad hoc needs and/or to adapt to the current situation. Third, TA supporting FSAL
operations at the expense of the Borrower, should be provided as much as possible on repayment
basis with proper financial models and system of incentives for the ultimate beneficiaries
18.    Hyperinflation, which reduced fiinancial assets and liabilities, and the low level of
intermediation by the financial system, gave the government a window of opportunity to
build institutions without making major disruptions in the intermediation function. At the
beginning of financial reform in transition economies, banks were mainly providers of financial
services. Based on experience in other countries, financial deepening and institution building
will take time.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KAZAKHSTAN
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN (FSAL)
(Loan No. 4051-KZ)
Part I. Project ][mplementation Assessment
1.   The Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (FSAL) of US$ 180 million was an adjustment
operation designed to support the financial sector reform program of the Government and the
National Bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan. The Loan was appraised in March 1996, and
approved by the Board on June 25, 1996. The Loan Agreement was signed on June 25, 1996, and
became effective, with release of the first lranche of US$ 90 million on July 31, 1996. The
second tranche was released on August 6, 1997. The Loan was fully disbursed and closed on
September 30, 1997, six months after the original closing date March 31, 1997.
A. Project Objectives and Design
2.    Kazakhstan's reforms were initially implemented against a background of high inflation
and sharply declining GDP. In response to these conditions, the Government started in mid-1994
to implement tight monetary and fiscal policies with a package of structural measures aimed at a
more rapid and effective restructuring of the enterprise sector. As the result of these policies,
inflation declined sharply from an annual rate of 1,160 percent in 1994 to 61 percent in 1995; the
budget deficit was brought down to 3 percent of GDP in 1995 from 6.5 percent in 1994, and the
exchange rate of the Tenge was stabilized. Restrictive monetary policy resulted in a deceleration
of the broad money expansion to a rate of 98 percent in 1995; and the refinancing rate of the
NBK turned positive in real terms in the third quarter of 1994 and has remained so thereafter.
The balance of payments improved with a reduction in the current account deficit to 2.5 percent
of GDP that led to an increase of foreign r eserves to US$1.7 billion by December 1995. The
Government liberalized prices and trade, dismantled state-owned holding companies and
undertook measures to accelerate privatization. The Government also initiated a policy of
accelerated enterprise restructuring in 1995, with support of the SAL. However, sustaining the
country's macroeconomic stabilization hinged on banks' ability to force financial discipline on
their borrowers, support enterprise adjustment and avoid a systemic banking crisis. Strengthening
the financial sector became a key element of the overall program of stabilization and structural
reforms in Kazakhstan, and in particular, the continued restructuring and recovery in the
enterprise sector.
3.    The Government's stabilization policies created favorable macro conditions for the
emergence of a sound financial sector, and determined reform policy in the enterprise sector
improved conditions for sound bank lending. The FSAL aimed to advance the structural reform
process by supporting critical reforms in the financial sector to make it sound and efficient and to
ensure a minimum of critical financial services during the transition period. It was developed as
an integral part and within the framework of the macroeconomic stabilization program that had
been pursued under a Rehabilitation Loan of FY94 and Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL) of
FY95, as well as an IMF stand-by arrangement. FSAL was prepared in close coordination with



- 2 -
an Extended Fund Facility Program (EFF) of the IMF which supported the maintenance of the
macroeconomic policy framework. Moreover, the Loan also helped to meet external financing
requirements and support the budget.
4.    The FSAL program therefore focused on the following two key objectives: (1)
improving the sector environment to reduce the operational risks and latent instability of even
promising banks; and (2) dealing with old problem loans and problem banks that affected the
entire sector.
5.   In order to establish a conducive environment for sound banking sector growth, the
financial sector reform program included the following requirements: (a) strengthening the
framework for secured lending; (b) fostering the institutional development of banks; (c)
facilitating inter-bank payments and liquidity management; (d) ensuring competition on an even
playing field; and (e) tightening prudential supervision. This program supplemented the
Government's enterprise reform program which by that time had started to result in the
elimination of the least viable enterprises, the restructuring of distressed firms, and the growth of
new private enterprises.
6.    To resolve problem loans, which in 1995 amounted to about 55-60 percent of the
commercial loan portfolio, a burden-sharing concept was accepted, where the reform program
relieved banks of bad loans that they had been instructed by various authorities to make, and
encouraged the banks' recapitalization from private sources after they had provisioned for the
bad loans that had not been imposed by authorities. The financial sector suffered from an
overhang not only of problem loans, but also of problem banks. Therefore, the program included
components to handle the vast number of smaller problem banks and to focus determined action
on the four largest ones: Alem, Turan, Agroprom and Eximbank Kazakhstan.
B. Achievements of Objectives
7.    The Program supported by FSAL successfully achieved its objectives The Borrower
implemented a number of legal and regulatory reforms to establish the appropriate framework for
prudent banking. In addition, the Borrower dealt directly with the stock of nonperforming loans
and the problem banks. Major portions of nonperforming loans were carved out to special
institutions. Nonviable banks were closed, a number of state owned banks were privatized, and
banks that were considered too big to fail were restructured with the intent of privatizing them at
a later date. The end result of these reforms is that the health of the banking system improved.
The balance sheet of the banking sector strengthened. In December 1996 Kazakhstan floated its
first Eurobond and became the third country of the former Soviet Union to obtain an
international credit rating (speculative). Two Kazakhstani banks - Kazcommertzbank and Halyk
Bank - also obtained international credit rating.
(1) Improving the sector environment for a sound banking sector.
8.    The framework for secured lending has been strengthened in several ways. The legal
system was developed to provide better security for property rights. The Bankruptcy Law made
judicial procedures for bankruptcy cases more speedy and transparent. The Company Law was



-3 -
recently revised to provide better protection of rights of minority shareholders and to update the
company legislation in view of developments in the economic environment. The legislation on
mortgages was adopted and a law on pledges on movable property has been submitted to the
Parliament, providing the legal basis for secured lending. A new registry system for establishing
property rights is being set up, and the procedures for registering collateral have been simplified.
A new chart of accounts and a broad set of accounting standards were mandated starting from
1997. A credit information bureau started operations in NBK. The framework for rating agencies
has been clarified to avoid conflicts of interest. NBK introduced the rating system for financial
status of banks (CAMEL) and already 33 banks were inspected under this system. Moreover,
various reforms are under way to modernize and strengthen the judicial system which also will
be supported by TA provided under the Bank's FY98 Agricultural Post Privatization Assistance
Loan and the Legal Reform Loan planned for FY99.
9.    The institutional development of banks has been fostered in terms of, among other things,
better governance through privatization and new bank accounting systems. The number of banks
in which the State holds shares has been reduced from 73 in 1996 to 5 in 1998: Halyk Bank,
Eximbank Kazakhstan, Zhilstroybank, Cenltral Asian Bank for Cooperation and Development
(CABCD - a regional development bank jointly owned with neighboring Kyrgyzstan and
Uzbekistan) and Bank Center Credit. All these banks, except CABCD, are in the process of
privatization. Rehabilitation Bank is being transformed into the Trust Fund. The Budget Bank
was closed, transferring its function to the Treasury Department of the Ministry of Finance. A
proposed sale of the Eximbank Kazakhstan to Bank Bumiputra Malaysia Berhard and IFC
planned for the end of 1997-beginning of 1998 has been jeopardized by the financial crises in
East Asia. Currently, the Government in collaboration with IFC is seeking a new strategic
investor. In December 1997 Government held tenders for Bank TuranAlem and Zhilstroybank. In
both cases the winners were local investors (for Bank Turanalem - a group of Kazakhstani
investors, and for Zhilstroybank - Bank Center Credit; for Zhilstroybank the transaction has not
been completed yet). The Government approved the program for privatization of the Halyk
Bank, which will be implemented by several phases to 2001. As to bank accounting and audit,
NBK mandated a new chart of accounts, reporting forms, and accounting standards, mandatory
for all banks, as their primary system, and assisted banks, with donor support, in the conversion.
10.  Inter-bank payments and liquidity management have been facilitated through new
monetary and payment instruments and inter-bank payment systems. For example, an automatic
overnight Lombard facility was opened and a Law on Bills of Exchange and Promissory Notes
was enacted, conforming with the relevant Geneva Convention of 1930. All banks are now
maintaining unified correspondent accounts nationwide with NBK. Payment clearing centers
were established in all oblasts, and control over them is being transferred to commercial banks
within an improved regulatory framework. For high-value transactions NBK has completed
preparations for a special payment system with special standards of security and speed which
will be funded under the Finance and Enterprise Development Loan.
11.   Progress has also been made in ensuring competition, particularly with regard to the role
of the Halyk Bank (former branch of the Soviet Saving Bank). The bank has received operational
autonomy and, at the same time, relinquished earlier privileges, such as exemption from reserve



-4-
requirements and the free use of local premises. Growth and strengthening of Kazcommertzbank,
Bank TuranAlem and Bank CenterCredit, whose assets and branch network are comparable to
Halyk's, and which have licenses for household deposits, diminished the special position of
Halyk Bank in the financial sector and increased competition among the local banks. Easing the
entry for foreign banks contributed to the strengthening of competition in the financial market as
well. As of end of the 1997, twenty-two banks (out of 82) were registered with foreign
participation. Recently CitiBank and Societe General have opened full operational daughter
banks in Kazakhstan. NBK is planning to increase soon the ceiling for aggregate capital of
foreign banks to 50 percent (currently the ceiling is 25 percent).
12.  Prudential supervision has been tightened in a transparent, gradual process. For example,
NBK has clarified the calculation methods of prudential norms developed in accordance with the
Basel agreement, enforced a broader range of norms (e.g. including affiliated borrower exposure
limits), introduced the classification not only for loans but also for other types of assets and for
contingent liabilities, and introduced requirements for provisioning for all the types of classified
assets and contingent liabilities. NBK identified 29 banks which will come into compliance with
full international banking standards (IBS) by end-1998, and the other banks should achieve IBS
by end- 2000. When a bank meets the IBS criteria, it qualifies for the following activities:
investment operations, participation in the National Bank credit auctions, conducting
international operations; issuing bonds, certificates of deposit, and checks; and acting as
custodian in the corporate securities market. These create incentives for banks to strive toward
higher prudential performance and limits access of less sound banks to certain operations. To
improve enforcement of the regulations, NBK increased the number of staff in its Banking
Supervision Departments and intensified off-site and on-site inspections.
(2) Dealing with problem loans and problem banks
13.  The financial burden related to old problem loans was shared between bank shareholders
and the Government roughly in proportion to their respective responsibility for these loans. The
state in many ways relieved banks of bad loans that had been imposed by authorities. The
Government in 1995 created two special debt resolution institutions - the Agricultural Support
Fund and the Rehabilitation Bank. The Agricultural Support Fund took over from banks non-
performing imposed credits to farms. As a result, the loan portfolio of Agroprombank was
reduced to US$ 45 million. Forty-six very large industrial enterprises-defaulters, including some
that had failed to recover under management contracts, were transferred to the Rehabilitation
Bank, and were isolated from the commercial banking system. Nonperforming directed loans
made from the Economic Transformation Fund in 1993-1994 were transferred to the
Development Bank and the loans made by Alembank Kazakhstan under the export credit
facilities in 1993-1994 were transferred to the Eximbank Kazakhstan. After the merger of the
Development Bank with Eximbank Kazakhstan and in the course of the strengthening and
institutional development of the combined bank, these loans were transferred to the Government,
and Eximbank started to service them on an agent basis. The same conversion to managed fund
status was done for non-performing imposed loans of Turan Bank (after merger with AlemBank
into Bank TuranAlem). Outright recapitalization with budget funds was limited to one bank,
Bank TuranAlem. The recapitalization of banks through retained earnings was facilitated by



-5 -
reforming the tax treatment of loan loss provisions. Injections of new private capital into banks
were fostered by enforcing minimum capital and capital adequacy requirements (from December
5, 1997 the minimal capital requirement was T 300 million for newly opened banks and T 100
million for other banks). The removal of non-performing loans and isolation of distressed
enterprises from the banking system, minimizing the allocation of further resources to them,
contributed immensely to the healthy development of the financial system. The non-performing
loans made to small and medium scale enterprises remained in the portfolios of the lending
banks, which were urged to establish internal work-out units to deal directly with the problem
loans without government assistance.
14.   The actual resolution of bad loans is still on the agenda of the Government. Despite quite
successful work of the Rehabilitation Bank (a severe reduction in staff of enterprises transferred
to the RB - an average 34.3%; liquidation procedures against 4 insolvent enterprises;
restructuring of 14 enterprises and privatization and transfer under the management contracts of
26 enterprises), rehabilitation institutions that received the non-performing loans were not able to
make much headway in restructuring indebted farms and enterprises due to a number of reasons,
and in 1998 the Government adopted a more aggressive approach to resolve this problem.
Starting from 1998 the Agricultural Support Fund and the State Property Department of the
Ministry of Finance (or the JSC Agency oni Reorganization and Liquidation of Insolvent
Enterprises authorized by the SPD) were mandated to bankrupt indebted farms and enterprises or
provide creditor-led restructuring if the farm or enterprise is potentially viable and has developed
a restructuring plan. The Government is also intending to continue the practice of auctioning off
bad loans. The JSC Agency on Reorganization and Liquidation of Insolvent Enterprises, which
absorbed the Center for Advice to Insolvent Enterprises, has assisted in the preparation of
restructuring plans, and has the special mandate from the Government to deal with Government's
non-performing loans and debts to the Government on commercial basis (for a commission fee or
for a portion of recovered debt). Out of 598 insolvent enterprises included in the scope of the JSC
activities, the financial status of 30 enterprises has been improved, 233 have been proposed for
liquidation; 57 for sale of state shares; 89 ifor sanitation, 15 for rehabilitation, 20 for financial
rehabilitation, 9 for reorganization, and the remaining enterprises are subject to further analysis.
15.   The resolution of problem banks proceeded rapidly on two levels, specifically, the
streamlined handling of a large number of ordinary problem banks and the case-by-case
treatment of four very large ones. In the mass closure of small and medium problem banks, NBK
canceled the licenses of banks which did n,ot meet the prudential norms, including the liquidation
of the fourth largest bank (KRAMDS Bank) in September 1996. As a result of closures and
mergers, the number of banks decreased from 184 banks in end-1994 to 82 in end-1997. The
NBK created special liquidation units in its Banking Supervision Department to oversee the
liquidation of nonviable banks. A recent court ruling placed the liquidation process with the
judicial system. The case-by-case treatment of large problem banks was focused on Turan, Alem
(in 1996 merged into Bank TuranAlem), Agroprom and Eximbank Kazakhstan.
16.  Turan Bank went through rigorous restructuring in 1996 under a management team
provided by NBK. AlemBank tried to stem the deterioration of its financial condition while the
Government negotiated, without success, the bank's privatization to a foreign investor. Based on



-6 -
audit results that became available in the third quarter of 1996, the bank's capital was more
negative than had been estimated, but the Government was reluctant to proceed with liquidation
of AlemBank in view of nervousness in the financial markets and among population caused by
the closure of KRAMDS bank. In the judgment of NBK, the systemic risk of starting the
liquidation of AlemBank would have been unacceptable in this environment. Instead, the
Government and NBK decided in December on an alternative course of action, the merger of
AlemBank with TuranBank and the subsequent recapitalization and privatization of the resulting
TuranAlembank. TuranAlembank was forced to undergo drastic restructuring and downsizing to
stabilize its financial situation. Government provided about US$ 90 million to re-capitalize the
combined bank and NBK lent to the combined bank about US$ 60 million. In the end of 1997 the
Government put the state shares of TuranAlem on tender, and it was purchased by a consortium
of local investors. The merger of Turan and Alem Banks made necessary the introduction of a
waiver of the Loan's second tranche conditions (which originally included separate conditions
for each bank). This was approved by the Board on June 23, 1997.
17.  Agroprombank implemented a restructuring plan agreed with NBK. A combination of
extensive transfers of bad loans to the Agricultural Support Fund in 1995, enhanced loan
collection efforts, tight limits on the bank's new lending activities, and additional restrictions
improved the condition of the bank's balance sheet. In the end of 1996 the Government sold back
to Agroprombank its entire package of shares in the bank in return for 42 branch buildings which
were transferred to the state. With this step, the branch network was downsized, and the bank is
now fully privately owned. However, dispersed ownership of Agroprombank is preventing the
introduction of a new managerial culture, and the bank still needs to improve its institutional
capacity and operations. The achieved financial stability of the bank is fragile and there is a high
probability of accumulating non-performing loans from the time when the bank has been allowed
to resume active lending operations.
18.  Eximbank Kazakhstan was relieved of most of its non-performing loans and their
refinancing, and provisioned for the rest in its end- 1996 statements. In has since grown
cautiously within the constraint of a 3:1 debt/equity ratio, and has focused on a list of core
activities and instruments so as to avoid diluting its efforts. While the bank has rejected lending
proposed by the authorities at bank risk, such as to the social sector, the bank is sometimes
managing state loans on an agency basis. Eximbank implemented a development plan (which
was a FSAL second tranche condition) aimed at strengthening its financial position, improved its
operational capacities and looked for further privatization. Bank Bumiputra Malaysia Berhad
(BBMB) and IFC expressed a strong interest in acquiring 51% of the shares of Eximbank
Kazakhstan, but, due to the current financial crisis in East Asia and its impact on Malaysian
banks, this transaction has fallen through. The failure of this deal put Eximbank in a difficult
financial situation because of lack of expected recapitalization, and affected the overall position
of Eximbank in the financial markets. Eximbank does not have its own deposit base for lending
(according to the agreed special treatment, it is not allowed to take deposits or keep company and
individual accounts until it is privatized), and, due to upcoming privatization, it stopped
receiving budget resources for lending activities. The prospects for attracting foreign resources is
also uncertain since Kazcommertzbank and Halyk Bank have obtained international credit ratings
and it has been widely recognized that Eximbank's liabilities are not backed by the Government.



-7 -
Eximbank has good institutional capacities and well trained personnel; however, if it is not
privatized in the near future, it may lose all its comparative advantages and its niche in the
Kazakhstani market.
(3) Use of the Foreign Exchange Provided
19.   The external financing provided by the Loan helped sustain the country's import capacity
and provided important budgetary support, especially in view of active measures undertaken by
the Government to resolve the problems of arrears on pension and social payments. The specific
reform measures introduced under the FSAL allowed the reduction of the risk of a future banking
sector crisis with major budget repercussions and the enhancement of banks' ability to support
adjustment and recovery in the enterprise sector that will have positive effects on the fiscal
situation in the longer term.
C. Implementation Record and Major ]Factors Affecting the Project
20.   Implementation of the Financial Sector Reform Policy was satisfactory as discussed
above. The following main factors contributed to the successful implementation: (i) the
comprehensive macro-economic stabilization policy maintained by the Government and
supported by the IMF's EFF arrangements; (ii) strong commitment and independence of the
NBK in implementing financial sector reform policy, in close coordination with Government's
agencies; (iii) availability of TA to support the program's implementation; (iv) the quality of
project design and intensive supervision with active participation of the Borrower.
21.   It is necessary to underline, that the Government did not undertake non-desirable
actions; this also contributed to the success of the reform program. For example: (i) a deposit
guarantee system has not been established, and authorities are not going to introduce it until the
banking system has been shaken out drarmatically and strengthened, notwithstanding heavy bank
lobbying and populist temptations; (ii) since the start of the FSAL no more specialized state
banks were established; and (iii) only one bank (Bank TuranAlem) was directly recapitalized
with budget funds. These funds were almost entirely used to retire liabilities of the bank rather
than to expand assets.
22.    There were also factors that negatively affected the project implementation and that
created difficulties in achieving some results of the program. The first major factor, which was
not in the control of the Bank and the Borrower, was the financial crisis in East Asia in mid-
1997. As a result, Eximbank Kazakhstan, whose privatization transaction failed because of this
crisis, is still a problem bank. This factor may also have a negative impact on enterprise reform
which, in turn, will affect the financial sector, in view of the substantial shareholding and
expected investments of East Asian companies in the largest enterprises of Kazakhstan. But the
overall negative impact of this factor on sustainability of the financial sector in Kazakhstan is not
expected to be very strong. Even if the Government is forced to close Eximbank Kazakhstan for
lack of a strategic investor, this will not involve a systemic risk for the banking sector, as the
total exposure of the Eximbank is limitedi and it does not hold company and individual deposits.
The loans managed by the Eximbank on agency basis may be easily transferred to the Treasury
Department of the Ministry of Finance. Other assets of the Eximbank may be sold. The exposure



-8 -
of local banks to enterprises with East Asian companies' shareholding is also not very high. In
that respect, the possible negative outcome would be the narrowing of good client base of
Kazakhstani banks.
23.    The results of the program could be even more impressive, if the Government had fully
utilized TA provided under the FEDL and TAL. This underutilization of TA to support the
program was caused by the lack of interest from beneficiary agencies and, in some cases, vague
understanding of the benefits of TA. Latest initiatives on simplification and restructuring of the
FEDL with active participation of the Borrower and better understanding by the Borrower of the
real needs in financial sector development which could be addressed through TA has allowed a
start to overcoming this shortage and providing further implementation and sustainability of the
financial sector reform program.
24.    The Loan was extended by six months and the release of the second tranche of the Loan
was postponed due to the necessity to introduce a waiver to the second tranche conditions as a
result of the merger of the Turam and Alem bank as was discussed above in paragraph 16. This
was justified by unforeseen circumstances that prevented the authorities from liquidating Alem
Bank when their privatization effort failed and the impressive degree of restructuring and
downsizing that was achieved in a short time as well as by the firm commitment of the Borrower
to privatize TuranAlembank within one year. The waiver was introduced and the second tranche
was released under the following conditions: (i) reduction in number of branches, personnel and
administrative expenses of the combined bank; (ii) recruiting of new management and
introducing a weekly portfolio review system; (iii) removal of the bad loans imposed by the
State; (iv) the recapitalization of TuranAlem in an amount of US$ 90 million from the budget;
(v) limiting the growth of bank's loan volume (net after the extensive provisioning) to 50% from
March 1997 to March 1998 and limiting the exposure to any single borrower to US$ 3 million;
and (vi) further privatization of TuranAlembank. The recent privatization of TuranAlembank
proved the soundness of this decision.
D. Project Sustainability
25.  The comprehensive policy of the Borrower on implementation of the financial sector
reform in combination with continued efforts on maintaining macroeconomic stability ensures
the sustainability of the program's results. The Borrower continues the implementation of the
measures envisaged in the program, using TA provided under the FEDL (development of the
payment system, commercial banks institutional development under twinning arrangements,
strengthening the institutional capacity of Banking supervision, development of the state
property register system and the settlement securities/depository system, and pension reform TA
involving banks and non-banking financial institutions). The most serious risk for sustainability
of the financial sector is associated with the narrow client base in Kazakhstan which leads to the
concentration of lending to a relatively few large borrowers. Currently, the ten largest borrowers
accounts for between 30 and 50 percent of lending by the five largest banks. Second, a minor risk
is associated with weakness of Agroprombank. The possible problems of this bank would not
have a major effect on the health of the overall financial sector, but might create a negative social
impact and involve intervention from the NBK. In view of the lack of control over the



-9 -
management from the numerous shareholders, it is highly desirable to continue work on
institutional and managerial strengthening of this bank by concluding the special agreement
between NBK and Agroprombank. Special attention is to be paid also to the activities of Halyk
bank whose management will be out of the effective control of the small, numerous shareholders
and which in coming years will maintain majority of state shares in the bank's capital.
E. The Bank's Performance
26.   The Bank's performance proved responsive, flexible and pragmatic as the needs of the
time dictated. The Bank, through this project, played an important role in supporting a critical
phase of the transition reform program. The policy advice surrounding the design and
implementation of this program helped to crystallize Government thinking and the conversion of
principles into program and actions. In recognizing the rapidly evolving country situation, the
Bank and the Borrower worked collaboratively throughout implementation to ensure that
program development objectives were mtet, while pragmatic solutions to implementation
problems were found. The project was suipervised at regular intervals and Government was
actively involved in discussing the progress made and results achieved. At the same time, the
program might have achieved better results with a more rapid response by the Bank in providing
TA under the FEDL and in changing the scope of this TA as needed.
F. The Borrower's Performance
27.   The Borrower's performance proved its strong commitment to the objectives of the
program and its comprehensive policy toward reform implementation. The strong position and
independence of the NBK contributed greatly to the success of the project, providing political
backing for implementing such measures as closure and merger of weak banks, enforcement of
prudential regulations and restructuring of banks as well as restrictive monetary policy. The
Borrower's performance was fully satisfactory. However, the better and timely utilization of TA
provided by Bank would have helped to achieve even more impressive results, especially in
dealing with problem loans and problemr banks.
G. Assessment of Outcome
28.   The project's outcome was satisfactory, as it achieved its major objectives, created a
sound and sustainable financial sector, and provided a basis for future growth of the real sector
of the economy. Two major Kazakhstani banks (Kazcommertzbank and Halyk Bank) obtained
international credit rating. A number of banks (CenterCredit, Kazcommertzbank, Halyk Bank,
Tsesna Bank, Nefte Bank) are participating in twinning programs financed by the EBRD and
IBRD. Improving the environment for secured lending has led to increased bank lending
activities in the real sector of economy (in 1997 by 20 percent). Savings of individuals in the
banking system increased by 48 percent in 1997. Competition in the banking sector is becoming
more intense with four major local players (Kazcommertzbank, HalykBank, Bank CenterCredit,
TuranAlembank) and active participation of foreign banks. Prudential standards enforced and
continually supervised by the NBK are in full compliance with the Basel Agreement and ensure
sound operations of the banking system. All major banks are undergoing audits conducted by
internationally recognized auditor companies. Isolation of bad loans and non-performing



- 10-
enterprises prevented further lending to these enterprises and contributed to improvement of the
financial position of banks. Now the Government has undertaken decisive measures on debt
resolution. The Government achieved very impressive results in privatization of state-owned
banks, although it is still having a problem with Eximbank Kazakhstan due to force majeure
events, however, measures undertaken in respect to this bank under the program have diminished
the risk for the financial system in case of its closure.
29.   The project had significant development outcomes. Strengthening of the financial sector
increased the country's capacity to implement enterprise sector reform and provided the basis for
future economic growth. An improved financial sector better accumulates and allocates financial
resources and promotes increased savings. The specific reform measures implemented in the
FSAL context have considerably reduced the risk of a future banking sector crisis with major
budget repercussions, and they have enhanced the banks' ability to support adjustment and
recovery in the enterprise sector, which is necessary for improving the fiscal situation in the
longer term.
H. Future Operations
30.  Future Bank and other donors' operations will use the improved capacity of the banking
sector to channel long-term resources to the real sector of the economy. In FY1998 the Bank will
start the long-term Agricultural Post Privatization Assistance Project (US$ 85 million, in three
phases, over approximately 10 years). EBRD opened a credit line for Small and Medium Size
Business Support (US$ 77.7 million). In the future the Bank is not going to provide direct
lending to support the development of the financial sector (except the on-going Finance &
Enterprise Development Loan), focusing more on analysis of the financial situation in
Kazakhstan and promoting development of new instruments (e.g. guarantees) as well as
providing rapid response TA on an ad hoc basis.
I. Key Lessons Learned
31.  A stable macro-economic framework is critical to the success of financial sector
reform. FSAL was preceded by the Bank's adjustment operations (Rehabilitation Loan of FY94
and Structural Adjustment Loan of FY95) and an IMF stand-by arrangement which provided the
macro-economic environment for implementation of the financial sector reform. It is very
important that the FSAL was prepared and implemented in parallel with IMF's EEF program,
which provided continuing support (through policy advise and conditions,but not funding as
Kazakhstan has not withdrawn funds from this facility due to its strong international reserve
position) to the macro-economic stabilization program. Close coordination and collaboration
with the IMF in preparation of the Bank's FSAL programs was highly desirable as was
simultaneous implementation of FSAL and the IMF's programs. FSAL had to follow the
program on macro-economic stabilization and not be implemented before such stabilization had
started to be demonstrated. Maintaining of the macro-economic stability was an imperative
requirement of FSAL.
32.   Preparation of an FSAL within the framework of a country's medium-term
assistance strategy will contribute to the success of the project. To achieve its development



- 11 -
objectives, FSAL was a bridge operation between the macro-stabilization adjustment loans and
investment projects to support a sector of economy through provision of resources for on-
lending. The former operations will create a proper macro-economic environment while the latter
ones will create incentives for financial sector participants to implement reforms and to get
technical assistance.
33.    Financial reform strategy implemented in Kazakhstan proved its viability and may
provide a useful model for late reforming FSU countries. It includes the following key elements,
which are critical for the development of a sound banking sector:
A.  Isolation of non-performing enterprises. Even if debt resolution institutions fail to provide
effective restructuring of distressed enterprises, they minimize allocation of further resources to
these enterprises, thus contributing significantly to the health of the banking sector.
B.  Burden-sharing concept in resolving problem loans: Removing those credits that had been
explicitly Government directed with a corTesponding amount of government/central bank
refinancing and letting the banks work out the rest, and giving banks the necessary legal
framework and political backing proved to be a better practice than keeping these loans within
the banking system for two reasons. First, the indebted enterprises continue to get access to
loans from commercial banks. Second, it is unlikely that such enterprises will be forced to
undertake restructuring or liquidation.
C.  Policy of gradual easing of access for foreign banks to local market. Protection of local
banks for 2-3 years from intensive foreign competition while pushing them to recover their
portfolio losses over that period from local margins and fresh private equity, and easing access
for foreign banks once the period is over allowed local banks to strengthen and become
competitive. Creating a strong competitive environment once local banks became stronger is
critical for further viability and developmrent of local banks.
D.  Dividing banks into two groups - more advanced and less advanced - with appropriate
systems ofprudential standards. This approach allowed Government to cope with the initially
huge variety in banks' performance through a de facto dual prudential system that created
incentives for the better banks to achieve International Banking Standards (IBS) by providing
them the access to a wider range of banking operations. At the same time, for weaker banks, such
system provided some "grace" period during which they may address their portfolio problems
and form necessary provisions, but, at the same time, restricted severely their operations. Over
the period these banks either achieved the first group requirements or converted themselves into
other vehicles or were closed by the central bank.
34.   Independence of the Central Bank is a key factor in the success of the financial
sector reform. Implementation of the financial reform program involves restrictive and tough
measures which usually creates strong opposition at different levels and political pressure to
soften the policy. If the Central Bank is dependent on the Government, it is very likely that it
will apply different standards to private and state banks, which decreases the effectiveness of
introduced measures (prudential standardis, banking supervision) and undermine the soundness of
the financial system by keeping problem state banks open. In addition, an FSAL should be



- 12-
supplemented by strict monetary policy, which also requires a high level of independence for the
Central bank.
35.   Rapid response and timely delivery of TA is very important to support FSAL
implementation. First, as they are developed, TA requirements should be broadly discussed with
the Borrower to identify the real benefits of such TA, so they would not be considered as
political requirements imposed with adjustment operations, and the Borrower would be
interested in receiving this TA. Second, TA projects should have a more flexible structure to
address ad hoc needs and/or to adapt to the current situation. Third, TA supporting FSAL
operations at the expense of the Borrower, should be provided as much as possible on repayment
basis with proper financial models and system of incentives for the ultimate beneficiaries.
36.  Hyperinflation, which reduced financial assets and liabilities, and the low level of
intermediation by the financial system, gave the government a window of opportunity to
build institutions without making major disruptions in the intermediation function. At the
beginning of financial reformn in transition economies, banks were mainly providers of financial
services. Based on experience in other countries, financial deepening and institution building
will take time.



- 13 -
Part II. Statistical Tables
Table 1:   Summary of Assessment
Table 2:   Related Bank Loans
Table 3:   Project Timetable
Table 4:   Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:   Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 5A:  Waiver of Two Conditions for Release of Second Tranche
Table 6:   Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7:   Studies Included in Project
Table 8A:  Project Costs
Table 8B:  Project Financing
Table 9:   Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10:  Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11:  Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12:  Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13:  Bank Resources: Missions
Note: Tables 6-9 are not applicable for adjustnment operations.



- 14-
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives    Substantial     Partial       Negligible    Not aplicable
Macro Policies                  V              O              O               O
Sector Policies                                                               0 E  O 
Financial Objectives            V              O              O               O
Institutional Development       O              V              O               O
Physical Objectives             O              O              O               V
Poverty Reduction               O              O              E               VI
Gender Issues                   O              O              O               /
Other Social Objectives         0              O              E               /
Environmental Objectives        O              O              O               V/
Public Sector Management        V/             O              O               O
Private Sector Development      V/             O              O               O
Other (specify)                 O              Ol                             O
B. Project Sustainability        Likely                 Unlikely               Uncertain
(V/)                   (V/)                   (V)
Hhly
C. Bank Performance             Satisfactory          Satisfactory             Deficient
(V)                   (V)                    (V)
Identification                  V/                     O                      O
Preparation Assistance           V                                            El
Appraisal                       V                                             El
Supervision                     E                      V                      E
(Continued)



- 15 -
Highly
D. Borrower Performance          Satisfactory           Satisfactory             Deficient
(1/)                  (1)                     ($)
Preparation           .I                                /                       C]
Implementation                   /                      C]                      C]
Covenant Compliance              El                                            EC
Operation (if applicable)        O                      0                       C]
Highly                                        HihLy
E. Assessment of Outcome        Satisfactory    Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory    unsatisfactory
(E')         (V)              El/)            El



-16-
Table 2: Related Bank Loans
Loan title                          Purpose                   Year of         Status
approval
Preceding operations
1. TAL No. 3642-KZ           To provide assistance in the design and   FY1 994         On-going
Technical Assistance Loan    development of the Government's reform
(US$ 38 million)             policies and programs; help build the
institutional capacity and skills base to cany
out these reforms; initiate policy work for the
development of key sectors.
2. REHAB No. 36490-KZ        At macroeconomic level: to support the    FY1994          Completed
Rehabilitation Loan (US$ 180    program to stabilize the economy; including
million)                     bringing inflation under control and renewing
growth. At the structural level: to support the
implementation of policy and institutional
reforms intended to promote both an early
supply response and the development of a
competitive market economy.
3. FEDL No. 3867-KZ          Help build institution and infrastructure to carry  FY1995  On-going
Financial & Enterprises      out enterprise and financial sector restructuring.
Development Loan (US$ 62
million)
4. SAL No. 3900-KZ           Facilitate a more rapid and effective     FY95            Completed
Structural Adjustment Loan   restructuring of the enterprise sector - crucial to
(US$ 180 million)            both macroeconomic stabilization and recovery
output, eliminating constraints preventing such
restructuring, i. e. liberalizing exports,
dismantling monopoly holdings, facilitating
entry of firms through land reforms and exit of
firms through foreclosure and bankruptcy,
accelerating privatization, imposing financial
discipline with isolation of distressed
enterprises and strengthening unemployment
benefit policy to facilitate labor adjustment.
Following operations
1. APPA                      Support and development of newly privatized
Agricultural Post Privatization   farms and agro-enterprises in key agricultural    FY98  Approved by the
Assistance Loan No. 4331-0-  areas of Kazakhstan and improve rural                     Board of Directors
KZ                           productivity and incomes.
(Program US$ 85 million,
first loan US$ 15 million)
2. Pension Reform Loan       To support Government's efforts to finance the   FY98     Negotiated
(US$ 300 million)            transition to a fully funded pension system by
providing assistance to help bridge the fiscal
deficit resulting from reform of the system.



-17-
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle          Date Planned       Date Actual
Identification (Executive Project Summary)   01/15/96           01/15/96
Preparation                                                     02/96
Appraisal                                    02/01/96           03/02/96
Negotiations                                 04/08/96           05/29/96
Letter of DevelopmentlSector Policy (if applicable)             05/17/96
Board Presentation                           05/28/96
Signing                                                         06/25/96
Effectiveness                                07/25/96           07/31/96
First Tranche Release                        06/30/96           07/31/96
Second Tranche Release                       12/31/96           08/06/97
Loan Closing                                 03/31/97           09/30/97
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ thousands)
FY96            FY97               FY98
Appraisal estimate*               90               90                 -
Actual                            -                90                90
Actual as % of estimate          0%               100%
Date of final disbursement  August 1997
* Loan Description of the President's Report



- 18-
Table 5: Key Indicators for Program Implementation
(Policy Matrix)
Objectives                   Actions Taken before Board Presentation            Actions to be Taken Before Second Tranche                          Assessment
1. PROVIDING AN ENVIRONMENT CONDUCIVE FOR SOUND BANKING SECTOR GROWTH
a.   Strengthening the Framework for Secured Lending
i. Improving property rights   *  Civil Code Part I of early 1995 replaced, inter alia, the laws *  Prepare legislation on pledges on movable  *  Substantially met. Law "On Pledges on Movable
legislation                     on property, pledges, and leases.                       property.                                       Property" prepared and submitted to the Mazhilis (Lower
*  Draft of Civil Code Part 11 is being reviewed.                                                          Chamber) of the Parliament in January, 1998. Draft Law
*  Pres.Decree on Bankruptcy signed in 4/95.                                                               was sent for review to the World bank before the second
*  Pres.Decree on Econ. Entities and Companies signed in                                                   tranche release.
5/95.
* New Constitution of mid-95 introduced private land
ownership.
* Pres.Decree on Land signed in 12/95.
* Pres.Decree on Mortgage of Real Estate was signed in
12/95.
ii. Providing information through  * New chart of account and several accounting standards for  *  Adoption by the Borrower or an Accounting    *  Met. The new Chart of Accounts was adopted by the
reporting and registration     enterprises developed.                                  Standards Board of the Borrower, and             Resolution of the National Accounting Commission on
systems                     *  Pres.Decree on Accounting issued in 12/95.              publication, of a new chart of accounts and a    November 18, 1996, No. 6 and published in the following
*  Govemment is publishing lists of delinquent-debtor      comprehensive set of accounting standards        magazines: "Information Bulletin ofthe Ministry of
enterprises.                                            conforming substantially with International     Finance" No.4-5, 1997; "Legal Acts on Finance, Taxes,
*  Pres.Decree on Registration of Legal Entities signed in  Accounting Standards.                          Accounting and Insurance of the Ministry of Finance of
mid-95.                                                                                                 the Republic of Kazakhstan", No.5, 1997; and "Bulletin o
*  Registration of urban real estate restructured in 1995.                                                  an Accounter", No.1, 1997. Introduced accounting
standards conform substantially with twenty of the thirty
Intemational Accounting Standards (IAS). The new
standards are effective from January 1, 1997.
*  Met. Notary fee on collateral is established as 1% of deal
*  Reduce notary fees on collateral from 10% to a  value that is substantially lower than 10%.
much lower level.                           *  Substantially met. Law "On Pledges of Movable
*  Prepare a registry system for pledges on movable  Property" which has been submitted to the Parliament
properties.                                     contains provisions for registration. Registration system is
being establishing under the Ministry of Justice.
*  Met. Credit Information Bureau of the NBK started its
*  Start operation of a credit information bureau.  operations in 1997.
*  Met. Amendments to the Presidential Decree having the
*  Issue a regulation that prohibits banks and their  force of the Law "On Banks and Banking" enacted on
affiliated parties from owning or managing      June 11, 1997 establish the list of legal entities in which
agencies that rate fin. institutions.           banks may participate in a capital or in a management
l_____________________________ ________________________________________________________  _______________________________________________   (article 8). Rating agencies are not included in the list.



- 19 -
Objectives                   Actions Taken before Board Presentation           Actions to be Taken Before Second Tranche                        Assessment
iii. Strengthening the judiciary    * Code on Civil Procedures prepared.             * Pass a law on bankruptcy with adequate       *  Met. The new Law "On bankruptcy" was adopted on
* Code on Criminal Procedure prepared.                    provisions for its application and enforcement,  January 21, 1997. The bankruptcy procedures for
* Court system unified by abolishing the arbitrage courts in  or prescribe adequate rules, regulations or  agriculture are clarified by the Govemment's Resolution
10/95.                                                 procedures for the application and             No. 1816 of December 12, 1997.
* Extensive training program for judicial personnel,      enforcement of the Pres.Decree on Bankruptcy
including in financial and corporate jurisdiction, developed  of 1995.
and started implementation.
* Met. Reform ofjudicial system was completed in 1996.
*  Introduce a new system of the selection ofjudges.  Presidential Decree having the force of Law "On courts
and status ofjudges" adopted on February 12, 1995. The
re-appointment ofjudges based on the new system of their
selection was completed by the end of 1997.
b. Fostering the Institutional Development of Banks
P,,.,..L- ---i,      I * Ma~ny banks- got panl rti,    ~   5,,o  i'tn  ,         l.-E. *,t  .~,t .v-tr  11 *t2tp            *  Me~t nnd imqe  Gonvernment reduced the number of
..  .nacn bakgvr.ac,..Maybnsgo.a"yprvtie through privastiz-ti.. of I   Offer for sa!e to pA..ri-pe vSt.orsc 2! ---t --e-d--ssd Gvrmn!rdcd .enmbro
especially through bank       their owners and through share dilution.               shares in, or withdraw the banking licenses of,  banks with state shares to 5: Halyk Bank, Eximbank
privatization              *  MOF swapped the bank shares held by state enterprises  all except no more than It banks (other than    Kazakhstan, Zhilstroybank, Central Asian Bank for
against bonds in 3-6/95. The Pres.Decree on Banking of  NBK) whose equity includes state shares.       Reconstruction and Development and Bank CenterCredit.
8/95 forbids such firms to own bank shares.
* Turan Bank and Kredsoz Bank, and 8 medium and small   * Provide in the 1997 budget for potential equity    *  Met and surpassed. Bank TuranAlem was the only bank
banks, fully privatized since mid-95. Licenses withdrawn  contribution to no banks others than fully state-  recapitalized by the Government (US$ 90 million).
from 17 banks with state shares.                       owned ones.
*  Strategy for fair and transparent bank privatization has been
finalized.
* Management of Agroprom and Narodnyi Bank replaced in
late 1994, and Alem Bank's in 1/1996.
* Government as shareholder agreed to henceforth appoint
some independent professionals to the supervisory councils
of state-owned banks not slated for privatization in 1996.
Ii. Transferring modem banking  * A bank advisory center and two bank training centers
and management skills        started operating in 1994. Two of them were combined
under the Bankers Association; the joining of the third is
being prepared.
* Bank twinning program, with EBRD and IBRD support, for
7 banks has been initiated. Banks are being screened for
eligibility, and some grant co-funding has been mobilized.
* Withdrawal of over 100 bank licenses since mid-93 has
been weeding out ineffective bank managers.
* Pres.Decree on Banking of 8/95 tightened the NBK
approval of bank and branch managers.
* Plan to focus bankers training on priority needs has been
_  _  _   _   _   _   _  _        d  l   d_                                                _  _   _   _   _   _  _  _   _   _   _    _   _  _   _   _   _   _  _   _   _   _   _  __developed.



- 20 -
Objectives                  Actions Taken before Board Presentation          Actions to be Taken Before Second Tranche                        Assessment
iii. Reforming bank accounting   * New chart of accounts, reporting formats, and accounting   * Establish bank audit standards.   *  Met. The Statute "On principal requirements to the audit
and audit                    instructions for commercial banks developed.       *  Introduce standard terms of reference for bank  reports licensed to conduct bank audits (banks'
* Bank accounting standards based on the Intemational    audits and minimum audit disclosure            operations) and on types of audit reports" approved by the
Accounting Standards (IAS 30) established.            requirements.                                  NBK by its Resolution No. 346 of December 31, 1996
* In-depth diagnostic studies on the ten largest banks                                                  establishes bank audit standards, standard terms of
submitted by intemational auditors in early 1995.                                                    reference for bank audits and minimum audit disclosure
* NBK has issued regulations that make a new chart of                                                  requirements.
accounts, reporting formats and accounting standards   * Make extemal audit according to standards  *   Met. The Program "On Transition of the second tier
mandatory for all commercial banks as their primary   equivalent to intemational ones mandatory for   Banks to the Intemational banking Standards" adopted in
system by 1/97, including an opening balance for 1997.  banks on the ISB track, and require it also from  1996 contains the intemational audit requirement for
*  Implementation of a comprehensive training program in  large problem banks.                           banks of the first group. In 1997 Alem Bank and
bank accounting commenced.                                                                            Eximbank Kazakhstan were audited by the intemational
auditors. Currently all large problem banks are
undergoing the intemational audit.
c. Facilitating Inter-Bank Payments and Liquidity Management
i.  Providing monetary        * T-bills issued through auction since 4/94. Secondary  * Offer banks with sufficient collateral at NBK an   *  Met. An automatic ovemight facilities are available for
instruments to facilitate    market developed rapidly in 1995.                     automatic ovemight Lombard facility.           banks included in the first IBS group.
liquidity management      * NBK introduced short-term notes in mid-95.
* NBK started repurchase (repo) and reverse repo operations
in early 1996.
* NBK issued regulations on money market houses. A first
one started operating by mid 1995.
*  Income tax on statt securities eliminated.
*  Lombard facility introduced in early 1996.
ii. Broadening the range of   * Republic acceded to the 1930 Geneva Convention on Bills  *  Enact a law on bills of exchange and  *  Met. Law "On Bills of Exchange and Promissory Notes"
available payment            of Exchange and Promissory Notes in 11/95.            promissory notes conforming with the Geneva    conforming with the relevant Geneva Convention of 1930
instruments               * Restrictions on the use of cheques revisited in early 1996.  Convention of 1930 providing a Uniform Law  is enacted.
for Hills of Exchange and Promissory Notes.
* Pass legislation on letters of credit substantially   *  Met. Operations on letters of credit are subject to the
confomi with the Paris Convention on Uniform  international regulations (Paris Convention). NBK
Standards and Procedures.                      introduced them as mandatory for all banks.
iii. Developing effective and  * National Payment Council reactivated in early 1995; plays  * Issue improved regulations on inter-bank clearing  *  Substantially met. These requirements are covered by the
efficient payment systems    a key role in defining policy and rules.              and on settlement that specify, inter alia, NBK's  Presidential Decree having the force of a Law "On
* Improvements to NBK's payments system in 94/95 allow   exclusive supervision responsibilities for payment    National Bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan" (1995, later
its oblast centers to handle inter-oblast payments via E-  systems and the requirement that all payments get  amendments) - see chapter VIII.
Mail.                                                 settled on NBK books.
* Almaty Clearing Center, controlled by 9 banks, started up   *  Elaborate a plan for the transfer of control over
after mid-95. It clears also for others.              clearing operations in the long-term system to the  *  Met. NBK approved by its Resolution No. 200 of August
*  Feasibility and design study for a long-term payment  banks.                                         29, 1996 "The Regulations on settlements of interbank
system substantially completed.                                                                      payments in the high value system" which address this
* Require each bank to maintain one unified       issue.
reserve/corresp. account nationwide with   *  Met. As of end of 1997 all the banks except one
NBK. Exceptions (for technical reasons)        (Intemational Bank Alma-Ata) are maintaining unified
require agreement on an implementation         correspondent account with the NBK.
timetable.
*  Start to build a long-term payment system that
will channel and settle high-value transactions    *  Substantially met. Bidding procedure for long-term
gross in real time.                            payment system in underway.



-21 -
Objectives                  Actions Taken before Board Presentation            Actions to bc Taken Before Second Tranche                        Assessment
d. Ensuring Competition on an Even Playing Field
i.  Remove regulatory barriers   * Over 200 banks were licensed in 1991-93, and 129 are still
to bank competition          operating. Licensing requirements have since increased,
but licensing has not stopped completely.
* Law allows foreign bank ownership up to 100%. More than
12 foreign and joint venture banks exist.
* Government Resolution that required each state enterprise
to hold its current accounts only in one bank has been
abrogated.
* NBK is authorized since 1/96 to license foreign-owned
banks on a case-by-case basis irrespective of the combined
share of all foreign-owned banks in the total capital of all
commercial banks.
ii. Revisit deposit guarantee and * Pres.Decree on Banking of 8/95 limits the state liability for * License a deposit insurance only if it is voluntary  *  Met and surpassed. Deposit insurance system has not bee
deposit insurance            any bank to its capital in the bank, and thus eliminates the  and does not i pnirate NBKo r G0K financia!!y.  introduces notwithstanding heavy baank lobbying .ad
state deposit guarantee.                                                                               populist temptation.
* Among the state banks, only Narodnyi and Housing Bank
have licenses for household deposits.
iii. Make the savings bank    * Narodnyi Bank (NB) is free in setting interest rates.  * Approve the strategy and restructuring plan for    *  Met. The strategy and restructuring plan for Halyk Bank
network viable without    * In retum, the bank must comply with reserve requirements  Halyk Bank, incl. the timing of eventual       was approved by the Resolution of the NBK No. 142 of
privileges                   since 7/95, got its tax freedom repealed, and enjoys no  privatization.                                 April 30,1997. Halyk Bank has obtained managerial and
more deposit guarantee.                             * Substantially complete the rationalization of    financial autonomy that relieved Halyk bank from
* Management of NB was replaced in late 94.               Halyk Bank staff and branches.                  provision of any financial services without charges that
* NB curtailed its commercial lending in 1995, and lent  * Instruct state organs to desist from demanding the  reflects market conditions. Branch network of the Halyk
interbank only to banks that it selects among NBK-auction  provision of financial services from Halyk Bank  Bank was drastically downsized with conversion of the
eligible banks.                                        or any other bank without charges that reflect  branches in the settlement and cashier centers. For
* NB has been reducing fixed costs through staff and branch  market conditions or costs.                  example, during 1997-1998 Halyk bank closed 88
cuts (having closed 900 outlets since 1993), and raising  * Consider introducing financial incentives to any  branches which involved substantial staff reduction. By its
capacity utilization through new fee-based services and  bank for operating outlets in defined remote  Resolution No. 1051 of June 27, 1997, the Government
forex deposits.                                        settlements a minimum hours per week.           approved the Program for step-by-step privatization of the
* NB's Supervisory Council has decided to substantially                                                   Halyk bank for 1997-2000.
rationalize staffing and to dispose of at least 500 outlets.
Govemment expressed it readiness to authorize the disposal
of additional outlets.



- 22 -
Objectives                    Actions Taken before Board Presentation            Actions to be Taken Before Second Tranche                           Assessment
e. En(orcing Prudential Norms
*  The main prudential ratios were set at stringent levels in    *  Issue an NBK regulations implementing the  *  Met. NBK approved on December 12, 1996 a Resolution
L  Tightening prudential norms     1994, confirmed in 8/95 by the Pres.Decree on Banking,  policy regarding an International Standards       No, 292 providing for Procedures of Transition of Second
and their enforcement         and further refined by NBK regulations. The calculation of    Bank (ISH) track agreed with the Bank.       Tier Banks to International Standards.
the ratios was clarified by a NBK regulation of 3/96, and  Different from a slower base track, the ISB track
their enforcement is being tightened.                    will lead to full compliance with international
*  NBK regulations clarified the definition of connected    standards by end 1998. Only banks on the ISB
borrower and limit the aggregate exposure to all connected  track will be eligible to special activities such as
borrowers to 100% of capital.                            NBK credit auctions, Government-guaranteed
* NBK regulation of 3/96 brought guarantees issued by banks    foreign credit, establishment of investment banks,
fully under prudential supervision.                      issuance of bank bonds, etc.
*  Minimum capital for commercial banks increased to $0.5m
equivalent, $1.5m if a bank has branches or forex
transactions, and T 200m (US$ 3m) for banks that take
household deposits.
* NBK has issued regulations on intemal control, internal
audit, and credit approval.
*  Pres. Decrees on NBK and Banking of 1995 reinforced the
basis of prudential regulation and enforcement.
* NBK raised its staff positions in the Supervision Dept. to
112, in addition to a large bank liquidation unit, and
mobilized TA of some 6 person-years per year. It
reorganized the Department into teams in charge of clusters
of banks, and centralized it in Almaty headquarters.
* A Council of Ministers Decision has confirmed that the
state-owned banks are subject to NBK's supervisory
norms and enforcement, with any special rules or
relaxations of norms that are necessary to take into
account the specific nature of their activities to be
specifically stipulated by NBK bank by bank.



- 23 -
Objectives                   Actions Taken before Board Presentation            Actions to be Taken Before Second Tranche                          Assessment
11. DEALING WITH PROBLEM LOANS AND PROBLEM BANKS
a. Sharing the Burden of Problem Loans
i  Relieving banks of bad loans  * The Rehabilitation Bank (RB) was created in 1995 to take   * Transfer to the RB some of the insolvent debtors   *  Met. 44 enterprises were transferred to the rehabilitation
that had been instructed by   over the non-performing bank loans and budget claims to  that have been under management contract but    Bank.
authorities                   very large net debtors. It became fully operational, got  still owe overdue credit service to banks.
more than 30 firms assigned, and has started taking over    * As to the ASF, ensure substantial MOF  *  Substantially met. The new Statute of ASF approved by
bank loans to them.                                     representation on its Board; add financial       the Resolution of the Govemment No. 1590 of November
*  The Agricultural Support Fund (ASF) was set up in 1994,  professionals to its staff; produce appropriate  17, 1997 incorporates these provisions.
and took over the non-performing instructed farm loans of  financial statements; amd intemally, separate the
Agroprom and other banks by mid-95. Agroprom Bank       post-privatization assistance and subsidy
was later also relieved of some bad loans to agro-industrial    functions, if any, from the debt resolution
firms.                                                  function.
* The Exim Bank was created in 1994 through spin-off from   * Convert to managed fund status, or give MOF  *  Met. The all non-performing loans instructed by the
Alem Bank. By 9/95, it assumed almost all Alem Bank     guarantee for, those non-performing loans of pre-  authorities were transferred to the MOF, RB and ASF
loans funded by export credit agencies against a GOK    1994 that were clearly instructed by authorities  and banks are servicing loans transferred to the MoF on an
guarantee; much of this portfolio is non-performing. These    and are still held by commercial banks.    agent basis
loans have been put on a managed fund basis. The 1996
budget includes US$ 320m to repay foreign lenders.
* GOK has by end 1994 reiieved the commercial banks of the
risk associated with Directed Credit of 1994/95, and de
facto of loans from an inter-enterprise arrears clearing of
early 1994.
ii. Requiring and facilitating  *  Major increase of minimum capital requirement effective   * Permit pre-tax specific loss provisions on  *  Met. This permission is provided by the "Regulations on
private recapitalization      11/95 forced banks to raise private capital.            classified bank guarantees, up to 20% of their   classification of bank's assets and contingent liabilities
* NBK introduced in 1995 mandatory loan classification     value.                                           and calculation of provisions for them by second tier
based on a standard methodology, and requires full                                                       banks of the Republic of Kazakhstan" approved by the
adequate provisions to be reported since start 1996. (Loan                                               NBK on May 25, 1997, Res. No. 218 (including
loss provisions can be "amortized" over several years,                                                   amendments approved by the NBK on September 15,
however, for purposes of calculating capital adequacy.)                                                  1997, Res. No. 351 and on October 15, 1997, Res. No.
*  In 12/95, tax provisions have been amended effective                                                     375).
from 1/1/1996, to allow, before tax, specific loan loss
provisions on all classified loans pre-dating 1995 in full,
and up to 50% of the book value of outstanding loans
from 1995 or thereafter.
* An NBK Decision of 3/96 raises the interest rate on
reserve/correspondent accounts with NBK to 50% of
the NBK's refinancing rate effective 7/1/1996. Said
decision also reduces the reserve ratio to 15% effective
4/1/1996.



- 24 -
Objectives                    Actions Taken before Board Presentation             Actions to be Taken Before Second Tranche                           Assessment
b. Resolving Bad Loans
i. Resolving carved-out bad    *  A key objective of the Rehabilitation Bank (RB) is to force  *  RB will follow its Operating Principles in place    *  Met. RB followed its operational principles. Credit from
loans                  drastic defensive restructuring or liquidation on large  since 3/96.                                       the RB were used strictly for downsizing (severance
debtor enterprises. An Advisory Unit helps these debtors                                                   payments or disposal of social assets) and to finance
develop restructuring and liquidation plans. The RB                                                        restructuring plans included reduction in staff and
adopted in 2/96 rigorous Operating Principles aimed at                                                     negative operating cash flow. Enterprises were privatized
ensuring rapid downsizing and cash flow recovery,                                                          when an interested investor has appeared.
conditioning funds on implementation benchmarks and   *  Review the success of the RB in enforcing drastic  *  Met. RB quarterly reported to the MOF on its activities
phasing it out, encouraging debtor privatization, and using  restructuring and curtailing cash flow losses of its  and utilization of budget resources and agreed on further
RB funds mainly for downsizing.                          large debtors, and decide an action plan to address  action plan to be undertaken.
*  The ASF has been asking insolvent farms for restructuring  weaknesses.
plans, but lacks capacity for farm restructuring on a case-
by-case basis. In 5/96, the Council of Ministers adopted
an action plan, satisfactory to the World Bank, on the
resolution of loans taken over by the ASF. The policy    *  Initiation of liquidation proceedings against at  *  Met and surpassed. As of January 1, 1998, RB pushed the
focuses on residual debt forgiveness in return for      least 3 insolvent corporate debtors of the RB      reduction of staff of enterprises by an average 34,3%
immediate partial payment.                               and reduction of staff of at least 5 other       including 13 enterprises with staff reduction more than
*  MOF resolution of 2/96 asked all enterprises to repay in  corporate debtors of the RB by 30%/7 each or     30% and initiated liquidation procedures against 4
one month all principal plus 10% annual interest         more in comparison to the numbers employed       insolvent enterprises.
outstanding to state organs, and offered to forgive all  thereat on 11/1/95.
further overdue interest in retum. In 5/96, the Council of
Ministers adopted an action plan, satisfactory to the
World Bank, on the resolution policy for overdue
enterprise borrowing from MOF, or with a MOF
guarantee. It emphasizes the buy-back and sale of loans.
A special GOK commission puts pressure on firms deemed
willful defaulters on inherited Exim Bank loans.
ii. Using state ownership rights  *  Govemment concluded in 1995 management contracts for  *  Review by end 6/96 the model and actual     *  Substantially met. SPD of the MOF (former State Property
to accelerate loan collection  over 30 major industrial/mining firms. They oblige the   management contracts regarding debt resolution    Committee) reviewed all the existing contracts by the end
contractors to ensure rapid settlement of firms' overdue  and elaborate better standard provisions.        of 1996. Debt resolution issues were discussed with the
debt.                                                                                                      management companies.
*  Enterprise Restructuring Agency created in 1995 controls   *  Review the structure of receivables of the main    *  Substantially met.
the restructuring or liquidation of some small/medium state    state-owned utilities, transport/communication,
firms.                                                   and coal/fuel enterprises; establish a regular
*  Public supplier firms started denying delivery to overdue  reporting of these receivables; and instruct RB,
debtors.                                                 ASF, and Restructuring Agency to coordinate
their actions against debtors with them.
iii. Encouraging bad loan      * NBK has been encouraging banks to set up intemal work-
resolution by commercial       out units. Turan and Kredsoz Bank receive TA for this.
banks                          Some large banks are now aggressively pursuing loan
resolution.
* The phasing in of loan loss provisioning forces banks to
emphasize loan collection.



- 25 -
Objectives                  Actions Taken beforc Board Presentation          Actions to be Taken Before Second Tranche                        Assessment
c. Handling Problem Banks
i.  Handling a large number of   * Since 6/93, NBK withdrew the licenses of 45% of all banks
ordinary problem banks       (103 banks, of which 55 in 1995).
* NBK created bank liquidation divisions in 1995.
* Pres.Decree on Banking of 8/95 gives NBK effective
options for early control of, and proceedings against,
problem banks. The Civil Code was amended accordingly.
* Since 1995, NBK actively applies graduated sanctions,
including early notice, exclusion from credit auctions,
time-bound compliance plans, license withdrawal, etc.
* NBK issued implementing regulations on bank liquidation
in 2/96, and bank conservatorship in 3/96.
ii. Restructuring and privatizing  * Alem Bank's loans funded by foreign export credit  * Commence negotiations with no more than  *  The waiver was introduced before the second tranche
Alem Bank                    agencies, many of which are non-performing, were moved  four private investors for the purchase by them  release (see table 5-a)
to the Exim Bank in 1995.                             of the majority ef shares of Alem Bank.
* After a crisis in 6/95, Alem Bank's liquidity was restored,
and its restructuring initiated, under temporary extemal
managemeni by NBK.
* Alem Bank had been privatized spontaneously close to
majority, in 1992-94. Private stakes is 47%.
* Chief executive was replaced in 1/96.
* International audit was carried out in early 1996.
* Alem Bank started downsizing by selling assets (fixed
assets, investments, and branches), and improving its net
worth by stepped-up foreclosure on debtors and collateral.
* Alem Bank has been strengthening intemal policies
regarding, e.g., credit and guarantee approvals, loan/deposit
I___________________________    ratio, cunrncy positions, and intemal control.
iii. Downsizing Turan Bank    * After partial privatization since 1993, all further state  * Implementation of key elements of the action    *  Substantially met. The waiver was introduced before the
shares in Turan Bank were sold at the exchange in 8/95 to  plan, agreed by IBRD upon FSAL negotiations,    second tranche release (see table 5-a)
investors around management.                          pursuant to the agreement between NBK and
* Since mid-95, the bank revised credit procedures, enhanced    Turan.Bank, or alternatively assumption of
its loan work-out dept., intensified training, raised paid-in  NBK conservatorship over Turan Bank. It will
capital, cut its loan/deposit ratio to 1.5, and started  address, inter alia, the collection of principal
improving interest spread and administrative costs.   overdue, suspension of lending to large defaulters,
* Loans to over 20 large Turan Bank defaulters are being  loan/deposit ratio, compliance with ISB track
moved to the RB; loans from the 1994 arrears clearing are  capital adequacy, pay-in of private capital,
included in MOF's loan resolution program; over 20 major  disposal of fixed assets, closure of branches, and
debtors came in 1995 under management contracts with  the reorganization of the branch network.
debt settlement obligation; and the largest debtor
(KARMET) was taken over by a foreign strategic investor.
* NBK and Turan Bank have signed an action plan
agreement, satisfactory to the World Bank, aimed at
downsizing Turan Bank and bringing it into compliance
with NBK prudential norms by end 1998.



-26 -
Objectives                   Actions Taken before Board Presentation           Actions to be Taken Before Second Tranche                         Assessment
iv. Resolving Agroprom Bank    * Agroprom Bank has become 72% private.               * NBK to reach agreement with Agroprom on a 3-   *  Met. In the beginning of 1996 Agroprombank started
*  Almost all branches ceased lending in early 1994.      phase approach: (i) Strongly downsize the branch  implementation of the restructuring plan agreed with
* Agroprom's directed farm credit moved to ASF in 1995.   network, focused on most clearly non-viable or  NBK. According to the plan, Agroprombank was
* Due to the carve-out and negative real interest, Agroprom's   redundant branches; phase out household   withdrawn from lending operations for six months.
portfolio shrank to 5-10% of the 4/94 level.           deposits; (ii) after further study, sell clusters of  Besides, the plan included requirement ofdrastic
*  Since 1/95, Agroprom cut staffby some 28%.             branches, without restrictions on staff cuts; (iii)  downsizing of the branch network. In the end of 1996 the
*  Part of the 1995 grain harvest was pre-financed by another    limit unsold branches primarily to agency  Govemment sold back to Agroprombank its entire
bank, with state guarantees. The pre-financing of the 1996  operations or close them. Headquarters might be  package of shares in the bank in return for 42 branch
state grain reserve purchases was tendered among banks.  chosen by the spun-off clusters as a basis for a  buildings which were transferred to the state.
*  Regulation on mutual credit societies introduced.      service center.
*  Review of the pros and cons of rural credit cooperatives in  *  If emergency agricultural credit is needed from  *  Met. The all Govemment's agricultural loans were
the local context commenced.                           Govemment then have it managed on an agency     channeled through ASF (post privatization and family
basis by banks or professional fund managers.   farms support) or were lent to the banks under the 100%
of risk undertaken by banks and banks' autonomy in
selecting agricultural projects to be financed.
v. Putting the Exim Bank on   *  Merger of Exim and Development Bank in 8/95 ended their * Complete the institutional diagnostic of Exim  *  Met. Eximbank undergone the first intemational audit in
sound footing                duplication of term lending.                            Bank.                                           1996 including institutional diagnostic.
* In-depth audit of Exim Bank carried out.             * Government approval of an institutional      *  Met. Institutional Development Plan of the Eximbank
* MOF relieved Exim of all but US$ 14m of its inherited,  development plan, acceptable to the World       Kazakhstan approved in July 1996 included the all these
non-performing extemally funded loans by putting them on    Bank, for the strengthening of the Exim Bank.  provisions.
an agency basis. The bank's assets thus shrank beneath T  In this context, restrict the bank for 3 years, or
7bn before provisioning.                               until it is substantially privatized, to a specified
* Policy framework for GOK guarantees to foreign lenders  list of core instrument/activities.
has been formulated. Monitoring system for all GOK-  * Exim Bank to provision for the inherited ETF  *  Met. Part of the loans inherited from ETF were transferred
guaranteed external loans started up.                  loans. Budget to pay in new equity in line with  to the MoF and put on an agency basis. Residual part was
the overall fiscal constraint.                  fully provisioned by the end of 1996.
*  Govemment agreed to put new infrastructure and social    * Undertake reasonable efforts to mobilize foreign   *  Met. Negotiations on privatization of Eximbank
sector loans involving Exim Bank, and projects rejected by  or other private equity.                   Kazakhstan with Malaysian Bank (BBMB) and IFC were
the bank for lending at its own risk, on an agency basis.                                              completed. Privatization didn't go through because of
* Govemment agreed to bank's corporatization and partial                                                  unforeseeable events (financial crisis in East Asia).
privatization.
* NBK issued a regulation mandating full compliance by
Exim Bank no later than 1/1/97 with NBK's supervisory
norms applied to the international standards bank
track, except for the connected borrower limit. It limits
the debt-equity ratio to 3:1 to account for the particular
._______________    risks of long-term lending.



- 27 -
Table 5A: Waiver of Two Conditions for Release of Second Tranche
Alem Bank was to commence negotiations for its privatization, and Turan Bank was to
implement an agreed restructuring plan. Bothi conditions had been largely fulfilled by late 1996:
negotiations for the privatization of Alem Bank had commenced, and satisfactory implementation
progress had been made under an agreed restructuring plan for Turan Bank. Subsequently, the
negotiations for sale of Alem Bank ground to halt while the bank's financial situations continued
deteriorating. The planned fall-back option had been conservatorship and then liquidation of Alem Bank.
However, in view of the persistent high anxiety in financial markets and the general public caused by the
bankruptcy of another large bank a few months earlier, the National Bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan
(NBK) found the systemic risk of this fall-back option unacceptably large at the time. The authorities
therefore decided on an alternative course of action. They merged Alem Bank with Turan Bank. They
forced the resulting Bank TuranAlem to drastically restructure and particularly to downsize, and provided
recapitalization funding to settle liabilities of this bank. The scope and rigor of this restructuring of Bank
TuranAlem has in many ways already gone beyond the original restructuring agreement for Turan Bank
alone, and continues under NBK's close moniitoring. Moreover, in the course of restructuring Bank
TuranAlem, its former Alem Bank portion has defacto been largely liquidated: All former Alem Bank
branches have been closed, all its senior managers released, most of its staff laid-off, most of its liabilities
paid off, and the bulk of its loans (which had been non-performing) transferred out of the bank.
Moreover, the authorities committed themselves to privatizing Bank TuranAlem no later than by mid-
1998. This course of actions, chosen to adapt to changed circumstances but aimed at the Program's
sector development objectives, is considered a satisfactory substitute for the actions that were conditions
for tranche release. The progress in implementing this revised action plan has been very substantial and
rapid.



- 28 -
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Not Applicable
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Not Applicable
Table 8A: Project Costs
Not Applicable
Table 8B: Project Financing
Not Applicable
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Not Applicable



- 29 -
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Republic of Kazakhstan
Financial[ Sector Adjustment Loan
Covenant Present                   Description of Covenant
Agreement  Section   Type    Status
Loan       3.01         9        C                  Borrower and the Bank to
Agreement (a,b,c)                                   exchange views on the progress
achieved in carrying out the
program and on any proposed
action taken after loan
disbursement that could reverse the
program's objectives.
Loan       3.02          1       C                  Borrower to have the Deposit
Agreement (a,b,c)                                   Account audited in accordance
with appropriate auditing
principles by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank; to furnish
to the Bank reports of the audit by
said auditors within 6 months after
the Bank's request for such audit;
and to furnish information on the
Deposit Account and Audit to the
Bank upon such request.
Covenant types:                                                        Present Status:
1. = Accounts/audits                         8. = Indigenous people    C = covenant complied with
2. = Financial performance/revenue generation ifrom  9. = Monitoring, review, and  CD = complied with after delay
beneficiaries                                    reporting           CP = complied with partially
. = Flow and utilization of project funds    10. = Project implementation NC = not complied with
4. = Counterpart funding                       not covered by categories
5. = Management aspects of the project or executing    1-9
agency                                     11. = Sectoral or cross-
6. = Environmental covenants                   sectoral budgetary or
7. = Involuntary resettlement                  other resource allocation
12. = Sectoral or cross-
sectoral policy/
regulatory/institutional
action
13. = Other



- 30 -
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Not Applicable
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned               Revised                  Actual
Stage of project cycle    Weeks   US$    Weeks       US$          Weeks      US$
Preparation to Appraisal   27.5  115.8       37.4         163.8        53.8       247.9
Appraisal                  34.0  140.2       21.3          95.6        77.0        75.0
Negotiations through       22.0   74.6       76.9          60.6         8.6        23.5
Board approval
Supervision                46.0  179.1       38.3         159.0        45.7       187.8
Completion                   0       0       10.0          27.9         0.4         0.8
Total                129.5  509.7      183.9         506.9       185.5      535.0
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
SPerformance Rating2    Types of
Stage of project cycle   Month/ No. of Days Specialization   Implem.   Developm. Problems3
Year  Person   in                    status    objectives
s    Field
Through Appraisal      5/95     8
Appraisal through Board   2/96  7
approval
Supervision            10/96    3                             S          S
Completion             12/96    3                             S          S
Total                      6
1 - Key to Specialized staff skills: 2 - Key to Performance Ratings: 3 - Key to Types of Problems:
etc.                          etc.                       etc.



Appendix A
Page 1 of 5
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
prepared by
THE NATIONAL BANK OF THE REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN
1.    The financial sector reform program was elaborated by the Government of the Republic
of Kazakhstan in collaboration with the National Bank of Kazakhstan (NBK) and its
implementation started in the middle of 1995. By that time Kazakhstan's stabilization policies
had created favorable macroeconomic condlitions necessary for the emergence of a sound
financial sector. Strengthening the financial sector was and continued to be a key element of
the overall program of stabilization and structural reforms in Kazakhstan, in particular, the
continued restructuring and recovery in the enterprise sector.
2.    To support the program of financial sector reform, the Government of the Republic of
Kazakhstan requested a Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (FSAL) from the World Bank in an
amount of US$ 180 million.
Objectives
3.    The financial sector reform program of the Government and the NBK addressed two
main objectives. First, we wanted to improve the sector environment in order to reduce the
operating risks and latent instability of even promising banks. Second, we wanted to deal with
old problem loans and problem banks that had been affecting the entire sector.
Results of Program hnplementation
Part One: Establishing a Conductive Environment for Sound Banking Sector Growth
4.    Strengthening the Framework for Secured Lending. The Government paid special
attention to the overhauling the property rights legislation. The Constitution of the Republic of
Kazakhstan and the Civil Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan (General Part) provided the basis
for this legislation and spelled out the recognition of the property rights and their protection
(articles 6,18,26 of the Constitution and articles 259-267 of the Civil Code). We have been
adopted several laws on specific property rights which provided legal framework for secured
lending. This included, for example, a Presidential Decree having the force of the law "On
Economic Partnerships" (1995), a Presidential Decree having the force of the law "On Land"
(1995) which allowed the use of land as collateral, a Presidential Decree having the force of
law "On Mortgage" (1995), and a law "On Bankruptcy" (1997) with a Resolution of the
Government specifying the implementation of bankruptcy procedures in agriculture (No. 1816
of 22.12.1997). Recently, the Government submitted to the Parliament the draft law "On Joint
Stock Companies"' and the draft law "On Pledges on Movable Property". In addition to the
legislation, we have begun initiatives that would modernize and strengthen the judicial system
to ensure credible and effective resolution of disputes and enforcement of contracts.
Previously, legal provisions for Joint Stock Companies were included in the law "On
Economic Partnerships"



Appendix A
Page 2 of 5
5.    Security in lending would also be enhanced if an efficient information infrastructure
could be established. To this end, a new chart of accounts for enterprises and a comprehensive
set of accounting standards conforming substantially with International Accounting Standards
was adopted on November 18, 1996 and introduced from January 1997. The establishment of
a registration system on borrowers, their real property, their pledges of property and their
borrowing was another key condition for enhancing secured lending. Laws and Presidential
Decrees having the force of Law "On Mortgage" (1995), "On state Registration of Rights for
Immovable Property and Transactions With It" (1995), "On State Registration of Legal
Entities" (1995), and Resolution of the Government "On State Code for City Constructions"
(1996) provided the legal framework for the registration system, which is being developed with
donors' assistance. A credit information bureau started operations in the NBK.
6.    Restructuring the Banking System. The development of the Kazakhstani banking
system in 1995-97 was characterized by consolidation and improvement in the financial
condition. The Law "On Amendments to Several Legal Acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan
Concerning the Banking Activities Issues" (11.07.1997) made changes in the procedure for
liquidation of banks. The Law also removed the classification of banks into investment and
deposit banks, and envisaged the expansion of the scope of banking activities. The NBK
introduced higher requirements for licensing different banking activities and required banks to
install internal procedures and control systems. Today the minimum capital requirement is T
300 million for new banks and T 100 million for existing banks (introduced and made effective
on December 5, 1997).
7.    As of end-1997, the banking system of Kazakhstan consisted of 82 second tier banks
(compared with 101 in 1996) including one intergovernmental bank, five state-owned banks,
and 22 banks with foreign participation (including daughter banks). During 1997, four new
banks started operations and one bank resumed operations. The Government repurchased
shares of Turan Bank and Alem Bank and merged the two banks into the Bank TuranAlem.
The Government also repurchased the shares of Kazkredsoc Bank with merged the Bank with
the state owned Zhilstroy Bank. These actions were undertaken to reduce instability and
systemic risk in banking sector and alleviate the social tension caused by the worsening
financial position of Alem Bank and Kazkredsoc Bank, both of which had a large number of
deposit-holders. State shares in Zhilstroy Bank and Bank TuranAlem were offered for sale and
were eventually acquired by local strategic investors (in case of Bank TuranAlem by
consortium of local investors). Kazdor Bank and Caspian bank merged in new Caspian Bank.
In 1997 NBK issued and renewed licenses of 55 banks and recalled licenses of 25 banks.
Thirteen foreign banks have representative offices in Kazakhstan.
8.    To improve the financial stability of banking system by accelerating restructuring of
and compliance by banks with the International Banking Standards (IBS), the NBK adopted the
Program "On Transition of the Second Tier Banks to the International Banking Standards"
(1996). According to the program banks were divided into two groups: first group of banks
should achieve the IBS by the end of 1998 and second group by the end of 2000. Each bank
should submit to the NBK its "Plan for Recapitalization and Improvement in Operations" by
November 15, 1997. NBK recalled the licenses of banks which did not submit plans on time.
Improvements in bank governance and banking and management skills are supported by the on-
going EBRD and World Bank twining programs.



Appendix A
Page 3 of 5
9.    The NBK developed a new chart of accounts, reporting formats and accounting
standards for banks conforming with International Accounting Standards (IAS). This chart of
account is mandatory for all banks starting from January 1, 1997. The NBK licensed seven
auditor companies and six individual auditors to provide audit of banks.
10.   Facilitating Inter-Bank Payments and Liquidity Management. The Government and
the NBK introduced various new monetary instruments that facilitated liquidity management
and broadened the range of payments instruments available to banks and enterprises. From
April 1996, Government started to issue three month Treasury Bills, from July 1995, six month
Treasury Bills, and from July 1996, twelve month Treasury Bills. The Government is
preparing the issuance of Treasury Bills wilh three and five year maturity. From June 1997,
the Government started to float medium term promissory notes with two years maturity, and
since September 1996, the Government has been issuing National Saving Promissory Notes
with one year maturity. In January 1997, the Government converted its debt to the NBK into
Special Treasury Bills with maturity of 10 years. The NBK started repurchase (repo) and
reverse repo operations with Treasury Bills in early 1996, and introduced short-term NBK
notes. Government enacted a Law on Bills of Exchange and Promissory Notes which conform
with the relevant Geneva Convention of 1930. Furthermore, NBK has adopted, in agreement
with the National Commission on Securities, the uniform requirements for the issuance of
shares and promissory notes of banks including the reporting forms. The NBK defined the
conditions for banks' participation in share capital of pension funds and companies on pension
assets management.
11.   There were several initiatives in the development of effective and efficient payment
systems. All banks are now maintaining unified correspondent accounts nationwide with NBK.
Payment clearing centers were established in all oblasts, and control over them is being
transferred to commercial banks within an improved regulatory framework. Currently, the
NBK is preparing bidding procedures for the procurement of hardware and software for the
payment system under the Financial and Enterprises Development Loan of the World bank.
12.   Ensuring Competition on an Even Playing Field. As mentioned above, banking
system of Kazakhstan in 1997 was composed of 82 banks including 22 banks with foreign
shares or foreign daughter banks. Easing the access to the Kazakhstani market for the foreign
banks allowed to enhance competition between banks. There are 13 representative offices of
the foreign banks including four opened during 1997. Removing special privileges for the
Halyk bank (the former saving bank) coupled with strengthening of Kazkommertz Bank and
privatization of large Bank TuranAlem andi Zhilstroy Bank helped to ensure a strong level of
competition among the local banks. The NBK is planning to remove the 25% ceiling for the
foreign participation in the consolidated capital of banking system, thereby eliminating a
potential regulatory barrier to competition.
13.   Tightening Prudential Supervision. The prudential regulation of banking activities is
provided for in the Regulations "On Prudential Standards" approved by the Board of the NBK
on May 23, 1995. The latest amendments to the set of prudential standards introduced
requirements for provisioning for all types of classified assets and for contingent liabilities, as
well as requirements for provisioning for all types classified assets and contingent liabilities.
There are a procedures and a sequence of measures that the NBK can impose on banks
violating prudential standards and other requirements. The NBK also introduced mandatory
registration of guarantees and other types of contingent liabilities issued by banks. There are



Appendix A
Page 4 of 5
clear procedures for licensing banks for custodial activities and clearly defined conditions of
banks' participation in pension funds and assets management companies. In June 1997, the
NBK participated in the workshop of the Regional Group of Basle Committee on banking
supervision for Caucasus and Central Asian countries devoted to the issues of restructuring in
banking system and main principles of banking supervision. Regional Group appointed the
representative of the NBK to chair the Group for coming two years.
14.   Strengthening the on-site inspection capacities is an important component of the
institutional development of banking supervision. The on-site inspection enables NBK to
evaluate the financial position of a bank, its managerial capacity, strategy and tactics of a
bank's credit policy, and compliance with prudential norms. The NBK is trying to apply the
international methods and procedures of on-site inspections, which evaluates the true
capitalization level of a bank and assesses the risks associated with a bank's activities. The
NBK uses the CAMEL system in rating of the financial position of banks. There were 33
banks inspected using this system. Among them rating 2 (satisfactory) was applied to 14
banks; 3 (less satisfactory) to seven banks; 4 (marginal) to three banks and 5 (unsatisfactory) to
nine banks. The rating has not been performed on ten banks as on-site inspection was not
provided in full scope. In 1997, the NBK performed 43 on site inspections.
Part Two: Resolving Problem Loans and Problem Banks
15.   To resolve problem loans, the Government and the NBK adopted a burden-sharing
concept under which the Government relieved the banks of bad loans that had been directed by
various authorities, and facilitated (through adequate tax provisions and other means) the
banks' recapitalization from private sources after they have provisioned for the bad loans that
were not part of the debt relief. The government directed bad loans were transferred to special
debt resolution institutions: (1) most loans to some 44 of the country's largest insolvent net
debtors were transferred to the Rehabilitation Bank; (2) virtually all non-performing directed
loans to farms was transferred to the Agricultural Support Fund (ASF); and (3) all outstanding
loans funded by foreign export credit agencies on the basis of government guarantees were
transferred to Eximbank Kazakhstan and then transferred to the Ministry of Finance.
Eximbank Kazakhstan continued to service these loans on agency principles . After receiving
relief from the government directed bad loans, banks were required to make provisions for
residual assets and contingent liabilities and to recapitalize themselves through earnings and
private capital contributions.   Each bank developed a Plan for Recapitalization and
Improvement of Operations which laid out a time-schedule as well as the principal measures for
financial and operational restructuring.
16.   The Rehabilitation Bank received the non-performing loans of 46 large enterprises.
These enterprises were isolated from the banking system. During 1995-97, the Rehabilitation
Bank pushed for staff reduction of more than 30 % in eight enterprises, implemented liquidation
procedures on five enterprises, and provided the financing of restructuring in several
enterprises. As of January 1,1998, the Rehabilitation Bank serviced 14 enterprises.
17.   ASF made continuous efforts to collect non-performing agricultural loans but without
substantial success. The Government has mandated the ASF to impose bankruptcy proceedings
on nonviable enterprises and develop restructuring plans for potentially viable ones.



Appendix A
Page 5 of 5
18.   The resolution of problem banks proceeded rapidly on two levels -- the streamlined
handling of a large number of smaller problem banks and the case-by-case treatment of four
very large ones. In the mass closure of small and medium problem banks, NBK withdrew
licenses of banks which did not meet prudential requirement. For example, in 1997, the NBK
withdrew the licenses of 25 banks -- 15 bank:s for violation of prudential standards; one bank
following the decision of the Government of Kazakhstan; two banks following court decisions;
one bank following voluntary liquidation; ancl six banks as result of mergers. As for the large
problem banks, all of them were prepared for privatization.  The Government almost
completed the negotiations with a Malaysian bank (BBMB) and IFC on the privatization of
Eximbank Kazakhstan, but, unfortunately, this deal fell through due to the financial crises in
East Asia. Zhilstroy Bank and Bank TuranAlem were offered for sale through tender in the
end of 1997 and were purchased by local investors. On June 27, 1997, the Government
approved the program for step-by-step privatization of Halyk Bank.
Assessments of results
19.   The outcome of the program supported by the Financial Sector Adjustment Loan was
on the whole quite satisfactory as it achievedl all its major objectives. Substantial progress has
been made in developing the legal framework for secured lending and for the development of a
sound banking sector in Kazakhstan.  Strengthening of the financial sector increased the
country's capacity to implement enterprise sector reform and provided the basis for future
economic growth.
20.   The National Bank of Kazakhstan and the Government of Kazakhstan are satisfied with
the Bank's performance in the process of implementing the FSAL program. The Bank and the
Government have built constructive relations which significantly contributed to the successful
outcome of the Program.
Almaty,
Republic of Kazakhstan,
June 5, 1998



International Bank for Reconstruction and Development                  Appendix B
Page 1 of 12
FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
R97-181
From: Vice President and Secretary                                  July 24, 1997
KAZAKHSTAN: Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (4051-KZ)
Release of Second Tranche (Waiver of Two Conditions)
Attached is a memorandum from the President entitled "Kazakhstan: Financial Sector
Adjustment Loan (405 1-KZ) - Release of the Second Tranche (Waiver of Two Conditions)".
In the absence of objections (to be communicated to the Vice President and Secretary by
the close of business on August 4, 1997), the recommendation contained in paragraph 49 of the
memorandum will be deemed approved and so recorded in the minutes of a subsequent meeting of
the Executive Directors.
Questions on this documents may be referred to Mr. Klaus Lorch, Task Manager, ECSPF
(Extension 37843).
Distribution
Executive Directors and Alternates
President's Executive Committee
Senior Management, Bank, IFC, and MIGA
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



Appendix B
Page 2 of 12
From: The President                                                       July 23, 1997
KAZAKHSTAN: Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (4051-KZ)
Release of the Second Tranche (Waiver of Two Conditions)
1.           The Board of the Executive Directors approved a Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (FSAL) to
the Republic of Kazakhstan on June 25, 1996 to support the reform program in the banking sector. The Loan
(US$180 million) was declared effective, and the first tranche of US$90 million was made available, on July 31,
1996.
2.           As provided in Section 2.02(d) oif the Loan Agreement, a series of discussions has been held in
Almaty and Washington to evaluate progress wvith the sector adjustment program (the Program) and with
fulfillment of the conditions for release of the second tranche. The Borrower has shown strong commitment to
the Program, and eight of ten conditions for release of the second tranche have been met.
3.           The two other conditions for tranche release concern two large problem banks, Alem Bank and
Turan Bank. Alem Bank was to commence negotiations for its privatization, and Turan Bank was to implement
an agreed restructuring plan. Both conditions had been largely fulfilled by late 1996: Negotiations for the
privatization of Alem Bank had commenced, and satisfactory implementation progress had been made under an
agreed restructuring plan for Turan Bank. Subsequently, the negotiations for sale of Alem Bank ground to halt
while the bank's financial situations continued deteriorating.  The planned fall-back option had been
conservatorship and then liquidation of Alem Bank. However, in view of the persistent high anxiety in financial
markets and the general public caused by the bankruptcy of another large bank a few months earlier, the National
Bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan (NBK) found the systemic risk of this fall-back option unacceptably large
at the time. The authorities therefore decided on an alternative course of action. They merged Alem Bank with
Turan Bank. They forced the resulting Bank TuranAlem to drastically restructure and particularly to downsize,
and provided recapitalization funding to settle liabilities of this bank. The scope and rigor of this restructuring
of Bank TuranAlem has in many ways already gone beyond the original restructuring agreement for Turan Bank
alone, and continues under NBK's close monitori:ng. Moreover, in the course of restructuring Bank TuranAlem,
its former Alem Bank portion has defacto been largely liquidated: All former Alem Bank branches have been
closed, all its senior managers released, most of its staff laid-off, most of its liabilities paid off, and the bulk of
its loans (which had been non-performing) transferred out of the bank. Moreover, the authorities committed
themselves to privatizing Bank TuranAlem no later than by mid-1998. This course of actions, chosen to adapt
to changed circumstances but aimed at the Program's sector development objectives, is considered a satisfactory
substitute for the actions that were conditions for tranche release. The progress in implementing this revised
action plan has been very substantial and rapid.
4.           This memorandum summarizes the overall progress made under the Program, and reports on the
actions taken by the Borrower and NBK to meet the specific conditions for second tranche release. On the basis
of the authorities' overall good performance in implementing the Program, putting in place measures that aim
at the agreed sector objectives whilst containing risks to the sector's systemic stability, this memorandum seeks
a waiver of two conditions and recommends that the second tranche be released.
Vice President:     Mr. Johannes Linn
Country Director:    Mr. Kadir Yurukoglu (acting)
Sector Director:    Mr. Lajos Bokros
Task Team Leader:   Mr. K'laus Lorch



Appendix B
-2-                              Page 3 cf 12
I. BACKGROUND
5.           The Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (FSAL) aimed at enabling the financial sector to become
sound and efficient, and to ensure a minimum of critical financial services during the transition period. To these
ends, the sector reform program was designed to create an environment conducive to sound banking sector
growth, and to resolve problem loans and problem banks.
6.           The Loan was appraised in May 1996 and approved by the Board on June 25, 1996. The FSAL
was signed on June 25, 1996, and declared effective on July 31, 1996. The first tranche was fully disbursed
in August 1996.
II. RECENT ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS
7.           Kazakhstan has been successful in getting inflation under control. Although the increase in the
consumer price index was nearly 3,000 percent during 1992, and was still 1,160 percent in 1994, the rate was
brought down to 28.6 percent during 1996. The target for 1997 is to limit the increase in the consumer price
index to 17 percent during the year. Data available for the first part of this year indicate that inflation is
currently running at a rate that would be consistent with the attainment of this target.
8.           The current account deficit in the balance of payments reached 9.9 percent of GDP in 1994, but
the deficit was reduced to 3.7 percent of GDP in 1996. International reserves (including gold) reached US$2.1
billion at the end of the year, equivalent to 4 months of imports of goods and non-factor services. With imports
growing somewhat faster than exports in 1997, the current account deficit is expeated to increase this year.
However, due in large measure to the inflow of direct foreign investment, the deficit on current account is more
than adequately covered by the inflow on capital account. Net foreign exchange reserves are expected to rise
by US$234 million during the year. Gross reserves (including gold) are expected to increase to the comfortable
equivalent of 4.3 months imports by the end of 1997. The strength of the balance of payments is indicated by
the fact that, although Kazakhstan entered into an EFF agreement with the IMF in mid-1996, the authorities have
not found it necessary to draw on this facility. It is also suggested by the continuing appreciation of the real
exchange rate (by 42 percent in 1995, by 28 percent in 1996, and probably by an additional 5 percent this year).
9.           The gains in financial stabilization were brought about as a result of tight fiscal and monetary
policies. In real terms, total general government expenditures were cut almost in half between 1993 and 1996.
Much of this resulted from the drastic cut in investment expenditures, which were 8.4 percent of GDP in 1993
but had almost disappeared in 1996. A significant build-up in payments arrears (primarily due to delayed
payment of pensions and public sector wages) also contributed to holding the budget deficit (which is measured
on a cash basis) to 3.1 percent of GDP in 1996. At the end of the year the arrears in government payments
exceeded 5 percent of GDP. In 1997 the budget deficit is expected to rise to 4.2 percent of GDP, but half of
this cash deficit will be the result of the promised elimination of pension fund arrears by the end of the year.
When changes in arrears are taken into account, there will be a substantial further improvement in the budget
results in 1997.
10.          Money and credit have been kept under tight controls. The supply of broad money is now less
than 9.0 percent of GDP. The growth of net domestic credit has been constrained by the increase in international
reserves as well as by the limited growth in broad money. Even though government borrowing from the
monetary system has been kept under control (and was actually negative in 1996), banking system credit to the
rest of the economy has been very tight. Relative to the GDP, credit to the rest of the economy fell from 16.8
percent of GDP at the end of 1994 to only 4.0 percent of GDP at the end of 1996. This tight liquidity has
contributed to the growth of inter-enterprise arrears and also to the large arrears in the payment of taxes. To
some extent the condoning of payments arrears has served as a substitute for money and credit during this period
of very tight liquidity.



Appendix B
3 -                              Page 4 of 12
11.          Real GDP in 1996 was only 60 percent of the level in 1990. Thus the impressive gains in re-
establishing financial stability have not been achieved without substantial costs in output and living standards.
However, much of the decline in production must be attributed to the breakdown in trade and payments relations
with other FSU republics, and to other transitional problems, rather than simply to tight fiscal and monetary
policies. Moreover, the production decline now appears to have "bottomed out", and there are modest signs of
a recovery in output. GDP grew by about 1.0 percent in 1996 and a modest further improvement of 1.5 percent
is projected for 1997. The fact that this year the government will be able to reduce, rather than increase, it own
payments arrears is also a hopeful sign. Credit to the rest of the economy, however, remains very tight. At
the moment the activities where growth is strongest are those related to the exploitation of Kazakhstan's
petroleum and mineral resources, which benefit from a large inflow of direct foreign investment.
III. STATUS OF THE FINANCIAL SECTOR REFORM PROGRAM
12.          The Program supported by the FSAL comprises a wide range of actions which, taken together,
were designed to enable the financial sector to become sound and efficient, and to ensure a minimum of critical
financial services during the transition period. The Program had two principal goals: (a) To improve the sector
environment so as to reduce the operating risks and latent instability of all banks; and (b) to resolve old problem
loans and problem banks that affected the entire sector. The following paragraphs discuss reform progress in
the sector in relation to these goals.
Goal (a): Improving the sector environment for sound banldng sector growth
13.          The framework for secured lending has been strengthened in several ways. New legislation has
been adopted on, inter alia, mortgages, companies, and bankruptcy. The latter law has also made judicial
procedures for bankruptcy cases more speedy and transparent. New registry systems for different property rights
are being established, and the prohibitive notary fees for registering collateral have been revisited. A new chart
of accounts and broad set of accounting standards have been mandated with the start of 1997. A credit
information bureau has started operations at NBK. The framework for rating agencies has been clarified to avoid
conflicts of interest. Moreover, various reforms are under way to modernize and strengthen the judicial system.
14.          The institutional development cf banks has been fostered in terms of, among other things, better
governance through privatization, and new bank accounting systems. The number of banks in with the State
holds shares has been reduced in two years from 73 to 11. Among these 11 banks, the State has now on offer
its entire stake in four of them, the majority stake in a fifth (Exim Bank) and minority stakes in a sixth (Halyk
Savings Bank). A seventh bank (Bank TuranAlem) is being prepared for privatization, and an eighth
(Rehabilitation Bank) is slated for closure next year after having completed its mission. The three remaining
banks are the housing bank, a regional development bank jointly owned with neighboring republics, and the
special-purpose Budget Bank. As to bank accounting and audit, NBK mandated a new chart of accounts,
reporting formats, and accounting standards mandatory for all banks as their primary system, and assisted banks
with donor support in the conversion.
.15.         Inter-bank payments and liquidity management have been facilitated through new monetary and
payment instruments, and inter-bank payment systems. For example, an automatic overnight Lombard facility
has been opened, and a law on bills of exchange and promissory notes has been enacted conforming with the
relevant Geneva Convention of 1930. All banks, with only few temporary exceptions for technical reasons, are
now maintaining unified correspondent accounts nationwide with NBK. Payment clearing centers have been
established in practically every oblast, and control over them is being transferred to commercial banks within
an improved regulatory framework. For high-value transactions, NBK has substantially completed preparations
for a special payment system with special standards of security and speed.
16.          Progress has also been made in ensuring competition on an even playing field, particularly with
regard to the role of the Halyk Savings Bank (formerly called Narodnyi Bank). In pursuit of a comprehensive



Appendix B
_ 4 _                              Page 5 of 12
institutional development plan, the bank has been modernizing its skills, systems, culture, image, and product
range, especially non-lending services. State agencies have reportedly ceased asking the bank for major services
without appropriate compensation. They have also allowed the bank to cut its number of branches and other
outlets by almost half (some 2,000 units), and its staff by about one fifth (2,500 persons), in the past two years.
The bank is preparing the initial public offering of about 10 percent of its shares at the stock exchange this year,
and the offer of shares to the bank's depositors soon thereafter. The ultimate goal in a three-year horizon is
majority private ownership. In return for such operational autonomy and private capital, the bank relinquished
earlier privileges such as freedom from reserve requirements and the free use of local premises. To overcome
shortages of basic banking services in rural communities as the deregulated and gradually privatized Halyk Bank
is closing non-profitable rural outlets, the authorities licensed the state postal enterprise with its vast network of
counters to handle cash transfers and act as an agent for commercial banks in collecting household deposits.
17.          Prudential supervision has been tightened in a transparent gradual process. For example, NBK
has been clarifying the calculation methods of prudential norms, focusing enforcement action on a broader range
of norns (including, for example, connected borrower exposure limits), paying increasing attention to banks'
contingent liabilities, and subjecting also state-owned banks to examinations. Moreover, NBK has started
differentiating an international standards bank track, where banks come into compliance with full international
standards by end-1998, from a slower base track towards full standards. When a bank meets the criteria of the
faster track, it qualifies to undertake certain operations such as issuing bonds, or collecting household deposits
beyond the amount of the bank's capital). This approach had several advantages: It harmonizes to some extent
the many differentiations between more or less sound bariks that NBK had earlier applied to the access to such
operations in an ad hoc fashion; it recognizes the still wide differences in performance levels in the infant stage
of the financial sector; and it offers incentives to banks to strive towards higher prudential performance.
Goal (b): Resolving problem loans and problem banks
18.          The financial burden related to old problem loans has been largely shared between bank
shareholders and the Government roughly in proportion to their respective responsibility for these loans. The
state has in many ways relieved banks of bad loans that had been instructed by authorities. Non-performing local
sub-loans under externally funded credit lines have been almost entirely removed, together with their refinancing,
from the balance sheets of commercial banks. Non-performing instructed loans funded from local sources have
largely been converted to managed fund status, including loans stemming from the Economic Transformation
Fund in 1993-94. Some forty very large defaulters, including some that had failed to recover under management
contracts, had been transferred to the state's Rehabilitation Bank. The Agricultural Support Fund had taken over
from banks, in 1995, non-performing instructed credit to farms. Outright recapitalization with budget funds was
limited to one bank, Bank TuranAlem (see para. 42). The recapitalization of banks through retained earnings
has been facilitated by reforming the tax treatment of loan loss provisions. Injections of new private capital into
banks were fostered by enforcing minimum capital and capital adequacy requirements.
19.          The actual resolution of bad loans has also made substantial progress. The Ministry of Finance
has started auctioning off bad loans that it has taken over from banks because these loans had been instructed.
The Government has also been using its ownership rights to accelerate loan collection from state-owned
enterprises. In this context, it has been carrying out reviews of the management contracts that it has concluded
for dozens of firms, and has been encouraging state utility, fuel, and communication enterprises to step up their
collection of receivables. Several state institutions have been playing special roles in debt resolution: (a) The
Agricultural Support Fund has been pursuing the farm loan resolution strategy agreed upon prior to Board
presentation of the FSAL, and has been strengthened institutionally; (b) The Exim Bank has been trying to
collect on a large volume of old, externally funded loans on an agency basis; (c) The Enterprise Restructuring
Agency has been forming a cadre of trained administrators and liquidators, and has been involved in the
bankruptcy of dozens of medium-size firms where the state had shares or credit claims; and (d) The
Rehabilitation Bank has substantially been pursuing a set of agreed operating policies in its restructuring and
privatizing, or else liquidating, very large insolvent enterprises. Out of forty enterprises assigned to the
Rehabilitation Bank, it has been liquidating four and is preparing a fifth case; forced downsizing and other



5                                Appendix B
Page 6 of 12
restructuring, as well as a fair degree of financial control and often external managers, on some twenty firms;
and has released the other fifteen firms mostly for privatization or private management contracts. The
Rehabilitation Bank has used a substantial part of its funding for severance pay, wage arrears and essential social
services of the insolvent firms. It has not funded investments in fixed assets, and is providing funds generally
in installments that decline over time. The bank has been agreeing with enterprises on time-bound restructuring
plans that generally include cuts in employment by at least 30 percent within a year.
20.          The resolution of problem banks proceeded rapidly on two levels, specifically, the streamlined
handling of a large number of ordinary problemr banks and the case-by-case treatment of four very large problem
banks. In a mass closure of small and medium problem banks, NBK cancelled the licenses of 103 banks from
mid-93 through mid-96, and continued with additional 30 license withdrawals since then. Of the 97 banks
currently operating, 45 have recently been identified as not even meeting the minimum prudential requirements
for the slow, base track towards higher banking standards; this points to a large number of further bank closures.
The case-by-case treatment of large problem banks has focused on Turan, Alem, Agroprom, and Exim Bank.
21.          Turan Bank went through rigorous restructuring in 1996 under a management team provided by
NBK. Alem Bank tried to stem the deterioration of its financial condition while the Government negotiated,
without success, the bank's privatizatien to foreign investors. The authorities then chose to merge Alem Bank
with Turan Bank, and forced the combined bank to drastically restructure and downsize, so as to stabilize its
financial situation, contain risks, and facilitate the bank's privatization over the coming six to twelve months.
These developments are elaborated in paragraphs 39-46.
22.          Agroprom Bank agreed with NBK on a improvement plan in fall 1996, and has been proceeding
with its implementation. A combination of extensive transfers of bad loans to the Agricultural Support Fund in
1995, enhanced loan collection efforts, tight limits on the bank's new lending activities, and additional
restrictions have improved the condition of the bank's balance sheet. Progress was initially slower, however, in
downsizing the branch network and staffing levels, and thus in reducing expenditures. Late in 1996, however,
the Government sold back to Agroprom Bank its entire package of shares in the bank in return for 42 branch
buildings being transferred to the state. With this step, the branch network has been downsized, and the bank
is now fully privately owned. Moreover, the state earmarked the 42 buildings for lease to emerging rural credit
societies.
23.          Exim Bank has been relieved of most of its non-performing loans and their refinancing, and
provisioned for the rest in its end-1996 statements. It has since grown only cautiously within the constraint of
a 3:1 debt/equity ratio, and has focused on a list of core activities and instruments so as to avoid diluting its
efforts. Where the bank rejected lending proposed by the authorities at its risk, such as in social sectors, it is
sometimes managing state loans on an agency basis. These and other positive developments at the bank are
underpinned by a satisfactory development plan, built on the results of an intemational audit. Negotiations are
now under way for a strategic investor and IFC together to acquire the majority of shares in Exim Bank.
IV. PROGRESS AGAINST TRANCHE RELEASE CRITERIA
24.          Pursuant to Section 2.02(d) of the Loan Agreement, conditions for the release of the second
tranche require that the Bank shall be satisfied with the progress achieved by the Borrower in carrying out the
Program, and that the actions described in Schedule 3 to the Loan Agreement have been taken and are
satisfactory to the Bank.
25.          Progress in carrying out the Program has been strong as described in Section III above. The
status of the specific actions provided in the Loan Agreement is described below.
(i)    Continued maintenance of the macroeconomic policy framework consistent with the
objectives of the Program as; deterrnined on the basis of indicators satisfactory to the Bank.



Appendi x B
6-                              Page 7 of 12
26.          This condition has been met. Progress in the macroeconomic sphere is described in Section II
above.
(ii)   Adoption by the Borrower or an Accounting Standards Board of the Borrower, and
publication, of a new chart of accounts and a comprehensive set of accounting standards
conforming substantially with the International Accounting Standards.
27.          This condition has been met. The National Accounting Commission of the Republic of
Kazakhstan adopted and published twenty accounting standards through its Resolutions Nos. 3, 4, 5, and 7 dating
from November 13 to 21, 1996. The standards are effective from January 1, 1997, except for three standards
that will become effective a year later. These standards conform substantially with twenty of the thirty
International Accounting Standards (IAS). Together, the new standards constitute an adequately comprehensive
set, since the other ten IAS are not yet of significant relevance in the current business environment of Kazakhstan
or, in two cases, need to await the promulgation of the Civil Code Part II with regard to provisions on non-
tangible assets. An additional standard, for banking institutions, had been approved by NBK Resolution No. 237
of December 26, 1995.
28.          The National Accounting Commission also approved a new General Chart of Accounts for
business entities, and declared it effective from the beginning of 1997. With about 190 accounts on the third-
digit level, the new chart has appropriate detail. The chart of accounts permits the application of the new
accounting standards.
29.          The new accounting standards and chart of accounts were presented to the public at a national
conference on in late November, 1996, widely distributed to professional and educational entities, and published
in newspapers in December 1996.
(iii)   Offering for sale to private investor all state shares in, or withdrawing the banldng licenses
of, all except no more than ten banks (other than NBK) whose equity includes state shares.
30.          This condition has been met. In mid-1995, there were about 73 banks whose shares were owned
by the Borrower, or by legal entities majority owned by the Borrower. Of these 73 banks, 32 have by now been
fully privatized, and 30 had their license withdrawn. Of the remaining 11 banks with state shares, three
(Tsvetmet, Kazkomstroi and BSB) have been offered for sale at the stock exchange, with the minimum prices
reduced over time to as little as 1 percent of the net book value of the shares. Another bank, Kazpochta Bank,
has been on offer outside the stock exchange since last December.
31.          This leaves at present only 7 licensed banks whose state shares have not yet been formally
offered for complete sale. The Budget Bank will remain fully state owned. The state's Rehabilitation Bank will
be closed after 4 years of existence, i.e., in 1999. The Exim Bank is negotiating with a foreign strategic investor
and the IFC, but will leave a minority share in state hands. In the Central Asian Bank for Reconstruction and
Development that is jointly owned with neighboring republics, as well as in the Housing Bank, the state will
likely retain ownership as well. The privatization of Halyk Savings Bank is being prepared to start this year with
the offer of some shares to its household depositors and some further shares to foreign portfolio investors. Bank
TuranAlem is undergoing drastic restructuring, and the Government expressed its commitment to privatize it in
the first half of 1998.
(iv)   Enactment of a law on bills of exchange and promissory notes conforming with the Geneva
Convention of 1930 providing a Uniforn Law for Bills of Exchange and Promissory Notes.
32.          This condition has been met. A Law On the Circulation of Bills in the Republic of Kazakhstan
was enacted by parliament last April and signed by the President of the Republic on April 28, 1997. The law
addressed bills of exchange as well as promissory notes. The law conforns substantially with the 1930 Geneva
Convention on Bills of Exchange and Promissory Notes.



Appendix B
-7 -                              Page 8 of 12
33.          Article I of the Convention requires parties to the convention to enforce or enact in original texts
in their national language a Unified Law as set forth in Appendix I of the Convention. It permits signatory
countries to make certain reservations, but requires them to declare, at the moment of ratifying, or acceding to,
the Convention which reservations they have elected to make. The Convention became effective in Kazakhstan
on August 21, 1995, through Presidential Decree No. 2418 On the Republic of Kazakhstan Becoming a Signatory
to the Geneva Convention of June 7, 1930. In the above law, Kazakhstan did elect to reserve a number of rights
which are allowed in Appendix II of the Convention and which were included in the list of reserved right of
Presidential Decree No. 2418.
(v)    Issuance, by NBK, of regulations implementing the policy regarding the international
standards banks track agreed with the World Bank.
34.          This condition has been met. NBK approved on December 12, 1996 a Resolution No. 292
providing for Procedures of Transition of Second-Tier Banks to International Standards. Resolution No. 292
conforms substantially with the concept agreed between the Borrower and the Bank. Among other things, the
Resolution provides for: An international standards track ("Group 1") and a base track ("Group 2") for
commercial banks; annual minimum ratios that lead towards full compliance with final prudential standards by
end-1998 (Group 1) or end of the year 2000 (Group 2); a requirement of bank improvement plans to underpin
the increase in prudential performance; incentives to achieve Group I status, including the right to take
household deposits to an extent that exceeds the bank's capital; and the expectation of license withdrawal from
banks that do not even achieve Group 2 performance levels.
35.          By June 1, 1997, NBK finalized its review of all licensed banks. It assigned Group 1 status to
25 banks, and Group 2 status to 27 banks. Since the minimum prudential ratios for both groups will rise over
time following the schedule- stipulated by Resolution No. 292, these numbers will change. Further 45 licensed
banks did not meet the minimum criteria even for Group 2, and are thus excluded from either group; Resolution
No. 292 indicated NBK's intention to withdraw licenses from such banks.
(vi)  Initiation of liquidation proceedings against at least three insolvent corporate debtors of the
Rehabilitation Bank and reduction of staff of at least five other corporate debtors of the
Rehabilitation Bank by 30 percent each or more in comparison to the numbers employed
thereat on November 1, 1995.
36.          This condition has been met. Liquidation has been practically completed for one large enterprise,
is well under way for two more, has been legally initiated for a fourth, and is being prepared for a fifth. (a)
The closure of Karaganda Liquidschaht with its five coal mines of formerly 1,840 employees is virtually
completed. The final steps are the sell-off of some last pieces of installation. Most of the former employees
have been laid off, and another third of the employees, mainly those suffering from work-related accidents or
sickness, were transferred to other mines. The Rehabilitation Bank is also engaged in the liquidation of two
additional coal mines that did not belong to the same enterprise. (b) Phosphochim in Alga, a producer of boric
acid with once well over 1,000 employees, was declared bankrupt by an oblast court last November, upon
applications by the Rehabilitation Bank as creditor as well as another state agency as owner representative. The
liquidation cormnission has now closed the plant, catalogued assets and creditors, and started the sale of assets.
(c) For the Petropavlovsk Small Engines Plant, with formerly 1,320 employees, a general shareholder meeting
decided last November the firm's voluntary licluidation. The liquidation commission has offered the assets of
the enterprise for sale as essentially a whole in late May 1997, and has recently reduced the minimum price for
lack offers. (d) A fourth company, Belogorslcy Mining and Concentration Corporation with formerly 1,590
employees, was declared bankrupt by a court last March upon application by the Rehabilitation Bank as creditor.
Creditor claims have been filed, and the Creditor's Meeting was held in June. (e) For the Tekeli Lead Zinc
enterprise, which once employed about 2,700 persons, the filing of an application for bankruptcy with the courts
is under preparation since the authorities cancelled a management contract and transferred the enterprise to the
Rehabilitation Bank for liquidation.



Appendix B
- 8 -                           Page 9 of 12
37.          The conditionality regarding employment reduction is fulfilled as well. Most of the enterprises
that were brought under the control of the Rehabilitation Bank had been over-staffed or employed persons in non-
viable operations. The 25 enterprises that the Rehabilitation Bank controlled by end-96 had more than 64,000
employees in November 1995. By May 1997, fourteen of these enterprises had cut their employment by more
than 30 percent each, ranging from 31 to 75 percent. Four additional enterprises were in liquidation, as
explained above. Only seven enterprises had so far reduced their staff by less than 30 percent.
(vii)   Approval by the Borrower of a development plan, acceptable to the World Bank, for the
institutional strengthening of the Exin Bank.
38.          This condition has been met. The Board of Directors of Exim Bank approved an institutional
development plan in November 1996. The plan has been signed by each member of the bank's Board, including
Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance. The plan is in conformity with the requirements agreed
between the Borrower and the Bank. As a high-level document it is strategic, and comprehensive in coverage.
A strategy statement and an organization chart are incorporated in its text. Operational details for the shorter
term has subsequently been included in a business plan and the 1997 budget of the bank. Further operational
detail is also provided in a Memorandum on Credit Policy. Key elements of the institutional development plan
are backed up by earlier Government Resolutions and Exim Bank Board decisions. They concern, inter alia,
the bank's corporatization and privatization; the charter of the bank; the prudential norms applicable to the bank;
its relief from non-performing loans and their extemal refinancing that it inherited from its predecessor
institution; and relief from, and future arrangements for, loans that had originated under the state's Economic
Transformation Fund.
(viii) Commencement of negotiations with no more than four private investors for the purchase
by them of the majority of shares of Alem Bank."
39.          This condition had largelv been fulfilled. However, confronted with changing circumstances.
the Borrower chose to revise its strategv to achieve the same sector development obiectives. On this satisfactory
alternative course of actions. substantial progress has been achieved. The Alem Bank, the former trade bank
of the state and still 53 percent owned by the state in early 1996, has been the country's largest bank by gross
assets. After it emerged from a brief conservatorship in 1995 but was still saddled with major governance,
management, and portfolio problems, the state offered its shares for sale to investors. By September 1996, the
Government with NBK's support had in fact commenced intensive negotiations with a foreign business group
for the sale of the state's stake in Alem Bank. This investor was expected to help bring Alem Bank's capital
in compliance with capital adequacy requirements and improve liquidity, while the Government would facilitate
this by settling various obligations towards Alem Bank and taking over external liabilities that it had guaranteed.
By mid-October, 1996, the two negotiating parties were reportedly close to agreement. However, demands of
the foreign investor in unrelated areas, as well as indications that contingent liabilities were worse than expected,
then led to a slowdown in the negotiations. By December, the negotiations were discontinued.
40.          The authorities had been contemplating conservatorship with liquidation as the fall-back option.
Based on audit results that became available in the third quarter, the bank's capital had a more highly negative
than had been estimated. (A further audit as of end-1996 showed necessary provisions finally amounting to 89
percent of gross loans.) The bank operated on the verge of illiquidity, requiring heavy support by NBK and
other state-owned banks. However, in September 1996, Kramds Bank, the fifth largest bank and a major
collector of household deposits, went bankrupt. The resulting nervousness in the financial markets, wide
publicity, and public protests were slow to subside. In December, when the negotiations for sale of Alem Bank
had failed, it was the judgment of NBK that the systemic risk of starting the liquidation of Alem Bank would
be unacceptable in this environment, for months to come. In the meantime, Alem Bank would likely deteriorate
further through the loss of deposits, good clients, and qualified staff.
41.          In this situation, the Government and NBK decided in December on an alternative course of
action, namely, the merger of Alem Bank with Turan Bank and the subsequent recapitalization and privatization



Appendix B 
- 9 -                          Page 10 of 12
of the resulting "Bank TuranAlem". (Turan Banlk, as will be explained below, was the privatized former state
industrial bank.) Bank TuranAlem would close all former Alem Bank branches, sell their fixed assets, replace
all senior Alem Bank managers, settle in court various disputes of former Alem Bank, and extend the rigorous
restructuring that had already well advanced in Turan Bank to the Alem portion of TuranAlem's balance sheet.
The state budget would provide for the recapitallization of Bank TuranAlem, but these funds would be used
generally to repay liabilities and not to provide liquidity for new lending. This would curtail additional portfolio
risks, generally make the bank less "too-large-to-fail", and increase the prospects for Bank TuranAlem's
privatization, which would be the final objective anticipated no later than mid-1998.
42.           The Bank thereupon agreed with the Borrower on a set of actions, plans, and commitments to
ensure that, first, the objectives of the Program would be supported and, second, the privatization objective
(originally relating to Alem Bank) and the restructuring objective (originally relating to Turan Bank, as explained
below) would ultimately be achieved. By now, the authorities in collaboration with Bank TuranAlem have met
all the prior actions, submitted a satisfactory restructuring agreement between Bank TuranAlem and NBK, and
provided all the formal commitments that had been agreed upon. These steps can be summarized as follows:
(a) The former branches of the Alem Bank and Turan Bank have been reduced within one year from 103
to 27, i.e., by three quarters: 17 of the branches were closed before merger and 39 after the merger,
and 24 branches had their licenses withdrawn and operate now as mere cash windows for nearby
branches. The duplication of branches iin any one town has been eliminated. Vacated office buildings
have been put on sale. For the bank's largest fixed asset, a very large new office tower in Almaty, the
bank has substantially completed its sales negotiations with a buyer; only outstanding are issues of
taxation that the buyer is negotiating with the authorities. Staff of the two original banks has been
reduced from a combined total of 4,600 in mid-1996 to about 3,600 by end-1996, and further to less
than 2,100 persons since the merger. The bank also agreed with NBK to cut its administrative expenses
by 28 percent in 1997.
(b) The bank's chairman and deputy chairmen were all recruited from outside the two original banks. This
new management team has been demonstrating substantial professional competence. The majority of
department directors and many branch directors were replaced as well. Major progress has been made
in strengthening headquarters control of branches and centralizing credit decisions; all branches now
report directly to headquarters. The combination of the accounting systems of the two original banks
has advanced well, and the Republic's new chart of account for banks is being adopted. A weekly
portfolio review system is being introduced.
(c) Practically all external liabilities inherited by Bank TuranAlem that had been guaranteed to the foreign
parties by the State, and whose on-lending had been directed and has been non-performing, have been
assumed by the State. The corresponding local loans have been removed from the bank's balance sheet.
From among the bank's other loans, 80 percent (US$80 million equivalent, by gross value) of those that
were classified as "loss" by an international audit have been removed from the legal ownership and
balance sheet of the bank. For a large part of these removed loans, Bank TuranAlem will act as a
collection agent on behalf of the new creditors. In addition, the bank has ceased lending to defaulters.
Furthermore, the bank agreed with NBK to offset deposits of defaulters with their credits, and to collect
by end-1997 30 percent on its doubtful loans and 50 percent on its substandard loans.
(d) The State has provided a total of apprcximately US$150 million equivalent for the recapitalization of
Bank TuranAlem. The vast majority of these funds have been used to repay liabilities of the bank, and
thus to downsize it financially. Firstly, US$30 million was provided in January upon the merger by
converting into equity the Government's deposits that dated back to its efforts to stabilize Alem Bank
and Turan Bank. Secondly, an additional US$60 million was paid in April, and has by now almost
entirely been utilized to repay liabilities of the bank (including large loans by other state-owned banks),
to help cover operating costs during the initial restructuring phase, or to be held on escrow accounts for
the settlement of contingent liabilities that are disputed in court. Thirdly, the state's Rehabilitation Bank,



Appendix B
-10-                              Page 11 of 12
has obtained an NBK loan to purchase "loss" loans from Bank TuranAlem at a gross value of US$61m
equivalent, and Bank TuranAlem used the entire proceeds to repay its liability towards NBK. In
addition, the Goverinent has committed itself in a letter to the World Bank not to undertake any further
recapitalization of Bank TuranAlem from the state budget.
(e) These and other actions have brought the bank back into compliance with most prudential norms,
including the mandatory liquidity ratio. In addition, the bank agreed with NBK to limit the growth of
its loan volume (net after the extensive provisioning) to 50 percent from March 97 to March 1998, and
to limit its exposure to any single borrower to US$3 million, except for up to three exposures with a
US$5 million ceiling. The bank does not yet meet the capital adequacy norms, though, and still
constitutes a risk that required careful monitoring by NBK.
(f) The Government confirmed in a letter to Bank management, dated July 2, 1997, that it "will do [its] best
effort to conclude the sale of the majority of the voting stock of Bank TuranAlem in a transparent
process open to competition no later than by June. ... [The Government] will seek a strategic investor
with strong capabilities and give consideration to ensuring adequate competition in the banking sector."
The bank's rigorous restructuring is expected to facilitate this privatization. It has also been noted that
several major foreign banks are contemplating to open branches in Kazakhstan, for which legislation
requires first a one-year operation of a representative office; this interim period can be avoided by
purchasing an existing bank. The authorities plan to intensify their investor search in September once
an international audit of the bank's results through June 1997 will provide potential investors with more
insight into the bank's recent income performance. The European Bank for Reconstruction and
Development (EBRD) is preparing to assist the authorities in this privatization effort, and potentially
to participate in the equity itself.
43.          Given that it was unforeseen circumstances that prevented the authorities from liquidating Alem
Bank when their privatization effort failed last year; given the impressive degree of restructuring and downsizing
that has been achieved in a short time; and given the Borrower's firm commitment and improving prospects to
privatize Bank TuranAlem within one year, these actions and commitments can be considered an appropriate
substitute for the original tranche release condition regarding Alem Bank.
(ix)   Implementation of key elements of an action plan, agreed with the World Bank, pursuant
to the agreement dated May 1996 between NBK and Turan Bank or, altermatively,
assumption of conservatorship over Turan Bank by NBK.
44.          This condition had been met.  However, it was subsequently overtaken by a satisfactory
alternative course of actions. The progress achieved towards sector reform objectives on this alternative route
exceeds in many ways the targets of the tranche release condition. This revised course of action involved the
merger of Turan Bank with Alem Bank, and the rigorous restructuring of the resulting Bank TuranAlem, as
described above.
45.          Early last year Turan Bank, the former state industrial bank, had been the country's fourth largest
bank (by gross value of assets) and fully in private hands. Its performance and financial stability were crippled
by weak management, lack of control over regional branches, disputes and failed takeover attempts among
owners, and the migration of its heavy industry clients, once privatized, to more dynamic banks. In September
1996, the bank's management including the CEO was replaced by a group of NBK staff. This situation carne
close defacto to a conservatorship by NBK. This new management team implemented a profound and detailed
restructuring program. New lending was curtailed, lending to major defaulters ceased altogether, and the
collection of non-performing loans was stepped up, except for loans under foreign credit lines where
responsibility was blurred through state guarantees and lending instructions. These actions reduced the
loan/deposit ratio to 1.04, and nominally brought capital adequacy in line with prudential norms (allowing for
amortization of initial provisions over three years, and based on provisioning needs defined upon NBK on-site
examination for lack of an international audit). Within a quarter year, the bank closed 17 of 83 branches, cut



Appendix B
-11-                            Page 12 of 12
staffing by 16 percent, and disposed of 25 percent of its fixed assets. Internal controls were strengthened, and
all branches were made to report directly to headquarters. The agreed target of raising additional equity capital
of US$2 million from private sources was not yet met, but was planned to follow this period of de facto
conservatorship.
46.          On January 15, 1997, the shares of Turan Bank were transferred to the state under applicable
law, which immediately merged Turan Bank with the troubled Alem Bank as described above. The main
purpose was to prevent a collapse of the large Alem Bank in an environment already affected by the recent
bankruptcy of another large bank. A secondary motive, according to NBK, was to facilitate the replacement of
private shareholders whose behavior in governing Turan Bank, which had negative capital, had indicated moral
hazard and who continued to obstruct the necessary restructuring. NBK applied an amendment to banlking
legislation that allowed NBK to seize, against some compensation, the shares of banks with a negative net worth.
The Government assured the Bank formally of its commitment to privatize the merged Bank TuranAlem no later
than by mid-1998. In the meantime, the rigorous restructuring has continued and, in many respects, accelerated
at Bank TuranAlem. Although data of the former Turan Bank is not fully comparable with that of today's
merged Bank TuranAlem, it is fair to say that most of the restructuring actions for Turan Bank that had been
agreed under the Loan have by now been exceeded by Bank TuranAlem.
(x)    Passage of a law on bankruiptcy that includes adequate provisions for its application and
enforcement, or prescription of adequate rules, regulations or procedures for the
application and enforcement of the Presidential Decree on Bankruptcy of 1995.
47.          This condition has been met.. A new Law on Bankruptcy was passed by parliament on January
21, 1997, signed by the President, and came into effect on January 25, 1997. The law constitutes a major
improvement over the prior Presidential Decree on Bankruptcy of 1995, and its content is substantially
satisfactory. Different from the prior Decree, the new Law is highly detailed and includes a wide range of
generally satisfactory provisions for the Law's application and enforcement. There are indications that the new
Law has already contributed to making bankruptcy a more widely considered option for creditors, and that the
number of bankruptcy applications has risen. The state itself, too, is now utilizing its role as creditor more
actively to force bankruptcy on major debitors, especially through its Rehabilitation Bank and Enterprise
Restructuring Agency.
V. CONCLUSION
48.          The Borrower's implementation of the Program has been strong. Most measures have been
implemented as planned. Where the original measures have proved no longer appropriate in light of events, the
Borrower has substituted practical alternatives that pursue that same objectives and have been implemented
rapidly in a satisfactory manner. Overall, the Program has impacted on the development of the financial sector
in the manrier and to the extent intended under the Loan. The environment has been made more conducive for
sound banking sector growth, and the resolution of problem loans and the restructuring of critical problem banks
have made major progress.
49.          Recommendation. On the above basis, I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the
release of the second tranche of the Loan. Upon approval, the Bank will notify the Borrower that the second
tranche of US$90 million is available.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
by Caio K. Koch-Weser



SELECTED MACRO-ECONOMIC INDICATORS AND FINANCIAL SECTOR STATISTICS
Table 1. Kazakhstan: GDP, Money and Velocity
3/8/98 17:49                                      1997                                                         1998
December, actual,           January               March                June              September          December
including Budget           Outcome               Projected           Projected           Projected          Projected
Bank with NBK                               ._.__
GDP and Inflation (percentage change over
same period a year earlier)                                                   155,105
Real GDP (quarterly)                                     2.0                 93,862                  3.0                  3.0                3.0               3.0
GDP Deflator                                            12.0                 86,718                  8.7                  9.4                9.7               9.8
CPI Inflation                                           11.3                                         10.7                10.9               11.6              10.4
11,651
Nominal GDP (millions of Tenge)                        477,573                  4,507              395,466             426,588            556,087           540,026
Quarterly                                           1,900,292                 6,850             1,581,864           1,706,352          2,224,348         2,160,104
Annualize                                                                       295
177,257                                     160,039             174,132            196,967           216,689
Monetary Aggregates (millions of Tenge)                106,921                                      92,485              97,442            108,850           118,194
Broad Money                                           96,536                                      83,353              87,644             97,036            104,548
Reserve Money                                                                82,211
o/w currency                                        14,121                                       12,867              13,534             15,550            17,381
3,736                 72,895                3,736               3,736              3,736             3,736
Bank Reserves (R)                                       10,254                 72,865                9.000               9,666             11,683            13,514
Currency holdings by  commercial banks                   131                      29                  131                 131                131               131
Bank deposits at NBK
Demand, time and enterprise deposits at NBK
Currency held by households (C)                         92,800                                      79,716              83,908             93,300           100,812
Deposits (D)                                            84,457                                      80,422              90,224            103,667           115,876
Deposits at commercial banks                          84,421                                      80,385              90,187             103,630           115,840
Bonds/Promisory notes of banks                           36                                           36                  36                 36                36
Ratios
Velocity                                               10.78                                         9.88                9.80              11.29              9.97
Reserves/Deposits (r=R/D)                               0.17                   0.16                 0.16                 0.15               0.15              0.15
Currency /Deposits (c=C/D)                              1.10                    1.13                 0.99                0.93               0.90              0.87
Money multiplier (m=[l+c]/[c+rl)                          1.66                   1.65                 1.73                1.79               1.81               1.83
I-i.
o X



Table 6. Grouping of operating STBs (second tire banks) by owner's equity
At the end of the period
Owner's equity within the limits of (mln. tenge)                 Total      Owner's equity,
STBs       mln. tenge
<5       5-20       20-80      80-130    130-500    500-1300    >1300
12.95       45         24         25          21         11           3         1        130          10 292.3       12.95
share, %     34.62      18.46      19.23      16.15       8.46        2.31      0.77     100.00                      share, %
12.96       17         10         27          28         11           4        4         101          17 873.5       12.96
share, %     16.83       9.90      26.73      27.72      10.89        3.96      3.96     100.00                      share, %
01.97       18          7          27         30         11           4         4        101          20 553.0       01.97
02.97       17          6          28         28         13           4         4        100          20 553.0       02.97
03.97       16          7         27          27         11           4         5         97          22 195.6       03.97
04.97       17          8          24         28         13           3         4         97          22 199.3       04.97
05.97       16          9          24         28         11           2         6         96          23 023.9       05.97
06.97       1           7          23         28         13           2         6         96          25 619.5       06.97
07.97       21          5          22         29         14           3         4         98          24 983.9       07.97
08.97       18          8          21         29         13           5         4         98          25 387.2       08.97
09.97       14          7          17         27         16           3         6         90          26 355.4       09.97
10.97       14          6          16         28         17           3         6         90          26 413.2       10.97
11.97       12          5          18         28         18           3         6         90          26 726.1       11.97
12.97        8          3          17         25         18           5         6         82          27 997.2       12.97
share, %     9.76        3.66      20.73      30.49      21.95         6.10     7.32     100.00                      share, %
01.98        7          4          14         24          16          5         6         76          27 506.3       01.98
share, %      9.21       5.26      18.42      31.58      21.05         6.58     7.89     100.00 _     _--share, %
OQ ro
t'h)
-J



Table 2. Kazakhstan: Medium-Term Balance of Payments, 1995-2003                  Appendix C
(million US dollars)                                         Page 3 of 7
1995     1996     1997      1998     1999     2000      2001     2002      2003
Current         -516      -752       -9   -I1,434    - 1,288   -1,306    -595     -574     -619
account
Trade           -222      -326     -384     -817      -666     -636      108       105       103
balance_
Exports (f.    5,164     6,292    6,770    6,837    7,498    8,073    9,399    9,752    10,122
o. b.)I
Non-oil        4,378    5,034    5,230    5,466    5,740    6,027    6,328    6,644        6,977
exports
Oil exports      786    1,257   I1,540    1,371    1,758    2,046    3,071    3,108        3,145
Imports        -5,387   -6,618   -7,154   -7,654   -8,164   -8,708   -9,291   -9,648   -10,018
(f.o.b.)
Non-oil       -5,149   -6,304   -6,722   -7,273   -7,782   -8,327   -8,910   -9,266    -9,637
importsII
Oil imports     -237      -314     -382     -382      -382     -382     -382      -382     -382
Services        -353      -475     -663     -668      -672     -721     -754      -730     -772
(net)
Non-factor      -208      -253     -336     -316      -352     -393     -414      -378     -408
services
(net)
Credit           535      675       853      812       867      927      991    1,060      1,135
Transport        352      432       494      518       544      572      600       630      662
Other            184      243       359      294      323       355      391       430      473
Debit           -74       -92    -119 -,2            120 -2            -1,405   -1,438
Transport       -2654   -357     -391 | -418      -439 | -461    -461             -400     -400
Other       | -478      -571       -798      -709    -780 | -858         -944    -1,038    -1,142
Factor          - 145     -222     -327     -352      -320     -328     -339      -351     -365
services
(net)_
Interest I/      -65       -78      -92 | -163      -231 |     -239     -250      -262     -276
Credit     C      40       2          0       6         61       61       61        611
Internatio        33        19       49       60       60        60       60        60        60
nal reserves
FSU debtors        7         10       1        2 |  2 |  I                                     1 
|Debt        | -105 T -107 T -143 [ -225              -292      -301
IMF              -17  _ -23         -25      -23       -18       -9
|Other       |    -88 |    -84      -118    -202 | -275         -291
|Other factor |   -80 | -144 | -234 | -189              -89      -89      -89       -89      -89
|services                         
|Unrequited      59    50    75|               50        0        50       50       50        50
transfers   |
|Ca pital    |1,1160 |1,374     1,617     1,600     1,433
account                                 |    
|Medium           569      486 r    805 T     731 |    300      279       159       25       -23
|and long- |
|term credits|                     
Drawings         352      352       244      566      427       449      404       400      329
|on official |
|loans                            
Drawings   |     265 |    143 |    332 |     150 |    204 |     191      175       71        56
|credits                          
Bond issue         0      200      350       245        0         0        0        0         0
|(net)                            
o/w                0      200      350       245      -200        0        0      -350     -245
|government                                       I                  I                            I   
rroll-over    |     0        0         0 |      0      200         0        0      350       245
|Amortiza         -48      -210 | -121 | -230 | -331 | -360              -420      -447     -408
|tion 1/              I                   
|o/w Other   |     19       30         0 |      0        0         0        6        6         8
|FSU                    
ol o/to           -23        0         0        0        0         0        0         0        0
Other              0        434     -92 j      0 j       j        jo 
|banking                          



system                                                                                           Appendix C
(NIR)                                         _                                                  Page 4 of 7
Portfolio          7       24       54         0        0        0         0        0         0
investment
(net)                                          _
Direct           964    1,137    1,269    1,269    1,333    1,366    1,366    1,366       1,366
investment
(net)
Capital         -381      -316     -419     403      -200      -100      -50        0         0
transfers
(Migrants-
net)
Errors and      -488     -567      -155        0        0        0         0        0         0
omissions
(net)
Overall          156       55       490       65    - 145      239       879      816       724
balance
Financing       -156      -55      -490      -65     -145      -239     -879     -816      -724
NIR of the      -375     -228      -490      -65     -145      -239     -879     -816      -724
NBK
(increase)
Foreign         -232      -55      -490      -65     -145      -239     -879     -816      -724
Exchange
Assets (net)
olw Fund         142      135        -7      -95     -175      -132      -52      -28       -28
Credit (net)
Purchases        142      135        0         0        0        0         0        0         0
SBA              142      135        0       0          0        0         0        0         0
EFF                0        0        0         0        0        0         0        0         0
Repurcha           0        0        -7      -95     -175      -132      -52      -28       -28
ses
Exceptional      219        0         0        0        0        0         0        0         0
financing                                                 I                           I
Arrears            I        0         0        0        0        0         0        0         0
reduction
Inter-             0        0        0         0        0        0         0        0         0
enterprise
arrears
(net)
Debt relief      217        0        0         0        0        0         0        0         0
from Russia
Memoran
dum
GDP in US$    16,588   20,810   22,514   24,707   26,313   27,760   29,987   30,898    32,597
CA to GDP      -3.1%    -3.6%    -4.3%    -5.8%    -4.9%    -4.7%    -2.0%    -1.9%       -1.9%
NBK Gross                1,980    2,252    2,222    2,367   .2,606    3,485    4,301      5,025
Internation
al Reserves
In months                  3.1      3.2      3.0       3.0      3.1      3.9      4.7       5.2
of imports
of G&NFS



Table 3: Kazakhstan: External Financing Requirements                          Appendix  C
(in millions of US dollars)                                       AgendixfC
1997                               1998                   Page 5 of 7
QI    Q2       Q3      Q4    year   QI   Q2   Q3   Q4    year
(proj)                           (proj)
TOTAL FINAN                   213    377       632    760   1,982   155   358   647   661   1,821
CING REQUIREMENT                                  _                                     ___
External Current Account
deficit (excluding transfers)    -    368     417    379  1,047   203   205   654   423   1,485
116                          _____
Amortization payments           51     51       37     59    198    38   103    44    85        270
Errors and omissions          302   -210         5     58    155      0      0     0      0       0
Change in International        -23    168      174    264    582   -87    50   -51   153         65
Reserves of Banking system
(+increase)                                           _       __
COMMITED FINANCING             181    411      572    414   1,578    69   242   381   227       920
Transfers (net)                -52   -101    -112    -79   -344   -39   -75   -85         -   -350
151
Official loans                  30     66      115    110    322                                  0
Multilaterals                   12     66      107    101    287                            1    0
World Bank                       4     10       98     88    200                                  0
EBRD                             6      0        5      6      18                                 0
ADB                              2     56        3      7      69                                 0
Bilateral                       18      0        5      4      26                -                0
Foreign commercial banks and     0      0        4      5       9
firms
Drawings on trade credits      88    109        71     64    332                                  0
Direct investment              115    338     498    319  1,269   108   317   466   378   1,269
IMF Purchases                   0       0        0      0       0     0      0     0      0       0
UNCOMMITED FINANCING           32    -34       61    346    404    86   117   266   434        902
Multilateral                     0      0        0      0       0    81    38   243    38       401
World Bank                      0       0        0      0       0    16    27   199    10    251
PSRMAL                           0      0        0      0       0     0      0    75      0      75
Pension Reform Loan              0      0        0      0       0     0      0   100      0     100
project loans                    0      0        0      0       0    16    27    24    10        76
EBRD                             0      0        0      0       0     5      1     9    10       26
ADB                              0      0        0      0       0    60    10    28       6     104
Other                            0      0        0      0       0     0      0     8    12       20
Bilaterals                       0      0        0      0       0     4      9    17   100      129
JEXIM (III)                      0      0        0      0       0     0      0     0      0       0
Japan (OECF)                     0      0        0      0       0     4      3    13    94      115
France                           0      0        0      0       0     0      6     3      2      10
Germany (KFW)                    0      0        0      0       0     0      0     0      4       4
Foreign Commercial Banks         0      0        0      0       0    13    32    18    13        76
Drawings on trade credits       0       0        0      0       0    38    38    38    38       150
Bond issue                      0       0        0    350    350      0      0     0   245      245
Portfolio investment           32    -34        61     -4      54   -50      0   -50      0    -100
EXTERNAL FINANCING              0       0        0      0      -1     0      0     0      0      -1
GAP



Table 4. Monetary review of banking system                          Appendix C
mln. tenge   Page 6 of 7
12.94      12.95        12.96        12.97      01.98
Net external assets               -533.6     76568.1     113454.0    134191.1   120806.9
Net international reserves       -1022.0     76213.7    113086.6    131610.4   119487.6
Gross international assets       79988.0    132963.0     162682.7    186477.9   176175.5
Monetary gold                    20509.2     33529.6      48858.1      39577.6    41781.1
Cash in convertible currency (CC)  1460.8     2548.5       3721.6       3489.4     7277.0
Deposits in CC                   58018.0     96884.8     110102.9      63840.5    49232.3
Credits in CC                         ...         ...          ...      4307.3     4326.5
Securities (excluding shares), CC     ...         ...          ...    75142.0    73397.5
Other external assets, CC             ...         ...          ...       121.1      161.1
Less: Liabilities, CC            81010.0     56749.3      49596.1      54867.5    56687.9
Short-term liabilities           39619.7     39733.9      45641.9     48652.0    49301.4
Mid- and long-term liabilities   41390.4     17015.4       3954.1      6215.5      7386.5
Other net external assets          488.4       354.5        367.3      2580.7      1319.3
Gross assets,                      909.4      1098.3       1114.8      4545.1      2687.3
Less: External liabilities,        421.0       743.9        747.4       1964.4     1368.0
Net internal assets              55950.7     39226.6      21537.3      43250.1    34416.4
Net claims to the Government     10831.4    24514.1       20851.1      35448.5    22575.2
Claims                           20662.6     44571.1      43108.5      62305.8     58894
Credits                          17746.1     39104.4      34743.7      41479.2     3847.8
Securities                          75.9      5395.5       8364.8     20826.6    55046.8
Others                            2840.6        71.2          0.0          0.0        0.0
Less: liabilities                 9831.2     20056.9      22257.4      26857.3    36319.4
Deposits                             ...          ...          ...    26684.7    36140.6
Others                               ... -        ...          ...       172.5      178.8
Claims to the rest of economy   112507.1     72652.6      64627.7      79227.1    82094.2
non-financial organizations      98504.9     61096.6      51404.7      72995.3    75678.6
Credits                              ...          ...          ...    68142.1    70792.2
Securities                           ...         ...           ...      1449.8     1526.8
Others                                ...         ...          ...      3403.4     3359.6
non-banking financial                 ...         ...          ...      1383.1     1406.0
organizations
Credits                              ...          ...          ...        98.1      129.7
Securities                           ...          ...          ...        23.8       23.6
Others                               ...          ...          ...      1261.2     1252.8
Non-commercial institutions           ...         ...          ...       270.9      265.8
servicing households
Credits                               ...         ...          ...       270.7      265.2
Others                                ...         ...          ...         0.2        0.5
Households                       14002.2     11556.0      13223.0       4577.8     4743.8
Credits                               ...         ...          ...      4321.6     4420.9
Others                               ...          ...          ...       256.2      323.0
Other net internal assets       -6738Z8    -57940.1      -63941.5    -71425.5   -70253.0
Other financial assets               ...          ...          ...      4550.1     6156.4
Non-financial assets                  ...         ...          ...    15976.1    15537.1
Other assets                         ...          ...          ...    35948.7    26820.7
Less: assets accounts                ...         ...           ...   -70970.5   -71710.5
Less: other liabilities               ...         ...          ...   -56929.9   -47056.7
Liabilities (cash )              55417.1    115794.7     134991.2    177441.3   155223.3
Cash in circulation              20255.3     47998.2      62812.3     92799.7    82210.5
Deposits of non-financial        29042.8     52605.0      51235.2      54682.4    42212.4
organizations
Deposits of non-banking financial     ...         ...          ...      1160.2      979.7
organizations
Deposits of non-commercial         747.6      2443.3        1580.2      1634.4     2204.5
institutions servicing households
Households deposits               5371.3     12748.3       19363.5     27164.6    27616.2



Appendix C
Table 5. Classification of Assets and Contingent Liabilities of Second Tier Banks  Page 7 of 7
(million tenge as of the end of the period)
January 1998
Principal amount of     Accrued       Actual provisions
debt            remuneration
(interest)
amount   share, %    amount   share,  amoun   share,
%        t       %
Total assets and contingent  111643.4*    100.0    3007.4   100.0   10170.   100.0
liabilities of SLBs,                                                    1
including:
1. Standard                   83240.4     74.6      1452.3    48.3      -       -
2. Doubtful                   21173.0      18.9     1233.2    41.0   2963.5   29.1
- substandard                 15753.7      74.4     621.3    50.4   1035.2   34.9
- unsatisfactory               3873.8      18.3     293.8    23.8   1163.3   39.3
- doubtful with enhanced risk  1545.5      7.3      318.1    25.8    765.0   25.8
3. Hopeless                    7230.0      6.5      321.9    10.7   7206.6   70.9
Loans from the total amount of  78635.5*   70.4     2993.0    99.5   7294.6   71.7
assets,
including:
1. Standard                   54263.0     69.0      1438.0    48.0      -       -
2. Doubtful                   19546.9      24.9     1233.1    41.2   2492.6   34.2
- substandard                 14617.0      74.8     621.3    50.4    958.8   38.5
- unsatisfactory               3542.4      18.1     293.8    23.8    850.8   34.1
- doubtful with enhanced risk  1387.5      7.1      321.9    25.8    683.0   27.4
3. Hopeless                    4825.6      6.1       60.0     10.8   4802.0   65.8
Contingent liabilities,       12215.3      10.9      60.0     2.0    1661.2   16.3
including:                                                           _
1. Standard                   9771.9      80.0        -        -        -       -
2. Doubtful                    819.9       6.7       60.0    100.0    55.8    3.4
- substandard                  719.8       87.8      55.0     91.7    35.8    64.2
- unsatisfactory               100.1       12.2      5.0      8.3      20.0    35.8
- doubtful with enhanced risk   0.0        0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
3. Hopeless                    1623.5      13.3      0.0      0.0    1605.4   96.6
* non-classified assets of Rehabilitation Bank and Eximbank are not included.



IBRD 29326
50'                                       60'                                                                                 BO-'   00'
T. Ch.fyabins         T u c k~                      T.                  T mt        Nsbrt.mYld    obcuhOyvilZ
R U   S S I A  N                                                                                                 r -' 4 T
F~~~~U EI D  IE R    r4A .@TA I 0  N                                           ToHamu
To  To Somora                     Ksi-  \  _                                Xh~~~~~~~~~~                                    ~       ~~~~~~~~~~ATh.uT  T. il--l
f WFoSr \ 5 '\^- : k X ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P A                                                   V LO DOA R      SEN._,OCLI
50'
i: KAZAKHSTAN\}                                                                                                                                             Sen,                        4.. -   Ak.y4 ARGHAo-o / EAI 
E ;ts o . w K   ' 0   5 NK   T   A   B11 A   E\ I )     \   .K                   A Z A K     S T A N                       T O
\~~~~~C..                                                            N                                                                       DAYR                           K   EMEN\*.    aAc 
KAEAKHSTAN                               AKTOBE                                                                /  Z
Beint ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,k. TldykognV T..i
I i                                      SD   -K H     A                                   E
T ,.  _ ,   _    |                  ~                  '     '  ~   .  _   '                      '   .          T_-__                                    IA DA
i U z   B E k   1 k 5   g hA                                                      I LR O A D S
T-1- ~    ~      6 
/I /.  j*\  '<\\>\\X\        >,                   Dzhe2aS  <,  _ g  _,  _, _,_,- ,    1,%,     _                            T   NATIONAL CAPITAL
., _, J  < W   _         J      ~~T UR KM E NI ST AN              : ,        1 .       .        "s -; |-  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIRS
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC                                       KYZY LOR D A'                                    /                                  0     100   20    300   400   500   600CLOMEOERS
O F IRAN G  Y-                                                                                                                         0          100       200         300 i00       601N5
00'  .             i ~~~~~~~~~~AAFGHANSTAN"  70                      -
UZBEKISTAN__ __ _ __ __ _ __ __ _ __ _
KAZAKHSTAN~~~~~~~AY99



