Report No. PIC3530
Project Name                     Kazakstan-Financial Sector...
Adjustment Project
Region                           Europe and Central Asia
Sector                           Financial System Development
Project ID                       KZPA35762
Principal Responsible Entity     Ministry of Finance
National Bank of the Republic of
Kazakstan
Apparat of the Council of Ministers
Date This PID Prepared           04/04/96
Appraisal Date                   02/19/96
Projected Board Date             06/18/96
Country and Sector Background
1.   In 1993, Kazakhstan began the implementation of a comprehensive
structural reform program aimed at moving toward a market economy.
This program was initially implemented against a background of rapid
inflation and sharply declining GDP. In response to the difficult
economic conditions, the Government decided in mid-1994 to accelerate
reforms through a tightening of financial policies and the
implementation of a revised package of structural measures aiming at
a more rapid and effective restructuring of the enterprise sector.
These renewed efforts have been supported by a second stand-by
arrangement with the IMF and a Structural Adjustment Loan of the World
Bank, both approved in June 1995.
2.   Inflation has declined sharply between mid-94 and mid-95 in
response to the tightening in monetary policy. As inflation
decelerated, output has started to show early signs of recovery since
September 1994 although GDP nonetheless continued to shrink, in 1995.
As a result, recorded employment dropped by 13 percent between
September 1994 and September 1995, but registered unemployment
increased much more moderately due to massive migration.     Economic
stabilization coupled with fundamental structural reforms in the trade
regime brought about a marked turnaround in Kazakhstan's external
situation, however, with a substantial recovery of exports in 1995.
This recovery combined with depressed import levels caused the current
deficit to shrink. This improvement was reflected in a major
accumulation of foreign reserves.
3.   Fiscal policy has come under considerable strain since 1994.
Budgetary revenues dropped significantly in 1995, and the financing of
the "quasi-fiscal" deficit, previously assumed by the banking system,
was transferred to the budget. The budget was thus made to shoulder
a major additional burden, but the Government succeeded in bringing
this burden rapidly. As a result, the overall fiscal deficit declined
in 1995. The brunt of the fiscal adjustment fell on regular budget
expenditures. Credit policy started to be tightened in mid-1994. The



refinance rate of the central bank turned positive in real terms in
the third quarter of 1994. Reluctance to lend to enterprises,
however, drove a significant wedge between refinancing and commercial
lending rates. A phasing-out of directed credits in early 1995 helped
to curtail the expansion of domestic currency credit to the economy.
Furthermore, a stricter fiscal stance caused the government sector to
retire bank credit. The ensuing reduction of inflation allowed to
stabilize the exchange rate and restore a measure of confidence in
the national currency, which in turn reinforced the effectiveness of
stabilization policies.
4.   The total assets of the commercial banking sector, before
significant loan loss provisioning, were close to 20 percent of GDP as
of end 1995. Loans to non-banks amounted to three quarters of that
amount. After appropriate loan loss provisioning, the sector would be
undercapitalized. Under the sector's reform program, a large amount
of non-performing agricultural and other directed credit has been
removed from the commercial banks. Moreover, many banks have started
raising their capital to meet increased minimum capital requirements
and anticipate the introduction of loan loss provisioning.
5.   The Soviet mono-banking system had been broken up into the
National Bank and five specialized state-owned banks. Of these five
banks, Turan Bank (for industry) and Kredsoz Bank (for service and
construction sectors) are meanwhile fully private. Agroprom Bank (for
agriculture) is majority private, and has shrunk drastically. Alem
Bank (for foreign trade) is partly private as well. Only Narodnyi
Bank (the savings bank) is fully owned by the state. Although the
five old banks accounted by end 1995 no longer for the majority of
total commercial bank assets, they represent major policy challenges.
Some of them are still very big, and account for a large part of the
non-performing credit in the sector. Moreover, the five old banks
together account still for aost 90 percent of all bank branches and
outlets, with Narodnyi Bank being the only bank that reaches into the
country's many remote settlements.
6.   More than 200 new banks were licensed in 1991-93.    Most of them
were initially owned by state-owned enterprises, but the privatization
of these enterprises made also these banks largely private. The
withdrawal of more than 100 bank licenses since 1993 has left less
than 120 of these new banks in business. Some of them are striving
towards reaching international banking standards within only few
years. To allow them to meet this objective, the sector environment
is being substantially improved, and the banks' problem loans need to
be resolved and capital replenished from private sources. In addition
to these new local banks, the National Bank has licensed a dozen
foreign and joint venture banks.
7.   In 1994/95, the state created a few new state banks to provide
certain specialized services. This includes in particular a Housing
Construction Bank, an Exim Bank, which also carries out development
banking functions, and a Rehabilitation Bank whose function is to
relieve banks of their non-performing loans towards some most highly
indebted insolvent enterprises and to force these debtors to
restructure (or be liquidated). With a purpose similar to the latter,
-2 -



an Agricultural Support Fund has been set up to deal with non-
performing farm credit.
The Country's Sectoral Adjustment Program
8.   A sound and efficient financial sector is essential for Kazakstan
in several respects. The country's enterprises need credit to
supplement their internal resources for restructuring and new growth.
The enterprise sector also needs efficient payments system (to replace
the widespread barter practice), rudimentary capital markets to raise
or reallocate equity capital, and other increasingly sophisticated
financial services. A well-functioning financial sector is also
important for sustaining Kazakhstan's macro-economic stabilization,
since it hinges on banks' ability to force financial discipline on
borrowers, support enterprise adjustment, and avoid widespread bank
failure.
9.   A financial sector reform program has been designed to make
the sector sound and efficient. Such a program has been elaborated
and continuously refined by the National Bank and the Government,
and confirmed by the President through an early program document
and subsequent Presidential Decrees having the force of law. The
program makes two sets of problems its priorities: (i) Factors in
the sector environment that exacerbate the operating risks and
latent instability of even promising banks, and (ii) the
continuation of old problem loans and problem banks that affect the
entire sector. In addressing these problems, special attention is
being paid to ensuring a minimum of critical financial services
during the transition period.
10.       So far, even the most promising banks have been subject
to undue levels of risks and resulting instability from the
sector's environment. Banks, and to some extent, other creditors
as well, need in particular: (i) a proper framework and
disciplinary environment for secured lending; (ii) an appropriate
accounting and audit system; (iii) continued enhancement of
technical and management skills; (iv) stronger governance by owners
who are private and not driven by conflicting interests as
borrowers; (v) more instruments and better infrastructure to manage
their liquidity; and (vi) consistent enforcement pressure on all
banks to meet prudential standards. Making the environment in
these respects more conducive to the stability of banking
institutions is the first part of the financial sector reform
program.
11.       Currently, the banking sector suffers from problem loans
and problem banks from the early transition years. The
extraordinarily sudden drop in inflation revealed that bad debts
amounts to a considerable percentage of banks' portfolios. While
most of this bad debt was directed by the authorities, the banks'
responsibility was left largely unclarified, thus obscuring the
banks' financial condition and injecting uncertainty for banks,
investors, and depositors. Under a burden-sharing concept, the
reform program is therefore relieving banks of bad loans that had
been instructed, and facilitates their private recapitalization
- 3 -



after they have provisioned for those bad loans that had not been
instructed. Moreover, various measures will help accelerate the
resolution of the bad loans. The National Bank has been
streamlining its procedures to handle problem banks, and to focus
determined action on the largest ones among them.
The Proposed Loan
12.   Objectives.  The main objectives of the proposed Financial
Sector Adjustment Loan are to: (i) support the Government and
National Bank in the design and implementation of the financial
sector reform program and (ii) provide foreign exchange in order to
enhance the balance of payment situation of the Republic.
13.   Description.   The proposed Loan would total US$ 150 million
equivalent. The Loan amount is justified by Kazakhstan's total
external financing requirements, projected creditworthiness, and
per capita indicators of debt burden. The loan would be disbursed
in two equal tranches. The first tranche would be available upon
loan effectiveness, expected in June 1996, and the second tranche
about six months thereafter. Disbursement of the Second Tranche
would depend on the fulfilent of Second Tranche conditions.
14.   Co-Financing.   Co-financing of the Loan on a parallel basis
may be provided by governments of Kazakstan's Consultative Group.
15.   Implementation.   The Borrower would be the Republic of
Kazakhstan, represented by the Ministry of Finance. The Government
would designate the Ministry of Finance to coordinate and monitor
the implementation of the program in consultation with the National
Bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Staff of the
Administration of the Council of Ministers. The financial sector
reform program is ambitious in scope and detail, but achievable
with the institutional capacity that has been built in the National
Bank, the Ministry of Finance and other agencies involved. The
implementation of the program is being supported by a range of
training and technical assistance activities funded by earlier
World Bank loans and by other donors. Important elements of the
reform program began to be carried out since early 1995, and
considerable progress has already been achieved. Program
implementation is expected to be substantially completed by early
1997.
16.   Disbursements.   Disbursements would follow the simplified
procedures approved by the Bank's Board of Executive Directors on
February 1, 1996. Disbursements will not be linked to any specific
purchases, but can not be used for ineligible purposes as defined
in the Loan Agreement. The Borrower will open and maintain a
deposit account in the National Bank, into which the Bank will
disburse, upon submission of a withdrawal application, the Loan
proceeds for the Borrower's use as each tranche is released. Since
disbursements will not be linked to any specific purchases, special
provisions on retroactive financing do not apply.
- 4 -



17.   Sustainability.   The reforms pursued in the context of the
proposed Loan would change fundamental structures of the financial
sector as well as its environment. While a certain flexibility
needs to be retained in an economy undergoing rapid transition, the
changed structures envisaged to result from the sectoral reform
program are expected to be sustainable over the medium to long
term.
18.   Poverty Category.   A poverty category is not applicable.
19.   Environmental Aspects.   This is a category "C" project.
20.   Program Objectives Categories.   The operation would
contribute to the following Bank Program Objective Categories: (i)
financial intermediation and capital markets development; (ii)
economic management; and (iii) privatization and private sector
development.
21.   Participation.   The authorities with help of the World Bank
have developed the reform program in intensive consultation with
the Bankers Association, National Payments Council, and other
bodies representing private sector interests, as well as with the
management of a large number of commercial banks.
Contact Point:       Public Information Center
Klaus Lorch, EC3AI
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202) 4737843
Fax No. (202) 4773291
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
- 5 -



