Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-6880-KZ
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$180 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF KAZAKSTAN
MAY 31, 1996
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of May 1, 1996)
Currency Unit   =  Tenge (T)
T I   =  US$ 0.0152
US$ I   =  T 65.95
AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATES
Tenge per US$ 1
1994       1995       3rd Quarter. 1995      4th Quarter, 1995      1st Quarter. 1996
36.10      61.37            59.68                   63.11                 64.91
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB  - Asian Development Bank
ASF  - Agricultural Support Fund
BSD  - Bank Supervision Department
CAS  - Country Assistance Strategy
CIS  - Commonwealth of Independent States
CUFC  - Committee for the Utilization of Foreign Capital
EBRD  - European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EDI - Economic Development Institute
EFF  - Extended Fund Facility
ETF  - Economic Transformation Fund
EU  - European Union
Exim Bank  - State Export Import Bank of the Republic of Kazakstan
FEDL  - Financial and Enterprises Development Loan
FSAL  - Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
FSU  - Former Soviet Union
FY  - Fiscal Year
GDP  - Gross Domestic Product
GOK  - Government of Kazakstan
IAS  - International Accounting Standards
IBRD  - International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB  - International Competitive Bidding
IFC  - International Finance Corporation
IMF  - International Monetary Fund
ISB  - International Standards Bank
LRL  - Land Registration Loan
MOF  - Ministry of Finance
NB  - Narodnyi Bank
NBK  - National Bank of the Republic of Kazakstan
PHRD  - Policy and Human Resources Development
RB  - Rehabilitation Bank
SAL  - Structural Adjustment Loan
SPMC  - State Property Management Committee
SPC  - State Privatization Committee
TA  - Technical Assistance
TAL  - Technical Assistance Loan
USAID  - United States Agency for International Development
KAZAKSTAN - FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF KAZAKSTAN
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Loan and Program Summary
Borrower:               Republic of Kazakstan
Beneficiary:            Republic of Kazakstan
Poverty Category:       Not applicable
Amount:                 US$ 180 million equivalent
Terms:                  Payable in twenty years, including five years of grace, at the Bank's
standard variable interest rate for currency pool loans.
Commitment Fee:        0.75 percent on undisbursed loan balances, beginning 60 days after signing,
less any waiver.
Description:            The Loan would be available in two equal tranches. Disbursement would
follow simplified procedures and would not be linked to specific purchases.
Financing Plan:         Cofinancing on a parallel basis may be provided by governments of
Kazakstan's Consultative Group.
Map:                    IBRD 28007R
Project ID Number:    KZ-PA-35762
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wiLhout World Bank authorization.






- ii -
REPUBLIC OF KAZAKSTAN
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Table of Contents
Page No.
LOAN AND PROGRAM SUMMARY   ................ .................... i
I. INTRODUCTION .1
II.  MACRO-ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE AND FINANCING REQUIREMENTS .                                  1
A.   Macroeconomic Stabilization and Performance.                                       1
B. Financing Requirements.                                                              2
III. PROGRESS AND REQUIREMENTS OF STRUCTURAL REFORM..                                         4
A. Enterprise Sector Reform.                                                            4
B.   Developments in Financial Markets and the Need for Sector Reform.                  5
IV. THE FINANCIAL SECTOR REFORM PROGRAM.                                                      7
A. Objectives and Strategy.                                                             7
B.   Establishing a Conducive Environment for Sound Banking Sector Growth.              7
C.  Resolving Problem Loans and Problem Banks .14
V.   THE FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN  ...................... 21
A.   Loan Description .......................................   21
B.   Implementation Arrangements .        ...............................  .21
C.   Actions Taken before Board Presentation ........          .................. 22
D.   Agreements Reached  .....................................  .22
E.    Benefits and Risks .......................................  .23
F.    Recommendation .......................................   24
ANNEXES
Annex 1      Selected Economic Indicators
Annex 2      Selected Financial Sector Statistics
Annex 3      Letter of Development Policy
Annex 4      Policy Matrix
Annex 5      Technical Support to Implementation Capacity
Annex 6      Status of Bank Group Operations
Annex 7      Timetable of Key Processing Events
Annex 8      Kazakstan at a Glance






REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF KAZAKSTAN
1.      I submit for your approval the following report and recommendation on a proposed Financial Sector
Adjustment Loan to the Republic of Kazakstan for the equivalent of US$ 180 million in support of a program
of structural reforms. The Loan would be at the Bank's standard variable interest rate, with a maturity of
twenty years, including five years of grace. This operation is consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy
(CAS) as discussed by the Board of Directors during the presentation of the Technical Assistance Loan on
August 3, 1993.
2.      The Bank's most recent economic report for Kazakstan (Kazakstan Economic Report, No. 12856-KZ)
was distributed in Grey Cover in July 1994.
I. INTRODUCTION
3.      The proposed Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (FSAL) is an adjustment operation designed to
support the financial sector reform program of the Government and National Bank of the Republic of
Kazakstan. Strengthening the financial sector would also underpin the overall program of stabilization and
structural reforms in the Republic, and in particular, the continued restructuring and recovery in the enterprise
sector. The reform of the enterprise and financial sectors are key elements of the CAS. Moreover, the Loan
would help meet external financing requirements and support the budget. The CAS recognizes that
adjustment operations will be necessary for the next several years to support the reform process and help
finance the budget and the external deficit.
4.      The proposed FSAL supports the macroeconomic stabilization program (see Section II.A) that has
been pursued under a Rehabilitation Loan of FY94 and Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL) of FY95 (whose
second tranche was released on March 19 this year), as well as an IMF stand-by arrangement by the IMF.
The FSAL builds on the enterprise sector reform (see Section III.A) that has been carried out under the SAL
and which is expected to receive continued support under a sector program loan of the Asian Development
Bank (ADB) in the agricultural sector and potentially also the industrial sector, and an Extended Fund Facility
(EFF) program by the IMF which has been substantially negotiated. The FSAL aims to advance the
structural reform process by supporting critical reforms in the financial sector, notably, the establishment of
a conducive environment for banking sector growth and the resolution of problem loans and problem banks
(see Section IV). The institutions necessary to implement both the enterprise and financial reform programs
are being strengthened with the support of a Technical Assistance Loan of FY93 and a Financial and
Enterprises Development Project approved in April 1995, as well as extensive technical assistance by other
donors.
II. MACRO-ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE AND FINANCING REQUIREMENTS
A. Macroeconomic Stabilization and Performance
5.      Introduction.  Kazakstan's reforms were initially implemented against a background of high
inflation and sharply declining GDP. In response to these conditions, the Government decided in mid-1994
to accelerate reforms by tightening monetary and fiscal policies and implementing a revised package of
structural measures aimed at more rapid and effective restructuring of the enterprise sector.
6.      Prices, Production and Employment. Inflation declined sharply from an annual rate of 1,160
percent in 1994 to 61 percent in 1995 in response to the macro-economic policies implemented after April
1994. Kazakstan's worst grain harvest in thirty years, however, and the virtual halt in public investment have



- 2 -
combined with the continued industrial decline to contribute to a 9 percent drop in overali GDP in 1995.
Recorded employment dropped by 13 percent, or more than 600,000 people in 1995. Due to massive net
emigration, however, registered unemployment increased more moderately.
7.      Public Finances. Fiscal policy has come under considerable strain since 1994. Two factors have
been at play. First, budgetary revenues dropped steeply from 24 percent of GDP in 1993 to 16 percent of
GDP in 1995. Second, the financing of the "quasi-fiscal" operations, equivalent to 7 percent of GDP in
1994, was transferred from the banking system to the budget. The authorities, nevertheless, succeeded in
bringing the quasi-fiscal operations down to 3 percent of GDP in 1995. Over these last two years, the brunt
of the fiscal adjustment fell on regular budgetary expenditures which contracted from 24 percent of GDP in
1993 to 18 percent of GDP in 1995. This was achieved in part through an accumulation of payment arrears.
8.      Money and Credit.  Restrictive monetary measures in place since mid-1994 resulted in a
deceleration of the broad money expansion to a rate of 98 percent in 1995. First, the refinancing rate of the
central bank turned positive in real terms in the third quarter of 1994 and has remained so thereafter.
Second, the phasing-out of directed credits, completed in February 1995, further helped to bring domestic
credit to the economy under control. As a result, central bank resources backed by end 1995 only 16 percent
of the commercial bank credit (in Tenge) to the economy, down from 44 percent at the end of 1993. Banking
credit (in tenge) to the economy in fact declined somewhat in nominal terms during 1995, making room for
bank financing of the fiscal deficit equivalent to 2 percent of GDP and for a further build-up in the foreign
asset position of the banking system (including the central bank) by about US$ 670 million.
9.      The ensuing decline of inflation also permitted a virtual stabilization of the exchange rate. In turn,
the improved confidence of the public in the national currency reinforced the effectiveness of stabilization
policies. For the first time since independence, broad money velocity has started to decelerate. At the same
time, the demand for real tenge balances grew by 25 percent during 1995. The deposit base of the banking
sector also expanded in real terms over the year. Part of this expansion, however, stemmed from foreign
currency deposits, whose share of total deposits is now 40 percent. Tenge deposits still amounted to only
3 percent of GDP at the end of 1995. These developments indicate that, while the use of the national
currency as a means of exchange has improved, public confidence in it as a store of value remains limited.
10.     External Transactions. Economic stabilization coupled with reforms in the trade regime brought
about an improvement in the external situation. In 1995, exports rallied strongly, and this combined with
depressed import levels caused the current account deficit to shrink to US$ 400 million (2.5 percent of GDP).
This improvement was reflected in an increase of foreign reserves to US$ 1.7 billion by December 1995.
B. Financing Requirements
11.     External Outlook. Although exports started to improve in 1995, Kazakstan is expected to have
significant financing needs over the next two years (see Annex 1, page 1). The current account deficit is
projected to widen initially to 4.2 percent of GDP in 1997, before narrowing gradually during the remainder
of the decade. The initial deterioration of the deficit would reflect a recovery of imports from their present
depressed levels as economic activity picks up starting in 1996. Imports are projected to grow at an annual
rate of about 8 percent in dollar terms during 1996-97. Although sustained export growth is also projected,
it is not expected to outpace the growth of imports until later in the decade as current investments in oil and
gas fields begin to yield increased exports. Specifically, oil exports, which currently represent less than 15
percent of exports, are projected to expand from about 11.5 million tons in 1995/96 to about 20 million tons
by the end of the decade. A part of this increase would result from the coming on stream late in this decade
of the pipeline connecting the Tengiz oil field tu the Russian port of Novorissisk.
12.     By that time also, Kazakstan is expected to be able to finance its balance of payments mainly
through foreign investment, private capital and regular project finance, thereby eliminating the need for



- 3 -
exceptional balance of payment support from official sources. In the years 1996-97, the country's external
financing requirements are expected to be about US$ 1,400 million, a level broadly equivalent to the one
observed in 1995 (see Annex 1, page 2). A third of this requirement would be covered by foreign investment
and unrequited transfers, and the remainder through external borrowing.  After export credits, IMF
purchases, and already committed official assistance, the country would still require another US$ 120 million
in 1996 and US$ 200 million in 1997 from new official commitments. The proposed FSAL would help the
country meet these residual requirements, contributing about 7 percent toward Kazakstan's gross external
financing requirement in 1996-97. This scenario would allow (i) foreign reserves to remain at their present
level relative to import transactions, and (ii) the charge of foreign debt service (including IMF) to remain
below 10 percent of exports in 1996-97. Debt service obligations would peak at 13 percent of exports in the
outer years, as IMF loans become due.
13.     Fiscal Outlook. The fiscal situation is expected to remain precarious over the medium-term and
the overall fiscal deficit is unlikely to decline in 1996-97 much below the 3.0 percent of GDP observed in
1995 (see Annex 1, page 3). Budgetary support from foreign sources will continue to be required if this
deficit is to be financed without creating undue inflationary pressures. Despite the recent introduction of a
new Tax Code, revenues declined. Based on present policies, revenues are projected to recover slowly this
and next year, to 16 percent of GDP in 1997. In contrast, budgetary outlays will need to expand from their
present low level, if only to allow the Government to become current again on its domestic payment
obligations. It is also recognized that the present situation, where public investment has virtually ceased, is
not tenable for any length of time if growth is to resume. This category of expenditure is, therefore,
programmed to increase by 2 percent of GDP over 1997-98. To keep the deficit within the limits mentioned
above, new revenue measures are being designed in consultation with the IMF, yielding an average of 2
percent of GDP annually in additional budget revenue over the period.
14.    In keeping with the objective of bringing annual inflation within single digit numbers by 1997-98,
the budget's recourse to domestic financing should be limited to around I percent of GDP. The remainder,
equivalent to US$ 390 million in 1996 and US$ 360 million in 1997, will need to be funded from foreign
sources. In view of the country's lack of access to commercial borrowing and of the still under-developed
pipeline of donors' project assistance, much of this foreign financing will need to come in the form of
program aid, including from the proposed FSAL.
15.     The fiscal impact of developments in the banking system is substantial. The main budget outlays,
which add up to about 3.6 percent of GDP, or US$ 500 million equivalent, stem however from decisions that
preceded the sector reform program itself. The bulk (about 2.3 percent of GDP in 1996) involved calls on
guarantees that the Government gave in 1992-94 on bank borrowings from foreign export credit agencies for
sub-loans that are now non-performing. The servicing of bonds that the Government gave to net creditors
emerging from an inter-enterprise arrears clearing in early 1994 could amount to 0.5 percent of GDP.
Honoring these obligations is important for the credibility of the Government and its reform program. A
Rehabilitation Bank, which assumes the loans outstanding to thirty large insolvent enterprises and then
downsizes or liquidates them, received in 1995 only part of its planned capital. In 1996, therefore, it needs
a budget allocation of some 0.5 percent of GDP. A recently created State Export-Import Bank (Exim Bank)
has yet to be properly capitalized.
16.     The implementation of the financial sector reform program itself (see Section IV) is expected to have
only relatively minor negative fiscal consequences. NBK would transfer less profit (0.3 percent of GDP) to
the budget due to an increase of interest payments on required reserves held at NBK, and tax revenue from
banks would decrease (by 0.2-0.3 percent of GDP) due to changes in the deductions of loan loss provisions
from profit before taxation. These negative implications would be offset by direct positive fiscal effects. The
program would raise some more budget revenue from bank privatization (0. 1-0.2 percent of GDP) and
decrease, due to better loan collection measures, the budget expenditures for satisfying calls on Government
guarantees for externally funded and directed credit (by about 0.3 percent of GDP). The net fiscal impact



- 4 -
of the sector reform program could well be positive if one assumed that a failure of some large banks and
state support for their depositors were more likely in the absence of the FSAL program. Moreover, the
reform program will enable the financial sector to better support the adjustment and recovery in the enterprise
sector, which in turn would improve the fiscal outlook in the longer run.
III. PROGRESS AND REQUIREMENTS OF STRUCTURAL REFORM
A. Enterprise Sector Reform
17.     Price and Trade Liberalization. Price and trade controls have largely been removed. By October
1994, the authorities virtually completed the elimination of direct administrative pricing and related consumer
subsidies. Only the tariffs charged by public utilities were still fixed administratively whereas other prices
were subject merely to anti-monopoly regulations. Under these reforms, the price of domestic crude oil, for
instance, has been brought broadly in line with import parity. As to external trade, the official exchange rate
was unified in late 1994 with the currency market rate. Export quotas and licenses were eliminated in 1995.
The country has entered into a customs union with Russia and Belarus under which the conmmon external
tariff averages about 7 percent for imports and 4 percent for exports.
18.     Competition. Government control on domestic trade was relaxed in 1994, and the dismantlement
of anti-competitive state holding companies is progressing rapidly. Small retail and service enterprises have
been privatized since early 1994 at a rate of 300-600 per month. Since 1994, the authorities have also
abolished "state needs" purchases, and limited their procurement activities to the requirements of public
bodies. The Government has also been addressing the non-competitive situations arising in the realm of state-
owned holding companies. In early 1995, 81 holding structures controlled the state shares in over 2,400
subsidiaries and severely undermined competition.  Considerable progress has been achieved toward
dismantling those monopolistic structures: About 60 of the holding companies are by now subject to
segmentation and/or privatization; the majority shares of some 1,100 holding company subsidiaries have been
offered in mass privatization; and many smaller subsidiaries were auctioned off at small scale auctions. The
residual minority shares of the state in most further holding companies subsidiaries are being sold in cash-
based auctions in the first half of 1996.
19.     Privatization. After a first phase of largely spontaneous privatization, the Government started in
late 1993 an ambitious but well-structured second privatization phase. In this second phase, share packages
of about 1,700 medium-size enterprises have been offered to private investment funds in coupon-based mass
privatization and further 250 in cash-based auctions, and the residual minority shares of most mass privatized
firms are now also being auctioned against cash. The latter process is due to be completed in the third
quarter of 1996. Also under the second privatization phase, some 11,000 small enterprises and an even larger
number of trucks have been auctioned at the oblast level; most state farms have been privatized; and many
oil, gas, and mineral reserves were awarded to foreign investors. Only the case-by-case privatization of very
large enterprises has fallen far short of expectations, with merely six objects sold to date. Faced with a
rapidly worsening distress of its largest firms, the Government resorted in 1995 to long-term management
contracts with foreign and local private parties for over thirty mining and metallurgical enterprises but a
quarter of them have already been revoked. The recent sale of the country's flagship enterprise Karaganda
Steel, and the contracting of a foreign advisory team to the management of the case-by-case privatization
program, is expected to give this program new impetus.
20.     Enterprise Restructuring and Liquidation. The Government initiated a policy of accelerated
enterprise adjustment in 1995, with support of the SAL. In this context, new bankruptcy legislation has
introduced out-of-court procedures for dealing with insolvent debtors and allowed several bankruptcy cases.
Special state institutions have been established to force and oversee the restructuring and liquidation of
distressed state enterprises. First, a special financial institution called Rehabilitation Bank has started dealing
with thirty of the country's most heavily indebted insolvent firms. The Board of the Rehabilitation Bank has



- 5 -
adopted a set of operational guidelines, inter alia linking access to the bank's resources to drastic downsizing
measures; implementation of four plans meeting these criteria has been initiated. Technical support to these
activities is provided by the FY95 Financial and Enterprises Development Loan. Second, an Enterprise
Restructuring Agency is dealing with mid-size insolvent firms, notably those whose privatization failed for
lack of investor interest. Third, an Agricultural Support Fund has a mandate to force adjustment on insolvent
farms whose loans it has taken over from banks, although it has achieved little to date. The main driving
force for enterprise adjustment, however, will be the new private owners and lenders. The more dynamic
among the investment funds that acquired the mass privatized enterprises have started consolidating their
shareholdings, exercising governance, and preparing restructuring strategies with enterprise managers. At
the same time, a number of banks have built internal capacity to reorganize insolvent borrowers or force them
into bankruptcy.
B. Developments in the Financial Sector and the Need for Sector Reform
21.     Monetary Policy Instruments and Interest Rates.  The National Bank of the Republic of
Kazakstan (NBK) has in the last two years been switching from interest rate controls and the issuance of
central credit resources to more market-oriented instruments of monetary policy. It uses its refinancing rate
as an interest rate signal, but has been setting this rate increasingly on the basis of the treasury bills and credit
auction rates. NBK has limited the auction access to banks that are essentially in compliance with prudential
norms, so that since mid-1995 fewer than twenty banks have been eligible. The amount of auctioned credit
outstanding is today less than 0.5 percent of GDP.
22.     The rigorous monetary stabilization brought monthly inflation down from over 33 to 2 percent
between mid-1994 and mid-1995. Real interest rates thus became positive in the third quarter of 1994. The
effective refinancing rate in real terms initially went up to 186 percent per annum but declined to less than
20 percent by September 1995. Reluctance to lend to enterprises, however, drove a wedge of 50-60
percentage points between refinancing and commercial lending rates by mid-1995; since then the difference
has dropped to 25 percentage points or less.
23.     Inter-Enterprise Arrears. As in other transition economies, enterprises in Kazakstan have built
up major inter-enterprise arrears.  Overdue settlement documents of enterprises were reported, as of
December 1995, as 30 percent of GDP. The Government has no intention to carry out another clearing
operation, since three such exercises in 1993-94 left a legacy of moral hazard and non-performing credit to
net debtors. The financial sector reform program is designed to enhance the security in lending, force highly
insolvent enterprises out of business, and offer enterprises new payment instruments and a more efficient
inter-bank payment system.
24.     Banking Sector Structure.  The Soviet mono-banking system was initially broken up into NBK
and five large state-owned banks. Of these five banks, Turan Bank (for industry) and Kredsoz Bank (for
service and construction sectors) have by now been fully privatized. Agroprom Bank (for agriculture) is 72
percent private, and Alem Bank (for foreign trade) to the extent of 49 percent. Only Narodnyi Bank (the
savings bank) is fully under state control. The share of the five old banks in total commercial bank assets
(before loan loss provisioning) had declined to about 40 percent by end 1995. The old banks represent
nonetheless major policy challenges. They account for a large part of the non-perforning credit in the sector;
Alem and Turan Bank are still very large banks, in the local context, whose failure could trigger a wider
crisis; and the five banks account still for almost 90 percent of all bank branches and outlets, with Narodnyi
Bank being the country's only bank that reaches into many remote settlements.
25.     In 1994/95, the state created some new state banks to provide certain specialized services: A
Housing Construction Bank, the above-mentioned Rehabilitation Bank, a Budget Bank (for handling Treasury
transactions), an Exim Bank and a Development Bank (which subsequently merged with the Exim Bank).
It also founded, jointly with Uzbekistan and Kyrgyzstan, a Central Asian Bank for Reconstruction and



-6-
Development for the financing of inter-republican trade and investment. All these new specialized banks
together accounted by end-95 for 35 percent of commercial banking assets; all but 3 percent thereof,
however, were older foreign-ftnded loans that Exim Bank inherited from the above-mentioned Alem Bank.
26.     More than 200 new banks were licensed in 1991-93. Most of the new general commercial banks
were initially owned by state enterprises, but with the privatization of these enterprises the share majority of
the banks, too, became private. In addition to these local banks. NBK has licensed more than a dozen foreign
and joint venture banks. The total assets of the new local commercial banks are reported as 31 percent of
the sector; the banks with foreign ownership would add further 4-5 percent. Since late 1993, the banking
sector is going through a period of consolidation, in which its future structure is taking shape. The
withdrawal of more than hundred banking licenses has left fewer than 110 of the new general commercial
banks in business. The most dynamic ones among them have been expanding their market share. The sector
structure that emerges will probably include: A core of perhaps half a dozen large commercial banks that
strive towards reaching international banking standards in some three years; a second tier of several dozen
smalier commercial banks, investment banks and credit societies with limited geographical or business scope;
and a few specialized term lending institutions.
27.     Bank Funding and Capitalization. The total assets of the commercial banking sector, before
significant loan loss provisioning, were reported as T 253 billion by end 1995. This was equivalent to US$
4.0 billion, or 21 percent of GDP. (Details on commercial bank assets and their funding are presented in
Annex 2.)
28.     After appropriate loan loss provisioning, the sector would have been severely undercapitalized.
Based on loan classification by international auditors in mid-1994, an estimated 50-55 percent of all
commercial loans could be considered doubtful or lost. Thus, as of March 1995, the equity of the
commercial banking sector would have been negative at about minus T 55 billion. A key issue of the
financial sector reform program is, therefore, the resolution of problem loans and problem banks. After the
carve-out of farm loans and some other directed credit in early 1995, and the above-mentioned foreign-funded
Exim Bank loans in early 1996, the negative capital is estimated to amount now to roughly T 15-20 billion.
29.     Non-Bank Financial Institutions. The development of capital markets has intensified since mid-
1994, with extensive assistance by the United States and France.  This occurred in parallel with the
acceleration of privatization. A Presidential Decree on Securities and Stock Exchanges of April 1995, and
a range of subsequent regulations, have laid the legal ground. A National Securities Commission has started
licensing, regulating, and assisting market participants.  The latter have created several professional
associations that are becoming more active in self-regulation. Market participants own also the Central Asian
Stock Exchange that emerged in October 1994 from the merger of two prior exchanges. The development
of infrastructure such as a central share depository and modern settlement system is now an important next
step. Most trading still takes place outside the formal markets, in part due to the high fees and complex
procedures of the formal, still under-utilized structures. Nonetheless, two dozen firms are by now listed at
the stock exchange; the state has been using the exchange to offer some state share packages to the public,
including those in 17 banks; and some secondary T-bill trading takes place at the exchange as well. A
priority is now the development of efficient structures for low cost over-the-counter trading of the often
minute shares that millions of citizens have been acquiring in the course of privatization.
30.     Over time, contractual savings institutions are expected to play an important role in the mobilization
of domestic resources. The main contractual savings institutions to date are the 169 private investment funds
that were initially created for absorbing and investing the citizens' mass privatization coupons. Investment
banks have only just started to emerge. The insurance sector is being reformed on the basis of a Presidential
Decree on Insurance of 1995. This Decree calls for an insurance supervision office, invites foreign insurers
to establish joint ventures, permits overseas reinsurance of almost the entire insurance value, and denies
monopoly rights. Of the almost 120 new local insurance firms, many are now closing for failure to meet



- 7 -
minimum capital requirements. The others strive for market share in competition with the former state
insurance company and foreign insurers.  Fully-funded pension funds are tentatively foreseen by the
authorities as a voluntary supplement to the pay-as-you-go state pension system. Since it is currently not
envisaged to endow these pension funds with assets upfront, they will become major capital market
participants only over time as they accumulate member contributions.
IV. THE FINANCIAL SECTOR REFORM PROGRAM
A. Objectives and Strategy
31.     The Government's stabilization policies have created favorable macro conditions for the emergence
of a sound financial sector, and determined reformn policy in the enterprise sector has improved conditions
for sound bank lending. The financial sector still needed a program of sectoral reform, however, to become
sound and efficient, and to ensure a minimum of critical financial services during the transition period.
(i)  Improving the sector environment to reduce the operating risks and latent instability of even
promising banks. So far, even the most promising banks in Kazakstan have been subject to undue
levels of risks and resulting instability from the sector environment. As a result, banks charge high
interest margins and fees, depositors have still little confidence, and investors are reluctant to commit
substantial further capital to banks. Making the environment more conducive to the stability of banking
institutions is in these respects the first part of the financial sector reform program.
(ii) Dealing with old problem loans and problem banks that affect the entire sector. The sudden drop
in inflation within only one year contributed to making clear that a large part of banks' portfolios is non-
perfonrining. Much of this bad debt was directed by the authorities and was scarcely considered the
banks' responsibility, yet it obscured the banks' financial condition and suggested their insolvency. The
resulting uncertainty deters investors and depositors, and undermrines the payment morale of banks and
enterprises. In a burden sharing framework, the reform program is therefore relieving banks of bad
loans that had been directed, facilitating their recapitalization from earnings and private sources, and
accelerating the resolution of bad loans. The financial sector also suffers from the protracted presence
of many problem banks, some of which are very large. This undermines public confidence, complicates
inter-bank relations, absorbs scarce banking skills, and raises the risk of systemic failure. The financial
sector reform program is therefore streamlining the procedures for handling problem banks and focuses
determined action on four major problem banks.
32.     The program has been elaborated and refined jointly by NBK and the Government. Key elements
have been confirmed in Presidential Decrees with the force of law. Important parts of the reform program
have begun to be carried out, starting in early 1995, and considerable progress has already been achieved.
Program implementation is expected to be substantially completed by early 1997. The impact of the sector
reform program should underpin the macroeconomic stabilization policy. Reflecting the interdependence
between the sectoral reform program and the stablization efforts, the Government will be required to
demonstrate, by Second Tranche release, the maintenance of the macroeconomic policy framework consistent
with the obiectives of the sectoral program.
B. Establishing a Conducive Environment for Sound Banking Sector Growth
33.     The environmental factor that has caused excessive risk is, first and foremost, the turbulent
adjustments in the enterprise sector. However, the Government's enterprise reform program has meanwhile
started resulting in the elimination of the least viable enterprises, the restructuring of distressed firms, and
the growth of new private enterprises. Several other environmental factors that cause excessive risk are being
addressed under the financial sector reform program: (a) To give banks a better framework for secured
lendin- property rights legislation is being deepened, registry systems installed and the judiciary



-8 -
strengthened; (b) since bad management exacerbates many risks, governance is being enhanced through
privatization, particularly poor managers are being disqualified, and appropriate accounting and audit
standards will be introduced; (c) to make it easier for banks to manage liquidity, additional monetary
instruments, a broader range of payment instruments and an effective and efficient payments system will be
introduced; (d) barriers to competition with the former state banks are being diminished; and (e) more
stringent definitions and enforcement of prudential ratios will be phased in on a stated timetable so that banks
face strict and consistent sanctions for imprudence.
(a) Strengthening the Framework for Secured Lending
34.     Loan collection is a key problem for Kazakstan's banks. This is due to unexpected distress of
borrowers, but often also to willful default. In 1995, significant progress was made in overhauling property
rights legislation. In 1996, attention is shifting to making those rights more enforceable through reporting
and registration systems and judicial reform.
35.     Improving Property Rights Legislation. The introduction of a new Constitution and Part One of
a Civil Code in 1995 has been the basis for overhauling the country's economic legislation. (The final Part
Two of the Civil Code has by now been prepared as well.) Part One of the Civil Code clarified property
and contractual rights in general, and has been followed by various presidential decrees with the force of law
on specific property rights. (i) The Presidential Decree on Bankruptcy of April 1995 facilitated external
management and reorganization, introduced out-of-court procedures, and provided extraordinary creditor
rights for special debt resolution institutions. Further improved legislation on bankruptcy has been drafted
(see para. 38 below) with support of Bank-funded advisors. (ii) A Presidential Decree on Economic Entities
and Companies was signed in May 1995 after careful drafting with the help of said advisors. This Decree
establishes an adequate framework for the organization and interaction of enterprises. Among other things,
limited liability is granted only to firms with relatively high minimum capital. (iii) The new Constitution of
1995 introduced private land ownership. A subsequent Presidential Decree on Land has further clarified land
property rights, and removed obstacles to the use of land as collateral. (iv) A Presidential Decree with force
of law on Mortgage was signed in December 1995, as Board condition. (v) Legislation on pledges on movable
property, based on the relevant provisions of the Civil Code, will be prepared with specialized consultant
assistance by end 1996, for submission to Parliament early next year.
36.     Providing Information through Reporting and Registration Systems. Security in lending can
be much improved if borrowers use a sound accounting system appropriate to a market economy. A
Presidential Decree on Accounting, laying a legal basis for professional accounting bodies and standards, was
signed in December 1995. A new chart of accounts for enterprises has been drafted, new accounting
standards have started to be developed in 1994-95, and technical assistance funded by USAID is in place to
facilitate their implementation in 1996-97. A new chart of accounts and a comprehensive set of accounting
standards conforming substantially with the InternationalAccounting Standards (published by the International
Accounting Standards Commission) will be adopted by the Republic or by an Accounting Standards Board of
the Republic, and published by Second Tranche release.
37.     Registries on borrowers, their real property, their pledges of property and their borrowings are also
keys to enhancing security in lending: (i) A Presidential Decree was signed in mid-1995 regarding the
registration system of economic entities. USAID is supporting the strengthening of company registration.
(ii) Preparations are under way within the framework of a proposed Land Registration Project by the Bank
for a modern registration system of land and other non-movable properties. As an interim measure, the
registration of urban real estate was restructured in 1995. (iii) The registration of collateral on non-movable
property is for the time being handled by these existing registry bureaus, and will be a function of the
mentioned future Bank-assisted registry system for land and other non-movable property. The establishment
of a registration system of pledges on movable property will start before end of the year once the relevant
legislation on such pledges has been prepared. The fee for notarization of collateral documents will be
lowered from 10 percent of the collateral value to a much lower level, such as potentially a flat fee equivalent



-9 -
to two monthly minimum salaries as foreseen in a draft Law on State Duties. (iv) A credit information
bureau that would initially record mainly bank loans will be set up to start operation before end 1996. At
the beginning, it will concentrate on recording bank credit, on a mandatory basis. (v) A rating agency could
improve the security of inter-bank lending. To minimize conflicts of interest, NBK will issue in 1996 a
regulation that prohibits banks and parties affiliated to banks from owning or managing agencies that rate
financial institutions. The efforts to establish these various registration systems is being supported by
advisory teams funded by USAID, the European Union, and the Bank.
38.     Strengthening the Judiciary. Legislation cannot make lending more secure if the law cannot be
effectively and efficiently enforced in court. The judicial system is currently being reformed on the basis of
the Republic's new Constitution. The unification of the court system in October 1995 represents a major
step. The Ministry of Justice has now drafted Codes on Civil Procedure and Criminal Procedure for
submission to Parliament this summer. Moreover, it is preparing implementation measures on the adequate
organization of courts, including the enforcement of court decisions. Consultant-assisted work is also under
way on making judicial procedures for bankruptcy cases more speedy and transparent. By Second Tranche,
a law on bankruptcy which includes adequate provisions for its application and enforcement will be passed,
or adquate rules, regulations or procedures for the application and enforcement of the Presidential Decree
on Bankruptcy of 1995 will be prescribed. The Ministry of Justice further plans to introduce by year end a
new system for the selection of judges. Moreover, the Republic has recently started to implement an
extensive training program for judicial personnel in financial and corporate jurisdiction.
(b) Fostering the Institutional Development of Banks
39.     Poor management and weak technical capabilities continue to constrain the sound development of
most banks. These deficiencies can be traced to: (i) partial state ownership that is not conducive to good
governance; (ii) the vast need for transferring modern banking and management skills; and (iii) lack of an
accounting and audit system for market-oriented banking.
40.     Enhancing Bank Governance, especially through Privatization. The Government recognizes that
privatization is key to improving bank governance. At the beginning of 1995, there were about ninety banks
with shares in the hands of state enterprises or organizations. Almost all these banks had been partly
privatized through the privatization of the state enterprises that held their shares and through the dilution of
the state share via the uncontrolled issuance of new shares to private parties. A state share minority, and
in few cases a state share majority, nonetheless remained in almost eighty banks by the time the Government
started a program of bank privatization in mid-1995.
41.     The Government is now committed to rapidly completing privatization of all but a few new,
specialized state banks. The Presidential Decree on Banking of August 1995 has forbidden enterprises that
are majority state-owned to hold bank shares. MOF has accordingly been swapping these bank shares against
state bonds and MOF claims on the firms. The Government then resolved to sell within months all its shares
in all but a few banks (mainly Exim, Housing, Rehabilitation, Budget, Narodnyi, Agroprom, and Alem Bank,
and the Central Asian Bank for Reconstruction and Development) that provide specialized financial services
or whose complexity requires more time-consuming privatization procedures. The actual privatization,
through sale or write-off of all the state shares and the injection of private capital into the banks, started in
August 1995. By February 1996, the state had sold its remaining shares in two large banks (Turan and
Kredsoz) and eight mid-sized ones, mostly through the stock exchange. Additional 17 banks with state shares
got their licenses withdrawn. This has left currently 58 banks with state shares. The Government has now
prepared its strategy for fair and transparent bank privatization. This strategy includes, inter alia, the
envisaged privatization procedures (mainly sale through the stock exchange or public share auction), attention
to minimum sales prices that facilitate sale, and a sound timetable. By Second Tranche, the authorities will
have offered for sale to private investors all state shares in, or withdrawn the banking licenses of, all except



- 10 -
no more than ten banik-s (other thlan NBK) wvhose equity includes state shares.' The 1997 budget will provide
for potential equity injections only for banks that are currently fully state-owned.
42.      By itself, private ownership does not guarantee good governance.  The spontaneous partial
privatization in 1992-94 commonly involved the issuance of shares to the banks' main borrowers or old
managers, with ensuing conflicts of interest and jeopardy of management accountability. In those banks that
are not slated for privatization in 1996, except for the Budget and Rehabilitation Bank, the state as owner will
be represented on the supervisory councils not only by agency officials but also by independent professionals.
Moreover, NBK will encourage members of supervisory councils of all banks to attend appropriately designed
training workshops.
43.     Transferring Modern Banking and Management Skills. The institutional weakness of local banks
and the excessive risks that they tend to incur are in large measure due to shortages in skills and experience.
NBK and the Bankers Association, together with the bank training centers funded by TACIS and USAID,
have identified the most critical existing and emerging skill gaps in banks and are establishing a training plan
focused on these priority needs. Large banks would acquire modern practices, skills and systems most
comprehensively through twinning with qualified foreign banks. The EBRD and the Bank have committed
funding for seven such twinning arrangements. Moreover, NBK emphasizes the change of management in
problem banks, and a commission last year reviewed the qualification of 550 bank managers and disqualified
fifty of them.
44.     Reforming Bank Accounting and Audit.  NBK has developed a new chart of accounts for
commercial banks, designed reporting formats, and developed bank accounting standards conform with
International Accounting Standards (IAS 30). It has also been drafting accounting instructions and manuals,
and training teams to assist banks in account conversion. Throughout 1996, the accounting reform will be
underpinned by a comprehensive and rapid training program supported by the above-mentioned training
centers. Banks have been encouraged to use the new accounting system in parallel to their old system in the
second half of 1996. As a Board condition, ArBK has issued regulations which make a new chart of accounts,
reporting formats and accounting standards mandatory for all commercial banks as their primary system by
January 1997, including an opening balance for 1997.
45.     The development of proper bank audit standards will be finalized before end 1996. NBK will also
consider introducing standard terms of reference for auditors and minimum audit disclosure requirements.
External audit according to standards fully equivalent to international ones will be made a mandatory
requirement for banks that wish to be on the International Standard Banks (ISB) track, and will be required
also from large problem banks.
(c) Facilitating Inter-Bank Payments and Liquidity Management
46.     Until recently, banks in Kazakstan have found it very difficult to manage their liquidity safely and
efficiently, due largely to a lack of appropriate instruments and infrastructure. The initial reforms of last year
need to be deepened and widened now with a view toward: (i) providing further monetary instruments that
facilitate liquidity management; (ii) broadening the range of available payment instruments; and (iii)
developing effective and efficient payments systems for the longer run.
47.      Providing Monetary Instruments to Facilitate Liquidity Management. With IMF advice, NBK
has recently introduced various new monetary instruments. Treasury bills have been issued through auctions
' State shares are shares owned by the state or any legal entity majority owned by the state. By start of March 1996. there were
about 58 banks with state shares. Of these. 7 banks were not earmarked for full privatization in 1996. Of the 51 left to be sold.
2 were already partly sold: 5 more were on offer at the stock exchange but not yet sold; and Alem Bank will be offered to
strategic investors. Of the remaining 43 banks, 15 had been referred to the State Property Management Committee for sale.



- 11 -
since April 1994. The assessment of income tax on state securities has been eliminated by the new Tax Code.
The treasury bills allowed the introduction of a Lombard facility in early 1995. By late 1996, NBK will offer
banks with sufficient collateral an automatic overnight Lombard facility. By early 1996, NBK was carrying
out repurchase (repo) and reverse repo operations with treasury bills. NBK also introduced short-term central
bank notes. Furthermore, it has laid the regulatory basis for money market houses, and is lender of last
resort to a money market house that was opened by eleven major banks in the second quarter of 1995.
48.     Broadening the Range of Available Payment Instruments. Banks and enterprises still have only
a few efficient payment instruments at their disposal. If not in cash or kind, payments are generally made
only with demand payment orders; they are even supposed to be prepaid. For letters of credit, legislation
will be passed in 1996 that substantially conforms with the Paris Convention on Uniform Standards and
Procedures (USP). As to checks, the mandatory prepayment upon issuance of the checkbook as well as other
restrictions on their use are under review. Last Novmeber, the Republic acceeded to the 1930 Geneva
Convention on bills of exchange and promissory notes. By Second Tranche, a law on bills of exchange and
promissory notes will be enacted conforming with the Geneva Convention of 1930 providing a Uniform Law
for Bills of Exchange and Promissory Notes.
49.     Developing Effective and Efficient Payment Systems. In 1994, each bank branch still had its own
correspondent account and a separate reserve account with NBK. Therefore, banks had to either keep high
liquidity balances for each branch or leave many payments unprocessed for lack of cover. They commonly
did not even know their consolidated end-of-day liquidity status. The merging of the correspondent account
with the reserve account was easily accomplished in 1994. However, the nationwide consolidation of these
branch-level combined accounts has faced technical constraints whose resolution is time-consuming and costly.
As a first interim improvement, in early 1995, NBK improved transfers between its oblast centers through
electronic mail. Prior to end 1996, all banks will be required henceforth to maintain only one unified
correspondent account nationwide with NBK. Where exceptions are necessary for technical reasons, they
will require agreement on a detailed implementation timetable.
50.     Regional inter-bank clearing centers are going to decentralize the load of the payments system, and
their private control should alleviate NBK's responsibilities. In the third quarter of 1995, a first regional
clearing center was started in Almaty under the control of nine major banks. To ensure the prudent,
transparent and smooth operation of these clearing centers, NBK will issue improved regulations on inter-bank
clearing and settlement before the middle of the year. For the longer run, NBK will start to build a payments
system that will channel and settle high-value transactions gross in real time and low-value transactions at end-
of-day after netting, unless a client chooses real-time gross settlement even for a small transaction. The
feasibility and design study for this system is substantially completed. Now a plan for privatizing the control
and eventually, ownership of the clearing centers (but not the settlement function) will be developed, as will
access rules, tariff principles, security measures and further parameters for the long-term system.
(d) Ensuring Competition on an Even Playing Field
51.     By mid-1995, a large number of new banks had been in operation for several years and competition
was active in many market segments. Specific distortions that have prevented competition on a level playing
field are being removed. These include: (i) regulatory barriers to bank competition; (ii) the former state
deposit guarantee; and (iii) a complex net of special duties and privileges of the savings bank.
52.     Removing Regulatory Barriers to Bank Competition. In 1991-93, NBK licensed more than 200
banks, including a dozen joint ventures and wholly foreign-owned banks. The old large incumbents were
favored, however, by a Council of Ministers resolution that required each state enterprise to hold its current
accounts only in one bank in order to facilitate the state's supervision of its enterprises. This resolution was
rescinded in December 1995. Another potential limit to competition has been a stipulation of the Presidential
Decree on Banking that limits the combined statutory capital of all commercial banks with 50 percent or more



- 12 -
foreign ownership to no more than 25 percent of the aggregate statutory capital of all commercial banks.
This limitation has been softened by a Government decision of January 1996 authorizing NBK to license
foreign-owned banks on a case-by-case basis in excess of the 25 percent ceiling.
53.      Revisiting Deposit Guarantee and Deposit Insurance.  Traditionally, all state-owned banks
including the savings bank were considered covered by an unlimited state guarantee for their depositors. The
Presidential Decree on Banking of August 1995 eliminated this explicit state guarantee. Since this new policy
has left depositors without explicit guarantee or insurance at any bank, a deposit insurance system has been
discussed. Given the uneven financial strength of various banks, and their high drop-out rate in the short and
medium term, deposit insurance would at this present time raise major concerns about the burden on the
healthier member banks, the risk of insurer default and of course, moral hazard. Accordingly, at least until
end 1996, the authorities will license deposit insurance only if membership of banks that take household
deposits is voluntary and if NBK and the Government are not financially implicated. If voluntary deposit
insurance were created, state involvement would be limited to a regulatory role of ensuring its actuarial
soundness, fair practices, etc.)
54.      Making the Savings Bank Network Viable without Privileges.  Most of the newer banks face
critical competition from Narodnyi Bank, the savings bank. With 4,080 outlets and 16,000 employees (by
mid-1995), the bank can be found in every part of the big cities and in every rural town. It still dominates
deposit collection from all but wealthy urban households. Due to its unique characteristics, the authorities
burdened Narodnyi Bank with demands for various services, from social security and tax payments to state
lottery and the collection of privatization coupons. In return, they granted the bank various privileges like
the free use of municipal premises. The link between services and privileges has been loose and non-
transparent, however. As a result, the playing field has been uneven. To correct this, the Government will
shortly instruct state organs to desist from demanding the provision of financial services from Narodnyi Bank
or any other bank without charges that reflect market conditions or costs. Moreover, municipalities are being
advised to charge market-oriented lease fees for premisses still owned by them but used by the bank.
55.      Narodnyi is the only bank whose outlet network reaches beyond rayon centers into smaller and often
remote settlements.  Therefore, the Government therefore sees a need to ensure remote communities
reasonable access to a minimum of critical financial services. While permitting Narodnyi Bank to close such
outlets as it wishes, the authorities developed a program to offer the bank financial incentives for continuing
service in remote communities. Indeed, not only Narodnyi, but any bank, shall be eligible for incentives for
operating outlets in defined, remote settlements for a minimum number of hours per week. Such outlets
could include also mobile units, and post offices providing rudimentary services on subcontract.
56.      While the playing field is being levelled, Narodnyi Bank's new management, appointed 18 months
ago, has already embarked on a vigorous restructuring effort to compete in the new environment.   The
bank's unique asset, its branch network, became a huge financial burden when its capacity utilization shrank
during the early transition years and the household deposits lost most of their value during inflation. That
loss of deposits' real value, combined with delays in paying out deposits in 1992-93, had eroded the bank's
second main asset, its public goodwill. To enhance operating efficiency through higher capacity utilization,
the bank's new management has been aggressively entering new markets where its branch network is a
2 The country's strategy for domestic resource mobilization (especially with regard to household deposits) consists mainly of the
following broader elements rather than premature mandatory deposit insurance. First, the reduction in inflation, as well as the
large foreign exchange reserve and the easy conversion of currency at the liberally licensed exchange bureaus across the country,
are gradually strengthening the citizens' confidence in the currency. Second, for entities that prefer foreign currency
nonetheless, foreign exchange deposits are accepted by a large number of banks, including Narodnyi Bank with its vast branch
network. Third, the sector reform program will help to enhance the stability of banks overall, and thus to create more
confidence in the banking sector. Fourth, the access of rural citizens to at least rudimentary banking services is maintained
through Narodnyi's branch network. some limited weeding out of the least viable outlets notwithstanding. In addition, the
authorities consider offering incentives to banks for servicing the most remote settlements.



- 13 -
competitive advantages, such as currency exchange, currency deposits, and some basic capital markets
services. Tighter internal discipline, highly visible piloting of automatic teller machines and point-of-sales
terminals, and a comprehensive public relations effort have been giving the bank a new image and restoring
its goodwill. As a result, it has succeeded in recovering its market position in household deposits, raising
these deposits by 115 percent in real terms between March and December 1995. At the same time, the bank
has also started cutting capacity by closing some of the least viable outlets and by cutting staff in larger
branches upon their computerization. The bank's Supervisory Council has decided last April to substantially
rationalize its staffing and to dispose of at least 500 outlets through closure, lease, or sale. The Government
expressed its commitment to authorize the elimination of more outlets if the bank deems it necessary. By end
1996, the rationalization of staff and branches should be substantially completed. Profound changes in the
bank's structure have been initiated. An institutional development plan is being discussed for approval by
mid-1996. In this context, converting Narodnyi Bank into a network of regional savings banks is being
considered as one potential option. The strategy will also indicate an appropriate timing for the eventual
privatization of the bank.
57.     Loan quality problems affected Narodnyi Bank less severely than most other major banks, since
customer lending has never exceeded 10 percent of the bank's assets. Its portfolio quality had deteriorated
after the bank's spontaneous privatization, which was reversed after a few months when various irregularities
were noted. However, the subsequent new management has rapidly addressed this issue by reducing its
customer lending to about 8 percent of total assets and by being more selective in inter-bank lending.
(e) Tightening Prudential Supervision
58.     Strengthening Prudential Norms and their Enforcement.  Kazakstan's prudential ratios as
stipulated in existing regulations, are approaching international levels. The minimum capital is about US$
3.0 million equivalent for banks that wish to take household deposits, US$ 1.5 million for banks that operate
branches or undertake foreign exchange operations, and US$ 0.5 million for other commercial banks. In its
prudential supervision, NBK is also paying increasing attention to banks' internal procedures and has recently
issued guidelines on credit approval, internal control and internal audit of banks. The legal basis of the
prudential norms, as well as NBK's enforcement powers, were reinforced in 1995 by Presidential Decr-ees
on the National Bank and on Banking, an increase of Supervision Department staff to 112, and the
mobilization of technical assistance to the extent of some six person-years per year. The Supervision
Department was reorganized in early 1996 into teams in charge of clusters of banks, and the oblast-level
supervision staff have been moved to headquarters. Despite this build-up of NBK's capacity, several
prudential norms are not yet strictly enforced. NBK is now tightening the ways some ratios are defined and
calculated. NBK has chosen this gradualist approach because of wide disparities in the condition of banks
in the nascent market economy. NBK has now announced a timetable for raising actually enforced levels and
calculation methods of prudential norms. For instance, since end 1995, it requires banks to fully provision
for loan losses, but in the first year it counts only a specified percentage of these provisions against capital
when calculating capital adequacy, and this percentage will then be raised over time to one hundred.
59.     At the same time, NBK will offer incentives to banks to go beyond the minima and strive toward
full international standards. It will differentiate an international standards bank (ISB) track, where banks will
come into full compliance with international standards within three years, from a slower basic track aimed
at regional and special-purpose banks. Banks that meet the criteria of the ISB track at a point in time will
benefit from exclusive permission to participate in certain programs that should be limited to the soundest
banks. For example, they could be the only banks permitted to participate in GOK-guaranteed foreign credit,
and NBK's credit auctions, to issue bonds, to be primary T-bill dealers, and eventually, by about mid-1997,
also to collect household deposits. This harmonizes in fact the many differentiations between more or less
sound banks that NBK has so far applied in an ad hoc fashion to these programs. By Second Tranche, NBK
will issue regulations implementing the policy regarding international standards bank track agreed with the
Bank.



- 14 -
60.     In tightening prudential supervision over time, NBK will pay particular attention to three current
weaknesses. First, NBK has recently issued regulations that define the notion of connected borrower and
limit the aggregate exposure to all connected borrowers together to 100 percent of capital. Second, NBK will
bring bank guarantees fully under its supervision, a process that it started under newly issued prudential
norms in March 1996. Third, the so-called "state banks" (currently Narodnyi, Exim, Rehabilitation, Budget,
and Housing Construction Bank) need to be brought more clearly under prudential supervision. Prior to
Board presentation, the Council of Ministers has confirmed that the state-owned banks are subject to NBK's
supervisory norms and enforcement, with any special rules or relaxation of norms that are necessary to take
into account the specific nature of their activities to be specifically stipulated by NBK bank by bank. The
NBK will stipulate these special rules or relaxation of norms, taking into consideration provisions in the
normative acts that established the respective state banks.
C. Resolving Problem Loans and Problem Banks
61.     The banking sector has been clogged with problem loans and problem banks from the early
transition years. The steep drop in inflation between mid-1994 and mid-1995 made it more transparent that
non-performing loans amounted to probably about 55-60 percent of the commercial loan portfolio. Under
a burden-sharing concept, the reform program is relieving banks of bad loans that had been instructed by
various authorities, and encouraging the banks' recapitalization from private sources after they have
provisioned for the bad loans that had not been instructed. Various measures will help accelerate the
resolution of the bad loans by the commercial banks and special debt resolution institutions (Rehabilitation
Bank and Agricultural Support Fund).
62.     The financial sector suffers from an overhang not only of problem loans but also problem banks.
NBK has started streamlining its procedures to handle the vast number of ordinary problem banks and to
focus determined action on the four largest ones: Alem, Turan, Agroprom, and Exim Bank.
(a) Sharing the Burden of Problem Loans
63.     The burden of bad debts from the earlier transition years is shared by the main parties involved
corresponding to their responsibility. The Government has been carving out credit that had been clearly
instructed by various authorities, and particularly loans that ordinary banks are unable to work out on their
own because of the size, nature, or social impact of the debtors. Part of this credit is being transferred to
special debt resolution institutions and another part will be put on an agency basis ("managed fund" basis,
i.e., off the bank's balance sheet and involving no risk for the bank). The Government will not inject new
state capital into the banks, except for, potentially, the Exim, Housing, Budget, and Rehabilitation Banks.
The existing shareholders will see the value of their equity erode through loan loss provisioning.
Recapitalization will need to come from internal earnings and from fresh capital contributions by private
shareholders. The Government and NBK are, however, facilitating this private recapitalization by providing
some relief from the artificial taxation which has consisted of low limits on the loan loss provisions that banks
could deduct from profit for tax purposes and of a low interest rate paid by NBK on required reserves.
Individual depositors are expected most probably not to share the burden since their deposits in banks are
quite limited relative to GDP and would have priority claims on the proceeds from asset liquidation.
Corporate depositors, however, may suffer from some of the bank closures.
64.     Relieving Banks of Bad Loans Instructed by Authorities.  In 1995, the authorities began
relieving commercial banks of non-performing loans that they had clearly instructed. So far, the Government
has done this mainly for loans it believed to be clearly beyond the banks' own loan resolution capacity -- due
to the size of the debtors, the social impact of foreclosure against them, or the sensitivities of foreclosing
against recipients of credit from foreign export credit agencies. The Government has been transferring such
loans, together with their refinancing by MOF or NBK, to special institutions:



- 15 -
(i) Most non-performing loans to some 30 of the country's largest insolvent net debtors (estimated at close
to 1 percent of GDP) are being transferred to the Rehabilitation Bank (RB) which was created last year.
In 1996, the Government will transfer to the RB also some of the large insolvent debtors that have been
under management contract but still owe overdue credit service to the banks.
(ii) Virtually all non-performing instructed credit to farms (3-4 percent of GDP) was transferred in mid-1995
from Agroprom and other banks to the Agricultural Support Fund (ASF) in the Ministry of Agriculture.
Starting in the first half of 1996, the ASF's Board shall play a more active role and include substantial
representation from the Ministry of Finance, additional financial professionals shall be employed by the
ASF, and it will start producing a proper balance sheet and profit and loss statement. Post-privatization
assistance and subsidy functions, if any, will internally be separated from the debt resolution function.
(iii) The Exim Bank took over from Alem Bank almost all outstanding loans funded by foreign export credit
agencies on the basis of GOK guarantees (about 6 percent of GDP, or US$ 1.1 billion). There are
increasing indications that a large portion of that portfolio is non-performing. The budget for 1996
envisages US$ 320 million (2.2 percent of GDP) to make good on the guarantees. Earlier this year, the
Government has therefore put almost all the bank's inherited foreign-financed loans on an agency basis
(managed fund).
65.     Other non-performing instructed credit, however, has also affected banks with burdens for which
they bore little responsibility and that clouded their financial status.  The Government often left its
responsibility unclear, although generally it did not collect its refinancing beyond what the banks collected
from the final beneficiaries. The Ministry of Finance is now bringing clarity and resolution to this issue.
It put on an agency basis the bank credit stemming from the inter-enterprise clearing in 1994, and applied
a similar procedure to the Directed Credit issued in 1994-95; together, they amount to about 2 percent of
GDP. In 1996 the Government will similarly convert to managed fund status, or else guarantee, the smaller
amounts (0.3-0.4 percent of GDP) of older non-performing bank loans that were also instructed by central
or local authorities and refinanced by the state.
66.     Facilitating Private Recapitalization. After receiving relief from instructed credit, the banks will
still need to make substantial loss provisions on their remaining, uninstructed credit and to provision for
contingent liabilities, especially bank guarantees and letters of credit that are outside their balance sheets.
In 1995, NBK started requiring loan classification based on a standard methodology and will tighten
enforcement of the capital adequacy norm over time. Since new capital infusions from the state are not
generally foreseen, the banks will need to recapitalize themselves through earnings and private capital
contributions. The authorities help accelerate internal recapitalization by lifting artificial financial burdens
on bank profitability, including severe limits on deducting loan loss provisions from earnings in profit taxation
and the low interest paid on the reserves that banks are required to hold with NBK. As a Board condition,
tax legislation has been amended to allow, before tax, specific loan loss provisions on all classified loans pre-
dating 1995 in full, and up to 50 percent of the book value of all outstanding loans from 1995 or thereafter.
On classified bank guarantees, tax legislation will permit specific loan-loss provisions pre-tax of up to [20]
percent of their total value. Also, prior to Board presentation, NBK has adopted a resolution which raises
the interest rate on reserve/correspondent accounts of commercial banks with NBK to 50 percent of its
refinancing rate, effective on July 1, 1996. In addition, NBK has reduced the reserve ratio from 20 to 15
percent.
(b) Resolving Problem Loans
67.     By March 1995, the non-performing loans of Kazakstan's banks to the real sector amounted to
roughly T 90-100 billion (US$1.5-1.6 billion, or 9.5-10.5 percent of GDP). By January 1996, about one-
quarter of them have been or were being transferred to the RB and ASF; well over 40 percent ended up in
today's Exim Bank; and close to one-third was left in the other commercial banks. A major resolution effort



- 16 -
rather than blanket loan forgiveness is warranted for the benefit of the financial and real sectors. First, it
raises the revenue of the banks and the budget and avoids moral hazard in future lending. Second, it prevents
unfair competitive advantages to defaulters, takes excessive and value-subtracting capacity out of production
and generally accelerates enterprise sector adjustment.
68.     Resolving Carved-Out Bad Loans. Local capacity to actively resolve these non-performing loans
case-by-case is still limited, though. There are over 5,000 delinquent borrowers, and some of them are very
large and complex. The authorities are therefore preparing a policy that mixes case-by-case and systemic
methods of loan resolution, to be carried out both centrally and on a decentralized basis. The methods that
are starting to be used by commercial banks, debt resolution institutions and MOF mainly include liquidation
and reorganization (both in-court and out-of-court), collateral foreclosure, debt restructuring, loan sales, and
residual forgiveness in return for minimum partial settlement.
(i) Rehabilitation Bank: Given Kazakstan's geography and the role of large-scale mining and metallurgy,
the RB's debtors are typically very large enterprises which dominate company towns that are far beyond
commuting distance from alternative employment and that lack major alternative sources of revenue to
operate social infrastructure.  Under these circumstances, even mere downsizing is a complex
undertaking; properly conducted privatization, if feasible, takes long to prepare and conclude; and
liquidation needs to be a managed process. The RB has been designed in a manner to ensure that it
forces nonetheless hard budget constraints and rigorous downsizing or accelerated liquidation on its
debtors. Last February, the Supervisory Council of the RB adopted the following operating rules: Any
infusion of liquidity by the RB into a firm must decrease by at least 25 percent in real terms over the
previous six months, and it shall be strictly conditioned on implementation benchmarks of agreed
restructuring plans; RB funds shall be used mainly for downsizing actions such as severance pay and
social asset disposal; any restructuring plan must include an employment reduction of at least 30 percent
and a reduction of the negative operating cash flow by at least half within the first twelve months; and
the RB debtors can be privatized at any point in time. These operating rules shall be followed
throughout 1996 and beyond. Moreover, the transfer of funds from the 1996 budget to the RB is
expected not to exceed T 6 billion. By Second Tranche release, liquidation proceedings will be initiated
against at least three insolvent corporate debtors of the Rehabilitation Bank, and the staff of at leastfive
other corporate debtors of the bank will be reduced by 30 percent each or more in comparison to the
numbers employed thereat on November 1, 1995. Before November 1996, the Government will review
the RB's success in enforcing drastic restructuring and curtailing the cash flow losses of its debtors and
will decide on an action plan to address weaknesses.
(ii) Agricultural Support Fund: In Spring 1995, the ASF asked insolvent farms to submit restructuring
plans and raised the specter of liquidation for non-collaborative or non-viable farms. However, the ASF
lacks the necessary capacity and organization for case-by-case debt resolution of more than 4,000 farms,
and has therefore hardly followed up; essentially all farm loans were indiscriminately rescheduled at
negative real interest rates. Prior to Board presentation, the Council of Ministers adopted an action
plan, satisfactory to the Bank, on the resolution of farm loans taken over by the ASF. A key element
of this plan is residual debt forgiveness in return for minimum partial payment, with the aim to reduce
the number of farms that are insolvent due to ASF loans to a fraction of the current number. Farms that
do not even make this partial payment will be publicly disclosed and excluded from any further funding
from the ASF; their unsettled claims will be used to force farm restructuring or liquidation.
(iii) Exim Bank: The Exim Bank loans with funding by foreign export credit agencies that were granted
prior to mid-1995 are being assumed by the Government, as explained earlier. Exim Bank, which will
manage the loans on an agency basis, will receive incentives for loan collection. Moreover, the
Government has created a special commission to accelerate payment collection through negotiations with
sub-borrowers and their other creditors and debtors.



- 17 -
(iv) Ministry of Finance: The Government has already put bank loans to non-agricultural enterprises
stemming from the inter-enterprise clearing in early 1994 and the Directed Credit program of 1994/95
on a managed fund basis, and it will relieve banks of some further instructed loans as well. It has been
preparing a plan for resolving such debt. This plan foresees loan sales, with no substantial minimum
price, as an important instrument. Careful attention will be paid to the potential impact of the scheme
on enterprise governance. As a first prior step, the debtors have, in February 1996, been offered
forgiveness of the residual claims if they pay by March 20, 1996, the outstanding principle as well as
overdue interest equivalent to 10 percent per annum. Since most of these loans carried interest rates of
about 200 percent, this amounts to a forgiveness of almost two thirds of the outstanding claims. Prior
to Board presentation, the Council of Ministers adopted an action plan, satisfactory to the Bank, on the
resolution policy for overdue enterprise borrowing from the Ministry of Finance, or with a Ministry of
Finance guarantee.
69.     Encouraging Bad Loan Resolution by Commercial Banks. Non-performing loans to small and
medium enterprises, other than farmns, remain exposures of the commercial banks. In 1995, NBK prodded
the banks to establish internal work-out units, helped mobilize external advisors on this matter, and triggered
a rigorous loan collection effort at Narodnyi, Kredsoz and Alem Bank. At the same time, NBK started
phasing in loan loss provisioning, which forces banks to emphasize loan collection.
70.     Using State Ownership Rights to Accelerate Loan Collection. Giving priority to a hard budget
constraint in general, and debt collection in particular, the Government used in 1995, also its ownership rights
in enterprises to serve this priority. (i) The management contracts that GOK has concluded for about forty
large firms mandate rapid settlement of the firms' overdue debts. However, the actual success in settling
bank debt has been uneven, and more than ten of the contracts have already been revoked, mainly for this
reason.  The Government has started reviewing the model and actual contracts, as well as their
implementation, with regard to debt resolution and elaborating improved standard provisions. (ii) A small
Enterprise Restructuring Agency was established in mid-1995 to control the liquidation or reorganization of
insolvent small and medium enterprises with majority state ownership - in particular, those whose
privatization failed for lack of investor interest. Subsequently, the Agency took over the additional functions
of monitoring the endebtedness of state enterprises and advising very large enterprises in the preparation of
restructuring plans for submission to their creditors. (iii) Large state-owned utilities, fuel suppliers, and the
railroads have been encouraged to force debt resolution on insolvent clients. The Government will review
the receivables structure of the largest public supplier enterprises, establish regular reporting of these
receivables, and instruct the RB and ASF to coordinate their actions against insolvent debtors with them.
(c) Resolving Problem Banks
71.     Relieving banks of some of their problem  loans through burden sharing and facilitating the
resolution of other problem loans will still leave a number of "problem banks" that will require intervention.
NBK has already been very active in enforcing management changes, withdrawing bank licenses, assuming
the conservatorship of even large banks and actually liquidating a large number of banks. In addressing the
problem banks, the authorities face two particular challenges. First, the large number of problem banks calls
for streamlined procedures and adequate authority and capacity of NBK. Second, the large size of some
problem banks relative to the rest of the banking sector requires their careful treatment in view of the
potential impact on these banks' client sector, public confidence in the banking sector and, potentially, the
budget. Moreover, three of the four main problem banks are fully or majority private owned. Alem Bank
will be financially restructured and then offered to strategic investors willing to recapitalize it. Turan Bank
will implement, under close NBK surveillance, an action plan of substantial downsizing, loan resolution and
internal restructuring, and the eventual attraction of new private investment. Agroprom Bank will close a
large number of branches, and sub-sets of the remaining branches will then be offered to investors. The
state-owned Exim Bank needs to implement a comprehensive institutional development program and confine
its operations to strict prudential limits.



- 18 -
72.     Handling Many Ordinary Problem Banks. Since mid-1993, NBK has withdrawn the licenses of
103 banks, or 45 percent of all banks ever licensed. It also put one major bank under temporary NBK
management, and two banks under conservatorship. Starting with an early notice to a bank, NBK imposes
graduated sanctions that include barring the bank from NBK's credit auctions; agreement on a time-bound
action plan for coming into compliance; external management appointed by NBK; suspension or withdrawal
of the banking license; and sale to new investors or liquidation. Liquidations have often been drawn out by
legal disputes, but this has improved since NBK created special liquidation units and last year's Presidential
Decree on Banking gave NBK more effective options for early control of, and proceedings against, problem
banks. In February 1996, NBK issued regulations on bank liquidation, and in March it added implementing
regulations on bank conservatorship. The phasing in of mandatory loan loss provisioning and higher
minimum capital requirements give reason to expect that many of today's 129 banks in operation are already,
or soon will be, identified as problem banks as well. I In fact, many banks were founded in response to
temporary rent opportunities in the early transition years that have since been fading away.
73.     Restructuring and Privatizing Alem Bank. Alem Bank, the Republic's successor of the Soviet
foreign trade bank, has long played a leading role in the foreign exchange business. Like other large old
banks, Alem Bank was gradually privatizing itself through uncontrolled issuances of shares to management
and connected parties. In 1994, a part of Alem Bank was spun off to become the Exim Bank, which then
took over from Alem Bank all loans funded by foreign export credit agencies. Nonetheless, the bank
remained the second-largest bank (behind Exim Bank), with about T 33 billion assets (equivalent to US$ 500
million, 3.3 percent of GDP, or 12 percent of banking sector assets). However, the quality of its loan
portfolio remained weak. -The bank managers neglected asset/liability management and took major currency
risks and irregularities were noted. In mid-95, the bank became illiquid. NBK took over the management
for two weeks, restored liquidity, and initiated restructuring. The chief executive of the bank has recently
been replaced, and several other key management changes are anticipated. International auditors have been
engaged to produce an audit of the end-1995 balance sheet and strategic recommendations for the bank, for
adoption of the strategy by the bank's Supervisory Council in May.
74.     By mid-1996, Alem Bank will be downsized, its internal procedures and controls tightened, and its
net worth improved through the following measures, among others: (i) The bank's largest fixed assets and
equity investments, as well as some of its 24 branches, are being put up for sale. (ii) Foreclosure on overdue
debtors and their collateral has been drastically stepped up, and their deposits are used to settle their loans.
(iii) The bank has started issuing tight internal policies regarding credit and guarantee approvals, loan/deposit
ratio, currency positions, and internal control and audit. This initial defensive restructuring will facilitate the
bank's privatization; the state owns currently 53 percent of the bank's shares. The EBRD is considering the
possibility of participating in the equity of the bank, and helping to find strategic private investors. By
Second Tranche release, negotiations will commence with no more than four private investors for the purchase
by them of a majority of shares of Alem Bank.
75.     Downsizing Turan Bank. Turan Bank, Kazakstan's successor to the Soviet industry bank, is still
the third largest bank, with total assets, before provisioning, of about T 22 billion (US$ 340 million, or 10
percent of banking sector assets). It had been gradually privatized over two years, and the final state shares
were sold in mid-1995. In the past, the bank showed little commitment to restructuring itself or to forcing
restructuring on its many delinquent clients, which include Kazakstan's historical flagship enterprises. The
loans to more than two dozen of the largest insolvent clients are currently being carved out and moved to the
Rehabilitation Bank.
3 One of the ordinary problem banks that does not warrant, and will therefore not receive, extraordinary treatment by the
authorities is Kredsoz Bank. Although formerly a state-owned specialized bank, Kredsoz Bank is today fully in private hands,
including strategic investors; its assets total about 4 percent of the commercial banking sector, comparable to the major new
private banks; and its household deposits amount to about 0.5 percent of all banks. Kredsoz Bank has in the recent months
installed a new manacement team that has made Drogres; nn the collection on hithprtn non-nprforo,ina I1--



- 19 -
76.     An on-site examination of Turan Bank was conducted earlier this year, and an international audit
of the bank's end-1995 statements has been carried out. The examination results helped shape an action plan
for the bank. Prior to Board presentation, an action plan agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, has been
signed between Turan Bank and NBK, aimed at downsizing Turan Bank and bringing it into compliance with
prudential norms by end 1998. The action plan agreement stipulates periodic targets, front-loaded with
priority actions, and lists a range of penalties for non-compliance. The agreement commits the bank to,
among other things: (i) Intensify the work-out of bad loans, with special attention to the largest defaulters;
(ii) sharply reduce the loan deposit ratio to no more than 1.0, and curtail the bank's access to NBK's credit
auctions; (iii) drastically reduce the number of branches from the current 85, sell off some fixed assets, and
curtail capital expenditures; (iv) substantially improve the bank's highly negative net worth by earnings, a
ban on dividends, and private sector capital injections; and (v) reorganize the branch network in order to
control all branches directly from headquarters. The authorities will also move some bad loans that do not
get current despite the enterprises' being under management contract to the Rehabilitation Bank. Prior to
Second Tranche release, key elements of the action plan, agreed with the Bank, pursuant to the above
agreement between NBK and Turan Bank will be implemented or, alternatively, NBK will assume
conservatorship over Turan Bank.
77.     Resolving Agroprom Bank. By end 1993, Agroprom Bank had assets equivalent to about US$ 2
billion. Loan service by farms was negligible, however, due to their inefficient operations and agricultural
pricing policies and distribution structures unfavorable for agricultural producers. In early 1995, GOK
transferred virtually all instructed and arrears-clearing credit of farms from the bank to the ASF.
Nonetheless, this left the bank with substantial bad loans; some of them, which had been instructed lending,
were carved out later, but others need to be provisioned for.
78.     Other developments in 1995 contributed to making Agroprom Bank further over-sized, while
remaining under-qualified. Last year, directed credit virtually dried up; a new harvest financing scheme went
through a new bank; Agroprom's financial weakness disqualified it from NBK's credit auctions; and the core
clientele, the large farms, were too distressed to hold substantial deposits. Moreover, as the large state farms
decay and release much smaller, genuinely private farms, the Agroprom Bank, with its bureaucratic culture,
branches only in rayon capitals and a reputation of distress, is becoming inept at reaching down to the farm
level. As a result of the loan carve-out and the drying up of new lending, the bank's total loans shrunk to
roughly an estimated T 3 billion (US$ 45 million) after provisioning. The financial situation has improved
slightly in recent months. In particular, the continued relief from bad loans to agro-industrial firms improved
the financial condition to a point that NBK gave the bank again access to its credit auctions. Nonetheless,
the extraordinary implosion of the bank's financial assets in 1994-95 requires major corresponding cuts in
capacity. In the last twelve months, the staffing has been reduced by 28 percent from 5,600 to reportedly
4,000, but the number of branches has declined by only 2 percent from 240 to 236. Moreover, the institution
continues to be short of the skills needed in a market economy.
79.     In the first half of 1996, NBK as regulator is developing an action agreement with the owners (of
whom 72 percent are private) and management of this problem bank. This agreement will include three
phases. Phase one will entail a major downsizing of the branch network upfront, focused on those branches
which are most clearly non-viable or redundant. This will be accompanied by further staff reductions.
Moreover, the bank will be required to phase out within one year deposits from households, except family
farms. In phase two, after further study, clusters of branches would be offered to private investors. These
clusters would transcend oblast boundaries in order to reduce administrative interference, and would not be
restricted in future staff reductions. In phase three, branches that remain unsold even after some financial
restructuring would be principly limited to agency operations or else closed down.
80.     Whatever the features of Agroprom Bank's restructuring or dissolution, there is and will be a gap
in agricultural finance, which the Government has started filling through other means. The existing private
conmmercial banks generally lack a rural branch network and find lending to the emerging private farms



- 20 -
uneconomic for reasons of scale, policy risks and other factors. For seasonal financing, this void is mainly
filled by credit from suppliers and clients, especially traders. To facilitate such private seasonal financing,
the Government would consider providing such financiers in future with guarantees against damages from
specified adverse Government actions, such as expropriation or new impediments to exports. Broader
guarantees were given by various state entities in 1995, but only in connection with the pre-financing by
Kazkommerz Bank of the grain purchases for the state reserve; a similar scheme is foreseen for 1996. If
additional emergency agricultural credit is needed from the Government, it will be channeled on an agency
basis. In the longer run, mutual credit societies (credit cooperatives) should play an important role in the
rural economy. Therefore, the authorities have started reviewing the pros and cons, and the existing legal
framework of such societies in the local context. A first NBK regulation on such entities has been introduced,
and NBK has received first applications. In addition, the Government has started working, with support by
the IFC, on legal provisions on leases, and mobilizing donor support for agricultural leasing. The ADB has
fielded a large advisory team to help further elaborate key elements of Kazakstan's rural finance strategy in
the context of its agricultural sector program loan.
81.     Putting the Exhn Bank on Sound Footing. For project finance, Kazakstan needs an institution
that can provide project expertise, mobilize financial resources, channel funds and enforce debt service. The
Government created a Development Bank and an Exim Bank to this effect in 1994, and merged the former
into the latter in mid-1995 The main challenges of the resulting Exim Bank are now to: (i) deal with the
old deficient portfolios that the two original banks had inherited, and (ii) ensure the soundness of the bank's
future lending.
82.     Loan collection problems plague the approximately US$ 1 billion portfolio of loans funded by
foreign export credit agencies that the initial Exim Bank had taken over from Alem Bank. Calls on the
underlying Government guarantees constitute today a major burden on the budget. Moreover, in 1995 such
calls on guarantees left the Ministry of Finance with a claim on Exim Bank and thus did not relieve the
bank's balance sheet. Collection is also weak, and the Tenge interest rate negative, on the loans that the
Development Bank had taken over from the Economic Transformation Fund (ETF) as the Government's main
capital injection into that bank. The bank recently underwent an in-depth financial audit of its end-1995
balance sheet. The Government has meanwhile relieved the bank of its inherited externally funded exposures
by putting them on an agency (managed fund) basis, with a collection bonus for the bank, except for claims
on defaulting borrowers totaling US$ 13.9 million which have been transferred to Exim Bank as an equity
contribution. Moreover, the bank will provision against the ETF and other, newer loans.
83.     To prevent financial problems in future lending, the bank needs to be institutionally strengthened.
In the third quarter of 1996, an institutional diagnosis of the bank will be substantially completed. Prior to
Second Tranche, the Borrower will approve a development plan, acceptable to the Bank, for the institutional
strengthening of the Exim Bank. For example, the bank will be restricted for 3 years, or until it is
substantially privatized, to a specified list of core instrument/activities, not to include household deposits, so
as to prevent the bank from diluting its efforts and becoming less transparent. In instances where the
Government wishes the bank to finance social sector projects or any projects rejected by the bank for lending
at its own risk, the Government will use the bank as an agent to manage the funds on its behalf without risk
for the bank. (At the same time, other banks that are on the international bank standards track will also be
permitted to on-lend at their own risk with a counter-guarantee to the Government, or channel on an agency
basis, external loans funded guaranteed by the Government.)To further ensure the bank's financial soundness,
NBK has, prior to Board presentation, issued a regulation mandating full compliance by Exim Bank no later
than January 1, 1997, with NBK's supervisory norms applied to the international standards bank track, except
for the connected borrower limit. The debt/equity ratio has been limited to 3:1 to account for the particular
risks of long-term lending. In addition to the debt/equity ratio and the submission to prudential norms, the
following further measures will limit the potential growth of the bank's risk assets: The provisions against
the EFF portfolio will reduce the reported equity; many operations will be carried out on an agency basis off
the bank's balance sheet and without risk to the bank; the authorities envisage setting limits to the bank's net



- 21 -
lending; and new equity would be paid in by the state only in line with the overall fiscal constraint as agreed
under IMF arrangements, and only after the institutional development plan has been agreed on. To further
improve the bank's governance and make it less susceptible to demands by authorities, the Government has
agreed to raise a private equity stake of up to 49 percent, and will undertake reasonable efforts to mobilize
significant foreign or other private equity already before end 1996.
V. THE PROPOSED OPERATION
A. Loan Description
84.     The proposed loan would total US$ 180 million equivalent. The Loan amount is justified by
Kazakstan's total external financing requirements, projected creditworthiness, and per capita indicators of debt
burden. In 1996-97, the proposed Loan would provide an estimated 7 percent of Kazakstan's total external
financing needs. The loan amount is commensurate also with the fiscal situation resulting in part from the
reforms in the financial sector.
85.     The proposed Loan would be disbursed in two equal tranches. The first tranche would be available
upon loan effectiveness, expected in June 1996, and the second tranche about six months thereafter.
Disbursement of the Second Tranche would depend on satisfactory implementation of the reform program
laid out in the Letter of Financial Sector Reform Policy (Annex 3), and particularly the accomplishment of
a set of actions laid out in Section D below. It would also depend on satisfactory macroeconomic conditions
being maintained.
B. Implementation Arrangements
86.     The Borrower would be the Republic of Kazakstan, represented by the Ministry of Finance (MOF).
The Government would designate the MOF to coordinate and monitor the implementation of the program in
collaboration with other Government entities and the National Bank of the Republic of Kazakstan (NBK), and
to report on the matter on a regular basis to the Council of Ministers and the World Bank.
87.     Disbursements would follow the procedures of Simplified Disbursements under Structural and
Sectoral Adjustment Loans approved by the Bank's Board of Executive Directors on February 1- 1996.
Disbursements under this Loan would not be linked to any specific purchases, and therefore neither evidence
to support disbursements nor procurement requirements will be needed. The Borrower will open and
maintain a Deposit Account in NBK. As each tranche is released, the Borrower will submit a simplified
withdrawal application against which the Bank will disburse the Loan proceeds into the Deposit Account for
the Borrower's use. If any portion of the Loan is used for ineligible purposes as defined in the Loan
Agreement, the Bank will require the Borrower either to return that amount to the Deposit Account for use
for eligible purposes or to refund the amount directly to the Bank, in which case the Bank will cancel an
equivalent undisbursed amount of the Loan.
88.     The Borrower will maintain an appropriate accounting system, according to generally acceptable
standards, providing all necessary information on the receipt and use of funds, and will prepare an annual
statement of all receipts and payments under the Loan. The Bank reserves the right to require from the
Borrower an audit of the use of the Loan proceeds by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. Project
Accounts would be audited in accordance with the March 1992 "Guidelines for Financial Reporting and
Auditing Projects Financed by the World Bank". The Bank would receive these audited statements and audit
reports in such scope and detail, and at such time, as it may reasonably request.



- 22 -
C. Actions Taken before Board Presentation
89.     The authorities have conveyed to the Bank a Letter of Financial Sector Reform Policy which
describes the program of sectoral reforms which the Government is currently implementing (Annex 3).
Salient features of this program that were prior actions for Board presentation and have been implemented
are the following:
(i)   Signing a Presidential Decree with force of law on Mortgage (see para. 35);
(ii)  issuance of regulations by NBK making a new chart of accounts, reporting formats, and accounting
standards mandatory for all commercial banks as their primary accounting system by January 1997,
including an opening balance for 1997 (see para. 44);
(iii)  confirmation by a Council of Ministers Decision that the state-owned banks are subject to NBK's
supervisory norms and enforcement, with any special rules or relaxations of norms that are necessary
to take into account the specific nature of their activities to be specifically stipulated by NBK bank by
bank (see para. 60);
(iv)  amending tax legislation to allow, before tax, specific loan loss provisions on all classified loans pre-
dating 1995 in full, and up to 50 percent of the book value of all outstanding loans from 1995 or
thereafter (see para. 66);
(v)   raising the interest rate on reserve/correspondent accounts with NBK to 50 percent of the NBK
refinancing rate, effective on July 1, 1996 (see para 66);
(vi)  adoption by the Council of Ministers of an action plan, satisfactory to the Bank, on the resolution of
farm loans taken over by the Agricultural Support Fund (see para. 68);
(vii)  adoption by the Council of Ministers of an action plan, satisfactory to the Bank, on the resolution
policy for overdue enterprise borrowing from the Ministry of Finance, or with a Ministry of Finance
guarantee (see para. 68);
(viii) signing of an action plan agreement between Turan Bank and NBK, aimed at downsizing Turan Bank
and at bringing it into compliance with prudential norms by end 1998 (see para. 76); and
(ix)  issuance of a regulation by NBK mandating full compliance by Exim Bank no later than January 1,
1997, with NBK's supervisory norms applied to the international standards bank track, except for the
connected borrower limit. The debt/equity ratio of Exim Bank will be limited to 3:1 to account for
the particular risks of long-term lending (see para. 83).
D. Agreements Reached
90.     Second Tranche Release.  Before Second Tranche Release, the Government will need to
demonstrate satisfactory implementation of the reform program laid out in the Letter of Financial Sector
Reform Policy. In particular, it will have carried out the following actions:
(i)   Adoption by the Government or an Accounting Standards Board of the Borrower, and publication of
a new chart of accounts and a comprehensive set of accounting standards conforming substantially with
International Accounting Standards (published by the International Accounting Standards Commission)
(see para. 36);



- 23 -
(ii)   passage of a law on bankrupty which includes adequate provisions for its application and enforcement,
or prescription of adequate rules, regulations or procedures for the application and enforcement of the
Presidential Decree on Bankruptcy of 1995 (see para. 38);
(iii)  offering for sale to private investors all state shares in, or withdrawing the banking licenses of, all
except no more than ten banks (other than the National Bank) whose equity includes state shares. As
used herein, the term "state shares" means shares owned by the Borrower or any legal entity majority
owned by the Borrower (see para. 41);
(iv)  enactment of a law on bills of exchange and promissory notes conforming with the Geneva Convention
of 1930 providing a Uniform Law for Bills of Exchange and Promissory Notes (see para. 48);
(v)   issuance by NBK of regulations implementing the policy regarding international standards bank track
agreed with the Bank (see para. 59);
(vi)  initiation of liquidation proceedings against at least three insolvent corporate debtors of the
Rehabilitation Bank and reduction of staff of at least five other corporate debtors of the said bank by
30 percent each or more in comparison to the numbers employed thereat on November 1, 1995 (see
para. 68);
(vii)  commencement of negotiations with no more than four private investors for the purchase by them of
a majority of shares of Alem Bank (see para. 74);
(viii) implementation of key elements of an action plan, agreed with the Bank, pursuant to an agreement
between NBK and Turan Bank or, alternatively, assumption of conservatorship over Turan Bank by
NBK (see para. 76); and
(ix)  approval by the Borrower of an institutional development plan, acceptable to the World Bank, for the
strengthening of the Exim Bank (see para. 83).
91.     Furthermore, reflecting the interdependence between this reform program and stabilization efforts,
the Government will need to ensure, to the satisfaction of the Bank, that the macroeconomic policy
framework consistent with the objectives of the finanical sector reform program will be maintained.
E. Benefits and Risks
92.     Benefits. The proposed FSAL would help build a sound and efficient banking sector in Kazakstan.
First, it would provide a conducive environment for sound banking sector growth, by removing various
factors in the sector environment that exacerbate the operating risks and latent instability of even the
promising banks. Second, it would help to resolve problem loans and problem banks that affect the entire
sector. The FSAL would thus facilitate the funding of enterprises for restructuring and new growth. It would
also provide them with a much improved payments system and other services. Moreover, sustaining the
country's macroeconomic stabilization hinges on banks' ability to force financial discipline on their
borrowers, support enterprise adjustment, and avoid a systemic banking crisis. The Project would also
improve the environment for other Bank Group operations that help build banking institutions or use financial
intermediaries in the country.
93.     The external financing-provided by the Loan would help sustain the country's import capacity during
the difficult economic conditions of the continued transition. The proposed Loan would also provide
important budgetary support during these transition years (see II.B). The specific reform measures that would
be introduced within the FSAL context would reduce the risk of a future banking sector crisis with major



- 24 -
budget repercussions, and they would enhance the banks' ability to support adjustment and recovery in the
enterprise sector that is necessary for improving the fiscal situation in the longer term.
94.     Risks. As in many reforming economies, the risk of slippage can never be eliminated. However,
the authorities have been demonstrating their commitment to the sector reform program through the
preparation of a first program document in early 1995, a new generation of legislation in the same year, and
considerable progress, particularly in the last twelve months, in privatizing, restructuring, and closing banks.
A number of further critical actions have been taken as conditions of Board presentation. Another risk is
potential inadequacy of the institutional apparatus to implement the program. This risk is ameliorated by the
significant enhancement of the capacity of NBK and the Ministry of Finance in the last two years, and by the
technical support provided under the Technical Assistance Loan and the Financial and Enterprises
Development Loan (see Annex 5) as well as by other donors, notably USAID and EBRD.
95.     Financial sector reform in transition economies has additional specific risks. First, a slowdown or
reversal in enterprise reform would affect the loan quality of the banking sector. However, Kazakstan has
already made substantial progress in carrying out enterprise sector reform (see III.A). Restructuring in the
enterprise sector has been the focus of the FY95 SAL, and will be further underpinned by program loans of
the ADB and by an EFF that the IMF is preparing. Second, financial sector reform in transition economies
is potentially affected by the sector's systemic risk. While the household deposit base is still small in
Kazakstan, a systemic crisis would nonetheless undermine public confidence, set back structural reform, and
jeopardize monetary stability. The reform program has been developed with attention to this risk. Moreover,
the authorities have demonstrated their capabilities in handling, in 1995 alone, 55 bank closures and a
liquidity crisis of the second largest bank.
96.     The main country risk specific to Kazakstan is that its strong export potential and foreign investment
prospects cannot be expected to materialize without secure trade and transit arrangements with its neighbors,
and appropriate oil pipeline capacity. The prospects of the timing of the critical pipeline to the Black Sea
have improved recently with the establishment of a new consortium to finance such a pipeline.
F. Reconnnendation
97. I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles of Agreement of the Bank and I
recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
Attachments: Annexes 1 - 8
Washington, D.C.
May 31, 1996



Annex I
Page I of 3
REPUBLIC OF KAZAKSTAN
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Kazakstan: Medium-Term Balance of Payments, 1995-98
(in US$ millions)
1995        1996       1997       1998
.......................   .... .............. .... .. . ........................
Estimate              Projection
Current account                                      -407         -649       -996      -1,020
Trade balance                                         -28         -300       -535       -475
Exports (f.o.b.)                                 5,198       5,281       5,508      6,036
o.w. Oil                                           800         795        842       1,137
Non-Oil                                     4,398       4,486      4,666       4,899
Imports (f.o.b.)                                -5,226       -5.581     -6,043     -6,511
o.w. Oil                                          -257        -160        -232       -274
Non-Oil                                    -4,969      -5.421     -5,811      -6,237
Interest payments, net                                -259        -160       -232       -274
Other services, net                                   -179        -249       -289       -331
Unrequited transfers                                   59           60         60         60
Capital account                                      1,136       1,272        977       1,059
Medium and long term credits                          476         602         457        509
Drawings on official loans                         358         497        375         400
Drawings on trade credits                          256         275        300         350
Amortization                                      -138        -170        -181       -236
Direct investment                                     660          670        680        690
Migrant transfers                                    -652         -400       -200         ---
Other capital/errors and omissions (net)              233          -88         ---        ---
Overall Balance                                       310          135        -22        184
Financing                                             -310        -135         22       -184
Banking system NFA (increase-)                        -670        -155       -174       -181
Monetary gold                                     -143         -20         ---         ---
Foreign exchange assets (net)                     -527        -135        -174       -181
NBK (net)                                      -122        -135       -174       -181
Of which: Fund credit (net)                 142         247        158         80
Other banking system (net)                    -405          ---        ---         ---
Exceptional financing                                 217          ---         ---        ---
Debt relief from Russia                            217          ---        ---         ---
Counterpart items                                     143           20         ---        ---
Financing requirement -- after IMF (+)                 ---         ---        196          -3
Memorandum item:
(In percent)
Current account/GDP                                   -2.3        -3.0       -4.2       -3.9
Debt service/exports (excluding IMF)                   8.1         6.8        7.6        8.4
Debt service/exports (including IMF)                  10.0         8.6        9.9       13.5
IBRD debt serv./exports (GNFS+WR)                      0.2         0.4        0.7         1.0
Share in IBRD portfolio                                0.3         0.5        0.7        0.9
Source: Goskomstat, National Bank of Kazakstan, and staff estimates



Annex 1
Page 2 of 3
REPUBLIC OF KAZAKSTAN
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Table 2: Kazakstan: External Financing Requirement, 1995-98
(in US$ millions)
1995         1996          1997         1998
Current Account ((+) = deficit, (-) = surplus)l/                    466          709          1056          1080
Amortization (incl. IMF repurchases)                                138           170          188           340
Change in Gross Foreign Assets                                      812          402           332           260
Financing Requirement (total)                                      1416          1281         1576          1680
Official Transfers                                                   59            60           60            60
Medium and Long Term Loans (gross)                                  614          772           675           750
Official Loans                                                    358           497          375           400
World Bank                                            115           260          265           205
SAL I                                                90           90             0             0
FSAL                                                  0           90            90             0
SAL II                                                0            0            90            90
Other                                                25           80            85           115
Other                                                 243           237           110          195
Trade Credits                                                    256           275           300          350
Foreign Direct Investment                                           660          670           680           690
Other Capital and Errors and Omissions                             -419          -489         -200             0
Exceptional Financing                                               217             0            0             0
Domestic Gold                                                       143            20            0             0
International Monetary Fund (purchases)                             142          247           165           183
Residual Gap                                                          0             1          196            -3
Financing (total)                                                  1416         1281          1576          1680
1/ Excluding official transfers



Annex 1
Page 3 of 3
REPUBLIC OF KAZAKSTAN
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Table 3: Kazakstan: Medium-Term Fiscal Projections, 1995-98
(in percent of GDP)
1995       1996       1997        1998
Revenue                                               16.5       14.9        15.7       15.8
Current revenue                                    15.8       13.9       14.7        14.8
Tax revenue                                    12.2       10.7        12.0       12.4
Direct taxes                                5.4         4.9        5.7        5.9
Indirect taxes                              3.7         3.5        4.0        4.3
Customs duties                               1.2        0.7        0.9        0.7
Other                                        1.9        1.6        1.4         1.5
Non-tax revenue                                 3.6        3.2        2.7         2.4
Capital revenue                                    0.7         1.0        1.0         1.0
Expenditure                                           17.7       17.1        18.5       18.8
Current expenditure                                17.3       17.1       16.9        16.8
Capital expenditure                                0.4         0.0        1.6        2.0
Net lending and participations 1/                      2.0        2.4         2.5        2.5
Extra-budgetary funds (balance)                        0.2        0.2         ...
New measures                                           ...        1.8         2.5        2.5
Overall balance                                       -3.0       -2.8        -2.6       -2.5
Financing                                              3.0        2.8        2.6         2.5
Foreign                                            2.0         1.8        1.5         1.4
Disbursement                                    2.0        1.8         1.7        1.6
Amortization                                    0.0        0.0       -0.2        -0.2
Domestic                                            1.1        1.1        1.1         1.1
Bank                                            2.0        0.8        0.2         0.1
Non-bank                                       -0.8        0.3        0.9         1.0
Memorandum item:
GDP at constant prices (% change)           -9.0        0.4        2.0        3.0
Consumer Prices
(period average, % change)               175         24         10          7
(end of period, % change)                61          17          7          7
11Including calls on government guarantees



Annex 2
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF KAZAKSTAN
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
BALANCE SHEET OF THE COMMERCIAL BANKING SECTOR
as of December 30, 1995 /a
Assets      Tenge   US$  Share of Percent Nominal           Liabilitites    Tenge    US$    Share  Percent Nominal
billion  equiv.  Total  of GDP  Growth            and          billion   equiv.    of   of GDP  Growth
million  Assets           3- 12/95       Capital                mill ion   Total          31/95
I ____    __   .1   __ I __  jl~~~~~~~~d *._           _     _          _I_               _ _           /d
Cash and             12    186       5%     1.0%     200%  Deposits and              65    1,008    26%    5.3%        18%
Securities                                                  Current Accts. of
Non-Banks
Deposits with         7      62      2%    0.3%       -33%  Dues to Ministry of      90    1,395    36%    7.4%    462%
NBK                                                         Finance /b                                                  /b
Fixed Assets         14    217       5%     1.2%      75%  Dues to National           6       93      2%    0.5%    -66%
Bank                                                        IC
Loans to Non-       174  2,698    69%    14.2%         16%  Dues to Local             7       108     3%    0.6%       17%
Banks                /b                                     Commercial Banks
Claims on Local      15    232       6%     1.2%     115%  Dues to Foreign           25      388    10%         2.   -62%
Commercial                                                  Banks                                                       lb
Banks                                                       and Agencies
Claims on            25    388      10%    2.1%       66%  Other Liabilites          34      527    13%    2.8%       26%
Foreign Banks                                                                            __I
Other Assets          9    140       3%    0.7%      -31%  Equity                    26      403    10%    2.1%       62%
Total          |    2531 3,9221  100%| 20.7%1    24%|lTotal_                        253    31    100%| 20.7%[   24%I
/a   With only minor adjustments made to the banks' original balance sheets, mainly for inter-branch positions, fixed asset depreciation,
foreign exchange positions, and some profit and loss offsets. Loan loss provisions were generally not formed. The figures include only
part of the interest receivable and payable.
Lb   By end 1995, the Ministry of Finance had taken over the debt service obligation on about T 82.4 billion borrowing from foreign export
credit agencies. The Ministry had an according claim on the Exim/Development Bank which by 12/95 still carried the sub-loans to the
enterprises on its books (since they were put on a managed fund basis only subsequently).
/c   The NBK suspended its credit auctions in October - December, 1995.
/d   For comparison: The inflation of these nine months was 31 percent.



Annex 2
Page 2 of 2
REPUBLIC OF KAZAKSTAN
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
THE LARGEST COMMERCIAL BANKS IN KAZAKSTAN, 1/1/1996
Total Assets (Unadjusted)                Paid-In
IL                           ~~~~~~~~Growth
T million           Rank         2/95-1/96     T million
FORMER SPECIALIZED BANKS
Alem Bank                                   37,511                2     /a -56%            280
Narodnyi Bank (former Sber)              /b 31 000                3        162%][          170
Turan Bank                                  24,192                4          2%            364
Agroprom Bank                                9,480                8     /a -67%][          200
Kredsoz Bank                                 11,769               7         28%  |         106
NEW SPECIALIZED BANKS
Exim Bank                                Ic 86,000                1          n.a.     /d 2,346
Housing Construction Bank                     1,535              17         87%            767
Central Asian Bank for                         351             >20         136%            207
Cooperation & Development
Rehabilitation Bank                          3,367               11               |         100
Budget Bank                                    n.a.             n.a.              |        n.a.
GENERAL DOMESTIC BANKS
Kazkommerz Bank                             16,398                5        230%            127
Kramds Bank                                  13,775               6         85%            520
Temir Bank                                   4,274               10         83%            196
Igilik Bank                                  2,753               13          14%           150
Center Bank                                  2,553               14          19%            80
Kazdor                                        1,956              15         25%            100
Postal Bank                                   1,856              16        133%            114
Nefte Bank                                    1,561              17          -1%           110
BANKS WITH FOREIGN PARTICIPATION
Texaka Bank                                  4,364                9        706%             94
ABN Amro Bank                                2,951               12        108%            603
Bank of China                                 1,377              20          n.a.          260
Evrasiiskii Bank                              1,176            >20           n.a.           86
Bank of Industry & Commerce                    793             >20           n.a.          326
of China
Ziraat Bank                                    777             >20          30%             72
Al-Baraka                                      608             >20          94%            188
Turkish Kazakh International    1              455             >20         111% ||          96
/a   The reduction is largely due to loan carve-out.
/b   This figure has been adjusted for inter-branch positions which are particularly large (about TI I billion) in this bank.
/c  Included in this figure are foreign-funded loans inherited from Alem Bank, since an agreement to put these loans on a managed fund
basis had not yet been formally finalized by 1/1/96. Without these loans, the bank's total assets would have been about T 4,400 million.
/d   Before provisioning for the loans taken over from the Economic Transformation Fund as state equity contribution.



Annex 3
Page 1 of 8
Mr. James D. Wolfensohn
President
The World Bank
May 28, 1996
Dear Mr. Wolfensohn,
Letter of Financial Sector Reform Policy
1.       Kazakstan's stabilization policies have by now created favorable macro conditions for the emergence of a sound
financial sector. Our enterprise reform policy has also improved conditions for sound bank lending. The financial sector
still needed a program of sectoral reform, however, to become sound and efficient, and to ensure a minimum of critical
financial services during the transition period. We have elaborated this financial sector reform program last year in
collaboration with the National Bank. Key elements have been confirmed in various legal acts, including Presidential
Decrees with the force of law. We started program implementation in the middle of last year, and have already achieved
considerable progress; we expect it to be substantially completed by early 1997.
2.       Our financial sector program addresses two main areas of reform. First, we are improving the sector
environment in order to reduce the operating risks and latent instability of even the promising banks. Second, we are
dealing with old problem loans and problem banks that have been affecting the entire sector.
Part One: Establishing a Conducive Environment for Sound Banking Sector Growth
i .      Strengthening the Framework for Secured Lending. Loan collection is a key problem for the banks in our
country. This is due to unexpected distress of borrowers, but often also to willful default. In 1995, we made significant
progress in overhauling property rights legislation. The introduction of our new Constitution and Part I of the Civil Code
in 1995, to be followed by the final Part II of the Civil Code (whose draft we are reviewing), has been the basis of
overhauling our property rights legislation. President Nazarbaev then signed various decrees with the force of law on
specific property rights. This included, for example, a decree on Economic Entities and Companies. A Presidential
Decree on Bankruptcy was signed in April 1995, and further improved legislation on bankruptcy has been drafted (see
para. 5 below). A Presidential Decree on Land has removed obstacles to the use of land as collateral. A Presidential
Decree with force of law on Mortgage has been signed in December 1995. Legislation on pledges on movable property
will be prepared by end 1996, for submission to parliament in early 1997.
2.       Security in lending will also be enhanced if borrowers use an adequate accounting system. A Presidential
Decree on Accounting was signed late last year. A new chart of accounts for enterprises has been drafted and new
accounting standards have started to be developed in 1994-95. A new chart of accounts and a comprehensive set of
accounting standards conforming substantially with International Accounting Standards (IAS, published by the International
Accounting Standards Commission) will be adopted by us or by an Accounting Standards Board of the Republic, and
published by October 1996. Registration systems on borrowers, their real property, their pledges of property and their
borrowing are another key to enhancing security in lending: (i) A Presidential Decree was signed in mid-1995 for a
registry of economic entities. (ii) Preparations are under way for a modern registration system of land and other non-
movable properties. As an interim measure, we have last year restructured the registration of urban real estate. (iii)
The registration of collateral on non-movable property is for the time being handled by these existing registry bureaus,
and will be a function of the mentioned future registry system for land and other non-movable property. Preparations
will be initiated this year for the registration of pledges on movable property. The fee for notarization of collateral
documents will be lowered from 10 percent of the collateral value to a much lower level. (iv) NBK will ensure that a
credit information bureau that would initially record mainly bank loans will be set up to start operation before end 1996.
(v) A rating agency could make inter-bank lending more secure. To ensure that it has no conflicts of interest, NBK will
this year issue a regulation that prohibits banks and parties affiliated to them from owning or managing agencies that rate
financial institutions.
3.       The judicial system is being reformed on the basis of last year's new Constitution and unification of the court
system. The Ministry of Justice has drafted Codes on Civil Procedure and Criminal Procedure, is preparing
implementation measures on the adequate organization of courts, and plans to introduce by year end a new system of
selection of judges. An extensive training program for judicial personnel has started being implemented. Of particular



Annex 3
Page 2 of 8
immediate importance will be the introduction of speedy and transparent judicial procedures for bankruptcy cases. By
end-October 1996, a law on bankruptcy with adequate provisions for its application and enforcement will be passed, or
adequate rules, regulations or procedures for the application and enforcement of the Presidential Decree on Bankruptcy
of 1995 will be prescribed.
4.       Fostering the Institutional Development of Banks. At the beginning of 1995, there were about ninety banks
whose share minority, and in a few cases share majority, was in the hands of state enterprises or organizations. We are
committed to rapidly completing privatization of all state shares of all but a few banks that provide specialized financial
services or whose complexity requires more time-consuming privatization procedures -- the Exim, Housing, Rehabilitation,
Budget, Narodnyi, Agroprom, and Alem Bank, and the Central Asian Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Since
mid-1995, we have already sold our remaining shares in Turan and Kredsoz Bank, and in eight mid-sized banks.
Additional 17 banks with state shares got their licenses withdrawn. This has left 58 banks with state shares. We have
now finalized our strategy for fair and transparent bank privatization. This strategy includes, inter alia, the envisaged
privatization procedures (mainly sale through the stock exchange or public share auction), attention to minimum sales
prices that facilitate sale, and a sound timetable. By October 1996, we will offer for sale to private investors all state
shares in, or NBK will withdraw the banking licenses of, all except no more than ten banks (other than NBK) whose
equity includes state shares. To prevent a resurgence of state shares, the 1997 Budget may provide for potential equity
injections only for banks that have been fully state-owned as of March 1996.
5.       In those banks that are not slated for privatization in 1996 (except for the Budget and Rehabilitation Bank) the
Government, as owner, will be represented on the supervisory councils not only by our agency officials but also by
independent professionals. To further improve bank governance, NBK will encourage members of supervisory councils
of all banks to attend appropriately designed training workshops.
6.       The institutional weakness of local banks and the excessive risks that they tend to incur is in large measure due
to shortages in banking and management skills. NBK and the Bankers Association together with the local bank training
centers have identified the most critical existing and emerging skill gaps in banks and established a training plan
accordingly. Large banks would acquire modern practices, skills and systems most comprehensively through twinning
with qualified foreign banks. At the same time, poorly qualified bank managers are being weeded out through bank
closures and through a special commission that reviews the qualifications of bank managers.
7.       To reform bank accounting and audit, NBK has developed a new chart of accounts, reporting formats, and
accounting standards for banks (conform with International Accounting Standards -- IAS 30). It has also drafted
accounting instructions and manuals, and set up special teams to assist banks in account conversion. The accounting
reform will be underpinned by a comprehensive and rapid training program supported by the local bank training centers.
Banks have been encouraged to use the new accounting system in parallel to their old system in the second half of 1996.
NBK has now issued a regulation that make the new chart of accounts, reporting formats and accounting standards
mandatory for all commercial banks as their primary system starting January 1997, including an opening balance for 1997.
8.       The developmerrc6f proper bank audit standards will be finalized before end 1996. NBK will also introduce
standard terms of reference for auditors and minimum audit disclosure requirements. External audit according to standards
fully equivalent to international ones will be made a mandatory requirement for banks that wish to be on the International
Standard Banks (ISB) track, and will be required also from large problem banks.
9.       Facilitating Inter-Bank Payments and Liquidity Management. NBK has introduced various new monetary
instruments that facilitate liquidity management. Treasury bills have been issued through auctions since April 1994, and
have allowed the introduction of a Lombard facility; by late 1996, NBK will offer banks with sufficient collateral an
automatic overnight Lombard facility. NBK started repurchase (repo) and reverse repo operations with treasury bills in
early 1996, and introduced short-term NBK notes. Furthermore, NBK has laid the regulatory basis for money market
houses, and several major banks then opened a first one a year ago.
10.      Various initiatives are broadening the range of payment instruments available to banks and enterprises. For
letters of credit, legislation will be passed in 1996 that substantially conforms with the Paris Convention on Uniform
Standards and Procedures (USP). As to checks, the mandatory prepayment upon issuance of the checkbook as well as



Annex 3
Page 3 of 8
other restrictions on their use have been revisited recently. Moreover, in the third quarter of this year, a law on bills of
exchange and promissory notes conforming with the Geneva Convention of 1930 providing a Uniform Law for Bills of
Exchange and Promissory Notes will be enacted. The Republic acceded to this Convention in November 1995.
11.      The development of effective and efficient payment systems has been facing various technical constraints.
Our measures so far to improve this situation included the merging of each bank's correspondent and reserve account with
NBK, and the connecting of NBK's oblast centers through electronic mail. Prior to end 1996, all banks will be required
henceforth to maintain only one unified correspondent account nationwide with NBK; where exceptions are necessary for
technical reasons, they will require agreement on a detailed implementation timetable. Regional inter-bank clearing centers
are going to decentralize the load of the payments system, and their private control should alleviate NBK's responsibilities.
A first regional clearing center was started in the third quarter of 1995 in Almaty under the control of nine major banks.
To ensure the prudent, transparent and smooth operation of these clearing centers, NBK will issue before the middle of
this year improved regulations on inter-bank clearing and settlement. For the longer run, NBK will start to build a
payments system that will channel and settle high-value transactions gross in real time and low-value transactions at end-
of-day after netting, unless a client chooses real-time gross settlement even for a small transaction. A plan for privatizing
the control and eventually, ownership of the clearing centers (but not the settlement function) will be developed, as will
access rules, tariff principles, security measures and further parameters for the long-term system.
12.      Ensuring Competition on an Even Playing Field. The growth of new commercial banks was significantly
inhibited by the historical capacity and priority funding of the large old, specialized banks. However, the drastic
downsizing or even closure that is envisaged for these banks under the reform program, and the drying up of state or
state-guaranteed funding, are ameliorating this situation. A Council of Ministers resolution that required each state
enterprise to hold its current accounts only in one bank, and thus favored the large incumbent banks, has been abrogated
in December 1995. A potential regulatory barrier to competition from foreign banks has been the stipulation of the
Presidential Decree on Banking that limits the combined statutory capital of all commercial banks with 50 percent or more
foreign ownership to no more than 25 percent of the aggregate statutory capital of all commercial banks. This limitation
has been softened by our Decision of January 1996 authorizing NBK to license foreign-owned banks on a case-by-case
basis in excess of the 25 percent ceiling.
13.      The Presidential Decree on Banking eliminated the explicit state guarantee for deposits in state-owned banks.
At the same time, deposit insurance would today, when banks are of very uneven financial strength and many are being
closed, raise major concerns about the burden on the healthier member banks, the risk of insurer default, and potentially
imprudent behavior of banks. Therefore the authorities will at least until end 1996 license a deposit insurance only if
membership is voluntary and if NBK and the Government are not financially implicated. If voluntary deposit insurance
were created, state involvement would be limited to a regulatory role.
14.      Most of the newer banks face critical competition from Narodnyi Bank. Due to its extraordinarily dense
network of over 4,000 outlets, various authorities have burdened Narodnyi Bank with demands for services and, in return,
granted the bank various privileges (like the free use of municipal premises), but the link between services and privileges
was often loose and not very clear. To correct this, we will instruct state organs to desist from demanding the provision
of financial services from Narodnyi Bank or any other bank without charges that reflect market conditions or costs.
15.      We see a need to ensure that remote communities have reasonable access to a minimum of critical financial
services. While permitting Narodnyi Bank to close such outlets as it wishes, we will develop a program to offer to any
bank, including Narodnyi Bank, incentives for operating outlets in defined, remote settlements for a minimum number
of hours per week. Such outlets could include part-time counters, mobile units, post offices providing rudimentary
services on subcontract, or even automatic teller machines.
16.      While the playing field is thus being levelled, Narodnyi Bank has already embarked on a vigorous restructuring
effort to compete in the new environment. The supervisory board of the bank decided in April 1995 to further rationalize
its staffing and to dispose of at least 500 outlets through closure, lease, or sale. We will authorize the bank's management
to eliminate more outlets, if it deems necessary. By end 1996, the rationalization of staff and branches should be
substantially completed. An institutional development plan is expected to be approved by mid-1996, and will also indicate
an appropriate timing for the eventual privatization of the bank.



Annex 3
Page 4 of 8
17.      Tightening Prudential Supervision. Our country's prudential ratios and minimum capital requirements as
stipulated in existing regulations, are approaching norms of the Basle committee. NBK is also paying increasing attention
to banks' internal procedures and has issued guidelines on credit approval, internal control and internal audit of banks.
To strengthen the enforcement of the norms, NBK's Bank Supervision Department has recently been restructured and its
legal basis strengthened. NBK has also been tightening the ways prudential ratios are defined. NBK has chosen this
gradualist approach because of wide disparities in the condition of banks in the nascent market economy. In the first half
of 1996, NBK has pre-announced a timetable for raising actually enforced levels and calculation methods of prudential
norms. For instance, it requires banks since end 1995 to fully provision for loan losses, but counts in the first year only
a specified percentage of these provisions against capital when calculating capital adequacy, and this percentage will then
be raised over time to one hundred.
18.      At the same time, NBK offers incentives to banks to go beyond the minima. It differentiates an international
standards bank (ISB) track, where banks will come into full compliance with international standards within three years,
from a slower basic track aimed at regional and special-purpose banks. Banks that meet the criteria of the ISB track at
a point in time will benefit from exclusive permission to participate in certain programs that should be limited to the
soundest banks. For example, they will be the only banks permitted to participate in government-guaranteed foreign
credit and NBK's credit auctions, to issue bonds, to be primary T-bill dealers, and eventually, by about mid-1997, also
to collect household deposits. This harmonizes in fact the many differentiations between more or less sound banks that
NBK has earlier applied in an ad hoc fashion to these programs. By August 1996, NBK will issue regulations
implementing the concept of an international standards bank track that has been agreed with the Bank.
19.      In tightening prudential supervision over time, NBK gives particular attention to three weaknesses. First, NBK
has issued regulations that define the notion of connected borrower and limit the aggregate exposure to all connected
borrowers together to 100 percent of capital. Second, NBK is bringing bank guarantees fully under its supervision.
Third, we have confirmed, by a Council of Ministers Decision, that the state-owned banks are subject to NBK's
supervisory norms and enforcement, with any special rules or relaxation of norms that are necessary to take into account
the specific nature of their activities to be specifically stipulated by NBK bank by bank. The NBK will stipulate these
special rules or relaxation of norms, taking into consideration provisions in the normative acts that established the
respective banks.
Part Two: Resolving Problem Loans and Problem Banks
1.       Sharing the Burden of Problem Loans. The banking sector has been clogged with problem loans from the early
transition years. Under a burden-sharing concept, therefore, we have been relieving banks of bad loans that had been
instructed by various authorities, and facilitate (through adequate tax provisions and other means) the banks'
recapitalization from private sources after they have provisioned for the bad loans that had not been instructed. Individual
depositors are expected most probably not to share the burden since their deposits in banks are very limited relative to
GDP and would have priority claims on the proceeds from asset liquidation. Corporate depositors, however, may suffer
from some of the bank closures.
2.      Last year, we began relieving commercial banks of non-performing loans that were instructed by
authorities. We have done this first for loans that we believed to be beyond the banks' own loan resolution capacity
-- due to the size of the debtors, the social impact of foreclosure against them, or the sensitivities of foreclosing
against recipients of credit from foreign export credit agencies. We have been transferring such loans, together with
their refinancing by the Treasury or NBK, to special institutions. (i) Most loans to some 30 of the country's largest
insolvent net debtors have been transferred to the Rehabilitation Bank. In 1996, we will transfer to it also some of
the large insolvent debtors that have been under management contract but still owe overdue credit service to the
banks. (ii) Virtually all non-performing instructed credit to farms was transferred to the Agricultural Support Fund
(ASF). Starting in the first half of 1996, the ASF's Board shall play a more active role and include substantial
representation from the Ministry of Finance; additional financial professionals shall be employed by the ASF; and the
ASF will start producing a proper balance sheet and profit and loss statement. Post-privatization assistance and
subsidy functions, if any, will internally be separated from the debt resolution function. (iii) The Exim Bank took
over from Alem Bank almost all outstanding loans funded by foreign export credit agencies on the basis of
government guarantees. The Budget for 1996 envisages about US$ 320 million to make good on the guarantees.



Annex 3
Page 5 of 8
Since we gave guarantees only to the foreign lenders, the Exim Bank would in this case have a liability towards us,
and still carry the risk of non-payment by the subborrowers. Early this year, we have therefore put almost all the
bank's inherited foreign-financed loans on an agency basis.
3.      Other non-performing instructed credit has also affected banks with burdens for which they bore little
responsibility and clouded their financial status. The Government's responsibility was often left somewhat unclear,
although we did generally not collect our refinancing beyond what the banks collected from the final beneficiaries. We
are now bringing clarity and resolution to this issue. The Ministry of Finance put on an agency basis the bank credit
stemming from the inter-enterprise clearing exercise in spring 1994, and applied a similar procedure to the so-called
Directed Credit issued in 1994. We will similarly in 1996 convert to managed fund status or else guarantee the much
smaller amounts of even older non-performing bank loans that were also instructed by central or local authorities.
4.      After receiving relief from instructed credit, the banks will still need to make substantial loss provisions on their
remaining, uninstructed credit and to provision for contingent liabilities from bank guarantees and letters of credit. NBK
started in 1995 requiring loan classification based on a standard methodology and is tightening enforcement of the capital
adequacy norm over time. Since new capital infusions from the state are not generally foreseen, the banks need to
recapitalize themselves through earnings and private capital contributions. The authorities are facilitating this private
and internal recapitalization. We have by end-1995 amended tax legislation to allow, before tax, specific loan loss
provisions on all classified loans pre-dating 1995 in full, and up to 50 percent of the book value of all outstanding loans
from 1995 or thereafter. On classified bank guarantees, tax legislation will permit specific loan-loss provisions pre-tax
of up to 20 percent of their total value. In addition, NBK adopted a resolution which raises the interest rate on
reserve/correspondent accounts with NBK to 50 percent of its refinancing rate, effective July 1, 1996.
5.      Resolving Problem Loans. By March 1995, the non-performing loans of Kazakstan's banks to the real sector
amounted to roughly 9.5-10.5 percent of GDP. A major resolution effort, rather than blanket loan forgiveness, was
warranted for the benefit of the financial and real sectors. First, it raises the revenue of the banks and the Budget and
avoids moral hazard in future lending. Second, it prevents unfair competitive advantages to defaulters, takes excessive
and value-subtracting capacity out of production, and generally accelerates enterprise sector adjustment. Local capacity
for the active resolution of non-performing loans is limited, however. We have prepared a policy that mixes case-by-case
and systemic methods of loan resolution, to be carried out both centrally by the Ministry of Finance and special debt
resolution institutions, and on a decentralized basis by the commercial banks. The methods include liquidation and
reorganization (both in-court and out-of-court), collateral foreclosure, debt restructuring, loan sales, and residual
forgiveness in return for minimum partial settlement.
6.      The resolution of carved-out bad loans will proceed in several institutions. (i) The Rehabilitation Bank has
been designed in a manner to ensure that it forces hard budget constraints and rigorous downsizing or accelerated
liquidation on its debtors. The Supervisory Council of the Rehabilitation Bank adopted in February 1996 specific
operating principles satisfactory to the World Bank in the context of the SAL. These operating rules shall be followed
throughout 1996 and beyond. Moreover, the transfer of funds from the 1996 Budget to the bank is expected not to exceed
T 6 billion. By end October 1996, liquidation proceedings will have been initiated against at least three insolvent
corporate debtors of the Rehabilitation Bank, and the staff of at least five other corporate debtors of said bank will have
been reduced by 30 percent each or more in comparison to the numbers employed thereat on November 1, 1995. Before
November 1996, we will review the bank's success in enforcing drastic restructuring and curtailing the cash flow losses
of its debtors and will decide on an action plan to address weaknesses. (ii) The Council of Ministers has adopted an
action plan, satisfactory to the World Bank, on the resolution of farm loans taken over by the Agricultural Support
Fund. A key element of this plan is residual debt forgiveness in return for minimum partial payment, with the aim to
reduce the number of farms that are insolvent due to the fund's loans to a fraction of the current number. Claims that
remain unsettled will be publicly disclosed and the respective farms excluded from any further funding from the ASF.
Moreover, unsettled claims will be used to force farm restructuring or liquidation. (iii) The Exim Bank loans with
funding by foreign export credit agencies that were granted prior to mid-1995 are being assumed by the Ministry of
Finance. The bank, which will manage the loans on an agency basis, will receive incentives for loan collection. (iv) We
have prepared a plan for resolving domestic directed loans that have been carved out and moved to the Ministry of
Finance. This plan foresees loan sales, with no substantial minimum price, as an important instrument. Careful attention
is paid to the potential impact of the scheme on enterprise governance. As a first prior step, the debtors were in February



Annex 3
Page 6 of 8
1996 offered forgiveness of the residual claims if they paid by March 20, 1996 the outstanding principle as well as
overdue interest equivalent to 10 percent per annum. The Council of Ministers has adopted an action plan, satisfactory
to the World Bank, on the resolution policy for overdue enterprise borrowing from the Ministry of Finance, or with a
Ministry of Finance guarantee.
7.      Uninstructed bad loans to small and medium enterprises require resolution by the commercial banks themselves.
In 1995, NBK has prodded the banks to establish internal work-out units, helped mobilize external advisors on this matter,
and triggered a rigorous loan collection effort at Kredsoz, Narodnyi, and Alem Bank. At the same time, NBK has started
phasing in loan loss provisioning, which forces banks to emphasize loan collection.
8.      We are also using state ownership rights in enterprises to accelerate loan collection. (i) The management
contracts that we concluded for about forty large firms last year mandate rapid settlement of the firms' overdue debts.
However, the actual success in settling bank debt has been uneven, and more than ten of the contracts have already been
revoked, mainly for this reason. In the first half of 1996, we have reviewed the model and actual contracts and their
implementation with regard to debt resolution, and elaborated improved standard provisions. (ii) The Enterprise
Restructuring Agency was established in mid-1995 to control the liquidation or reorganization of insolvent small and
medium enterprises with majority state ownership. Subsequently, the Agency took over the additional functions of
monitoring the indebtedness of state enterprises and advising very large enterprises in the preparation of restructuring plans
to submission to their creditors. (iii) Large state-owned utilities, fuel suppliers, and the railroads have been encouraged
to force debt resolution on insolvent clients. We will review the receivables structure of the largest public supplier
enterprises and establish a regular reporting of these receivables.
9.      Resolving Problem Banks. NBK has been handling a large number of ordinary problem banks. Starting
with an early notice to a problem bank, NBK imposes graduated sanctions that include barring the bank from NBK's credit
auctions; agreement on a time-bound action plan for coming into compliance; external management appointed by NBK;
suspension or withdrawal of the banking license; and sale to new investors or liquidation. Since mid-1993, NBK has
withdrawn the banking licenses of 103 banks, which are 45 percent of all banks ever licensed. About 72 of these cases
resulted in liquidation, but most of these liquidations were drawn out by legal disputes. NBK has then created special
liquidation units; got through the Presidential Decree on Banking more effective options for early control of, and
proceedings against, problem banks; and issued regulations on bank liquidation in February 1996 and further implementing
regulations on bank conservatorship in March 1996.
10.     One of the ordinary problem banks that do not warrant, and will therefore not receive, extraordinary treatment
by the authorities is Kredsoz Bank. Although formerly a state-owned specialized bank, Kredsoz Bank is today fully in
private hands, including strategic investors, and under a new management team. Its assets total about 4 percent of the
commercial banking sector, comparable to the major new private banks, and its household deposits some 0.5 percent of
all commercial banks. NBK will handle the bank with the same resolve as other ordinary problem banks.
11.     Alem Bank is a very large bank, in the local context, with today about T 33 billion assets. A year ago, the bank
became illiquid; NBK took over the management for two weeks, restored liquidity, and initiated restructuring. The chief
executive of the bank has been replaced early this year, and several other key management changes have followed.
International auditors were engaged to produce an audit of the end-1995 balance sheet and strategic recommendations for
the bank, for adoption of the strategy by the bank's Supervisory Council in May 1996. By mid-1996, Alem Bank will
be downsized, its internal procedures and controls tightened, and its net worth improved through the following measures,
among others: (i) The bank's largest fixed assets and equity investments, as well as some of its 24 branches, will be put
on sale. (ii) Foreclosure on overdue debtors and their collateral is already being drastically stepped up, and their deposits
are used to settle their loans. Several dozen lawsuits for damages are also already under way. (iii) The bank will issue
tight internal policies regarding credit and guarantee approvals, loan/deposit ratio, currency positions, and internal control
and audit. This initial defensive restructuring will facilitate the bank's privatization; the state owns currently 53 percent
of the bank's shares. The EBRD is considering the possibility of participating in the equity of the bank, and helping find
strategic private investors. Negotiations with no more than four private investors for the purchase by them of the majority
of shares of Alem Bank will commence by October 1996.
12.     Turan Bank has assets, before provisioning, of about T 22 billion. It is fully private. Turan Bank has



Annex 3
Page 7 of 8
benefitted more than any other bank from the transfer of bad loans to the Rehabilitation Bank, our resolution of old
clearing credit, our concluding management contracts with debt settlement clauses, and the privatization of the Karaganda
steel combinate. However, this support from our side, and various internal improvements since mid-95, need to be
followed by more restructuring and downsizing to make Turan Bank a sound bank. An on-site examination of Turan Bank
was conducted in March/April 1996, and an international audit of the bank's end-1995 statements has been carried out.
The examination results helped shape an agreement on a time-bound restructuring plan. Such an action plan agreement,
satisfactory to the World Bank, has been signed recently between Turan Bank and NBK, aimed at downsizing Turan Bank
and bringing it into compliance with prudential norms by end-1998. The implementation of key elements, agreed with
the IBRD, of an action plan pursuant to the above agreement between NBK and Turan Bank or, alternatively, the
assumption of conservatorship over Turan Bank by NBK, will be accomplished within half a year after signing of the
agreement between NBK and Turan Bank.
13.     Agroprom Bank has become extraordinarily oversized through various developments since 1993. Virtually all
instructed credit to farms was moved from Agroprom Bank to the Agricultural Support Fund; directed credit virtually
dried up; a special harvest financing scheme in 1995 did not involve the bank; and the core clientele, the large farms, was
too distressed to hold substantial deposits. Moreover, as the large state farms decay and release much smaller, genuinely
private farms, the Agroprom Bank with its bureaucratic culture, shortage of modern banking skills, branches only in rayon
capitals and a reputation of distress, is facing difficulties reaching down to the farm level. The bank's total loans would
be in the range of T 3 billion if proper provisions were taken. Although the bank's financial situation improved slightly
in recent months, the implosion of its financial assets in the last two years requires major corresponding cuts in capacity.
By March 1996, the bank's staffing had been reduced by 28 percent but the number of branches by only 2 percent.
14.    In the first half of 1996, NBK as regulator is developing an action plan with the owners and management of this
problem bank. This agreement would include three phases. Phase one would entail a major downsizing of the branch
network upfront, focused on those branches which are most clearly non-viable or redundant. This would be accompanied
by further staff reductions. Moreover, the bank would be required to phase out within one year deposits from households,
except family farms. In phase two, after further study, clusters of branches would be offered to private investors. These
clusters will transcend oblast boundaries in order to reduce administrative interference, and would entail no restrictions
on future staff reductions. In phase three, branches that remain unsold even after some financial restructuring would in
principle be limited to agency operations or else closed. The spun-off clusters would be able to choose to use part of the
headquarters as a basis for a service center.
15.     Whatever the features of Agroprom Bank's restructuring, there is, and will be, a gap in agricultural finance
which needs to be filled through other means. The existing private commercial banks generally lack any rural branch
network and find lending to the emerging private farms in principle uneconomic for reasons of scale, policy risks and
other factors. For seasonal financing, this void is filled by credit from suppliers and clients, especially traders. In 1995,
Kazkommerz Bank pre-financed part of the grain harvest, with various guarantees by state entities. For 1996, a modified
scheme helps to pre-finance the harvest of grain for state reserves. We would also consider providing private seasonal
financiers in future with guarantees only against damages from certain specified adverse Government actions, such as
expropriation or trade policy changes. If additional emergency agricultural credit is needed from the state, it will be
channeled on an agency basis. Moreover, we are reviewing the pros and cons, and the existing legal framework, of rural
mutual credit societies in the local context. A first NBK regulation on mutual credit societies has been introduced, and
NBK has received first applications. In addition, we have started working on legal provisions regarding leases, and
mobilizing donor support for agricultural leasing.
16.     The Exim Bank reflects the Republic's need for an institution that can provide project expertise, mobilize
financial resources, channel funds and enforce debt service. However, collection problems plague the approximately US$
1 billion portfolio of loans funded by foreign export credit agencies that the initial Exim Bank had taken over from Alem
Bank. Calls on the underlying Government guarantees constitute today a major burden on the Budget. In 1995 such calls
on guarantees left us with claims on Exim Bank and some final borrowers Earlier this year, we have now relieved the
bank of its inherited externally funded exposures by putting them on an agency basis, with a collection bonus for the bank,
except for claims on defaulting borrowers totalling US$ 13.9 million which have been transferred to Exim Bank as an
increase of our equity in the bank. Collection has also been a problem on the loans that the Development Bank had taken
over from the Economic Transformation Fund as the Government's main original capital injection into that bank. In the



Annex 3
Page 8 of 8
first half of 1996, the bank underwent an in-depth audit of its end-1995 balance sheet. On this basis, the bank will
provision against the Transformation Fund and other, newer loans.
17.     To prevent financial problems in the future lending of the Exim Bank, the bank needs to be strengthened
institutionally. Early in the third quarter of 1996, an institutional diagnosis of the bank will be substantially completed.
The Government will then approve an institutional development plan, acceptable to the World Bank, for the strengthening
of the Exim Bank. For example, the bank will be restricted for 3 years, or until it is privatized to a substantial degree,
to a specified list of core instrument/activities, not to include household deposits, so as to prevent the bank from diluting
its efforts and becoming less transparent. To further ensure the bank's financial soundness, NBK has issued a regulation
mandating full compliance by Exim Bank no later than by 1/1/1997, with NBK's supervisory norms applied to the
international standards bank track, except for the connected borrower limit. The debtlequity ratio has been limited to 3:1
to account for the particular risks of long-term lending. In instances where we wish the bank to finance social sector
project or any projects rejected by the bank for lending at its own risk, we will use the bank as an agent to manage the
funds on our behalf without risk for the bank. (At the same time, other banks that are on the international bank standards
track will also be permitted to on-lend at their own risk with a counter-guarantee to us, or channel on an agency basis,
external loans funded guaranteed by us.) The expansion of the Exim Bank's risk assets will be largely determined by the
growth of its equity. New equity will be paid in by the state in line with the overall fiscal constraint, and only after the
bank's strategy has been agreed on. To further improve the bank's governance, we agree to raising a private equity stake
of at least more than 33 percent within 3 years, and will undertake reasonable efforts to mobilize significant foreign or
other private equity already before end 1996.
18.    To support the program of financial sector reforms laid out in this letter, the Government of the Republic of
Kazakstan is requesting a Financial Sector Adjustment Loan from the World Bank in an amount of US$180 million.
Sincerely yours,
Viktor Sobolev                                     Oraz Dzhandosov
Deputy Prime Miiister                                     Chairman
Republic of Kazakstan                     National Bank of the Republic of Kazakstan



Annex 4
Page I of 7
KAZAKHSTAN
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
[     Objectives               Actions Taken before Board Presentation        I   Actions to be Taken Before Second Tranche
I. PROVIDING AN ENVIRONMENT CONDUCIVE FOR SOUND BANKING SECTOR GROWTH
a. Strengthening the Framework for Secured Lending
i. Improving property  * Civil Code Part I of early 1995 replaced, inter alia, the  * Prepare legislation on pledges on movable
rights legislation    laws on property, pledges, and leases.                   property.
* Draft of Civil Code Part 11 is being reviewed.
* Pres.Decree on Bankruptcy signed in 4/95.
* Pres.Decree on Econ. Entities and Companies signed in
5/95.
* New Constitution of mid-95 introduced private land
ownership.
* Pres.Decree on Land signed in 12/95.
* Pres.Decree on Mortgage of Real Estate was signed in
12/95.
ii. Providing        * New chart of account and several accounting standards for  * Adontion by the Borrower or an Accountin   l
information          enterprises developed.                                   Standards Board of the Borrower, and
through reporting   * Pres.Decree on Accounting issued in 12/95.               publication, of a new chart of accounts and a
and registration   * Govemment is publishing lists of delinquent debtor        comprehensive set of accountine standards
systems              enterprises.                                             conforming substantialiv with International
* Pres.Decree on Registration of Legal Entities signed in  Accountine Standards.
mid-95.                                               * Reduce notary fees on collateral from 10% to a
* Registration of urban real estate restructured in 1995.   much lower level.
* Prepare a registry system for pledges on movable
properties.
* Start operation of a credit information bureau.
* Issue a regulation that prohibits banks and their
affiliated parties from owning or managing
agencies that rate fin. institutions.
iii. Strengthening the   * Code on Civil Procedures prepared.                  * Pass a law on bankrupctv with adequate
judiciary         * Code on Criminal Procedure prepared.                      provisions for its application and enforcement,
* Court system unified by abolishing the arbitrage courts in  or prescribe adequate rules, reou1ations or
10/95.                                                   procedures for the application and enforcement
* Extensive training program for judicial personnel,        of the Pres.Decree on Bankruptcy of 1995.
including in financial and corporate jurisdiction, developed  * Introduce a new system of the selection of judges.
and started implementation.
b. Fostering the Institutional Development of Banks
i. Enhancing bank    * Many banks got partly privatized through privatization of   * Offer for sale to private investors all state
govemance,           their owners and through share dilution.                 shares in, or withdraw the bankine licenses of,
especially through   * MOF swapped the bank shares held by state enterprises   all except no more than 10 banks (other than
bank privatization   against bonds in 3-6/95. The Pres.Decree on Banking of    NBK) whose equity includes state shares.
8/95 forbids such firms to own bank shares.           * Provide in the 1997 budget for potential equity
* Turan Bank and Kredsoz Bank, and 8 medium and small      contribution to no banks others than fully state-
banks, fully privatized since mid-95. Licenses withdrawn  owned ones.
from 17-banks with state shares.
* Strategy for fair and transparent bank privatization has
been finalized.
* Management of Agroprom and Narodnyi Bank replaced in
late 1994, and Alem Bank's in 1/1996.
* Govemment as shareholder agreed to henceforth appoint
some independent professionals to the supervisory councils
of state-owned banks not slated for privatization in 1996.
.. = Condition for Board Presentation; .... = Condition for Second Tranche Release



Annex 4
Page 2 of 7
[     Objectives                Actions Taken before Board Presentation              Actions to be Taken Before Second Tranche
ii. Transferring      * A bank advisory center and two bank training centers
modem banking         star:ed operating in 1994. Two of them were combined
and management        under the Bankers Association; the joining of the third is
skills                being prepared.
* Bank twinning program, with EBRD and IBRD support,
for 7 banks has been initiated. Banks are being screened
for eligibility, and some grant co-funding has been
mobilized.
* Withdrawal of over 100 bank licenses since mid-93 has
been weeding out ineffective bank managers.
* Pres.Decree on Banking of 8/95 tightened the NBK
approval of bank and branch managers.
* Plan to focus bankers training on priority needs has been
l _________________      developed.
iii. Reforming bank    * New chart of accounts, reporting formats, and accounting   * Establish bank audit standards.
accounting and       instructions for commercial banks developed.           * Introduce standard terms of reference for bank
audit             * Bank accounting standards based on the International       audits and minimum audit disclosure
Accounting Standards (IAS 30) established.                requirements.
* In-depth diagnostic studies on the ten largest banks    * Make extemal audit according to standards
submitted by international auditors in early 1995.        equivalent to intemational ones mandatory for
* NBK has issued regulations that make a new chart of        banks on the ISB track, and require it also from
accounts. reporting formats and accountine standards      large problem banks.
mandatory for all commercial banks as their wirmar
system by 1/97, includina an opening balance for 1997.
* Implementation of a comprehensive training program in
bank accounting commenced.
c. Facilitating Inter-Bank Payments and Liquidity Management
i. Providing          * T-bills issued through auction since 4/94. Secondary       Offer banks with sufficient collateral at NBK an
monetary              market developed rapidly in 1995.                         automatic overnight Lombard facility.
instruments to     * NBK introduced short-term notes in mid-95.
facilitate liquidity    * NBK started repurchase (repo) and reverse repo operations
management           in early 1996.
* NBK issued regulations on money market houses. A first
one started operating by mid 1995.
* Income tax on state securities eliminated.
* Lombard facility introduced in early 1996.
ii. Broadening the    * Republic acceeded to the 1930 Geneva Convention on Bills  * Enact a law on bills of exchange and
range of available    of Exchange and Promissory Notes in 11/95.                promissory notes conforming with the Geneva
payment            * Restrictions on the use of cheques revisited in early 1996.  Convention of 1930 providing a Uniform Law
instruments                                                                     for Bills of Exchange and Promissory Notes.
* Pass legislation on letters of credit substantially
conform with the Paris Convention on Uniform
Standards and Procedures.
iii. Developing       * National Payment Council reactivated in early 1995; plays   * Issue improved regulations on inter-bank clearing
effective and        a key role in defining policy and rules.                  and on settlement that specify, inter alia, NBK's
efficient payment   * Improvements to NBK's payments system in 94/95 allow     exclusive supervision responsibilities for payment
systems              its oblast centers to handle inter-oblast payments via E-  systems and the requirement that all payments get
Mail.                                                     settled on NBK books.
* Almaty Clearing Center. controlled by 9 banks, started up   * Elaborate a plan for the transfer of control over
after mid-95. It clears also for others.                  clearing operations in the long-term system to the
|* Feasibility and design study for a long-term payment     banks.
system substantially completed.                        * Require each bank to maintain one unified
reserve/corresp. account nationwide with
NBK. Exceptions (for technical reasons)
require agreement on an implementation
timetable.
* Start to build a long-term payment system that
will channel and settle high-value transactions
gross in real time.
...... = Condition for Board Presentation;    = Condition for Second Tranche Release



Annex 4
Page 3 of 7
Objectives                Actions Taken before Board Presentation                Actions to be Taken Before Second Tranche
d. Ensuring Competition on an Even Playing Field
i. Remove regulatory  * Over 200 banks were licensed in 1991-93, and 129 are
barriers to bank       still operating. Licensing requirements have since
competition            increased, but licensing has not stopped completely.
* Law allows foreign bank ownership up to 100%. More
than 12 foreign and joint venture banks exist.
* Government Resolution that required each state enterprise
to hold its current accounts only in one bank has been
abrogated.
* NBK is authorized since 1/96 to license foreign-owned
banks on a case-by-case basis irrespective of the combined
share of all foreign-owned banks in the total capital of all
commercial banks.
ii. Revisit deposit    *  Pres.Decree on Banking of 8/95 limits the state liabilitv  * License a deposit insurance only if it is voluntary
guarantee and          for any bank to its capital in the bank, and thus eliminates  and does not implicate NBK or GOK financially.
deposit insurance     the state deposit guarantee.
* Among the state banks, only Narodnyi and Housing Bank
have licenses for household deposits.
iii. Make the savings   * Narodnyi Bank (NB) is free in setting interest rates.    * Approve the strategy and restructuring plan for
bank network       * In return, the bank must comply with reserve requirements    NB, incl. the timing of eventual privatization.
viable without        since 7/95, got its tax freedom repealed, and enjoys no  * Substantially complete the rationalization of NB
privileges            more deposit guarantee.                                     staff and branches.
* Management of NB was replaced in late 94.                 * Instruct state organs to desist from demanding the
* NB curtailed its commercial lending in 1995, and lent        provision of financial services from NB or any
interbank only to banks that it selects among NBK-auction  other bank without charges that reflect market
eligible banks.                                             conditions or costs.
* NB has been reducing fixed costs through staff and branch   * Consider introducing financial incentives to any
cuts (having closed 900 outlets since 1993), and raising    bank for operating outlets in defined remote
capacity utilization through new fee-based services and     settlements a minimum hours per week.
forex deposits.
i NB's Supervisory Council has decided to substantially
rationalize staffing and to dispose of at least 500 outlets.
Government expressed it readiness to authorize the
disposal of additional outlets.
Condition for Board Presentation; ..... = Condition for Second Tranche Release



Annex 4
Page 4 of 7
Objectives               Actions Taken before Board Presentation         [   Actions to be Taken Before Second Tranche
e. Enforcing Prudential Norms
i. Tightening         * The main prudential ratios were set at stringent levels in  * Isue an NBK resulations Imnlementing the
prudential norms      1994, confirmed in 8/95 by the Pres.Decree on Banking,    policy reaardlna an International Standards
and their             and further refined by NBK regulations. The calculation   Bank ISB) track mareed with the Bank.
enforcement           of the ratios was clarified by a NBK regulation of 3/96,  Different from a slower base track, the ISB track
and their enforcement is being tightened.                 will lead to full compliance with international
* NBK regulations clarified the definition of connected     standards by end 1998. Only banks on the ISB
borrower and limit the aggregate exposure to all connected  track will be eligible to special activities such as
borrowers to 100% of capital.                             NBK credit auctions, Government-guaranteed
* NBK regulation of 3/96 brought guarantees issued by       foreign credit, establishment of investment banks.
banks fully under prudential supervision.                 issuance of bank bonds, etc.
* Minimum capital for commercial banks increased to $0.5m
equivalent, $1S.5m if a bank has branches or forex
transactions, and T 200m (US$ 3m) for banks that take
household deposits.
* NBK has issued regulations on internal control, internal
audit, and credit approval.
* Pres. Decrees on NBK and Banking of 1995 reinforced the
basis of prudential regulation and enforcement.
* NBK raised its staff positions in the Supervision Dept. to
112, in addition to a large bank liquidation unit, and
mobilized TA of some 6 person-years per year. It
reorganized the Department into teams in charge of
clusters of banks, and centralized it in Almaty
headquarters.
* A Council of Ministers Decision has confirmed that the
state-owned banks are subject to NBK's supervisorl
norms and enforcement, with any special rules or
relaxations of norms that are necessary to take into
account the specific nature of their activities to be
specificaliv stipulated by NBK bank bv bank.
H1. DEALING WITH PROBLEM LOANS AND PROBLEM BANKS
a. Sharing the Burden of Problem Loans
i. Relieving banks of  * The Rehabilitation Bank (RB) was created in 1995 to take   * Transfer to the RB some of the insolvent debtors
bad loans that had    over the non-performing bank loans and budget claims to  that have been under management contract but
been instructed by    very large net debtors. It became fully operational, got  still owe overdue credit service to banks.
authorities           more than 30 firms assigned, and has started taking over    * As to the ASF, ensure substantial MOF
bank loans to them.                                       representation on its Board; add financial
* The Agricultural Support Fund (ASF) was set up in 1994,   professionals to its staff; produce appropriate
and took over the non-performing instructed farm loans of  financial statements; and internally, separate the
Agroprom and other banks by mid-95. Agroprom Bank         post-privatization assistance and subsidy
was later also relieved of some bad loans to agro-industrial    functions, if any, from the debt resolution
firms.                                                    function.
* The Exim Bank was created in 1994 through spin-off from   * Convert to managed fund status, or give MOF
Alem Bank. By 9/95, it assumed almost all Alem Bank       guarantee for, those non-performing loans of pre-
loans funded by export credit agencies against a GOK      1994 that were clearly instructed by authorities
guarantee; much of this portfolio is non-performing.      and are still held by commercial banks.
These loans have been put on a managed fund basis. The
1996 budget includes US$ 320m to repay foreign lenders.
* GOK has by end 1994 relieved the commercial banks of
the risk associated with Directed Credit of 1994/95, and de
facto of loans from an inter-enterprise arrears clearing of
l _______________ _ |    early   1994.
...... = Condition for Board Presentation; ..... = Condition for Second Tranche Release



Annex 4
Page 5 of 7
Objectives     |         Actions Taken before Board Presentation         |   Actions to be Taken Before Second Tranche
ii. Requiring and     * Major increase of minimum capital requirement effective    Permit pre-tax specific loss provisions on
facilitating private  11/95 forced banks to raise private capital.              classified bank guarantees, up to 20% of their
recapitalization   * NBK introduced in 1995 mandatory loan classification       value.
based on a standard methodology, and requires full
adequate provisions to be reported since start 1996. (Loan
loss provisions can be "amortized" over several years,
however, for purposes of calculating capital adequacy.)
* In 12/95. tax provisions have been amended effective
from 1/1/1996. to allow, before tax, specific loan loss
provisions on all classified loans pre-datine 1995 in full.
and up to 50% of the book value of outstandine loans
from 1995 or thereafter.
* An NBK Decision of 3/96 raises the interest rate on
reserve/correspondentaccounts with NBK to 50% of
the NBK's rermancing rate effective 7/1/1996. Said
decision also reduces the reserve ratio to 15% effective
4/1/1996.
b. Resolving Bad Loans
i. Resolving carved-   * A key objective of the Rehabilitation Bank (RB) is to force  * RB will follow its Operating Principles in place
out bad loans         drastic defensive restructuring or liquidation on large   since 3/96.
debtor enterprises. An Advisory Unit helps these debtors   * Review the success of the RB in enforcing drastic
develop restructuring and liquidation plans. The RB       restructuring and curtailing cash flow losses of its
adopted in 2/96 rigorous Operating Principles aimed at    large debtors, and decide an action plan to
ensuring rapid downsizing and cash flow recovery,         address weaknesses.
conditioning funds on implementation benchmarks and       Initiation of liquidation proceedings against at
phasing it out, encouraging debtor privatization, and using  least 3 insolvent corporate debtors of the RB
RB funds mainly for downsizing.                           and reduction of staff of at least 5 other
* The ASF has been asking insolvent farms for restructuring  corporate debtors of the RB by 30% each or
plans, but lacks capacity for farm restructuring on a case-  more in comparison to the numbers employed
by-case basis. In 5/96. the Council of Ministers adopted  thereat on 11/1/95.
an action plan, satisfactory to the World Bank, on the
resolution of loans taken over by the ASF. The policy
focuses on residual debt forgiveness in return for
immediate partial payment.
* MOF resolution of 2/96 asked all enterprises to repay in
one month all principal plus 10% annual interest
outstanding to state organs, and offered to forgive all
further overdue interest in return. In 5/96, the Council of
Ministers adopted an action plan, satisfactory to the
World Bank, on the resolution policy for overdue
enterprise borrowintg from MOF, or with a MOF
guarantee. It emphasizes the buy-back and sale of loans.
* A special GOK commission puts pressure on firms deemed
willful defaulters on inherited Exim Bank loans.
ii. Using state       * Government concluded in 1995 management contracts for   * Review by end 6/96 the model and actual
ownership rights to    over 30 major industrial/mining firms. They oblige the   management contracts regarding debt resolution
accelerate loan       contractors to ensure rapid settlement of firms' overdue  and elaborate better standard provisions.
collection            debt.                                                  * Review the structure of receivables of the main
* Enterprise Restructuring Agency created in 1995 controls  state-owned utilities, transport/communication,
the restructuring or liquidation of some small/medium state    and coal/fuel enterprises; establish a regular
firms.                                                    reporting of these receivables; and instruct RB,
* Public supplier firms started denying delivery to overdue  ASF, and Restructuring Agency to coordinate
debtors.                                                  their actions against debtors with them.
iii. Encouraging bad    * NBK has been encouraging banks to set up internal work-
loan resolution by   out units. Turan and Kredsoz Bank receive TA for this.
commercial banks     Some large banks are now aggressively pursuing loan
resolution.
* The phasing in of loan loss provisioning forces banks to
emphasize loan collection.
.... = Condition for Board Presentation: ..... = Condition for Second Tranche Release



Annex 4
Page 6 of 7
Objectives               Actions Taken before Board Presentation         |   Actions to be Taken Before Second Trancbe
c. HandLing Problem Banks
i. Handling a large    * Since 6/93, NBK withdrew the licenses of 45% of all
number of             banks (103 banks, of which 55 in 1995).
ordinary problem    * NBK created bank liquidation divisions in 1995.
banks              * Pres.Decree on Banking of 8/95 gives NBK effective
options for early control of, and proceedings against,
problem banks. The Civil Code was amended
accordingly.
* Since 1995, NBK actively applies graduated sanctions,
including early notice, exclusion from credit auctions,
time-bound compliance plans, license withdrawal, etc.
* NBK issued implementing regulations on bank liquidation
in 2/96, and bank conservatorship in 3/96.
ii. Restructuring and   * Alem Bank's loans funded by foreign export credit     * Commence ne2otlations with no more than four
privatizing Alem      agencies, many of which are non-performing, were moved    private investors for the purchase by them of
Bank                 to the Exim Bank in 1995.                                 the maioritv of shares of Alem Bank.
* After a crisis in 6/95, Alem Bank's liquidity was restored,
and its restructuring initiated, under temporary external
management by NBK.
* Alem Bank had been privatized spontaneously close to
majority, in 1992-94. Private stakes is 47%.
* Chief executive was replaced in 1/96.
* Intemational audit was carried out in early 1996.
* Alem Bank started downsizing by selling assets (fixed
assets, investments, and branches), and improving its net
worth by stepped-up foreclosure on debtors and collateral.
* Alem Bank has been strengthening intemal policies
regarding, e.g., credit and guarantee approvals,
loan/deposit ratio, currency positions, and intemal control.
iii. Downsizing Turan  * After partial privatization since 1993, all further state  * Implementation of key elements of the action
Bank                 shares in Turan Bank were sold at the exchange in 8/95 to  Wlan. agreed by IBRD uwon FSAL neeotiations|
investors around management.                              pursuant to the agreement between NBK and
* Since mid-95, the bank revised credit procedures,         Turan Bank, or alternativelyassumption of
enhanced its loan work-out dept., intensified training,   NBK conservatorshipover Turan Bank. It will
raised paid-in capital, cut its loan/deposit ratio to 1.5, and  address, inter alia, the collection of principal
started improving interest spread and administrative costs.  overdue, suspension of lending to large
* Loans to over 20 large Turan Bank defaulters are being    defaulters, loan/deposit ratio, compliance with
moved to the RB; loans from the 1994 arrears clearing are  ISB track capital adequacy, pay-in of of private
included in MOF's loan resolution program; over 20 major    capital, disposal of fixed assets, closure of
debtors came in 1995 under management contracts with      branches, and the reorganization of the branch
debt settlement obligation; and the largest debtor        network.
(KARMET) was taken over by a foreign strategic investor.
* NBK and Turan Bank have signed an action plan
aereement, satisfactory to the World Bank, aimed at
downsizine Turan Bank and bringing it into compliance
witb NBK Prudential norms by end 1998.
iv. Resolving         * Agroprom Bank has become 72% private.                   * NBK to reach agreement with Agroprom on a 3-
Agroprom Bank    * Almost all branches ceased lending in early 1994.           phase approach: (i) Strongly downsize the branch
* Agroprom's directed farm credit moved to ASF in 1995.     network, focused on most clearly non-viable or
* Due to the carve-out and negative real interest,          redundant branches; phase out household deposits;
Agroprom's portfolio shrank to 5-10% of the 4/94 level.  (ii) after further study, sell clusters of branches,
* Since 1/95, Agroprom cut staff by some 28%.                without restrictions on staff cuts; (iii) limit unsold
* Part of the 1995 grain harvest was pre-financed by another  branches primarily to agency operations or close
bank, with state guarantees. The pre-financing of the 1996    them. Headquarters might be chosen by the spun-
state grain reserve purchases was tendered among banks.   off clusters as a basis for a service center.
* Regulation on mutual credit societies introduced.       * If emergency agricultural credit is needed from
* Review of the pros and cons of rural credit cooperatives in  Government then have it managed on an agency
the local context commenced,                              basis by banks or professional fund managers.
...... = Condition for Board Presentation; _  = Condition for Second Tranche Release



Annex 4
Page 7 of 7
Objectives     I         Actions Taken before Board Presentation         ]    Actions to be Taken Before Second Tranche
v. Putting the Exim   * Merger of Exim and Development Bank in 8/95 ended       * Complete the institutional diagnostic of Exim
Bank on sound        their duplication of term lending.                         Bank.
footing            * In-depth audit of Exim Bank carried out.                * Government approval of an institutional
* MOF relieved Exim of all but US$ 14m of its inherited,    development Plan, acceptable to the World
non-performing externally funded loans by putting them on  Bank, for the strenethenine of the Exim Bank.
an agency basis. The bank's assets thus shrank beneath T  In this context, restrict the bank for 3 years, or
7bn before provisioning.                                  until it is substantially privatized, to a specified
* Policy framework for GOK guarantees to foreign lenders    list of core instrument/activities.
has been formulated. Monitoring system for all GOK-    * Exim Bank to provision for the inherited ETF
guaranteed external loans started up.                     loans. Budget to pay in new equity in line with
* Government agreed to put new infrastructure and social    the overall fiscal constraint.
sector loans involving Exim Bank, and projects rejected by  * Undertake reasonable efforts to mobilize foreign
the bank for lending at its own risk, on an agency basis.  or other private equity.
* Government agreed to bank's corporatization and partial
privatization.
* NBK issued a regulation mandating full compliance by
Exim Bank no later than 1/1/97 with NBK's
supervisory norms applied to the international
standards bank track, except for the connected
borrower linit. It limits the debt-eqnuity ratio to 3:1 to
account for the particular risks of long-ter lending.
......= Condition for Board Presentation; _. = Condition for Second Tranche Release



Annex 5
Page 1 of I
REPUBLIC OF KAZAKSTAN
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
PROJECT SUPPORT TO IMPLEMENTATION CAPACITY /a
Policy Objective                                Support                          Project   Amount        Timing
T                                        I ~    ~~~~~~~~~/b   |(5'000) Ting
Enhancing Secured Lending        Economic Legislation Assistance                         TAL           1,500     6/94-5/96
Development of Land Registration System                LRL            t.b.d.        t.b.d.
Assistance to Legislation re Pledges on Movable Property    PHRD         70        6-9/96
Institutional Development of     Advice on Bank Accounting/Audit Reform                  TAL             200         t.b.d.
Banks                            Twinning of Two Private Banks with ISB Potential        FEDL          4,000         t.b.d.
Study of Bank Application Software                      FEDL             60      1/96-3/96
Banking Applic. Software (incl. NBK Network Upgrade)   FEDL           3,000     6/96-2/97
Training of Banking Trainers (two programs)             (EDI)           600     8/94-6/96
Training of Bankers (several programs)                  (EDI)           200     3/94-3/97
TA for Project Implementation Capacity at NBK           FEDL            750     4/96-3/98
Facilitating Inter-Bank Payments   Investments for Interim Payment System                TAL           4,000     4/95-8/95
Study on Long-Tern Payment System                      TAL              400    7/94-10/95
Investments for Long-Term Payment System                FEDL         20,000     8/96-3/98
Financial Legislation Assistance                       TAL              400     5/96-2/97
Ensuring Competition             Twinning of Narodnyi Bank                               FEDL          3,000      8/96-5/98
Enforcing Prudential Norms       In-Depth Diagnosis of the Ten Largest Banks             TAL           2,600     9/94-4/95
On-Site Bank Supervision, Phase I                       TAL           1,000    10/95-3/97
On-Site Bank Supervision, Phase II                      FEDL          1,000    9/96-12/97
Resolving Bad Loans              Advice to the Establishment of the Rehabilitation Bank  TAL             150     2/95-5/95
FEDL            150     9/95-1/96
TA to the Management of the Rehabilitation Bank         FEDL          2,000     4/96-3/98
TA to the Development of Restructuring Plans for        FEDL         10,000    1/96-12/97
Rehabilitation Bank Debtors
Advice on Model and Enforcement of Management           PHRD             80        7-9/96
Contracts
Implementation Advice on Loan Resolution               PHRD              70       7-10/96
Handling Problem Banks           Branch Rationalization Study of Agroprom Bank           PHRD             80       7-10/96
On-Site Monitoring of Major Problem Banks               PHRD            100       6-12/96
Institutional Development Plan for Exim Bank           PHRD              80        6-9/96
Equipment for Exim Bank                                TAL              500          8/96
Restructuring Assistance to Agroprom Bank               FEDL          3,000         t.b.d.
/a   Further assistance is provided by other agencies in coordination with the Bank. It includes support in the following areas, inter alia:
IFC         Advice on capital markets development and leasing legislation.
IMF         Advice on monetary policy, payment system, bank supervision/regulation, etc.
EBRD        Twinning of three commercial banks; training in credit appraisal; etc.
ADB    :  Studies on rural finance and on enterprise reform.
USAID       TA for monetary policy, bank supervision, banking regulations, bank accounting, enterprise accounting, tax reform, legislation
on pledges and bankruptcy, capital markets developmen. etc.: training of bankers, judges, etc.
EU          Bankers training; development of the Banking Association; bank advisory services.
/b   TAL    =  Technical Assistance Loan
FEDL   =  Financial and Enterprises Development Loan
PHRD   =  Policy and Human Resources Development Fund
LRL    =  Land Registration Loan



Annex 6
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF KAZAKSTAN
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN KAZAKSTAN
A. Statement of Bank Loans 1'
(As of March 31, 1996)
US$ Million
Loan      Fiscal                                                                           (Less Cancellations)
No.        Year        Borrower                         Project                           Loan      Undisbursed
1 loan closed                                                                            180.00          .01
36420     1994       Kazakstan      Technical Assistance                                 38.00         22.92
37250     1994       Kazakstan       Urban Transport                                     40.00         34.62
37440     1994       Kazakstan      Petroleum TA                                          15.70        13.91
38670     1995       Kazakstan      Finance and Enterprise Development                   62.00         61.51
38960     1995       Kazakstan      Social Protection                                    41.10         39.71
39000 h'  1995       Kazakstan      Structural Adjustment Loan                            180.00        9.74
Total Number of Loans = 6                                                                 376.80      182.40
Total E'                                        556.80
Of Which: Repaid                          _
Total Now Held by the Bank                      556.80
Total Amount Sold                                 0.0
Of Which: Repaid                             0.0
Total Undisbursed                                           182.40
a/ The status of these projects is described in a separate report on all Bank/IDA financed projects in execution, which
is updated twice yearly and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
b/   SAL/SECAL Loan.
c/   Total approved, repayments, and outstanding balance represent both active and inactive Loans.



Annex 6
Page 2 of 2
B. Statement of IFC Investments
(As of February 29, 1996)
(US$ Millions)
FY       FY
AnprL  Committed         Description             Sector         Loan   Eqguit   Total  Other Undisbursed
A. Approved and Commited (Signed) Proiects
94       96    ABN-AMRO Bank             Financial Services     7.50    2.00   19.50  10.00         17.50
Total Gross commitments                                       7.50    2.00   19.50  10.00         17.50
Less cancellations, terminations, repayments & sales
Total commitments now held                                    7.50    2.00   19.50  10.00         17.50
B. Approved Proiects Pending Commitment
Kazak GT                                       16.00    0.00   40.00  24.00
Total pending commitments                                    16.00    0.00   40.00  24.00
Total commitments held and pending commitments               23.50    2.00   59.50  34.00
Total undisbursed commitments                                 7.50    0.00   17.50  10.00
May 13, 1996



Annex 7
Page 1 of I
REPUBLIC OF KAZAKSTAN
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
TIMETABLE OF KEY PROCESSING EVENTS
Time for Preparation:                13 months
First mission:                      January 20, 1996
Appraisal:                          February 19, 1996
Negotiations:                       April 22, 1996
Board Presentation:                 June 25, 1996
Expected Effectiveness:             July 25, 1996
Closing Date:                       March 31, 1997
Program Preparation:                The program was prepared by the Government and National Bank of the
Republic of Kazakstan with the assistance of an IBRD team. This team
included Mmes. /Messrs. Lorch (task manager) seconded by Akhmetova;
Denizer (debt resolution); Diop (Exim Bank); Funck (monetary policy);
Ikramullah (payment system); Murgatroyd (problem banks); Ossewaarde
(agricultural finance); Vojack (bank supervision and privatization;
property rights); and Walraven (institutional development).  Further
valuable contributions were received from Messrs. Ledoux (program
strategy), Hassan (legal issues), and Gelb, Pohl, and Roulier (peer
reviewers). Ms. Bebli provided secretarial support. Messrs. Michael A.
Gould and Yukon Huang are the managing Division Chief and Director,
respectively, for this operation.



Amnex 8
Pa2e 1 of 2
Kazakstan at a glance
Europe I  Lower-
POVJERTY end SOCIAL:                                        Central 'miidle-
Kazakstani     Aia  Iincome      Developmnent diamond'
Population mid-1994 (mfilonS).                      :16.7.     498    1.097:                Life expectancy
OWPperO *ita'1944(C$S                               M10Q   .2 4~30   .1.080
GNP 1994 (bIliton US$                                18.6    1,209   11 43.
Average annual growth. 1990-44
Popuilationi (1~)                                     01        0.5      1.4     GP                                  r5
Labor ofore 1%)                                        .                        G                                  Grossr
per        /N         /        eprilmary
Most recent estimate (Iatest year ayailable sInce 1909)                          capita               /         erlmn
Povery: headcournl index (ofpopulation)
Urban populiaion (%,Of t6tlpopulation)                 60        64      6
t.f epcancy at birth gj.uar$):6                              9       6
Infaint mortality .(per 1,000 IWe birI/hs)             30        1 9     35
Child malnutrition (.% o(chldtren under 6)             ..         .        .Access to safe water
Aiccess to afto waleir (% ofp0xpuet ion)                .         ..      78
Illiteracy (% o(poputfo am e ISa)
Grboss prim2ry enrollment :  of schoo/-age population)  86       97      104Kaktn
Male                                  ~~~        ~~~     ~~~~      ~~~86  97  105  -Lower-middle-income group
Femalep                                             86         97      101
KEY. ECONOMIC RATIOS and LCNG-'fERM TPEND&.
1978    1915    14984    1996
-    Economic ratios'
GDP (bl)onsUS)..                                        .      18.3    15.9opnesfecom
G3ross domesti investment/GOP                  .     47.5      22.0    22.0Opnesoecom
txp6i1 of god andt n4r-ractir 4erv1cesGDP      -,               58      23.1
&tossdomiestic avingIV1P                      ..    21.0       14.6    20.0
Gross rnatoioni savins/P                      i.        .       5.D    18.6
Currenri account balancejGOP..                                 -7.0    -3.4      Savings                      Investment
Intereust paymentslGtP                                  .       0.3      0.8
Toita debt/GOP                                 ,1.9                     13.4
Tota debt senlclexortt..                                .        .        .
Present vahue of debtVGOP          .     ...            .      13.8.
Prese;nt value of debttexports                ..        .       15Indebtedness
1976-434 1985-9     1994      1995  1996-04
(average annual growth)                                          ..-aesa
GDP       a2.8    -7.2    -25.0                               -11.       5.0
GNP per capita..    -6.4    -25.8 .-12.6                                 4.1        -Lwrmcdeicm   ru
!Exports of goods arid  rit           .        .    -32.2      20.3      4.0     _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY________________
(% of GOP)                      ~~~~~ ~~~~1975    1985  1994    1995  Growth rates of output and Investment(%
N or GDP)                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I 
Agriculture                                    .
Industry                                       .        ...                ..     0   
Manufacturing                                ..                               I2                          93    94     9
Services
.20
Private consumption                           ..     57.6      73. 2    67.7
General government consumption                ..     21.4      12.2    12.       30
Imports ot goods and non-factor services       .        ..     33.3    25.2                   _GD1  -6GDP
(average annual growth)                  1975484  1985-95      1994    1995      Growth rates of exports and Imports 1%)
Agriculture                                    .        ..        .        .     30 
Industry                                       ..       ....5
Manufacturing                                .
Services                                       .        .         .        .      0-
90   91   92    93    9
.15
Private consumption                           ..        .      10.3    -18.6
General government consumption                 .        ..    -49.8   -11.6 
Gross domestic investment                      .        ..    -21.2   -12.6   -4 
rimporis of goods and non-factor services     ..        .     -21.4      1.8-Eprs--mrt
Gross national product                        ..      5.8    -25.1   -11.7-Eprs Imot
Note: 1995 data are preliminary estimates. Figures in italics are for years other than those specified.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Annex 8
Page 2 of 2
Kazakstan
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1976    1985       1994    1996    Inflation 1%)
Domestic prices                                                                 250
(% change)                                                                      2000
Consumer prices                                             2,095.3   167.2    2  -
Implicit GDP deflator                       -1.2    -5.7   2,207.4   163.0    1500                      /
1000-
Govemment finance                                                                Soo
(% of GDP)                                                                       so       ,_ /__ _          ,_    ,__
Current revenue                                                23.8    22.0       0            9I   92    0,   94   95
Current budget balance                                          0.3    -1 .0
Overall surplus/deficit                                        -.5    -2.7                   GDP lef -CPI
TRADE
(millions US$)                             1975    1985       1994    1995       Export and Import levels (mill. USS$
Total exports (fob)                                           3,285    4,074    6,000
n.a.                                         .        ...                ..    5.050-
n.a.                                                                           4.000
Manufactures                                                                   s-
Total imports (ci)                                            4,205    4,373    3.00o-
Food                                        ..2.000-
Fuel and energy                                                                1.000
Capital goods                                ..                                                    _1
Import price index (1987=100)                 ..       ..2   9.                                                  4   95
Terms of trade (1987=100)                               ..                                    0 Expor  rJ Impors
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1975    1985       1994    1995      Current account balance to GOP ratio(%
(millions USS)
Exports of goods and non-factor services                      3,331    4,126        so1 69 9    l L0            1 4
Imports of goods and non-factor services                      4,285    4,491
Resource balance                                               -954    -365    -2
Net factor income                              ,                -48    -283
Net current transfers                                           99       50    J4
Current account balance,
before official transfers                                    -905    -598      6
Financing items (net)                                         1,081     787
Changes in net reserves                                        -176    -189    .9
Memo:
Reserves including gold (mill. USS)            ..
Conversion rate (localVUSS)                                    36.0    61.3
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976    1985       1993    1994
(milions USS)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed                          1,655    2,704     Composition of tral debt, 1994 (mill. US$)
IBRD                                                           0      187                   214    187      C
IDA                                                            0        0            F                     28
Total debt service                                               10      59           380                        D
IBRD                                                           0        7                                      30
IDA                                                            0        0
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                                               11       24
Official creditors             -                              166     375
Private crediors                                             139      209
Foreign direct investment                                    150      185
Portfolio equity                                               0        0 
World Bank program                                                                                    1604
Commitments                                                  218       56      A - IBRD                    E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                                  0      182      B -IDA    D - Other multiateral   F - Private
Principal repayments                                           0        0   1 c IMF                        G - Short-term
Net flows                                                      0      182
Interest payments                           ,,       ,,        0        7
Net transfers                                                  0      175
International Economics Department                                                                                 2t23/96
Note: Estimates for economies of the former Soviet Union are subject to more than the usual range of uncertainty.
Government finance represents general govemment accounts until 1991.



MAP SECTION






IBRD 28007
50'                                       h7                                                                                                                              90'
T. K,g- ~ ~ ~    ~    ~     ~    T Ro&A 
T. Ch,o,b-rLk Qr*   ~_nx
R U SASAI A  N                                                                                                      ____'________________r*________T*__ L__k T.
F E DE R A T I   O N  'j
K.   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.8-    RAD
7cm                                                     't Konh. KSTAN                                          A KOHSTAN                                       --1 RAILROADS
50                             ISAICRPBLC.b                                                                                                                                        RAS  APTL
} ~~~~~ X < < \ ~~~~~~~~~~~~k                                                                                                                                       -KAR51HENt X*R
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TEN-  I  I                                                                                                                                N -OLI-A
0       ISO        20         300        400 vXhr t
ARKALYK 1>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ARL19
,,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S  hw                                                           T4L -,v  eASHt' KURG<5
j    r* NuLos         >           1 tHi '. L k -.i \  _r ' 'i ( :i        <                       \             r* Y;ning   2~~~~~~~~TALDY
/S~~~~~~~~~~ZYL OR                   D     sH*i _ _ENJ<ROD
iwD  h*nb  T AJ I  I ST A                  s  NTIONL CAITA
AZRAIA /0 .0                    30         4O60                                                          FHNSA             0p{/ABL19









I MAGIN G
Report No: P-   6f80 K Z
Type: F'FP



