Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 17640-UZ
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$24.0 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN
FOR THE
TASHKENT SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
April 6, 1998
Rural Development and Environment Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Sum
1 Sum = US$0.012
US$1 = 81 Sum
(as of February 1998)
AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATES
Sum per US$1 (end of year)
1994        25.1
1995         35.5
1996         55.0
1997         76.0
UZBEKISTAN - FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BOO   -  Build-Own-Operate
CAS   -  Country Assistance Strategy
EBRD  -  European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
GoU   -  Government of Uzbekistan
IBRD  -  International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (World Bank)
ICB    -  International Competitive Bidding
IERR   -  Internal Economic Rate of Return
JEKs  -  Multi-story Housing Authorities
MSWM-  Municipal Solid Waste Management System
NGO   -  Non-Governmental Organization
PIU    -  Project Implementation Unit
Vice President      Johannes Linn, ECA
Country Director    Ishrat Husain, ECCO I
Sector Director     Kevin Cleaver, ECSRE
Sector Leader       Michele de Nevers
Project Team Leader    Roger Batstone, ECSRE



UZBEKISTAN
TASHKENT SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Project Financing Data ............................................................1
Block  1: Project Description .............................................................2
1. Project development objectives ............................................................2
2. Project components ............................................................2
3. Benefits and target population ............................................................3
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements ............................................................3
Block 2: Project Rationale ................... .4
5. CAS objective(s) supported by the project .............................................................4
6. Main sector issues and Government strategy .............................................................4
7. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices ...........................................5
8. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection .........................................................6
9. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies ...................6
10. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design ......................................................7
11. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership ............................................................7
12. Value added of Bank support ............................................................8
Block 3: Summary Project Assessments ............................................................8
13. Economic Assessment ............................................................8
14. Financial Assessment ............................................................8
15. Technical Assessment ............................................................8
16. Institutional Assessment ............................................................9
17. Social Assessment ............................................................9
18. Environmental Assessment ............................................................                                         10
19. Participatory Approach ...........................................................                                            10
20. Sustainability ...........................................................                                                    10
21. Critical Risks ...........................................................                                                    10
22. Possible Controversial Aspects ............................................................11
Block 4: Main Loan Conditions ...........................................................                                            I 1
23. Conditionality ...........................................................                                                    11
Block 5: Compliance with Bank Policies ...........................................................                                   12
ANNEXES
1. Project Design Summary ............................................................                                               13
2. Detailed Project Description ............................................................                                         21
3. Estimated Project Costs ...........................................................                                               25
4. Economic Analysis ...........................................................                                                     28
5. Financial Analysis ...........................................................                                                    30
6. Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements ............................................................                            37
7. Project Processing Budget and Schedule ............................................................                               40
8. Documents in the Project File ...........................................................                                         41
9. Statement of Loans and Credits ...........................................................                                        42
10.Uzbekistan at a Glance ...........................................................                                               44



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Europe and Central Asia
ECSRE
Project Appraisal Document
Uzbekistan
Tashkent Solid Waste Management Project
Date: March 6, 1998                                                   [ I Draft           [x] Final
Project Team Leader: Roger Batstone                                   Country Director: Ishrat Husain
Project ID: UZ-PE-49582                    Sector: Environment        Sector Leader: Michele de Nevers
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan    PTI:  [x] Yes  [ ] No  POC: Environmentally Sustainable Development
Project Financing Data
[x] Loan      [ ] Credit     [] Guarantee         [ ] Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$): 24 million
Proposed Terms:                               [ Multi-currency       [xJ Single currency, US Dollar
Grace period (years): 5                [ Standard Variable    [ Fixed              [x] LIBOR-based
Years to maturity: 20
Commitment fee: 0.75 %
Service charge: 0 %
Financing Plan and Estimated Disbursements (US$ million):
Source           Local  Foreign   Total    %    Disbursement (Bank FY)   1999  2000   2001  2002  2003
Government of Uzbekistan    11.0             11.0    20
EBRD                         --    21.0    21.0    38                Annual         2.9   6.7    7.2   6.0   1.2
IBRD                         --    24.0    24.0    43                Cumulative     2.9   9.6   16.8  22.8  24.0
Total             11.0    45.0    56.0   100
Borrower-: Governmnent of Uzbekistan
Guarantor: NA
Responsible agencies: the Ministry of Macroeconomics (Central Government) and the Municipality of Tashkent
For Guarantees:              [xl None                        [ Partial Credit                 Partial Risk
Proposed coverage:
Project sponsor:
Nature of underlying financing:
Terms of financing:
Principal amount (US$m)
Final maturity
Amortization profile
Financing available without guarantee:         [ ] Yes            [ ] No
Estimated financing cost or maturity with guarantee:
Expected Effectiveness Date: June 30, 1998                                     Closing Date: December 31, 2003



Page 2                                                                                   Project Appraisal Document
Tashkent Solid Waste Management Project                                                                Uzbekistan
Block 1: Project Description
1. Project development objectives (see Annex I for key performance indicators):
The Government of Uzbekistan, the Municipality of Tashkent (a.k.a. Hokimiyat), the Word- Bank, and the European Bank for
Reconstruction and Development (EBRD) are cooperating on an investment project to restore Tashkent's municipal solid waste
management (MSWM) system. The project's overall objectives are to: (a) return the existing MSWM collection and disposal
system to a satisfactory level of service; and (b) improve the technical, financial and institutional basis for its future operation and
development.
The project's specific objectives are to: (a) ensure that adequate collection infrastructure in the form of collection bins and vehicles
exist to provide basic MSWM services to the residential, commercial, institutional and industrial sectors; (b) improve the access and
sanitation at public and residential collection points; (c) upgrade infrastructure at the city's long-term landfill including landfill
practices and operations to improve efficiency and reduce environmental impact; (d) provide for the closure of two existing landfills
within the city; (e) develop four transfer stations to optimize long-term use of the remaining landfill facility; (f) provide interim
capability for the safe handling of biomedical waste; (g) initiate actions to place the system on a stable financial footing in terms of
cost recovery and the ability to finance on-going operations and equipment replacement; (h) upgrade institutional capacity to
manage the system as an independent, self-financing utility suitable for privatization in the medium term; (i) develop a strategic
plan for the system's future development, including identification of major capital facility requirements and business structure
options for the system's financing and operation; and (j) provide for comprehensive public consultation in developing and operating
the system.
2. Project components (see Annex 2 for project background and detailed description): Costs are in US$ millions and include physical
and price contingencies.
Indicative % of
Component                                        Category         Costs    Total
(a)  Investment Component (93 percent of total project cost):               Physical Investment
(i)    Collection Vehicles and Support Equipment                    Goods and               15.0    26.7
* Buy compactor trucks, roll-off container trucks, dump trucks,  Equipment
tractors, vacuum trucks, service vehicles and spares.
(ii)    Collection Infrastructure                                   Civil Works, Goods      15.4    27.5
*  Increase number of collection bins and collection points.  and Equipment
(iii)   Landfill Modernization                                      Civil Works, Goods      4.5      8.0
* Buy bulldozers, compactors, excavators, dump trucks, service  and Equipment
vehicles, and environmental monitoring equipment; and construct
maintenance and service buildings and utilities, and upgrade
access, barrier improvements, and surface closure.
(iv)    Vehicle Park Development                                    Civil Works, Goods      3.1      5.6
*  Buy automotive machine tools, hand tools, materials handling  and Equipment
equipment; upgrade the existing service park; and construct a
central maintenance center.
(v)    Landfill Closure                                             Civil Works, Goods      1.3      2.2
* Buy bulldozers, excavators, dump trucks, and environmental  and Equipment
monitoring equipment; and complete civil restoration works.
(vi)    Transfer Stations                                            Civil Works, Goods
* Design, procurement and construction of four transfer stations,  and Equipment     6.0     10.7
including civil works, compacting and materials handling
equipment, and containers.
(vii)    Transfer Station Vehicles                                   Goods and
* Buy flat bed trucks and trailers for container transport from  Equipment



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                   Page 3
Uzbekistan                                                                    Tashkent Solid Waste Management Project
transfer stations to landfill.                                                      5.5      9.8
(viii)    Biomedical Waste Facilities                                  Civil Works, Goods
Buy collection vehicles and specialized containers; and civil  and Equipment        0.4      0.7
works for a segregated disposal cell at the landfill.
(ix)     Operations Computer Equipment                                  Goods and
* Buy computer equipment for collection system, transfer station  Equipment
and landfill operation, and hardware and software for the solid                     0.8      1.5
waste financial management system.
(b)  Institutional Support (7 percent of total project cost):                 Technical Assistance
(i)    Project Management Support (PIU equipment, staffing, training and    Consulting Services
advisory support)                                                                      4.0      7.2
(ii)    Strategic Plan (commercialization options, waste processing options,
hazardous waste management, waste minimization and recycling)
(iii)    Corporatization Assistance
(iv)    Financial Management System Development and Implementation
(v)    Tariff Study
(vi)    Collection Optimization Studies
(vii)   Landfill Operations Training
(viii)   Landfill Closure Design and Training
(ix)    Landfill Expansion Design Assistance
(x)    Public Participation and Education Assistance
Total            56.0     100
3. Benefits and target population:
Benefits. The main benefits of the project would be: (a) restoration of an environmentally acceptable, sustainable and cost-effective
level of MSWM collection service to the Municipality of Tashkent; and (b) positioning the Municipality for further development of
its MSWM system to incorporate modem solid waste reduction, resource recovery, and waste disposal technologies. The specific
benefits would be: (a) collection points meeting reasonable standards of accessibility and sanitation; (b) timely collection; (c)
improved environmental performance and efficiency of future landfill operations; (d) environmentally sound closure of older
landfills and return of urban land to appropriate land use; (e) improved handling of biomedical waste; (f) increased cost
effectiveness of the current system; (g) enhanced system financial viability in terms of cost recovery and collection of revenues; (h)
upgraded operational and financial management capacity in the system's operation; (i) orderly planning of future development of
the MSWM system based on current technology, affordability and environmental protection; () a high level of public support and
acceptance.
Target Population. The project would have an immediate impact on the overall population of Tashkent (2.2 million) through
improved service. The project would specifically target: (a) residents in high-density housing where current waste collection
practice represents significant sanitary and aesthetic issues; (b) women and children who normally assume household responsibility
for waste disposal; and (c) populations living in the vicinity of landfill facilities.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation period: 5 years.
Executing agency: Municipality of Tashkent.
Project coordination: Municipal Project Implementation Unit with the assistance of the Project Management Consultant.
Project oversight (policy guidance, etc.): Tashkent Solid Waste Working Group comprising a member from each of ten interested
government authorities.
Accounting, financial reporting and auditing arrangements: Central Project Implementation Unit in the Ministry of
Macroeconomics.
Monitoring and evaluation arrangements: Central Project Implementation Unit.



Page 4                                                                                   Project Appraisal Document
Tashkent Solid Waste Management Project                                                                Uzbekistan
Two Project Implementation Units (PIU) would be used to reduce overhead costs and improve overall management of project
implementation. The Central PIU would be located in the Central Government's Ministry of Macroeconomics and Statistics. This
PIU has been operational for over two years under another Bank-financed project and would be expanded slightly to handle the
additional work load of the proposed project. This PIU has already demonstrated that they have the financial management capacity
to handle all aspects of Bank-financed projects. Trained personnel in the PIU include accounting, procurement, disbursements and
auditing specialists. This Central PIU would be responsible for supervising project procurement and have primary responsibility for
-project financial management including disbursements, the special account, and project auditing. It was originally set up for the
Uzbekistan Water Supply, Sanitation and Health Project and would be expanded to handle the additional workload. The proposed
project would thus benefit from cross support and the experienced personnel in the central PIU for common services related to the
Bank loans.
A Municipal PIU would be in the Municipality of Tashkent under the recently created Tashkent Solid Waste Management
Department. This PIU, comprising two staff members, would be responsible for the technical aspects of project detailed design and
implementation and for drafting progress reports acceptable to the IBRD and EBRD. It would be responsible for technical project
implementation and would be assisted by a project management consultant. It would also be responsible for supervising the
technical assistance portion of the project. Initial PIU staff training and assistance in bid document preparation would be provided
using funds from a Danish Consultant Trust Fund under a contract with a Danish consulting firm.
The two PlUs would be assisted by the existing Tashkent Solid Waste Project Working Group comprising members from all the
central and municipal authorities interested in the project and is under the chairmanship of the Deputy Minister of Macroeconomics.
The Working Group would appoint ad hoc bid evaluation teams made up of representatives from the central and municipal
authorities. The central PIU would supervise the procurement process and ensure that it follows the guidelines of the two Banks.
The present MSWM system is owned and operated by the Municipality of Tashkent. Within the municipal administration, the
Tashkent Solid Waste Management Department provides direct supervision to the system's operation as well as supporting it with
administrative and financial services. The physical operation of the system is provided by a Municipality-owned enterprise
(Spetstrans) and four district colllection enterprises who are supervised operationally and financially by Spetstrans (District
Spetstrans). The Chief of the Tashkent Solid Waste Management Department would provide overall direction to the project.
Block 2: Project Rationale
5. CAS objective(s) supported by the project:. Document Number and date of latest CAS discussion: No. 17376, 03/10/98
The proposed project is consistent with, and part of, the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Uzbekistan. The current
strategy is aimed at: (a) liberalizing the trade and exchange regime and minimizing distortions in the financial sector; (b) improving
incentives for increased output and employment in productive sectors; (c) removing the inefficiencies in resource utilization in
municipal services and infrastructure; and (d) addressing the environmental damage resulting from the mismanagement of natural
resources in the Aral Sea Basin. Because most Uzbek municipal services and infrastructure facilities are provided either free of
charge or at highly subsidized rates, improving the efficiency of public sector management and introducing cost recovery are key
challenges in the short to medium term to support sustainable, broad-based development in Uzbekistan. The proposed project would
support the rehabilitation and reorganization of the solid waste management sector of Uzbekistan's largest city and as such would
increase the sector's cost recovery, operational efficiency, and financial sustainability in a visible and demonstrative manner.
6. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Potentialfor MSWMSystem Collapse. The present system, while functional, has declined to the point of a major reduction in service
capacity. This has caused increasing negative health and environmental impacts associated with unorganized waste collection and
disposal. The priority attached by ithe Government and the Municipality to restoring an appropriate level of service reflects their
recognition of this need.
Public Concern RegardingMSWMManagement. As reflected in the social assessment, the population of Tashkent place a high priority
on obtaining adequate MSWM services to which they were previously accustomed. The current levels of service are creating highly
visible, environmental, sanitary and quality of life impacts. This in turn is leading to discontent and disillusionment with the
Government's and Municipality's ability to maintain previously accepted standards. The Govemment is aware of this public concern
and is responding with this proposed project to address MSWM issues.
Declining Public Services Spending. The deterioration of the Tashkent MSWM system is symptomatic of the general decline in the
resources that the Government is able to allocate directly for urban public services. Government strategies are now turning to



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                         Page 5
Uzbekistan                                                                        Tashkent Solid Waste Management Project
considerationof more market-orientedapproachesto financing such services and greater involvementofthe private sector.
User Paymentfor Services. The high level of accounts receivable in the solid waste sector indicates the inadequacy of tariff collection
mechanisms. Recent initiativesby the Municipality to raise residential tariffs and dedicate user-orientedtaxes represent overdue actions
for putting the system on a more secure financial basis.
Institutional Structure for Delivery of MSWM Services. The current structure for the financing, management and operation of the
MSWM system is recognized as being deficient, and the Government strategy is for the sector to evolve into an independent, self-
financing utility with medium-term potential for privatization. The ability to complete this would depend on the restoration of service
capacity and the creation of financial stability.
Appropriate Technologies. Government strategy respecting technology selection has reflected a gap in thinking between the political
and operational level in two critical areas: waste processing technology and waste bins. On one hand, strong political interests,
supported by representatives of foreign equipment suppliers, favor the development of high technology (and high cost) waste
processing facilities as well as the use of locally produced plastic bins. On the other hand, the Municipality administration recognizes
that a high-tech waste processing facility is unaffordable in the near term, is not needed as long as adequate landfill disposal capacity is
available and can be developed, and would not be effective in the absence of a functional collection system. In support of the latter
position, previous worldwide experience with high-tech waste processing facilities such as incinerators indicates that in the absence of a
strong financial base, such facilities are not sustainable. Similarly, the use of plastic bins for the majority of communal applications is
recognized as not being sustainable from either a cost or durability perspective. With respect to waste processing facilities, Government
strategies have recently shifted to supporting the rehabilitationapproach as a required initial step. Further, the Government has agreed to
the Bank's fundamental condition that any commitment to a waste processing facility must be implemented independently of the
current waste utility structure and only on a contracted "build, own and operate" concession arrangement that must be competitive with
conventional waste disposal as provided for under the project. With respect to waste bins, the Government has agreed that plastic bins
would not be appropriatewithin the project scope except in small sizes (less than 300 liters) suitable for individual residential service.
7. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Potentialfor MSWMSystem Collapse. The primary object of the project is to prevent the system's collapse and to restore it to the basic
level of service that it was designed to provide. The strategic choice involved is the selection of a system rehabilitation approach and
preparing the system for orderly development in the future, as opposed to its complete reconstruction with different technologies and
equipment designs.
Public Concern Regarding MSWMManagement. The project has been designed to respond directly to the expressed priority the public
attaches to improved MSWM service as reflected in the social assessment. The project focuses on the public's primary environmental
and health concerns, namely improved waste collection service. Furthermore, it incorporates public input into the upgrading of
collection point infrastructure and service modalities. Finally, it provides resources for continued public input and consultation during
the project and as part of the rehabilitated system's operation. Inclusion of a strong social and public participatory element into the
project's design represents a strategic choice to pursue a proactive rather than a reactive approach to MSWM development.
Declining Public Services Spending, User Payment for Services, Institutional Structure for Delivery of MSWM Services. These issues
are addressed collectively by the provision of technical assistance that would support the evolution of the existing system to a self-
financing utility over the project period and its orderly development into the future. This would specifically involve upgrading financial
and operational management capacity, examination of strategic options for institutional structure change, and support for
corporatization initiatives. The recent tariff increase for domestic users reestablished a balance in the different charges imposed on the
different user groups (domestic, industrial, commercial and institutional). The choice has also been made to support an evolutionary
approach to institutional change as opposed to forcing immediate changes toward a single privatized utility.
Appropriate Technologies. The project is primarily focused on the basic elements of the MSWM system and the application of
established technologies. This approach ensures the restoration of the fundamental element of the system and maximizes its present
strengths, namely the high level of operational capacity and the existence of adequate landfill disposal capacity in the immediate
future. It represents a deliberate decision not to invest in sophisticated and costly high-technology waste processing options in the
near term. Such options, even in developed countries, are constrained by their high costs as well as technical, operational and
environmental issues. As such, their viability in Tashkent remains to be proven. However, the project does recognize a longer-term
need for future modernization, both in the form of facility additions and in introducing approaches related to waste reduction and
recycling.



Page 6                                                                                     Project Appraisal Document
Tashkent Solid Waste Management Project                                                                   Uzbekistan
8. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Low Technology Versus High Technology. The project has elected to focus on the basic MSWM collection and disposal
technologies that are well established and with which the beneficiary is already familiar. The option of investments by the
Municipality in large-scale waste processing facilities such as incineration was considered, and it was agreed that the feasibility
could best be assessed under a build-own-operate (BOO) contract, which would be drafted under the project. It should be noted that
Tashkent has direct experience with such facilities, having developed and operated a large waste processing facility in the 1980s
which has been abandoned after proving technically inadequate and very expensive to operate.
Least-Cost Option. The project components were selected after analyzing investment and operating costs to determine the least-cost
scope of the proposed investments. Simple, low-cost equipment of well proven and robust designs were selected and are suitable for
the conditions in Tashkent. With the accelerated closure of the in-city landfills, it was necessary to develop solid waste transfer
stations to reduce haulage costs to the remaining outer-city landfill.
City-Wide Versus District. The option of focusing the project on a single high-density residential district of the city was initially
considered. However, a city-wide project addressing relatively simple investments in well-established operations represents
minimal risk, obtains the benefits of economies of scale, and maximizes impact. It is also recognized that the project would extend
over a five-year period and detailed planning would consider its incremental implementation district by district.
Selection of Executing Agency. Consideration was given to selection of the operational enterprise (Spetstrans) as the executing
agency. This would serve to concentrate management of the system and its rehabilitation in a single organization that is potentially
farther removed from the traditional municipal administrative structure and associated political influence, and represents a
consolidated vehicle for corporatization and potential privatization. While consistent with the longer-term objective of having the
system operated independently, this option was rejected in favor of a more evolutionary approach that utilizes the superior
administrative and financial management capacity within the Municipality as the executing agency. The project would support the
evolution of these institutional arrangements to the self-financing independent structure that is required to sustain the system from a
regulatory and operational perspective.
Introduction of Waste Recovery and Recycling Options. The potential to introduce immediate waste recovery and recycling options
was considered, based on the high level of public interest and potential to capture significant volumes of compostable waste.
However, it was determined that markets are limited for conventional materials such as metals, glass, paper and plastic, and a
significant portion of bulk organic material is already diverted as animal feed. On this basis, it was elected not to adopt these
options until adequate analysis could be done as part of the strategic waste management plan and markets identified for recyclable
materials to the point of supporting organized initiatives.
Parallel Rehabilitation and Long-Term Planning Versus Initial Strategic Plan. A number of other solid waste initiatives by the
Bank and municipal governments have involved the preparation of strategic waste management plans as prerequisites to proceeding
with investment in MSWM infrastructure. In this instance, a choice has been made to include the long-term planning as a separate
initiative undertaken in parallel with the preparation of the rehabilitation project. While the MSWM systems in many other cities of
the former Soviet Union have collapsed, Tashkent has retained its basic operating capacity and, perhaps most importantly, has a
number of years of adequate landfill disposal capacity available. In this instance, time is available to reestablish the normal level of
service capacity, stabilize the operation financially, and use this as a basis for longer-term developments. In addition, the practical
experience gained with this project would serve as useful input for the further development of the strategic waste management plan.
9. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing and planned).
Sector issue                               Project                                 Ratings (ARPP97)
Bank-financed                                                                      Implementation     Development
Solid Waste Management  Poland: Solid Waste Project                                         planned
Antigua and Barbuda: Solid Waste Management Project                planned
Lebanon: Solid Waste/ Environmental Management Project    satisfactory    satisfactory
Mexico: Second Solid Waste Project                      satisfactory      satisfactory
China: Liaoning Environmental Project                  unsatisfactory    unsatisfactory
China: Shanghai Environmental Project                   satisfactory      satisfactory
Ghana: Urban Environment and Sanitation                 satisfactory      satisfactory
Other development agencies
None currently known



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                   Page 7
Uzbekistan                                                                    Tashkent Solid Waste Management Project
10. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design:
This project would be the third lending operation in support of Uzbekistan's infrastructure. The first of these operations is the Pilot
Water Supply Engineering Project (Ln. 4090-UZ), which became effective in February 1997. The second is the Water Supply,
Sanitation and Health Project (Ln. 421 6-UZ), which became effective in September 1997. Both of these projects are on schedule and
rated as satisfactory. Another Bank-financed investment project in the country is the Cotton Sub-Sector Improvement Project (Ln.
3894-UZ). This project was slow in starting and several key components were rated as unsatisfactory. The project is now progressing
satisfactorily and the lessons learned are that setting up a PIU early in a project cycle is critical and that a lack of familiarity with the
requirementsof internationallyfinanced projects by local counterpartscan cause significantdelays.
Lessons highlighted in the Bank's Europe and Central Asia Department Reports on Portfolio Performance in Russia and Central Asia
focus on: (a) the challenge of identifying a consistent counterpart team with sufficient authority to move the project forward; (b) the
difficulty of coordinating key government agencies on critical issues; (c) the importance of setting up project implementation capacity
early in the project cycle and training their staff in Bank procurementand disbursementprocedures; and (d) the importance of involving
local institutes in project design and preparation.
A review of lessons learned from World Bank MSWM projects worldwide also shows that due largely to inadequacies in project design
(for example, inadequate attention to building institutional capacity, lack of strategic planning, failure to provide for safe landfill
disposal facilities), the execution of many of the investments encountered extensive delays and failed to achieve long-term
improvement in solid waste management in terms of both efficiency and environmental protection. Specific implementation problems
included unclear institutional structure and responsibilities, insufficient technical and managerial expertise, inappropriate vehicle
specifications, complicated procurement procedures, failure to maintain vehicles in operating condition, and inadequate cost recovery
due in large part to the lack of participation of users in the decision-makingprocess.
To the extent possible, this project incorporates the lessons learned from both the Bank's general experience in Russia and Central Asia
and its worldwide experience with solid waste investments. The Tashkent Solid Waste Management Department is well placed within
the Municipality to coordinate involvement of other Government agencies and has clear authority for project implementation. Project
implementation capacity in the areas of procurement and disbursement has already been established in the existing central PIU. The
scope of project preparation was expanded to include drafting of all long lead-time procurement bidding documents by negotiations.
Professional advisory assistance for project implementation would be provided as part of the Institutional Strengthening Component.
Project design also includes a significant input from the local communities which resulted in a new design for waste collection facilities
in these communities. In additional to the technical expertise of Spetstrans, local hydrogeological and social assessment experts have
contributedto project design, the latter having been particularly important in ensuring public concerns are addressed in the rehabilitation
of the collection system and closure of the in-city landfills. The key issue of the MSWM system's financial sustainability is being
addressed by requiring action on tariff increases and revenue transfers prior to the start of the project. In addition, the project's technical
assistance component would provide support for institutional reform, improved financial management capacity, and development of a
self-fmancingutility structure. The project itselfwould minimize technical risks by limiting investmentto conventionaltechnology with
which the beneficiary is familiar. At the same time, the evolutionary development of the system would be provided for through
development of a strategic waste managementplan.
11. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The President of Uzbekistan initiated the Bank's participation in this project during Vice President Johannes Linn's visit to Tashkent
in October 1996. Subsequently, the assistance of the World Bank and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
(EBRD) in upgrading Tashkent's MSWM infrastructure was requested by the Municipality of Tashkent. During the joint
IBRD/EBRD identification mission in January 1997, the Municipality fully supported the approach developed for the project. This
was verified in the request of the Government (Deputy Prime Minister Hamidov), dated March 3, 1997 requesting IBRD and EBRD
to proceed with project preparation. The Municipality's support was confirmed on March 11, 1997 in a meeting between the Hokim
and joint IBRD/EBRD project preparation mission. At that time, immediate tariff increases were agreed, along with the release of
waste-related tax revenues for operation of the MSWM system. The implementation of the promised domestic tariff increases has
occurred with the issuing of Resolution No. 90, dated March 20, 1997, by the Tashkent Municipality. A further tariff increase in the
second quarter of 1998 has been agreed with the Municipality. The government further indicated its commitment to the project by
sending in January 1998 a policy letter to the Bank detailing the government's strategy in the sector and upcoming sectoral changes
as well as a letter confirming the project scope and size.



Page 8                                                                                      Project Appraisal Document
Tashkent Solid Waste Management Project                                                                   Uzbekistan
12. Value added of Bank support:
This project responds to one of Tashkent's basic environmental priorities, namely the maintenance of an adequate level of MSWM
service. The Bank's involvement has acted as a catalyst for other cofinancing and has helped to mediate differences between
municipal and national government objectives. The Bank's involvement has also increased the understanding of Spetstrans' finances
and made them more sustainable. In the medium term, the Bank would help upgrade the environmental practices in Tashkent's
landfills to international standards and move the solid waste collection system towards financial and environmental sustainability. In
the longer term, the project would potentially create the basis for local source reduction and recycling opportunities. The
rehabilitation of the system and strengthening of its ability to ultimately operate on a full cost-recovery basis would likely create
investment opportunities for the private sector as it takes an increasing role in financing, management and operation of public
services. Additional benefits have derived from the Bank's requirement for a social assessment and beneficiary consultation which
are being adopted by the Municipality for its future developments and operations in the sector. The Bank's and EBRD's leadership
in this initiative should also attract private sector interest to various aspects of future system development. The Bank's involvement
has stimulated institutional and organizational restructuring to increase revenues and operational efficiency. Finally, this projects
represents a potential model that could be implemented as high impact, affordable infrastructure development projects in other
municipalities within the former Soviet Union and elsewhere.
Block 3: Summary Project Assessments (Detailed assessments are in the project file. See Annex 8)
13. Economic Assessment  [x] Cost-Benefit Analysis: NPV=US$3.6 million;    [ ]  Cost Effectiveness    [ ] Other
(see Annex 4):                ERR=13.2%                                        Analysis:                   [Specify]
The switching values of critical items and the main assumptions for the economic analysis are presented in Annex 4.
14. Financial Assessment (see Annex 5)         NPV=US$3.0 million; FRR=12%
Internal Rate of Return. The result of the base case scenario shows a rate of return of 12 percent. In calculating the benefits, the net
payments by the Municipality of Tashkent were considered as benefits accruing to the project, as the source of the payments was a
specific 0.5 percent waste removal/disposal tax, assessed by the Municipality on all enterprises. A sensitivity analysis was
performed to test the robustness of the project against variations in benefits and costs, and the results are shown in Annex 5.
Net Present Value. In determining the Net Present Value a discount rate of 10 percent was used, which is considered to be the
opportunity cost of capital in Uzbekistan. A sensitivity analysis similar to the one for the calculation of the internal rate of return
was used, and the results are included in Annex 5.
15. Technical Assessment:
The proposed project involves incremental changes in the configuration and technical operation of the present system. The most
significant changes is from using multiple landfill sites within the city to a single landfill outside the city. Consequently, a detailed
technical assessment was conducted, and the results are detailed below.
Collection Vehicles and Infrastructure. The introduction of more rear loading collection trucks and new style of bins will require
additional route planning and coordination to ensure optimal matching of equipment with specific service requirements. Transport
to the transfer stations would also have to be incorporated into the route planning and coordination. The selection of vehicles should
emphasize simple compactor and roll-off truck designs as well as have matching fuel, lubrication and tire requirements suitable for
locally available materials in order to ensure affordable operation and realization of anticipated service lives. The selection of bin
material (locally manufactured plastic bins versus locally fabricated metal bins) is a critical technical issue in the system's viability.
Notwithstanding the local political interest in using plastic bins, these can not be considered to be pither durable enough or cost
effective, except in small sizes (less than 300 liters) where care and custody is provided by individual households. Any substitution
of plastic bins in the majority of applications is precluded by project conditionality.
Transfer Stations and Landfill Haul Vehicles. A simple transfer station concept has been adopted based on proven equipment with a
high level of environmental control. Technical assistance would be required in getting these operations established and is best
provided within the scope of a turnkey design, procure and construction arrangement. The critical technical and implementation
issue identified is the need to quickly and effectively site these facilities. While a reasonable choice of sites located on the Tashkent
ring road within industrial areas appears feasible, this process, along with ensuring optimum highway access, is being undertaken
by a local design institute with the assistance of Danish technical experts.
Vehicle Park Development. The issue here is the re-organization of maintenance operations away from independent rayon centers to



Project Appraisai Document                                                                                      Page 9
Uzbekistan                                                                      Tashkent Solid Waste Management Project
a centralized operation for heavy maintenance and overhaul. This requires selection of location and organization of staff resources.
L;andfill Modernization. The upgrading of the centralized landfill operation at Aghangaranskoe is technically feasible. Present
hydrogeological studies indicate that the site has a substantial clay and till barrier with ground water only occurring at substantial
depths as well as a substantial area that could be considered for future expansion. On this basis, it is concluded that this site can be
upgraded to sanitary landfill standards. The main issues relate to implementation of improved operating practice in site compaction
and cover and the upgrading of the local infrastructure to sustain the substantial increase in utilization.
Landfill Closure. Both city landfill sites would require development and implementation of adequate closure plans. These must
address the land reclamation and fugitive gas emissions and should make specific efforts to obtain public input into landfill closure
and any long-term land use proposals.
Biomedical Waste Management. The project's initiative to address this issue is viewed as a low-cost interim solution that would
mitigate the immediate risks associated with co-disposal of these wastes with other wastes. It requires the development of a detailed
implementation plan by the authorities and careful monitoring as to effectiveness. Technical assistance covering this would be
provided for within the project's institutional strengthening.
16. Institutional Assessment:
Improving Institutional Capacity. Existing institutional arrangements for the solid waste management in Tashkent are based
primarily on a Soviet model with some minor modifications resulting from reforms that have been made since independence. The
most important reform has been the setting up of Spetstrans as a separate legal entity, fully owned by the Municipality, with its own
financial management system and a tariff setting mechanism that is supposed to allow the enterprise to cover its operations and
maintenance costs. Further reforms are required in the tariff setting policies and procedures as well as in the commercialization and
corporatization of Spetstrans and eventual private sector participation and effective, independent regulation of the system. The
project provides technical assistance to the Municipality to enable it to decide on the preferred options for sector arrangements and
ensuring that it has the necessary capacity for effective implementation. A major challenge in implementing institutional changes
would be integration of effective public input, such that public acceptance is achieved and that it is sensitive to the issues related to
affordability.
Project Management and Execution. Lack of familiarity with modem project management and supervision practices is a common
feature of organizations operating under the old Soviet system. As in the case of the Uzbekistan Water Supply, Sanitation and
Health Project, provisions have been made under the technical assistance component of the proposed project to provide foreign
expertise to assist and train the Tashkent Solid Waste Management Department and Spetstrans and in the required procedures to
ensure the successful imnplementation of the project.
17. Social Assessment:
In March 1997, a social assessment was conducted with the assistance of local social scientists in which 500 households were
interviewed in 10 of the 11 districts of Tashkent. About half the respondents said that inadequate solid waste management in
Tashkent was the single most important environmental problem facing the city. Most of these respondents mentioned inadequate
collection as the primary solid waste problem in Tashkent.
The average household was found to have approximately five people and an income of 9,600 Sum (the local currency) a month.
This is further supported by the government statistics. The current solid waste collection tariff for domestic households is 15 Sum
per person which represents about 0.8 percent of household income in March 1997. For 20 percent of the households surveyed, the
15 Sum per person payment was more than 1.5 percent of household income. About 21 percent of the surveyed households said
they would be willing to pay double the current tariff for improved collection service.
The social assessment suggested that solid waste collection is a priority for domestic customers, and while solid waste tariff
increases in real terms are feasible, a significant portion (perhaps 20 percent) of the population would have difficulty paying. Thus
the tariff study would investigate options for providing a safety net for this group.
In addition, one of the main implications of the social assessment findings was that the institutional strengthening component of the
project should include a public participation, information and education components to: provide general consumer information
about Tashkent's solid waste services; inform the public about the project and the need to pay increased solid waste tariffs prior to
implementation; introduce municipal solid waste management into the formal education system; sensitize the general population to
the need for public cleanliness; and involve public consultations during project implementation. The project would include
resources to carry-out follow-up beneficiary assessments in the course of project implementation.



Page 10                                                                                    Project Appraisal Document
Tashkent Solid Waste Management Projecf                                                                   Uzbekistan
18. Environmental Assessment:                   Environmental Category     [ ] A        [x] B         [ ] C
Justification/Rationale for category rating:
Environmental impacts associated with the project would be small and would largely be those associated with higher energy
consumption and air pollution associated with additional vehicles operating as service levels are restored and the longer distances
driven as land disposal is transferred to a more remote location. On the other hand, the rehabilitation of the system, as provided for
by the project, would contribute significantly to improvement in the environmental performance of the overall MSWM system.
Upgrading of landfill operations, particularly those related to cover practices and operating face restriction would reduce
environmental risk as well as enhance sanitary and aesthetic impacts. Closure of the two city landfills would imprcve local
conditions so long as the closures use appropriate design and include land restoration and long-term monitoring. Upgrading of
service centers and the consolidation of major maintenance in a central operation would minimize future risks associated with
hydrocarbon ground and surface water contamination. The provision of better designed collection points, adequate containment and
periodic bin washing would mitigate environmental and health impacts locally.
19. Participatory Approach:
Identify each stakeholder below and describe their planned involvement as: information sharing (IS); consultation (CON); or collaboration (COL)
Stakeholders                     Preparation         Implementation              Operation
Beneficiaries/community groups              CON/COL             IS/CON/COL                IS/CON/COL
Intermediary NGOs                              CON                 IS/COL                      IS
Academic institutions                          COL                 IS/COL                      IS
Local government                            CON/COL                 COL                       COL
Private Sector                                  IS                IS/CON                  IS/CON/COL
20. Sustainability:
Project sustainability is principally dependent on the establishment and maintenance of a stable financial and institutional structure
for the operation of the MSWM system. In the absence of these, the project investment simply delays rather than prevents the
anticipated collapse of the system. This is being addressed in the project's preparation by obtaining Borrower commitments 'o
implement tariff increases and transferring the existing revenues needed for the full operation and maintenance of the MSWM
system and its eventual restructuring. Project design addresses these issues by providing directed technical assistance, institutional
strengthening and training such that ultimately a fully self-financing, commercialized system would evolve. The main emphasis of
this assistance would be directed at ensuring institutional change toward a fully corporatized structure with priVate sector
participation. In outlining a tariff policy, care would be given to achieve equity in the tariff structure by incorporating the results
from the social assessment work related to willingness-to-pay, the affordability assessment, and the maintenance of public support.
It would also ensure that an appropriate balance of tariff levels and revenue dependence exists across the various generating sectors,
and that reliable mechanisms for ensuring timely payment for services are in place.
21. Critical Risks (see fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                 Risk Rating           Risk Minimization Measure
Project outputs to    Lack of sustained political will to    Low to    Maintain a policy dialogue with the Government
development objectives undertake financial reforms in the form    medium    and Municipality; design and operation of a
of tariff increases and enforcement of          comprehensive  financial monitoring  system;
payment mechanisms; unwillingness of            provision of technical assistance and training;
the existing institutional structure to         comprehensive  semi-annual project reviews;
allow the evolution of MSWM delivery            cooperation  with  cofinancier  to  build  up
responsibility  to  an  independent             institutions and foster a climate conducive to
organization; limited institutional and        reforms; involve beneficiaries and stakeholders in
financial resources; inability of service       project preparation  and  implementation; and
customers to pay for increases in cost          appropriate loan conditionality.
of service.
Project components to  Limited institutional and operational   Low to    Building up of institutional capacity through
outputs              resource capacity; failure to deliver   medium   institutional   strengthening    and   training
sufficienit service improvement quickly         component;  loan  conditionality  to  assure
enough to maintain public support;              Borrower contributions, early initiation of public



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                     Page 11
Uzbekistan                                                                      Tashkent Solid Waste Management Project
selection   of  unaffordable  future             awareness  initiatives  and  involvement  of
development options that could risk              stakeholders and  affected  groups in  project
long-term  system  viability; lack of            implementation;  periodic  social  assessment
familiarity  with  Bank  rules  on               updates; integration  of a strategic  planning
procurement, disbursement, accounting            component into the project; advance training and
and auditing.                                    procurement documentation preparation; involve
the central PIU in project implementation to carry
out common features required to process Bank
loans.
Low to
Overall Risk Rating                                          medium
22. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Public Acceptance of Required Tariff Increases. While the social assessment indicates that strong public support exists for
improved residential MSWM service and a general willingness to pay exists, the required implementation of these measures in
advance of the project's implementation would likely cause negative public reaction. The project's implementation plan must
address this through early public awareness initiatives and rapid improvements in service delivery.
Block 4: Main Loan Conditions
23. Conditionality:
During negotiation agreement was reached that:
1. The Municipality of Tashkent and Spetstrans will:
(a) ensure that the turning access from the highway to the Aghangaranskoe landfill meets safety standards acceptable to the Bank;
(b) ensure that the closures of the Zangiata and Hasanbay landfills are done in an environmentally sustainable and publicly and
socially acceptable manner acceptable to the Bank;
(c) ensure that the design and siting of the four waste transfer stations are acceptable to the Bank;
(d) (i) maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with
indicators satisfactory to the Bank, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; (ii) prepare,
under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank, on or about June 30, 1999, a report integrating the
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to sub-paragraph (i) of this paragraph, on the progress
achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period
following such date; -and (iii) review with the Bank, by November 15, 1999, or such later date as the Bank shall request, the
report referred to in sub-paragraph (ii) of this paragraph, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the
said report and the Bank views on the matter; and
(e) (i) have its records, accounts and financial statements for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but
in any case not later than six months after the end of each such year, certified copies of the financial statements for such year as
so audited and the report of such audit by said auditors of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records, accounts and financial statements as well
as the audit thereof, as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably requests.
2. The Municipality of Tashkent will:
(a) (i) by January 1, 1999, engage consultants for the preparation of a strategic solid waste management plan (Strategic Plan) under
terms of reference acceptable to the Bank; (ii) have the Strategic Plan completed by June 30, 1999; (iii) upon completion of the
Strategic Plan, furnish the same to the Bank for its review and comments; (iv) by December 31, 1999 adopt the Strategic Plan
taking into account the comments, if any, thereon by the Bank; and (v) thereafter implement the Strategic Plan in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank;
(b) (i) by December 31, 1999, engage consultants for the preparation of a tariff study (Tariff Study) under terms of reference
acceptable to the Bank; (ii) have the Tariff Study completed by April 30, 2000; (iii) upon completion of the Tariff Study, furnish



Page 12                                                                                     Project Appraisal Document
Tashkent Solid Waste Management Project                                                                   Uzbekistan
the same to the Bank for its review and comments; and (iv) by July 1, 2000, adopt and put into effect a policy on tariffs on the
basis of the Tariff Study and taking into account the comments, if any, thereon by the Bank. The said tariff policy shall, as a
minimum, provide for: (i) full adjustment of the tariffs for inflation on an annual basis; and (ii) real term increases to achieve
full recovery of all operating and maintenance costs for the solid waste management system by such time as demonstrated
feasible in the Tariff Study. To the extent that the tariffs do not cover the full operating and maintenance costs of Spetstrans and
other waste management operators, the Municipality of Tashkent shall contribute the funds (including proceeds from the City
Improvement tax) to cover any shortfall of the said operators.
3. Spetstrans will:
(a) (i) undertake and, by October 15, 1998, complete an assessment of its requirements for insurance; (ii) prepare, on the basis of
such review, a plan for insurance of its assets and operations against such risks and in such amount as shall be consistent with
appropriate practices; (iii) furnish the said insurance assessment and plan to the Bank; and (iv) commencing January 1, 1999,
implemenit the insurance plan taking into account the comments thereon, if any, by the Bank;
(b) take all measures necessary to ensure that its accounts receivable (after allowances for accounts receivable determined to be
uncollectable) do not exceed three months of sales revenue on December 31, 1998 and two months of sales on December 31,
2000; and
(c) (i) by January 1, 1999, engage consultants for the design and implementation of a utility accounting system under terms of
reference, acceptable to the Bank; (ii) have the said system design completed by August 31, 1999; and (iii) by July 1, 2000,
implement the utility accounting system in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
4. A Special Account will be established under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank.
5. The execution of the Loan Agreement between the GoU and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development is a
condition of effectiveness for the Bank loan.
6. The IBRD loan would be made to the GoU as a LIBOR-based single currency loan on the following terms: a maturity 20 of years
with 5 years of grace. The GoU would onlend to the Municipality of Tashkent on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank
including a maturity of 12 years with 3 years of grace, at an interest rate of 12.5 percent.
Block 5: Compliance with Bank Policies
[x]   This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
Project ea    ad          atstone                       Country Director: Ishratlusain



Project Appraisal Document                                                                               Page 13
Uzbekistan                                                                  Tashkent Solid Waste Management Project
Annex 1
Tashkent Solid Waste Management Project
Project Design Summary
Narrative Summary         Key Performance Indicators   Monitoring and Supervision   Critical Assumptions and Risks
CAS Objective
1. Support macroeconomic       - Establishment of a cost   1. Project supervision as  1. Sustainability of political
stabilization in conjunction with   effective, self-financing  detailed below, inclusive of   commitment to the
structural and sectoral reforms.    MSWM organization, offering  follow-up social    corporatization process.
opportunities for private  assessments.
sector participation.                                 2. Public fiscal and regulatory
policies supportive of
2. Strengthen market incentives,  - Tariff policies consistent  2. Comprehensive project    investment and operation of
particularly in agriculture and  with full service cost recovery  review with agreement on    market forces.
energy.                        and which are attractive to  actions after 18 months of
continued investment in the    implementation.        3. Willingness of the present
system after project                                  institutional and political
completion.                                           structure to abdicate control of
the present MSWM system's
3. Protect vulnerable groups   - Provision in tariff setting  3. Periodic Country    operation in the long term.
through establishing an effective   policies for affordability tests  portfolio reviews.
safety net and more efficient  and mechanisms to ensure                              4. Institutional and
service delivery.              service at reasonable rates to                        management capacity to
low-income groups.                                    efficiently transfer existing
- MSWM service delivery is                            municipal assets and expertise to
responsive to container                               an independent organization
access, collection point                              operating under market
sanitation and waste disposal                         conditions.
land-use conflict issues.
5. Political and institutional
sensitivity and flexibility in
responding to public input to
service delivery requirements
and affordability constraints
imposed to achieve full cost
recoverability.
Project Development Objectives
1. Restoration of the basic   - Complete coverage MSWM    1. Reports on regular      1. PBS and Spetstrans have
MSWM system.                   service requirements.       intervals (monthly,       operational management
- Reversal of present trends in  quarterly, semi-annually and  capacity and resources to
ad hoc and illegal dumping.    annually) on key indicators   undertake implementation. In its
with outline of actions to be   absence, a risk exists of not
2. Provision of adequate       - All collection sites upgraded  taken in case of major  being able to use supplied
collection infrastructure,     by the end of 1999.         discrepancy.              equipment and assistance
- Absence of uncontained                              effectively.
waste deposition.          2. Comprehensive project
review with agreement on    2. Resistance to changes in
3. Improve accessibility and   - Reduction in litter at    actions after 18 months of    operating practice by the work



Page 14                                                                                          Project Appraisal Document
Tashkent Solid Waste Management Project                                                                         Uzbekistan
Narrative Summary           Key Performance Indicators   Monitoring and Supervision   Critical Assumptions and Risks
sanitation at collection points.  collection points.           implementation.               force. Public do not accept or
- Increased public confidence                              cooperate in changes in service
and reduction in complaints.    3. Carry out project start up   delivery.
workshop and seminars on
4. Upgrade or close existing     - Implementation of training    relevant Bank policies.     3. Failure of counterparts in
landfill operations.             and design activities.         Carry out follow-up social    housing authorities to facilitate
- Delivery of new equipment.  assessment.                  changes in collection points.
- Identification of cover
material.                                                  4. Political resistance to
continued operation of landfills
5. Creation of environmental     - Operation of environmental                                having land-use conflicts,
monitoring capacity.             monitoring system and                                       despite improvement in
reporting of results.                                      operating practice.
6. Develop low-cost interim      - Operation of secure area for                              5. Ineffective environmental
disposal capacity for biomedical    exclusive disposal of                                    regulation such that compliance
waste                            biomedical waste, including                                 with proper disposal practice is
vehicles, containers etc.                                  not enforced and the market for
- Implementation of training                               MSWM services declines.
and design activities
6. Resistance of the existing
municipal institutions to allow
7. Financial sustainability and  - Regular adjustment of tariffs  - Meeting financial       the development of a biomedical
full cost recovery.              according to increases in input  performance targets,       waste collection system.
cost;                         adjustment of tariffs
- Reduction of accounts                                    7. Lack of political will to
receivable                                                 maintain the required tariff
- Operation of effective                                   policy and implement measures
management and accounting                                  necessary to enforce payment for
systems.                                                   service.
8. Institutional change to create a  - Consolidated independent                              8. Political insistence on the
more efficient MSWM service      organization operating the                                  development of unaffordable
delivery organization.           system by project completion.                               waste processing facilities in the
near term in favor of incremental
9. Identification of suitable plans  - Adoption of plan for                                  development of more realistic
for privatization                privatization of SW disposal.                               options.
10. Identification of waste      Initiation of pilot waste                                  9. Resistance of waste
reduction, recovery and recycling   reduction/recycling initiative                           generators in all sectors to pay
options.                         in 1999.                                                    appropriate costs of the service
provided.
11. Preparation of a strategic plan   - Identification of long-term
for future system development.    facility development options                               10. Resistance of waste
for evaluation.                                            generators in all sectors to pay
- Development of a                                         appropriate costs of the service
management approach for                                    provided.
industrial hazardous waste.
- Identification of future
business structure options.
-Definition of longer term
initiatives to upgrade street   I



Project Appraisal Document                                                                               Page 15
Uzbekistan                                                                  Tashkent Solid Waste Management Project
Narrative Summary         Key Performance Indicators   Monitoring and Supervision   Critical Assumptions and Risks
washing, sweeping and litter
collection capacity.          .
Project Outputs
1. Acceptable collection      - Minimum collection        1. Reports on regular      1. The project is unable to
frequency.                     frequency of four times/week  intervals (monthly,     respond quickly enough in
achieved.                  quarterly, semi-annually and  implementing service
- Absence of bin overflow.    annually) on key indicators  improvements to preserve public
- Reduction in complaints.  with outline of actions to be  support for them.
taken in case of major
2. Service capacity for all    - 1.5 million tons collected in  discrepancy.         2. Waste volumes have been
MSWM requirements.             1999, 1.6 million tons                                underestimated and additional
collected in 2000.         2. Comprehensive project   requirements would be identified
- Full capture of industrial  review with agreement on    when the project is
market by 2000.            actions after 18 months of    implemented.
implementation.
3. Adequate collection points.    - Development of detailed                          3. Worker resistance would
plans for design and                                  hinder automation of collection
placement of bins and bases.                          and operational optimization.
- Public acceptance and usage.
4. Lack of basic skills
4. Optimized collection        - Increased vehicle usage,                            necessary to utilize improved
efficiency.                    automated bin pick up and                             maintenance capacity.
reduced unit operating cost.
5. Failure to allocate sufficient
5. Improved vehicle            - Vehicle availability                                beneficiary resources to
maintenance.                   increased to 90 percent.                              undertake supporting works for
- Establishment of                                    landfill restoration.
preventative maintenance
programs.                                             6. Regulatory resistance to
- Centralization of major                             allow continued operation of city
maintenance activities.                               landfills until medium and long-
term options can be developed.
6. Accurate quantification of  - Operation of weight scales.
MSWM handled.                  - Landfill deliver records                            7. Failure to maintain or act
reported and verified.                                upon environmental monitoring
information.
7. Upgraded landfill operations.   - Adoption of modem
compaction and cover                                  8. Flexibility to develop
practice.                                             interim solutions to
- Reduction in active areas.                          accommodate hazardous
- Increased acceptance by                             industrial waste currently
neighbors.                                            directed to MSWM facilities.
- Regulatory acceptance.
9. Commitment to implement
8. Operational environmental   - Bi-monthly reports on bio-                          and operate efficient cost
monitoring capacity.           gas generation, and ground                            accounting systems and financial
and surface water impacts.                            control system
9. Monitoring and rejection of    - Availability of trained staff                    10. Competent regulatory
hazardous waste.               for load inspection.                                  capacity would exist to
- Reports on waste                                    effectively oversee the system.
composition and load                                  Timely decision making is not
rejection.                   ._ ._.        _       ._ forthcoming with respect to



Page 16                                                                                       Project Appraisal Document
Tashkent Solid Waste Management Project                                                                      Uzbekistan
Narrative Summary          Key Performance Indicators   Monitoring and Supervision   Critical Assumptions and Risks
strategic waste management plan
10. Financial management        - Accurate and timely                                    recommendations.
capacity.                       financial statements and cost
reports.                                                 11. Waste recovery and
- Anticipatory cost control                              recycling initiatives are
action.                                                  committed without a sound
- Operation of a viable                                  economic basis and appropriate
11. Independent MSWM utility.    organization.                                            markets for recovered material.
- Substantial degree of
financial independence from
government.
- Full regulatory compliance.
12. Tariff structures allowing  - Financial performance
adequate cost recovery.         demonstrating adequate level
of cost recovery by 2000.
13. Full payment for services.  - Reduction in accounts
receivable to 5 months of sale
by 1999 and 4.5 months by
2000.
14. Public awareness and        - Information transfer
acceptance.                     initiatives implemented.
- Improvements in satisfaction
response in follow-up social
assessments.
15. Strategic waste management    - Decisions on new landfill
plan adoption.                  development in 1999.
- Decision on proceeding with
long-term development of
waste processing facilities.
- Implementation of
privatization and contracting
out initiatives by 2000.
- Implementation of waste
reduction and recycle
initiatives.
- Presentation of hazardous
waste management facility
proposals.
Project Components                                                                        i.  Availability of competitive
1. Collection Infrastructure.   - Delivery of 50,150 new and   1. Reports on regular     local suppliers for bins and bases
replacement bins, and 10,000   intervals (monthly,       who can also supply on-going
bases in 1998 and 1999.      quarterly, semi-annually and  requirements.
- Replacement of 20,000 bins   annually) on key indicators
in 2000.                     with outline of actions to be
.________________  _____________ I taken in case of major   2. Ability to accommodate



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                  Page 17
Uzbekistan                                                                    Tashkent Solid Waste Management Project
Narrative Summary         Key Performance Indicators   Monitoring and Supervision   Critical Assumptions and Risks
2. Collection Vehicles.         - Delivery of 170 x 3 ton   discrepancy.               large influx of new equipment
vehicles of rear and side                              with staff and maintenance
loading design and 45 x 5 ton   2. Comprehensive project   capacity.
dump trucks and other support review with agreement on
vehicles with 15 additional 10  actions after 18 months of    3. Coordination of delivery of
ton vehicles.               implementation.            new equipment, upgraded
- Additional service vehicles                           collection infrastructure and
for Aghangaranskoe to service  3. Carry out project start up  implementation of optimized
landfill expansion          workshop and seminars on    operating practice.
- Delivery of spares for 100    relevant Bank policies.
existing vehicles in 1998 and                          4. Timely decision on location
100 each for Czech and      4. Carry out follow up     of central maintenance
Korean vehicles             social assessment.         operation.
3. Vehicle Park Upgrading.     - Early design and                                       5. Completion of works
implementation of                                      required to prepare maintenance
modifications to 11 existing                           operations in 1997 and early
service centers.                                        1998.
- Decision on location and
preparation of central                                 6. Lack of motivation to
maintenance operation.                                  improve operations by part of
- Delivery of maintenance                              work force.
equipment requirements in
1998 and 1999.                                         7. Failure to obtain adequate
- Training of maintenance                              cover material for new operating
personnel.                                             practices.
4. Landfill Upgrading/         - Immediate closure of 2 in-                            8. Diversion of landfill
Modernization and Closure.     city landfills, Zangiata and                            equipment to other municipal
Hasanbay using new                                     works.
operating/closure procedures
- Delivery of new landfill                             9. Imposition of political and
operating and closure                                  institutional bias into strategic
equipment in 1998, and                                 planning activity.
transfer of closure equipment
to remaining landfill as it                             10. Failure to identify strong
becomes available.                                     local counterparts to support
- Plan for expansion and                               strategic plan.
upgrading of remaining
landfill, including building                           I1. Availability of suitable
safe efficient turning access to                       counterpart staff and skill sets to
Aghangaranskoe site.                                   implement modern financial
- Identification and                                   management and accounting
contracting of cover material.                         systems.
5. Transfer Stations           - Completion of four transfer                            12. Institutional resistance to
stations on outer edges of city                        implementation of public
by January 2000, equipped                              awareness programs.
with two high-density
compacting systems each,                                13. Availability of suitable staff
waste transfer containers and                          for landfill and environmental
vehicles.                                              monitoring training.



Page 18                                                                                          Project Appraisal Document
Tashkent Solid Waste Management Project                                                                         Uzbekistan
Narrative Summary           Key Performance Indicators   Monitoring and Supervision   Critical Assumptions and Risks
6. Residential Collection Bin    - Ownership of bins by JEKs.                                14. In ability of project
Ownership                                                                                   implementation resources to
process international
7. Strategic Plan                - Confirmation of donor                                    procurement requirements.
funding if applicable.
- Qualification of Plan                                    15. Inability of Municipality
consultants, both local and                                and National Highway
foreign.                                                   Authorities to address issue
- Establishment of strong local                            relating to safe access and
counterpart arrangements for                               turning space to the
plan consultants.                                          Aghangaranskoe site.
- Overall Corporatization Plan
by the end of 1998.                                        16. Failure of Municipality to
complete rapid site selection for
8. Technical Assistance.         - Operation of effective                                   transfer stations, land acquisition
financial management and                                   and detailed design
accounting systems in
Spetstrans by mid-1999.                                    17. Detailed engineering and
- Collection system                                        environmental studies conclude
optimization plan adopted by                               that transfer to single landfill is
end of 1998.                                               not feasible
- Landfill upgrading design
and training complete in 1998.                             18. Public Consultation process
- Public awareness programs                                for closure of landfills produces
implemented in early 1998.                                 negative results
-Environmental monitoring
systems operational and                                    19. Onlending arrangements
training complete by end of                                undermined by change in
1998.                                                     political establishment; Inflation
- Development of bidding                                   level becomes less stable; Cash
documents for tendering of                                 operating expenses, changes in
waste processing facility on                               working capital, minimum cash
build-own-and-operate basis.                               balances and contribution of
internally generated funds not
9. Project Implementation        - Trained project                                          met
Assistance.                      implementation staff available
upon loan effectiveness, in                                20. Not possible to use 0.5%
PIU                                                       industrial waste disposal tax to
- Efficient procurement and                                cover cash shortfalls; and tariff
disbursement.                                             increase beyond inflationary
adjustment in case annual
receipts of waste disposal tax
insufficient



Project Appraisal Document                                                                       Page 19
Uzbekistan                                                       Tashkent Solid Waste Management Project
Table IA: Monitoring Indicators and Targets
1998      1999       2000      2001       2002
Project Outputs
Physical Implementation
Operational Collection Vehicles - Residential/ Commercial/
Budget Organizations, Services
i) Number of Vehicles                                398        415        472       472        475
ii) Availability of Vehicles (%)                      70        75         75         75         75
Operational Collection Vehicles - Industrial Services
i) Number of Vehicles                                 35        40         50         51         52
ii) Availability of Vehicles (%)                      70        75         75         75         75
Transfer Station to Landfill Operations
i) Number of Vehicles                                 0          15        35         35         36
ii) Availability of Vehicles (%)                      70        75         75         75         75
Street Cleaning, Latrine and Support Services
i) Number of Vehicles                                 52        58         86         86         88
ii) Availability of Vehicles (%)                      70        75         75         75         75
Landfill Operations
i) Pieces of Operating Equipment                      10         18        21         21         21
ii) Availability of Equipment (%)                     50        70         75         75         75
Number of Collection Bins in Service
i) Residential                                        0        10,000     20,500    21,000     21,500
ii) Apartment Buildings                             10,000    22,500      45,000    46,000     47,000
iii) Commercial Establishments                       2,500     11,250     22,500    23,000     23,500
iv) Budget Organizations                             5,000     11,250     22,500    23,000     23,500
v) Industrial Customers                              2,500     7,500      11,000    11,200     11,300
Number of Transfer Stations in Operation               0          2          4          4         4
Waste Collected in ton - Industry                    216,000   223,000    230,000   236,000    243,000
Waste Collected in ton - Budget/Commercial Organizations   410,000   423,000    437,000   443,000    454,000
Waste Collected in ton - Residential Area            770,000   790,000    810,000   831,000    852,000
Waste Delivered to Transfer Stations (tons)            0       201,000   1,080,000  1,108,000  1,137,000
Waste Delivered Directly To Landfill by System (tons)  1,396,000  1,232,000   391,000   408,000    414,000
Waste Delivered Directly to at Landfill by others(tons)  134,000    138,000    142,000    146,000    151,000



Page 20                                                                          Project Appraisa! Document
Tashkent Solid Waste Mafiagement Project                                                         Uzbekistan
Financial Aspects
Average Tariff Industry                                 477        622        877        1023       1195
Average Tariff Budget/Commercial Organizations          908       1185        1671       1948       2277
Average Tariff Residential                              25         32          45        53          62
Tariff Waste Removal from Grounds at Apartment Buildings    682    890        1254       1463       1709
Tariff for Street Washing/Latrine Services              270        352        497        579        677
Spetstrans Accounts Receivable, average days of billing  90        75         60         60          60
Industry
Spetstrans Accounts Receivable, average days of billing  90        75          60        60          60
Budget/Commercial Organizations
Spetstrans Accounts Receivable, average days of billing  90        75         60         60          60
Residence
Spetstrans Operating Ratio                              116        123        124        120        III
Institutional Development
Utility Accounting Systems (Implementation in )         --       50%        100%       100%        100%



Project Appraisal Document                                                                           Page 21
Uzbekistan                                                             Tashkent Solid Waste Management Project
Annex 2
Tashkent Solid Waste Management Project
Detailed Project Description
Background
1.     The Tashkent MSWM  system is managed by the Tashkent Solid Waste Management Department within the
Municipality administration. Reporting to the Solid Waste Management Department is a Municipality-owned enterprise
(Spetstrans) and four subsidiary district waste collection enterprises that provide the operational services. The system
encompasses the collection and disposal of MSWM from: residential, commercial, institutional and industrial sources; city
street cleaning; as well as collection and disposal of landscaping waste. A minor activity of the system is the collection of
liquid waste from latrine pits, which is transported to a controlled access point in the city sanitary sewer system. MSWM is
collected at a large variety of points, either in pre-positioned bins or, in their absence, open waste piles. A variety of collection
vehicle are used with compactor trucks and open dump trucks predominating. Each district collection enterprise operates truck
parks and maintenance facilities. Disposal occurs at three landfills, one on the north side of the city (Hasanbay Landfill), one
on the south-west side of the city (Zangiata Landfill), and one located approximately 30 kilometers south of the city
(Aghangaranskoe Highway Landfill). In addition, there is an inactive bio-thermal and incineration waste processing facility
adjacent to the Zangiata Landfill.
2.     While there are no readily available and accurate data on waste collected, the actual volumes handled by the system in
1997 is estimated to be 1.5 million tons, of which 750,000 tons are generated by residential and commercial sources, 400,000
tones by institutional (budget organizations) sources, and 350,000 tones by industrial sources. Of the industrial and
institutional waste, 610,000 tons is collected by Spetstrans and 140,000 tons is collected by private carriers for disposal in the
municipal landfills. A seasonal variation in waste volumes of approximately 25 percent occurs between summer and winter.
While evidence of illegal or random dumping is limited, this activity is increasing.
3.     The collection system is based primarily on 640-liter and 750-liter metal collection bins that provide communal
disposal for residential housing units as well as commercial or institutional establishments. These are designed for collection
by side-loading automated compactor trucks, mainly with 3 ton (7.5 m3) capacity. Currently all bins are owned and maintained
by Spetstrans, but responsibility for those serving the majority of the residential population in multi-story dwellings is
currently being transferred to the local housing authorities (JEKs). Either due to the shortage of bins or their incompatibility
with high-rise residential trash chute systems, manual loading into open dump trucks, tractor wagon, or a bin carried by the
compactor vehicles are also practiced. A final variant of residential collection is collecting directly from residents who bring
their garbage to the vehicle when it arrives. Street sweepings and industrial waste are primarily manually loaded into open
trucks of various sizes. The current waste collection vehicle fleet consists of 362 compactor trucks, 81 dump trucks, 28
vacuum trucks, and 46 tractors and wagons for street cleaning operations. Truck park maintenance operations are operated by
each district enterprise, undertaking both routine maintenance and major overhauls.
4.     The basic collection system  is functional but rapidly deteriorating. Collection points are poorly maintained,
increasingly lack serviceable bins, and often have limited accessibility to users. A shortage of bins is resulting in waste piles
being left for collection. Collection frequency is also declining due to vehicle availability. Public confidence in the system has
dropped as a consequence, resulting in increasing random dumping and local burning of uncollected waste. The average age of
the present fleet is approximately 6 years old with vehicles as old as 12 years remaining in service, despite the purchase of 100
new vehicles in 1996 as an emergency measure. Vehicle maintenance is no longer systematic, but largely based on
cannibalization of retired vehicles and ad hoc acquisition of spares. Few of the maintenance facilities are adequately equipped
for anything but routine repairs.
5.     The system's three landfill facilities are estimated to have the following remaining life at the present rate of
utilization: (a) Hasanbay Landfill - 6 to 7 years; (b) Zangiata Landfill - 2 years; and (c) Aghangaranskoe Highway Landfill - 20
years. Operationally, all require upgrading, both in terms of equipment and operating practice. None utilize appropriate
covering practices and maintain long, high, open tipping faces. Compaction is limited to that achieved by bulldozer leveling
activities. While all have secure, controlled access and record incoming material by load, there is no routine inspection or
weighting of incoming loads, although weight scales are nominally available at the Aghangaranskoe Highway and Zangiata
sites. The presence of hazardous industrial waste in the landfills is not commonly observed but in the absence of dedicated



Page 22                                                                                 Project Appraisal Document
Tashkent Solid Waste Management Project                                                                 Uzbekistan
management facilities for these wastes, some disposal of these materials likely takes place. Similarly, biomedical waste is
routinely disposed of in the landfills, creating risks to workers and scavengers. The landfills operate in daylight hours and all
have full security. However, both Aghangaranskoe Highway and Hasanbay landfills are subject to illegal dumping from
unauthorized access points. From an environmental perspective, both the Hasanbay Landfill and Aghangaranskoe Highway
Landfill appear to have good natural hydrogeological barriers and would likely represent low-risk sites for ground water
contamination. The latter also has monitoring wells. The Zangiata Landfill, however, is located in a ravine system containing
an active surface water course, sandy overburden, and associated wet lands. Consequently, it is likely to have negative impacts
on both surface and ground water quality. Landfill gas emissions appear to occur in all sites in moderate amounts; surface fires
are common but not extensive, although fire is deliberately employed to reduce landscaping waste volume. Active fire
suppression capacity using trucked water is utilized. The Zangiata Landfill is surrounded by industrial, commercial and
agricultural development with reasonable buffers to adjacent development. Similarly, the Aghangaranskoe Highway Landfill is
located in an agricultural area with no immediate residential conflicts and substantial long-term expansion potential. The
Hasanbay Landfill site, however, has residential development immediately adjacent on two sides and direct conflict with ad
hoc agricultural and commercial activity within the area of future filling. Light to moderate scavenging was noted at all
landfills. Due to the limited life and environmental concerns at the Zangiata landfill, and neighboring land use conflicts at the
Hasanbay landfill, the Municipality has recently decided to close both these facilities and concentrate disposal at
Aghangaranskoe Highway as soon as possible.
6.      The MSWM system also nominally includes an inactive bio-thermal waste processing facility located adjacent to the
Zangiata Landfill. This facility was operated from the early 1980s until 1991, at which time poor performance, high operating
costs, and inadequate facility maintenance forced its closure. While the history of this operation demonstrates the lack of
sustainability associated with high technology waste processing options, the Municipality has recently been entertaining
proposals for bio-thermal and incineration facilities to process approximately 10 to 15 percent of the city's waste, potentially
using this location. However, other more realistic options being discussed include its use as a central maintenance vehicle
facility or transfer station.
7.      The deterioration of the system's -physical service capacity and quality is directly correlated with its financial
situation. During the past few years overall operating costs have been rising, despite declines in the level of service. While,
Spetstrans has been recovering operating costs during this period, it is based only on the increasing direct subsidies from the
Municipality. Currently, it carries a high level of accounts' receivable with 34 percent and 64 percent of its residential and
industrial commercial customers, respectively being in default. Significant cross subsidies exist from the industrial to
residential sectors, and revenue transfer mechanisms between the various operating organizations in the system do not reflect
the distribution of costs. While tariff charges kept pace with inflation until April 1996, the lack of any rate increases during the
past year has accelerated system decline. Effective April 1997, however, there has been a substantial increase in residential
rates from 4 sum/person/month to 15 sum/person/month.
8.     A social assessment has shown that improvement of solid waste collection services is a high priority among the
general public. Among other findings, the assessment revealed a universal dissatisfaction with the current level of service; a
willingness to pay more for adequate service; concern about collection point access, sanitation and child safety; and a
willingness to recycle waste. The assessment also revealed that there is relatively little informal waste scavenging around the
city and only a modest amount of scavenging in the landfills. The project improvements, therefore, are not expected to have a
significant negative impact on those who may rely on waste scavenging as a source of food or income.
9.     In summary, the present system is approaching a state of collapse, largely because of inadequate financial capacity for
proper maintenance and capital replacement, although recent ad hoc initiatives by Municipality are serving to maintain a
minimum service level. The critical area of concern is the collection system where rehabilitation of collection infrastructure,
renewal of vehicle fleets, and modernization of maintenance capacity is required. While conventional waste disposal (landfill)
capacity is adequate in the near term, the recent decision to close the city landfills necessitates upgrading of the remaining site
and creates a requirement for transfer station capability in order that the impact of the longer haul distance can be mitigated
efficiently. This should be done as part of the system's rehabilitation in order that it is coordinated with collection system
improvements. In addition, it is recognized that any rehabilitation has to be accompanied by improvement in the system's
financial situation and ultimately in restructuring its operation as an independent, self-financing entity. Finally, the
rehabilitation process would require public support and its implementation, therefore, should reflect public input in areas such
as container access, collection point upgrading, development of equitable residential tariffs and collection mechanisms, landfill
upgrading and closure activities, and development of public awareness and consumer information activities.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                               Page 23
Uzbekistan                                                                Tashkent Solid Waste Management Project
Project Description
10.    The proposed project is structured with an investment component and an institutional support component. The
investment component focuses on upgrading the key parts of the present MSWM system, namely the waste collection and
disposal infrastructure as well as adding infrastructure necessary to allow efficient transition to a system based on a single
disposal facility and providing for future development of waste reduction and waste processing initiatives. The system, as
envisioned upon project completion in 2003, would route 1.1 million tones a year of residential, commercial and institutional
waste to four transfer stations located on the perimeter of the city. This would be consolidated into larger vehicles for transfer
to the Aghangaranskoe Highway landfill. 400,000 tons of industrial and commercial waste would be transported directly to the
landfill. The institutional support component encompasses a strategic waste management plan for the future development of
the system and technical assistance related to enhancing its financial viability, privatization and upgrading its technical
operations. The following describes these two project components in more detail:
(a)     Investment Component. This would cover the upgrading of the MSWM system's basic collection capacity,
modernization of the long-term landfill facility, closure of the present city landfill facilities and development
of four strategically located transfer stations in order to bring the system up to a reliable level of service.
Investments are directed to the following sub-components:
(i) Collection Infrastructure. This sub-component would finance a variety of collection bin types, sufficient
to re-equip the current system for service in all sectors, including those to be owned and maintained by
the housing authorities for the multi-story residential sector. They would mainly be 750-liter metal
collection bins suitable for both side and rear loading vehicles, including a portion of them having
wheels for transfer from resident to street collection points. A quantity of smaller plastic or metal
residential bins (100-liter and 240-liter) for individual residences have been included. In addition,
dedicated commercial/industrial service metal bins in two sizes (1100-litre, 10,000-litre) is provided for.
Prefabricated concrete slabs for collection points bins also would be supplied. They would be designed
to facilitate user access, litter control, and bin washing.
(ii) Collection Vehicles and Support Equipment. The project would bring the Spetstrans fleet up to 620
collection and support vehicles by the end of the year 2000, allowing for continued use of newer
existing vehicles and the changes in system configuration and operation to be implemented as part of the
project. Vehicles presently in service beyond their useful life would be retired as new vehicles are
supplied. The vehicle types to be supplied are primarily 3-ton rear and side loading compactors and 5-
ton dump trucks suitable for service within the city and hauling to transfer stations. A number of 10-ton
roll-off type container trucks are to be introduced to allow more efficient service to the heavy
commercial and industrial sectors, as well as direct haulage to the landfill. A number of vacuum trucks,
service vehicles, bin washing vehicles, and tractors are also provided for. In order to ensure that newer
existing vehicle operation is sustained, spares for 100 existing trucks purchased in 1996 have been
included.
(iii) Vehicle Park Development. The upgrading of all existing district service centers plus the development of
a central repair workshop for major repairs would be undertaken. The scope of operation at the district
centers would be down-graded to only providing running maintenance, while major maintenance and
overhaul would be concentrated at the central facility which would also provide these services for
landfill equipment and transfer station vehicles. The central facility would be located at either an
existing district service center or at the Zangiata waste processing facility.
(iv) Landfill Modernization. The Aghangaranskoe Highway landfill would be substantially upgraded in
recognition of its role as the city's long-term disposal facility. This would involve the addition of new
operating equipment in the form of bulldozers, landfill compactors, and excavators, as well as support
equipment for maintenance and personnel transport. In addition, upgrading of the infrastructure with site
maintenance shops, access and utility upgrading, environmental monitoring capacity and service
building has been included, as well as allowance for progressive closure of presently utilized areas and
opening of new areas. The sub-component excludes the development of a safe turning access point from
the Aghangaranskoe Highway into the site access road that would be upgraded under the project. The
current turning point from the Aghangaranskoe Highway into the main landfill is a narrow break in the
concrete divider between the sides of a four-lane highway which presents a safety hazard to the solid
waste collection vehicles having to cross on-coming traffic. An improved turning access will be
provided independently by the Borrower as part of highway improvement programs.



Page 24                                                                          Project Appraisal Document
Tashkent Solid Waste Management Project                                                         Uzbekistan
(v) Landfill Closure. This sub-component provides for equipment and civil works required to affect an
environmentally sound closure at the Zangiata and Hasanbay landfills, as well as long-term
environmental monitoring capacity. The equipment initially dedicated to this work would be re-assigned
to the Aghangaranskoe Highway landfill operation once closure is complete in 2000.
(vi) Transfer Stations/Transfer Vehicles: This sub-component provides for four transfer stations each
handling an equal portion of the 1.1 million tones/day of residential, commercial and institutional waste
designated for consolidation within the city for transshipment to Aghangaranskoe Highway landfill. Each
would be designed to handle up to 280 incoming vehicles/day and 30 outgoing vehicles per day. They
would be developed on a turnkey basis and each would employ two fixed compaction systems that would
fill 30 m3 containers. Two containers per trip would be transported on a flat bed truck and trailer
combination. The transfer stations would be located on the perimeter of the city, each serving roughly a
city quadrant and would be sited for convenient access to the ring road system leading to the
Aghangaranskoe Highway. Detailed siting is being undertaken by the Municipality as a perquisite to
project initiation.
(vii) Biomedical Waste Facilities. The project would include the development of an interim capacity to
manage biomedical waste which is currently co-disposed with other wastes at landfills. While the
development of dedicated incineration or autoclave facilities would eventually be necessary, the project
would provide for dedicated vehicles and containers such that this waste can be collected from generation
sites separately from other wastes and disposed of in a segregated cell to be developed at
Aghangaranskoe Highway landfill.
(b)    Institutional Support Component. This component is directed at both providing the necessary project
management capacity for project implementation and the required institutional strengthening for the
operation of a sustainable system into the future. It is proposed that this component be administered under
the umbrella of a single consulting contract in order to ensure coordination of project implementation with
the longer-term system planning and technical assistance required. The following describes each part of the
component:
(i) Project Management Support. This sub-component covers the establishment and operation of two Project
Implementation Units (PIU) which, together, would supervise the project's implementation along with
the project management consultant's support. The Central PIU would be located within the Ministry of
Macroeconomics and would build on an existing PIU which has a proven track record in managing Bank
project processing requirements including financial management. The subsidiary PIU, consisting of two
people, would be situated within the Solid Waste Management Department of the Municipality.
Specifically, this component would cover computer and office equipment, office improvements, PIU staff
costs, and implementation support respecting procurement and disbursement.
(ii) Institutional Strengthening. This sub-component covers a range of planning and technical assistance
activities. This includes the development of a strategic plan for the future development of the system in
the medium and long term. This plan would specifically address the appropriate longer-term approaches,
initiatives and investments required to maintain MSWM system capacity and its modemization in areas
such as waste processing facility development, hazardous waste management, and waste minimization
and recycling. Assistance would be provided in strengthening the financial management capacity of the
system and facilitating its orderly corporatization and ultimately privatization as appropriate.
Development and implementation of a modern financial management system, including the necessary
support equipment and training is provided for. Finally, the sub-component would provide direct
technical assistance and training related to collection operations, landfill operation and closure and design
of future landfill expansion. In addition, the sub-component would support the development and
implementation of a public participation and education plan that would address the needs for consumer
information, public awareness, and public consultations in landfill facility design and closure, public
participation in strategic planning, and further beneficiary assessment. A key element within the
institutional strengthening would be public participation.



Project Appraisal Document                                                        Page 25
Uzbekistan                                          Tashkent Solid Waste Management Project
Annex 3
Tashkent Solid Waste Management Project
Estimated Project Costs
(US$ million)
Project Component                                 Local   Foreign    Total    % of Base
Cost
Investment Component
Collection Vehicles and Support Equipment         --    12.77      12.77       27%
Collection Infrastructure                       4.15     8.97      13.12       27%
Landfill Modernization                          1.10     2.71       3.81        8%
Vehicle Park Development                        1.70     0.98       2.68        6%
Landfill Closure                                0.12     0.94       1.06        2%
Transfer Stations                              2.15      2.96       5.11       11%
Transfer Station Vehicles                         --     4.72       4.72       10%
Biomedical Waste Facilities                       --     0.72       0.72        1%
Operations Computer Equipment                   0.06     0.28       0.34        1%
Institutional Support                                0.05     3.75       3.80        8%
Total Base Cost a'                   9.32    38.81      48.13      100%
Physical Contingencies                               0.91     3.69       4.70
Price Contingencies                                  0.76     2.50       3.17
Total Project Cost                  11.00    45.00      56.00
al Includes all applicable taxes.



TASHKENT MUNICIPAL SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
BASE CAPITAL COST ESTIMATE
Ease Cost Estimate
Itom No        Item Description       Quantity Unit Cost Spares    Total    Base Cost  Base Cost    Physical       Total       Price        Total     VAT & Road      Total    Component   % of
Uplift   wto Cont.    Local    Foroign   Contingencies  w/Phy. Cont.  Contingence    w/ Cont.  Taxes      Project Cost   Totals     Total
10%                       6%                       18%
PART 1 INVESTMENT
1.1 Collection Infrastructure                                                                                                                                               15,372,338     27.5%
1.1 1 Collection Bins
Type 1- Std. communal bins (750 L.)  60000  50            3,000,000             3,000,000      300,000     3,300,000     214,267    3,514,267     632,947     4,147,214
Type 2-Wheeled street bins (750 L.)  30000  75            2,250,000             2,250,000      225,000     2,475,000     160,700    2,635,700     474,710     3,110,410
Type 3 - Small residential bins (100 L.  10000  35          350,000              350,000        35,000      385,000       24,998      409,998      73,844      483,842
Type 4 - Large Residential bins (240    10000  40           400,000              400,000        40,000      440,000       28,569      468,569      84,393      552,962
Type 5 - Small commercial bins (1100  10000  100          1,000,000             1,000,000       100,000    1,100,000      71,422    1,171,422     210,982     1,382,405
Type 6 - Large commercial bins   300      2,000            600,000               600,000        60,000      660,000       42,853      702,853     126,589      829,443
1 12 Concrete Slabs for Bins
Typel - Bin Concrete Slab       1800       200              360,000    360,000                  36,000      396,000       25,712      421,712      75,954      497,666
Type 2 - Bin Concrete Slab       1800      300             540,000    540,000                   54,000      594,000       38,568      032,568     113,930      746,498
Type 3 - Bin Concrete Slab       1800      400             720,000    720,000                   72,000      792,000       51,424      843,424     151,907      995,331
Type 4 - Bin Concrete Slab       1800      500             900,000    900,000                   90,000      990,000       64,280    1,054,280     189,884     1,244,164
1.13 Slab/Bin Installation           20000       50             1,000,000   1,000,000                100,000    1,100,000      71,422     1,171,422     210,982    1,382,405
1.2 Collection vehicles
1.2.1 Compactor Trucks                                                                                                                                                       14,957,478     26.7%
Type 1- 3 tonne, 7.5m3 compactor  85    30,000   3,000    2,805,000           2,805,000       280,500    3,085,500     200,340     3,285,840     591,805     3,877,645
Type 2 - 3 lonne, 7.5m3 (rear loadin  85    30,000   3,000    2,805,000       2,805,000       280,500    3,085,500     200,340     3,285,840     591,805     3,877,645
Type 3- 10tonnecontalnertruck    15    45,000   4,600     742,500               742,600        74,250      816,750      53,031      869,781      156,654     1,026,435
1.2.2 Tipper (Dump) Truck               46    18,000   1,800     891,000              891,000         89,100     980,100       63,637     1,043,737     187,985     1,231,722
1.2.3 Vacuumtankers                     20    22,000   2,200     484,000              484,000         48,400     532,400       34,568      566,968      102,115      009,084
1.2.4 Tractors wlGrader Blade           40    20,000   2,000     880,000              880,000         88,000     968,000       62,852     1,030,862     185,664     1,216,516
1.2.6 Drop-side truck with loading crane  12    27,000   2,700   356,400              356,400         35,640     392,040       25,455      417,495       75,194      492,609
1.2.7 Bin cleaning vehicle              12    600000   6,000     792,000              792,000         79,200     871,200       56,566      927,766      167,098     1,094,864
12.8 Wheeled motorized chipper          24    10,000   1,000     204,000              264,000         26,400     290,400       18,865      309,255       55,699      364,955
1 2.9 Spare parts for 1996 K0413 Compact    100  2,000           200,000              200,000         20,000     220,000       14,284      234,284       42,196      276,481
1.2.10 Spares tor 1997/98 Czech Trucks  100     2,000             200,000              200,000         20,000     220,000       14,284      234,284       42,196      276,481
1.2.11 Spares for 1997/98 Korean Trucks  100    4,000             400,000              400,000         40,000     440,000       28,569      468,569       84,393      552,962
1.3 Vehicle Park Development                                                                                                                                                 3,135,708      5.6%
1.3.1 Vehicle Park upgrading            11    90,000             990,000    990,000                   99,000    1,089,000      70,708     1,159,708     208,872     1,368,680
1.3.2 Vehicle servicing equpment (distrclts)  11    23,000   2,300  278,300           278,300         27,830     306,130       19,877      326,007       58,716      384,723
1.3.3 Central repair workshop            1   450,000             450,000    450,000                   45,000     495,000       32,140      527,140       94,942      622,082
1.3 4 Vehicle servicing equipment (central)  1   500,000  60,000  550,000              550,000        55,000     606,000        39,282     644,282      116,040      760,322
1.4 Main Landfill Modernization
(Archangaranskoe)                                                                                                                                                         4,462,125     8.0%
1.4.1 Bulldozers                         2   150,000  15,000     330,000              330,000         33,000     363,000       23,569      386,569       69,624      456,193
1.4.2 Landfill Compactors                3   300,000  30,000     990,000              990,000         99,000    1,089,000      70,708     1,169,708     208,872    1,368,580
1.4.3 Tracked loader shovel              2   120,000  12,000     264,000              264,000         26,400     290,400       18,855      309,255       65,699      364,955
1.4.4 Excavator                          1    80,000   8,000      88,000               88,000          8,800      96,800        6,285      103,085       18,566      121,652
1.4.5 Dump Truck-8tonne                  4    40,000   4,000     176,000               176,000        17,600      193,600      12,570      206,170       37,133      243,303
1.4.6 Low loader                         1    96,000   9,600     105,600               105,600        10,560      116,160       7,542      123,702      22,280       145,982
1.4.8 Bus For Labor Transport            1    20,000   2,000      22,000                22,000         2,200       24,200        1,571      25,771        4,642       30,413
1 4.9 Light Transport Vehicles           2    10,000   1,000      22,000                22,000         2,200       24,200        1,571      25,771        4,642       30,413
1 4.10 Fuel Track                         1    22,000   2,200      24,200               24,200          2,420      26,620        1,728       28,348        5,106       33,454
1 4.11 Water Truck                        3    20,000   2,000      66,000               66,000          6,600      72,600        4,714       77,314       13,925       91,239
1.4.12 Truck Crane                        1    30,000   3,000      33,000               33,000          3,300      36,300        2,357       38,657        6,962       45,619
1.4.13 Weighbridge                        2    35,000   3,500      77,000               77,000          7,700      84,700        5,500       90,200       16,246      106,445
1.4.14 Maintenance Shop                   1    50,000              50.000               50,000          5,000      55.000        3,571       58,571       10,549       69,120
Welding Machines
Machine Tools
Materials Handling Equipment
Service Tools
1.4.15 Environmental Montoring System
portable Gas sampling device       1    20,000              20,000                20,000         2,000       22,000       1,428       23,428        4,220       27,648
portable Infra red spectrometer    1    25,000              25,000                25,000         2,500       27,500       1,786       29,280        5,275       34,560
portable gas detector              1     5,000               5,000                5,000           500         5,500         357        5,857        1,055        6,912
monOoring wells                    4    25,000             100,000    100,000                   10,000      110,000       7,142      117,142       21,098      138,240
1.4 16 Intrastructure Upgrading
Access Roads                        1    50,000             50,000     60,000                    5,000       65,000        3,571      58,571       10,549       69,120
Gates/Fencing/Lighting             1   100,000              100,000    100,000                  10,000      110,000        7,142      117,142      21,098      138,240
Service Utilitles                  1    50,000              50,000     50,000                    5,000       55,000        3,571      58,571       10,549       69,120
Fuel Station                       1    15,000              15,000     15,000                    1,500       16,500        1,071      17,571        3,165       20,736
Truck Wash                         1      5,000              5,000      5,000                      500        5,5  |        357        5,857        1,055        6,912
1.4.17 Buldings
Maintenance Shop (300m3)           1   140,000             140,000    140,000                   14,000      154,000       9,999      163,000       29,538      193,537
Staff/tUbility Building (200 m3)   1   100,000             160,000    100,000                   16,000      176,000      11,428      187,428       33.767      221,185
3/6/98                                                                                                                                                                                                  COSTPAD.XLS



TASHKENT MUNICIPAL SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
BASE CAPITAL COST ESTIMATE
Warehouse (200m3)                    1    60,000               60,000     60,000                     6,000       66,000         4,265       70,265        12,659       62,944
1.4.18 Closure/remediation                  1   150,000              150,000    150,000                    15,000       165,000       10,713      175,713        31.647      207,361
1.4.17 Land Acquis6ion/Compensation for     1   100,000              100,000    100,000                    10,000       110,000        7,142      117.142        21,098      138,240
Long Term Expansion
1.5 Landfill Closure
(Zangiata & Khasambai)                                                                                                                                                           1.255,223       22
1.5 1 Bulldozers                           2   150,000  15,000      330,000               330,000         33,000      363,000        23,569      386,569       69,624       456,193
15.2 Tracked loader shovel                 1   120,000  12,000      132,000               132,000         13,200      145,200         9,428      154,628       27,850       162,477
1.5.3 Excavator                            1     0    ,000           88 ,00                88,000          8,800       96,800         6,285      103,085        18,566      121,652
15.4 Dump Truck- 8 Tonne                   2    40,000   11.200     102,400               102,400         10,240      112,640         7,314      119,954        21,605      141,558
1.5.5 Low loader                           1    96,000   9,600      105,600               105,600         10,560       116,160        7,542      123,702        22,280      145,982
1.5.6 Environmental Monitoring System      1    50,000               50,000        .       50,000          5,000       55,000         3,571       58,571        10.049       69,120
1.5.7 Civil Works                          2    50,000              100,000    100,000                    10,000       110,000        7,142      117,142        21.098      138,240
1.6 Transfer Stations (4)                                                                                                                                                            5,991,894     10.7%
16.1 Intrastructure Development
Transfer Station Design             4    20,000               80,000      80,000                     8,000       88,000         5,714       93,714        16,879      110,592
She Acquisition                     4   100,000               400,000    400,000                    40,000      440,000        28,569      468,569       84,393       552,962
Se Access/Preparation              4    50,000               200,000    200,000                    20,000      220,000        14,284      234,284       42,196       276,481
General Building works              4    75,000               300,000    300,000                    30,000      330,000        21,427      351,427       63,295       414,721
Olf-Loading Platfomr/Ramp           4    75,000               300,000    300,000                    30,000      330,000        21,427      351,427       63,295       414,721
Gate House/Fencing                  4    45,000               180,000    180,000                    18,000      198,000        12,856      210,856       37,977       248,833
Staffand Maintenance Facilities     4    45,000               180,000    180,000                    18,000      198,000        12,856      210,856       37,977       248,833
Miscellaneous                       4    45,000               180,000    180,000                    18,000      198,000        12,856      210,856       37,977       248,833
1.6.2 Speciality Equipment
Compaction System                   8   175,000   9,600    1,476,800               t,476,800       147,680     1,624,480      105,476     1,729,956     311,579      2,041,535
Containers                         92      7,400              680,800               680,800         68,080      748,880        48,624      797,504       143,637      941,141
Weighbridge                         8    35,000   9,600       356,800               356,800         35,680      392,480        25,483      417,963       75,278       493,242
1.7 TransferStation/Landfill Vehicles   32   125,000             4,000,000             4,000,000        400,000     4,400,000     285,689     4,685,689      843,929     5,529,618   5,529,618      9.9%
1.8 Operations Computer Equipment                                                                                                                                                     843,267       1,5%
1 8.1 Computer Equipment for Collection    1    50,000               50,000                50,000          5,000        50,000        3,571       58,571        10,549       69.120
System Management
1.8.2 Computer EquipmentforTransfer        4    12,000               48,000                48,000          4,800       52,800         3,428       56,228        10,127        66.355
Station Operations
1.8.3 Computer Equipment For Landfill      1    12,000               12,000                 12,000         1,200        13,200         857         14,057        2,532        16,589
Operations
18.4 Computer/Equipment/Softwarefor        1   500,000              500,000               500,000         50,000       550,000       35,711      585,711       105,491      691,202
Spetstrans Financial System
1.9. Bio-Medical Waste Facilities                                                                                                                                                      399.791       0 7%
19.1 Collection Vehicle                    2   100,000   9,600      219,200               219,200         21,920       241.120       15,656      256,776        46,247      303,023
19.2 Containers                          200       100               20.000                 20,000         2,000        22,000        1,428       23,428         4,220        27,648
1.9.3 Landfill Cell Development            1    50,000               50.000     50,000                     5,000        55,000        3,571       58,571        10,549        69,120
PART 2 INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT                                                                                                                                                             4,052,557'     7 2%
2.1 Project Management
2.1.1 Computer and office equipment Oor PIU  1    50,000             50,000                 50,000                      50,000        3,246        53,246        9,590        62,837
2.12 PIU local staff costs (months)       48       910               43,680     43,680                                  43,680        2,836        46,516        8,378        54,894
2.1 3 Office Improvements                  1      1,000               1,000      1,000                                   1,000           65         1,065          192         1,257
2.1.4 Implemenatrion support               1   300,000              300,000                300,000                     300,000       19,479       319,479       57,541       377,019
2.2 Institutional Strengthening
2.2.1 Strategic Plan                       1   300,000              300,000                300,000                     300,000       19,479       319,479       57,541       377,019
2,2,2 Corporatisation Support              1   150,000              150,000                150,000                     150,000        9,739       159,739       28,77        1688,510
2.2,3 Financial Management System Dev.     1   100,000              100,000                100,000                     100,000        6,493       106,493       19,180       125,673
2.2.4 Financial Management System          1  1,300,000            1,300,000             1,300,000                    1,300,000      84,408     1,384,408      249.343     1.633,751
2.2.5 Tarif Studies                        1   200,000              200,000                200,000                     200,000       12,986       212,986       38,360       251,346
2.2.6 Training                             1   200,000              200,000                200,000                     200,000       12,986       212,986       38,360       251,346
2.2.7 Collection Operations Optimization Stu  1   100,000           100,000                100,000                     100,000        6,493       106,493       19,180       125,673
2.2.8 Landfill Operations Training/             200,000             130,000                130,000                     130,000        8,441       138,441       24,934       163,375
Waste Identification
2.2,9 Landfill Closure Studies/Design      1   100,000              100,000                100,000                     100,000        6,493       106,493       19,100       t25.673
2.2 10 Landfill Expansion Design            1   250,000              250,000                250,000                     250,000       16,232       266,232       47,951       314,183
22 11 Public Participation (Costs incorporated into landfll  ems, uari study and strategic plan)  0                           0            0            0             0             0
TOTAL                          l|                         | 40,e02,268   7,804,680  32,897,600     3,757,760    44,560,846    2,893,255    47,453,295    8,546,706E-    58,006,0008   56,00,066  100%



Project Appraisal Document                                                                   Page 28
Uzbekistan                                                    Tashkent Solid Waste Management Project
Annex 4
Tashkent Solid Waste Management Project
Economic Analysis
Table 4A: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
(In October 1997 US$ million at 10% discounted rate)
Present Value of Flow      Fiscal Impacts
Economic      Financial   (VAT, road taxes)
Analysis      Analysis
Incremental Benefits     100.8  a/    117.8              18.0
109.7  b/
Incremental Costs        96.6          114.7             17.2
Net Benefits              3.6    -      3.0
13.2    -
IRR:                    13.2%   a      12.0%
20.0%   -
Notes:
- Projected financial revenues and costs are adjusted to identify economic benefits and costs.
- Value given to the change in environmental quality is based on the willingness of individuals
to pay estimated through the social assessment.
Main Assumptions:
The project life is assumed to be 10 years.
The economic rate of return has been calculated based on the adjusted financial revenues and costs of the projects.
Quantified project benefits include incremental revenues from enhanced solid waste collection, street-cleaning, and
landfill disposal and the net transfer by the Municipality of Tashkent of the 0.5 percent waste removal/disposal tax
imposed on all enterprises or the new City Improvement Tax.
Willingness to pay for improved solid waste management obtained during the social assessment was used to assess
the lowest monetary value of changes in health and environmental quality which would be derived from the project
for the household.
The majority of households reported a willingness to pay 15 sums pe; person per month (equivalent to 495 sum per
ton) for improved services and reported lack of trust that the supposed level of service would be achieved. Those
with more confidence in improved management revealed a willingness to pay 30 sums per capita per month. Values
of 990 sum per ton and 330 sum per ton were used to estimate the economic benefits of the situation with the project
and without the project, respectively.



Page 29                                                                              Project Appraisal Document
Tashkent Solid Waste Management Project                                                               Uzbekistan
Table 4B: Switching Values of Critical Items
Variable                                     Switching value
Financial IRR     Economic IRR         Economic IRR
a'~~~~~~~b
Capital costs (including renewals)        5.0%                8.0%                30.0%
Operating costs                  4.8%                6.8%                24.7%
Benefits (revenues or WTP)             -7.6%              -4.0%               -12.0%
Notes:
- Projected financial revenues and costs are adjusted to identify economic benefits and costs.
Value given to the change in environmental quality is based on the willingness of individuals to pay estimated through the
social assessment.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                  Page 30
Uzbekistan                                                                         Tashkent Solid Waste Management Project
Annex 5
Tashkent Solid Waste Management Project
Financial Analysis
Table 5A: Financial Summary
Years Ending December 31
(In million Sum)
FY99   FY00   FYO I
Project Costs
Investment Costs                                          3,740.4   4,745.5   348.3
Recurrent Costs                                            1,458.5   2,199.2   2,649.5
Total                                  5,198.9   6,944.7   2,997.8
Financing Sources (% of total project costs)
IBRD                                                         31%   30%    5%
EBRD                                                         27%   25%    4%
Government                                                    14%    13%             2%
User Fees/Beneficiaries                                      28%         27%        60%
City Improvement Tax                                           0%         5%    28%
Total                                   100%   100%    100%
Table 5B: Financial Summary for Revenue Earning Project Entities
Years Ending December 31, 1996 through 2001
(In millions of current Sum)
1996       1997        1998        1999        2000        2001         Average
Annual
Growth
Forecast
Income Statement Items
Revenues                           255.5       673.6       1,101.4     1,555.4    2,053.6     2,401.8      266%
Operating Income                   33.6        65.0        154.1       96.9       (145.6)     (247.7)      -237%
Net Income                         (1.3)       23.8        42.5       (217.9)      (924.5)    (1,722.1)    -21089%
Funds Statement Items
Intemal Sources                    8.0         51.1        126.4       41.1       (302.7)     (465.5)      -1529%
Borrowings                         -           -           -           751.7       953.7      70.0         5%
Equity Investments                 175.0       -           1,431.0     2,988.7    4,116.8     1,128.3       1890%
Total Sources                    183.0      51.1        1,557.3     3,781.5    4,767.9    732.8          813%
Capital Expenditures               166.2       -           1,431.0    3,740.4     4,745.5     598.1        962%
Working Capital Increase (Decrease)  16.7      51.1        126.4       41.1        22.3        134.7        481%
Debt Service                       -           -           -           -          -           -
Total Applications               183.0      51.1        1,557.3    3,781.5    4,767.9       732.8        813%
Balance Sheet Items
Current Assets                     61.1        109.2       259.3       819.2       969.9       1,182.0     736%
Net Fixed Assets                   192.3       165.0       1,667.6    5,195.3      10,158.3   10,844.8      5102%
Total Assets                    253.4       274.2       1,926.9     6,014.5     11,128.3   12,026.8      3222%



Page 31                                                                                  Project Appraisal Document
Tashkent Solid Waste Management Project                                                                    Uzbekistan
1996      1997       1998      1999       2000      2001        Average
Annual
Growth
-- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -S 3 - - -   S Z _  -- - -  6_ .  _--- -   -- --  _f .    -- - -4 i   - -- -  .-- -
Current Liabilities         35.3       32.3      56.1       249.2     377.5      454.8       429%
Debt                           -          129.1    -205.1      275.6     400.4      467.0       90%
Equity                         218.1      241.9     1,870.9    5,013.6    9,045.3    9,796.5    3667%
Total Liabilities and Equity  253.4    274.2      1.926.9    6,014.5    11,128.3   12,026.8
Financial Ratios
Excluding Transfer Payments from the Municipality
Operating Income % of Revenue     13%        10%       14%       6%         -7%       -10%
Net Income as % of Revenue        -1%       4%         4%        -14%      -45%       -72%
Return on Average Invested Capital    -2%   23%        5%        -7%        -14%      -19%
Return on Net Revalued Fixed Assets   -0.3%  3.3%      1.5%      -1.4%JO    -2.8%      -3.8%
Debt Service Coverage             na        na         45.9      1.7        -0.9      -1.1
Percent of Total Capital Expenditures na    5%         0%        -6%        -93%      -861%
financed by Internal Sources
Current Ratio                     1.7       3.4        4.6       3.3        2.6       2.6
Debt as % of Total Capitalization  0        0          0         12%        15%        15%
Including Transfer Payments from the Municipality
Return on Average Invested Capital    -2%   23%        5%        -7%        -9%       -9%
Return on Net Revalued Fixed Assets   -0.3%  3.3%      1.5%      -1.4%      -1.6%     -1.6%
Debt Service Coverage             na        na         45.9      1.7        1.1       2.8
Percent of Total Capital Expenditures  na   5%         0%        -6%        -39%      64%
financed by Internal Sources
1.      Internal Rate of Return. The result of the                            Internal Rate of Return
base case scenario shows a rate of return of 12
percent. In calculating the benefits, the net payments   Cost                   BaseCase  Revenue-10%  Revenue-15%
by the Municipality of Tashkent were considered as  Base Case                         12%I             7%I            0%
benefits accruing to the project, as the source of the   Investment + 10%              9%              1%            -3%
payments was a specific 0.5 percent waste removal  Recurrent Cost+ 10%                 8%             -1%            -6%
/disposal tax, assessed by the Municipality on all
enterprises. This tax was in lieu of tariff increases, which otherwise would have directly benefited Spetstrans. This
tax was recently replaced by a City Improvement tax of up to 2 percent on all activities in Tashkent and funds from
the new tax would be made available to lieu of the old 0.5 percent enterprise tax. A sensitivity analysis was
performed to test the robustness of the project against variations in benefits and costs and the results are shown in
the table.
2.       Net Present Value. In determining the Net                                     NPV
Present Value, a discount rate of 10 percent was                                                Revenue
used, which is considered to be the opportunity cost
' .. ...........  ,. ......Cost                              Base Case  Revenue -10%  Revenue -15%
of capital in  Uzbekistan. A  sensitivity  analysis  Base Case                       $3.00    $    (8.77)1  S    (14.66)
similar to the one for the calculation of the internal  Investment + 10%            ($2.23)   $    (14.01)  $    (19.90)
rate of return was used and the results are included in   Recurrent Cost + 10%      ($3.24)   $    (15.02)  5    (20.91)
the table.
Past Performance
3.       Spetstrans past performance is marked by insufficient funds to operate and maintain its equipment
properly. Replacement of worn out equipment did not take place at regular intervals thus seriously jeopardizing its
operations. In an effort to maintain a modest fleet of operational vehicles, equipment was cannibalized to secure
necessary spare parts, as funds were lacking to purchase the spare parts in the market. Stores were completely
depleted some time ago and do not contain any parts of significant value at present. Although waste collection and



Project Appraisal Document                                                                   Page 32
Uzbekistan                                                    Tashkent Solid Waste Management Project
disposal tariffs were set at levels that should have ensured the proper functioning of Spetstrans, building up of high
accounts receivable prevented Spetstrans from obtaining the funds necessary for proper operations and maintenance.
4.     Spetstrans management overcame these obstacles by pursuing a number of unorthodox measures, such as
delaying payment of wages, encouraging workers to obtain necessary spare parts on their own, collecting additional
payments for waste removal from more affluent customers and ad hoc barter arrangements.
5.     The political leadership, as represented by the Mayor, has recognized that pursuit of these survival
techniques is only possible for a limited time. While the domestic waste collection tariffs were substantially
increased in April 1997, they have not been revised since, in spite of rampant inflation. As the political will is
lacking to make customers pay in the future directly for the major part of the cost of the operation, altemative
sources of municipal revenues will have to be used to keep the system alive. Ultimately, however, a strong
commitment will be required to establish a system of tariff adjustments and collection mechanism for ensuring
adequate operations, maintenance and replacement. Otherwise any intervention would be piecemeal and not lead to
sustainability.
Tariffs
6.     Spetstrans tariff structure is reviewed at least once a year on the basis of the cost of its operation. Tariff
setting policy in the past has been that tariffs for domestic waste collection and removal would cover 40 percent of
the associated cost. A recent Government decision foresees the elimination of all subsidies. Therefore this cross-
subsidy would be phased out by 10 percentage points during each of the next 6 years. To what extent this policy can
be implemented has to be seen, as it would require substantial tariff increases in real terms which, because of equity
and affordability considerations, may not materialize.
7.     Tariffs for industry, commerce and budget organizations are the result of negotiations with the individual
enterprises on the basis of a guideline average tariff. Contracts with the individual enterprises foresee that the
adjustmnent of the tariffs are in line with the development of the cost of major inputs such as fuel.
8.     Tariffs for domestic waste collection and disposal are proposed by Spetstrans to the Municipality which,
after review, forwards its recommendation to the Municipality for enactment. The latest tariff increase took place in
April 1997 when the previous level of sum 4 per head/month was increased to sum 15. Following this tariff increase
accounts receivable doubled from sum 30 million to sum 60 million at the end of September 1997. Also the billed
amounts did not correspond to the amount forecast and the population served, indicating that possibly a large
portion of the population might be exempted from payment for public services such as water, heating and waste
disposal.
9.     The financial projections indicate (see below) that in addition to regular tariff adjustments for inflation,
tariffs would have to be increased in real terms. Given that the present cost data is inadequate and that the future
operations would be substantially different from the existing ones, a tariff study would have to be undertaken to
review the adequacy and affordability of the present system of tariffs and charges and to propose modifications.
Therefore agreement was reached at negotiations that Spetstrans will: (a) by December 31, 1999, engage
consultants for the preparation of a tariff study (Tariff Study) under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, (b)
have the Tariff Study completed by April 30, 2000, (c) upon completion of the Tariff Study, furnish the same to the
Bank for its review and comments, and (d) by July 1, 2000, adopt and put into effect a policy on tariffs on the basis
of the Tariff Study and taking into account the comments, if any, thereon by the Bank. The said tariffpolicy shall, as
a minimum, provide for: (a) full adjustment of the tariffs for inflation on an annual basis; and (b) real term
increases to achieve full recovery of all operating and maintenance costs for the solid waste management system by
such time as demonstratedfeasible in the Tariff Study. To the extent that the tariffs do not cover the full operating
and maintenance costs of Spetstrans and other waste management operators, the Municipality of Tashkent shall
contribute the funds (including proceeds from the City Improvement Tax) to cover any shortfall of the said
operators.
Service to Urban Poor
10.    Payments for waste collection and disposal services to the urban poor are arranged on a district level
thorough the Mahaliats, which receive the funds from the Municipality. The Mahaliats exist in each of the eleven
districts and arnongst their objectives in safeguarding the interests of the population living in the districts and
providing assistance to the urban poor.



Page 33                                                                          Project Appraisal Document
Tashkent Solid Waste Management Project                                                          Uzbekistan
Waste Removal/Disposal Tax
II.    In addition to waste removal and disposal tariff charged by Spetstrans to its customers, the Municipality
was assessing a 0.5 percent turnover tax on industry and commerce in Tashkent for financing investments and the
cost of operations of waste removal and collection. This tax was never transferred to Spetstrans but instead was used
by the Municipality to finance the acquisition of equipment of the District Spetstrans. It was replaced in January
1998 with a City Improvement tax of up to 2 percent on all activities in Tashkent.
Financing Arrangements
12.     Due to limitations in raising tariffs beyond inflationary adjustments, Spetstrans operations would not
generate sufficiently high levels of internal funds to permit it to contribute any amount to the financing of the
project. Instead most of the funding would be provided by the two banks and to some limited extent from the
Government/Municipality of Tashkent. The table below indicates the relative share of the financing of the project
from three sources, by the proposed loans from the World Bank and the European Bank for Reconstruction and
Development as well as by the contribution from the Government/Municipality.
Local      Foreign    Total      Local     Foreign      Total    %
Expenditures Expenditures        Expenditures Expenditures
in million sum                 in million US$
Project Cost                        1,732.63    7,101.68    8,834.31 $ 10.97  $   44.97   $ 55.94  100%
Financing
Loan
- EBRD                                      3,285.69    3,285.69          $   20.80   $ 20.80  37.2%
- IBRD                                      3,815.99    3,815.99          $    24.16  $ 24.16  43.2%
Equity
- GoU                            1,732.63              1,732.63 $ 10.97               $ 10.97  19.6%
out of which
Local         381.47  $  2.42
Expenditures.
Taxes         1,351.16 $  8.55 1    .__                        1 _                     _
1,732.63    7,101.68    8,834.31 $ 10.97  $   44.97   $ 55.94  100%
13.     The lending arrangements for the proposed Project would be different for the two Banks. The EBRD loan
would be made available to the GoU on the following terms: maturity 10 years, grace period 3 years, interest rate
LIBOR + 1 percent, front-end fee 1 percent and a commitment charge of 0.75 percent. Onlending terms to the
Municipality of Tashkent are assumed presently at the following terms: maturity 10 years, grace period 3 years,
interest rate of 13.5 percent, front-end fee I percent and a commitment charge of 0.5 percent. The IBRD loan would
be made available to the GoU on the following terms: maturity 20 years, grace period 5 years, interest rate for US S
single currency loans at LIBOR + 0.5 percent, and a commitment charge of 0.75 percent. Onlending terms to the
Municipality of Tashkent are assumed presently at the following terms: maturity 12 years, grace period 3 years,
interest rate of 12.5 percent, commitment charge 0.5 percent.
14.     The onlending conditions were set to permit the project to meet the following objectives: first the financing
arrangements should be neutral to the Central Government Budget, second the impact of inflation on the
beneficiaries should not lead to a situation that would jeopardize the implementation of the project, third the
financial viability of Spetstrans would be sustained. These objectives would be achieved if: (a) inflation rates do not
exceed the assumed levels; (b) the assumed onlending terms as outlined above would apply; (c) Spetstrans would
adjust tariffs for inflation to meet cash operating expenses, changes in working capital, minimum cash balances and
a contribution out of internally generated funds of 15 percent of major replacement and would receive transfer
payments from the Municipality of Tashkent out of the receipts of the City Improvement tax for covering cash
shortfalls. Therefore during negotiations agreement was reached that the IBRD loan be made to the GoU as a
LIBOR-based US dollar loan on the following terms: maturity 20 years, including 5 years of grace. The GoU would
onlend to the Municipality of Tashkent on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank which would foresee a
maturity of 12 years including 3 years of grace at an interest rate of 12.5 percent.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                   Page 34
Uzbekistan                                                    Tashkent Solid Waste Management Project
Financial Projections
15.    In assessing the financial viability of the project, the forecast financial situation for Spetstrans has to be
examined as well the impact of the project on the finances of the Municipality. In preparing the financial projections
for Spetstrans, cost data of the present operations was used as well as international norms for the operation of the
proposed new equipment and installations. Spetstrans financial performance target shoild be to meet all operating
and maintenance cost, debt service requirements, changes in working capital requirements as well as a 15 percent
contribution to major equipment replacements. This target would mandate tariff increases beyond inflationary
adjustments, which would be quite difficult to implement on a large scale. Therefore receipts of the City
improvement tax would have to be used for covering cash shortfalls of Spetstrans. Proceeds of this tax would also
be used on a priority basis for financing the obligations of the Municipality resulting from the implementation of the
project (see below). The available annual amounts of the City Improvement tax would, however, be insufficient to
meet the Spetstrans cash shortfall in year 2000, 2002 and 2006 when tariffs would have to be adjusted in real terms
by 15.0 percent, 3.5 percent, and 3.5 percent respectively.
16.    The projections indicate that Spetstrans operations would be financially sustainable in the future provided
that the following measures were taken: (a) tariffs adjusted for inflationary increases; (b) any cash shortfalls be
covered by the Municipality out of the proceeds of the City- Improvement tax; and (c) Spetstrans would increase its
tariffs to sufficiently high levels to meet the financial performance target.
17.    In view of the rather high level of inflation, the adequacy of tariffs would have to be reviewed regularly.
For this Spetstrans would have to prepare a review of the adequacy of its tariffs on a quarterly basis by comparing
its cost of operations with the projected income to meet the financial performance target.
Sustainability
18.    In addition to Spetstrans future performance, the assessment of the financial viability of the project requires
the review of the implications of the project for the finances of the Municipality of Tashkent. As indicated above,
the Municipality was the beneficiary of the proceeds of the 0.5 percent waste removal/disposal tax as well as its
replacement tax for city improvements. In the financial analysis, it was assumed that the 0.5 percent tax would be
used by the Government/Municipality to cover its equity contribution, representing mostly taxes, the debt service
requirements of the Municipality vis-a-vis the central government after allowing for the receipt of the debt service
from Spetstrans, and at varying annual amounts Spetstrans' cash shortfall resulting from no opportunity to charge
full cost recovery tariffs. Collection of the new City Improvement tax and its continued application to the above
stated purposes is critical for achieving financial sustainability and full cost recovery.
Assessment of the Difference in Maturities
19.    The implication of the differences in the onlending terms of the World Bank and EBRD loans on the
central Government's budget was assessed by comparing the discounted value of the debt service requirements of
the central Government vis-a-vis the two banks and the debt service payments from the Municipality of Tashkent to
the central Government. Annual loan disbursements were expressed in local currency by using the forecast
exchange rate on the basis of the assumed inflation rates. The debt service payments at the Government and
Municipal level, separate for each loan, i. e., World Bank and EBRD, over the life of the loan were discounted using
discount rates from 0 to 11 percent. The difference between the discounted debt service payments at the Municipal
level and at the central Government level then indicates, separate for each lender, at what discount rate the debt
service would be neutral for the central Government under the assumed inflation rates and onlending rates. The
IBRD loan and the onlending conditions would be neutral to the central Government at a discount rate of 8.3
percent and only above 11 percent for the EBRD. This shows that there would not be any major subsidies required
with the implementation of the Project, provided that the assumptions on the forecast level of inflation are correct.
Accounting, Auditing and Insurance
20.    Overall. The project's accounting, financial reporting and auditing arrangements would be the
responsibility of the Central PIU. This PIU has already demonstrated that they have the financial management
capacity to handle all aspects of Bank-financed projects. Trained personnel in the PIU include accounting,
procurement, disbursements and auditing specialists. This Central PIU would be responsible for supervising project
procurement and have primary responsibility for project financial management including disbursements, the special
account, and project auditing. It was originally set up for the Uzbekistan Water Supply, Sanitation and Health



Page 35                                                                 Project Appraisal Document
Tashkent Solid Waste Management Project                                               Uzbekistan
Project and would be expanded to handle the additional workload. The proposed project would thus benefit from
cross support and the experienced personnel in the central PIU for common services related to the Bank loans.
21.    Accounting. Spetstrans is presently using a double entry cash-based accounting system that is not a tool
for proper utility management. Parallel to this accounting system, another system of records exists which has its
origins in the requirement of a planned economy with an objective to provide data on the actual perfornance in
comparison to the planned values. As these systems are inadequate for sound financial and operational management,
there is a need to design, implement and operate an accounting system that would meet these requirements.
Agreement was therefore reached at negotiations that Spetstrans would: (a) contract consultants for the design and
implementation of a utility accounting system, by January 1, 1999, under terms and conditions acceptable to the
Bank which would provide, inter alia, that the system design be completed by August 31, 1999; and (b) the
respective utility accounting systems would be-fully operational not later than July 1, 2000.
22.    Auditing. So far the accounts of Spetstrans have not been audited by an independent auditor. Therefore,
agreement was reached at negotiations that Spetstrans would: (a) engage independent auditors acceptable to the
Banks for the annual audit of its financial statements including those of the PIUs, the project's accounts, the
operations of the special account, and the use of statements of expenditures; and (b) forward the audited accounts,
together with the auditors' statement, to the Banks not later than six months after the end of its fiscal year.
23.    Considering that Spetstrans has so far not been audited by non-government auditors, it is essential that it
become familiar early on with the audit requirements so that the audit can be completed in the foreseen time limit.
24.    Insurance. Spetstrans does not carry any insurance coverage, not even third-party liability insurance for its
vehicle. While Government agencies were supposed to cover the risks as self-insurers, this was not adequately
applied. Workers' compensation is arranged partly through the state-run pension system, and partly through the
unions' social program to which every worker belongs. An insurance market is presently being established in
Uzbekistan, although it may take some time until insurance coverage for a variety of risks would be available at
reasonable premiums. Nevertheless, it is important that adequate insurance be obtained in due course. Therefore
agreement was reached at negotiations that Spetstrans would: (a) undertake and, by October 15, 1998, complete an
assessment of its requirements for insurance; (b) prepare, on the basis of such review, a plan for insurance of its
assets and operations against such risks and in such amount as shall be consistent with appropriate practices; (c)
furnish the said insurance assessment and plan to the Bank; and (d) commencing January 1, 1999, implement the
insurance plan taking into account the comments thereon, if any, by the Bank.
Mid-Term Review
25.    The project would involve the Municipality of Tashkent and Spetstrans, which so far have no experience
with the implementation of internationally-funded projects. While the risks inherent in the scope of the project are
manageable, the risks in achieving the envisaged institutional improvements as well as the cost recovery and
sustainability are substantial. In order to mitigate this risk, strong supervision would be required. As supervision
tends to be more focused on specific aspects, there is the need to foresee a comprehensive mid-term review. This
review would be conducted jointly by the Borrower, the Municipality of Tashkent and Spetstrans as well as the
Banks. It would include: (a) assessment of the progress and success in implementing the project in relation to the
planned targets; (b) review of the progress made in achieving the planned institutional modifications including
privatization; (c) examining the improvements in overall operational performance in terms of waste collection and
removal, maintenance, and staffing; (d) assessment of the financial situation, including tariff levels, cost recovery,
accounts receivable, and inventory management; and (e) review of billing and collection, improvements in the
accounting system, including applicable procedures. In view of the importance of the review, agreement was
reached at negotiations that the Municipality and Spetstrans would: (a) maintain policies and procedures adequate
to enable it to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Bank, the
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; (b) prepare, under terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank, andfurnish to the Bank, on or about June 30, 1999, a report integrating the results of the
monitoring and evaluation activities performed, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during
the period preceding the date of said report, and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the periodfollowing such date; and
(c) review with the Bank, by November 15, 1999, or such later date as the Bank shall request, the report referred to
above, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the



Project Appraisal Document                                                               Page 36
Uzbekistan                                                 Tashkent Solid Waste Management Project
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the;
Bank views on the matter.
Supervision and Monitoring
26.    Implementation of the project would rest with the PIU. Unfamiliarity..with the procedures of international
lending agencies and the complexity and dispersion of the project would require considerable supervision efforts.
27.    The technical assistance consultants would assist Spetstrans staff in drawing up an operational action plan.
This plan would specify activities, training needs, responsibilities, outputs, time-lines, and perfbrmance measuring
indicators which should help to ensure that agreed targets of the institutional development plan would be met, the
cost recovery mechanism functions, sustainability is achieved, and facilities are operated according to acceptable
standards. This operational action plan would be updated quarterly and would be included in the semi-annual
progress reports.
28.    Success in project implementation would be measured against physical and financial performance targets.
Agreement was therefore reached at negotiations that Spetstrans would. (a) compare at stated intervals the actual
performance for each of the target indicators against the appraisal estimate; (b) this comparison be included in the
project progress report to be forwarded to the Banks on a semi-annual basis; and (c) remedial actions be outlined if
there is significant difference between the target and forecast values and a timetable be prepared for the
implementation of these actions.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                Page 37
Uzbekistan                                                   Tashkent Solid Waste Management Project
Annex 6
Tashkent Solid Waste Management Project
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement Methods (Table A)
1.     The detailed procurement plan is provided in the Project Implementation Plan. What follows is a summary
of the project's procurement arrangements. Procurement would be the responsibility of the Project Implementation
Unit (PIU) in the municipal Tashkent Solid Waste Management Department in close collaboration with Spetstrans
(Tashkent solid waste collection organization) on technical matters. The PIU would have a qualified procurement
officer. In addition, it would be supported by a management consultant. Close to loan effectiveness, a project launch
workshop would be held to ensure that those involved in project implementation understand the Bank's
requirements especially with regard to procurement.
2.     The procurement of goods under the project would be conducted in accordance with the Bank's guidelines
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits published in January 1995 and revised in January and August,
1996, and September 1997. The project components not financed by the Bank would be procured in accordance
with national regulations or the cofinancing institutions' procurement regulations. A General Procurement Notice
was published in the Development Business in February 1998.
Prior Review Thresholds
3.     The proceeds of the Bank loan would finance three goods and one turnkey contract (including design and
engineering). All these packages would be procured through International Competitive Bidding (ICB). ICB bidding
documents, based on the Standard Bidding Documents of the Bank for Goods and Supply and Installation, would be
finalized by effectiveness.
4.     All contracts for goods estimated to cost US$300,000 or more would be subject to the Bank's prior review.
Disbursement Arrangements
5.     The project is expected to be disbursed over a period of five years, from mid-1998 to mid-2003, with an
anticipated completion date of June 30, 2003. A closing date of December 31, 2003 is proposed. The disbursement
profile was established using the Bank's past experience in the execution of similar projects. Disbursements would
follow normal World Bank and cofinancier's procedures and would be made against eligible categories of project
expenditures by: (a) special commitments in support of letters of credit issued by the Borrower's bank in favor of
foreign suppliers of goods; (b) direct payment to suppliers; and (c) reimbursement of eligible expenditures for
payment already made by government agencies.
6.     To facilitate timely project implementation, the borrower would establish, maintain and operate, under
conditions, acceptable to the Bank, a Special Account in US Dollars in a commercial bank. During the early stage of
the project, the initial allocation of the Special Account would be limited to US$500,000. However, when the
aggregate disbursements under the loan have reached the level of US$2 million, the initial allocation may be
increase up to the authorized allocation of US$1 million by submitting the relevant Application for Withdrawal.
Replenishment applications should be submitted at least every three months, and must include reconciled bank
statements as well as other appropriate supporting documents.
7.     The loan would be at the Bank's standard interest rate for variable LIBOR-based US Dollar single-currency
loans, on amortized terms based on a maturity of 20 years, including 5 years of grace. The commitment fee would
be 0.75 percent on the undisbursed loan balance, beginning 60 days after loan signing, less any waiver. Allocation
of loan proceeds is shown in Table B.



Page 38                                                                      Project Appraisal Document
Tashkent Solid Waste Management Project                                                      Uzbekistan
Table 6A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements al
(US$ million)
Expenditure Category                      Procurement Method D               Total Cost (including
ICB         NCB         Other      N.B.F c      contingencies)
1. WORKS
Vehicle Part Development d-                                                 3.12           3.12
Bin Slab Installation                                                       1.37           1.37
Landfill Infrastructure Upgrade/                                            1.47           1.47
Closure/Remediation/Expansion
2. GOODS
Transfer Station                      5.91                                                 5.91
(5.01)                                              (5.01)
Collection Bins                      10.34                                                10.34
(8.76)                                              (8.76)
Concrete Slabs for Bins               3.40                                                 3.40
(2.88)                                              (2.88)
Compactor/Roll-off Trucks             8.68                                                 8.68
(7.36)                                              (7.36)
Dump & Vacuum Trucks Tractors d                                             3.09           3.09
Specialty Vehicles d/                                                       1.93           1.93
Truck Spares CV                                                             1.10           1.10
Landfill Equipment d                                                        3.95           3.95
Landfill Maintenance Equip. d/                                              0.07           0.07
Weight Scales d/                                                            0.10           0.10
Environmental Monitoring Equip d-                                           0.14           0.14
Transfer Station Vehicles -                                                 5.49           5.49
Computer Equipment d/                                                       0.84           0.84
Biomedical Waste Vehicles/Containers                                        0.32           0.32
3. SERVICES
Institutional Support/Project                                               4.43           4.43
Management Consultants
Total                  28.33                                 27.67         56.00
(24.00)                                             (24.00)
a Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan.
E All IBRD-financed packages are ICB (US$24 million).
'I N.B.F. = Not Bank financed.
d/ EBRD-financed items.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                Page 39
Uzbekistan                                                  Tashkent Solid Waste Management Project
Table 6B: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Category                          Amount   Expenditures to be Financed
Turnkey contract for transfer stations  5.0  100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost) on goods and 80% of local expenditures for
items procured locally
Equipment and waste collection      16.6     100% of foreign expenditures
vehicles                                     100% of local expenditures (ex-factory cost) and 80% of
expenditures for other items procured locally
Unallocated                          2.4
Total                 24.0



Project Appraisal Document                                                                  Page 40
Uzbekistan                                                   Tashkent Solid Waste Management Project
Annex 7
Tashkent Solid Waste Management Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                             Planned                  Actual
(At final PCD stage)
$210                    $210
B. Project Schedule                                    Planned                  Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)                8                       9
First Bank mission (identification)                   01/23/1997              01/23/1997
Appraisal mission departure                           10/28/1997              10/28/1997
Negotiations                                          02/25/1998              02/25/1998
Planned Date of Effectiveness                         06/30/1998
Prepared by: Municipality of Tashkent
Preparation assistance: IBRD and EBRD
Bank staff who worked on the project included: Roger Batstone, Janis Bernstein, and Rita Cessti with the
assistance of Rick Cooke, Johann Renkewitz, and Craig Leisher (consultants).



Project Appraisal Document                                                                   Page 41
Uzbekistan                                                     Tashkent Solid Waste Management Project
Annex 8
Tashkent Solid Waste Management Project
Documents in the Project File*
A. Project Implementation Plan
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Social Assessment Report (J. Bernstein)
Mission Notes - Project Identification Mission (R. Cooke)
Mission Notes - Project Preparation Mission (R. Cooke)
C. Other
Consultant's Report - Project Preparation Mission (J. Warren, H. Mascha)
Procurement Plan - Project Preparation Mission (R. Gargrave)
Project Capital and Operating Cost Estimates - Pre-Appraisal Mission (COWI, R. Cooke)
Project Procurement Plan - Project Pre-Appraisal Mission (R. Cooke)
Conclusion: Expansion of the Territory of Tashkent City Landfill (33km down Aghangaranskoe
Highway) ("Sogdina" Limited.)
Local Consultant's Regional Hydrogeological Report - Project Preparation Mission
Financial and Institutional Analyses (EBRD, J. Renkewitz)
*Including electronic files.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                 Page 42
Uzbekistan                                                   Tashkent Solid Waste Management Project
Annex 9
Tashkent Solid Waste Management Project
Statement of Loans and Credits
Uzbekistan
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 3 1-Jan-98
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                            Disbursed
IFC                                  IFC
FY Approval           Company            Loan    Equity   Quasi   Partic    Loan    Equity   Quasi   Partic
1994            Amantaytau Gold             0.00      0.00      .93     0.00      0.00     0.00       .93     0.00
1995            UZBEK LEASING               0.00       .60     0.00     0.00      0.00      .60      0.00     0.00
1996            ABN AMRO Uzbek              0.00      1.00     0.00     0.00      0.00     1.00     0.00      0.00
1997            Core Pharm                  3.35       .50     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00
Total Portfolio:                 3.35     2.10       .93     0.00     0.00      1.60      .93      0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan    Equitv   Quasi   Partic
1996            AMANTAYTAU II              45.00      4.40     9.40    85.00
1998            SEF BULUNGUR                 1.29      .30     0.00     0.00
1997            SEF FAYZ                     1.90      .50     0.00     0.00
1995            ULCL LTD                    5.00      0.00     0.00     0.00
1997            UZCASE AGROLEASE            5.00      1.00     0.00     5.00
1997            UZCASEMASH                  6.80      2.60     0.00     4.00
1997            UZCASESERVICE               6.40      1.60     0.00     5.00
Total Pending Commitment:       71.39    10.40      9.40    99.00



Status of Bank Group Operations in Uzbekistan
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                  and actual
Loan or   Fiscal                                                                                                                         disbursements a/
Project ID    Credit       Year               Borrower                        Purpose
No.                                                                               IBRD       IDA      Cancellations  Undisbursed        Orig   Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Loans/credits: 1
Active Loans
UZ-PE-9121    IBRD42160   1998   REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN              RURAL W.S. & SANITA.             75.00        0.00            0.00         75.00          .16      0.00
UZ-PE-44942   IBRD40900    1997   REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN              PILOT WATER SUPPLY                5.00       0.00            0.00          1.82        -.83       0.00
UZ-PE-9122    IBRD38940    1995   REP.OF UZBEKISTAN                   COTTON SUB-SEC IMPRV            66.00        0.00            0.00         88.31       13.97       0.00
UZ-PE-9123    lBRD36500    1994   REPUB. OF UZBEKISTAN                INSTIT BLDG/TA                  21.00        0.00            0.00          6.25        6.27       0.00
Total                                                                                                167.00        0.00            0.00        141.38       19.57       0.00
Active Loans         Closed Loans            Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                  25.62              160.00              185.62
of which has been repaid:                  0.00                0.00                0.00
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                 167.00              160.00             327.00
Amount sold                     :                 0.00                0.00                0.00
Of which repaid              :                 0.00               0.00                0.00
Total Undisbursed                :              141.38                0.00             141.38
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Rating of 1-4: see OD 13.05. Annex D2. Preparation of Implementation Summary (Form 590). Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a letter
based system will be used (HS = highly Satisfactory, S = satisfactory, U = unsatisfactory, HU = highly unsatisfactory) : see proposed Improvements in Project and
Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.



Uzbekistan at a Glance                                                              80197
Europe &   Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                          Central  middle-
Uzbekistan     Asia  Income       Development dlamond*
Population mid-1996 (millions)                      23.3       479    1,125
GNP per capita 1996 (US$)                           1,010    2,180    1,750                Life expectancy
GNP 1996 (billions USS)                             23.5      1,043    1,967
T
Average annual growth, 1990-96
Population (%)                                        2.1       0.3      1.4     GNP                            Gross
Labor force (I%)                                     2.8        0.5     1.8      per                       I  prmary
Most recent estimate (latest year available since 1989)                          capita                     enrollment
Poverty: headcount index (% of population)
Urban population (%6 of total population)             41        65       56
Life expectancy at birth (years)                      70        68       67
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)              30        26       41               Access to safe water
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)
Access to safe water (% of population)                 ..        ..      78
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                   3         ..      ..   |
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)  77       97      104    1          Uzbekistan
Male                                                78        97      105               Lower-middle-income group
Female                                              76        97      101
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1975    1985       1995    1996
GDP (billions USS)                            ..       ..      23.1    24.1
Gross domestic investmentVGDP                 ..      ..       20.9    16.1
Exports of goods and services/GDP             ..       ..      38.0    31.8             Openness of economy
Gross domestic savings/GDP                    ..      ..       20.5     8.2
Gross national savings/GDP                    ..      ..       20.3     7.8
Current account balance/GDP                   ..       ..      -0.2    -4.5
Interest payments/GDP                              ..           0.3        ,     Savings      f              Investment
Total debt/GDP                                ..       .        7.7      9.3
Total debt service/exports                    ..       ..       6.4      7.9   i
Present value of debtGDP                      ..      ..        6.5      ..
Present value of debtVexports                 ..      ..       38.4                          Indebtedness
1975-85  1986-96    1995      1996  1997-05
(average annual growth)                                                                -  Uzbekistan
GDP                                       .          -0.9       1.8      ..
GNP per capita                        .              -3.5      -1.0                        Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services        ..       ..
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1975    1985      1995    1996
(% of GDP)                                                                       Growth rates of output and Investment (%O)
Agriculture                                   ..       ..      32.3    26.1      20
Industry                                      ..      ..       28.1    27.6      10
Manufacturing                                ..
Services                                      ..      ..       39.6    46.3             9
.10T
Private consumption                           ..       .       47.0    57.4    -201
General government consumption                ..      ..       32.5    34.4
Imports of goods and services                 ..      ..       38.4    39.7               -     GDI      GDP
197545  1986-96      1995    1996
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                   ..       ..       2.0    -7.0
Industry                                      ..      ..       -5.6     1.7
Manufacturing                                ..
Services                                      ..      ..        2.3     2.0
Private consumption                           ..
General government consumption                ..
Gross domestic investment                     ..      ..        1.8
Imports of goods and services                 ..
Gross national product                        ..      ..       -1.8     1.1
Note: 1996 data are preliminary estimates. Figures in italics are for years other than those specified.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Uzbekistan
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1975      1985       1995      19966-1
Domestic prices                                                                            Inflatlon (%)
(% change)                                                                                1,200,
Consumer prices                                     ..        ..     305.0       54.0     1 000 t
Implidit GDP deflator                               ..       ..      431.7       65.0      Boo              /
400
Government finance                                                                         200
(% of GDP)                                                                                   0
Current revenue                                     ..       ..        34.6      34.2    !           91    92    93    94    95    96
Current budget balance                                                  3.2       5.2    i
Overall surplus/deficit                                                4.1       -7.3                -
TRADE
1975      1985       1995      1996    1  -
(mil/ions USS)                                                                           i Export and Import levels (mill. US$)
Total exports (fob)                                 ..        ..      3,806    3,781
25,000
Cotton                                            ..        ..      1,800     1,748
Gold                                              ..        ..       611       832    1 20,000.
Manufactures                                                                             15,
Total imports (cif)                                 ..       ..       3,597    4,712    i       1
Food                                              ..        ..       687      1,391      10,I.0
Fuel and energy                                    .        .          59       50        soco l
Capital goods                                     ..        ..      1,279     1,713 o
Export prce index (1987=100)                                                                      90  91   92   93   94  00   96
Import price index (1987=100) J                                                                            Exports .   Imports
Terms of trade (1987=100)                           ..
BALANCEofPAYMENTS
1975     1985        1995      1996    f                              -               X
(millions US$)                                                                           i Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services                      ..        ..      3,806     3,781    1
Imports of goods and services                      ..        ..      3,807     4,754       0        1    9    9 I 1   _ 
Resource balance                                   ..        ..         -1      -973    i
Net income                                          ..       ..        -67      -110
Net current transfers                               ..       ..         19         8          -
Current account balance,                                                                  -3
before official capital transfers                 ..        ..        -49    -1,075
Financing items (net)                               ..       ..        627     1,108
Changes in net reserves                             ..       ..       -578       -33       5
Memo:
Reserves including gold (mill. US$)                 ..       ..       1,867    1,901
Conversion rate (/ocalYUS$)                                            12.9      20.7
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1975      1985       1995      1996                    r                --- 
(millions US$)                                                                            Gompositlon of total debt, 1996 (mIi. US$)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed                ..        ..      1,787    2,249    i
IBRD                                                                 157       155                        G   A
IDA                                               ..       0.                       !                  22  155
Total debt service                                  ..        ..       243       298              F                     238
IBRD                                             ..        ..          2        10            762        /
IDA                                               ..       ..                                                             33
Composition of net resource flows                                                       i                      ! _     _     3
Official grants                                  ..        ..         13         ..
Official creditors                               ..        ..        241
Private creditors                                ..        ..        120
Foreign direct investment                        ..        ..        115         ..                           -      E
Portfolio equity                                 ..        ..          0         ..                                 939
World Bank program
Commitments                                      ..        ..        226         5       A - IBRD                       E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                    ..        ..        162         9    ' B - IDA     D - Other multilateral   F - Private
Prncipal repayments                              ..        ..          0         0       C - IMF                       G - Short-term
Net flows                                         ..       ..        162         9
Interest payments                                ..        ..          2        10
Net transfers                                    ..        ..        161        -1
Development Economics                                                                                                          8/20/97
Note: Estimates for economies of the former Soviet Union are subject to more than the usual range of uncertainty.
Govemment finance includes balance of extrabudgetary funds (net of transfers).



