Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4326 UZ
Project Agreement
(Tashkent Solid Waste Management Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
and
HOKIMIYAT OF TASHKENT
and
PROIZVODSTVENNOE UPRAVLENIE SPETSTRANS
Dated November 16, 1998
LOAN NUMBER 4326 UZ
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated November 16, 1998, between the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and the HOKIMIYAT OF TASHKENT and 
PROIZVODSTVENNOE UPRAVLENIE SPETSTRANS (Spetstrans).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between Republic of 
Uzbekistan (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to lend to the Borrower an 
amount of Dollars, on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but 
only on condition that the Hokimiyat of Tashkent and Spetstrans agree to undertake 
such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower 
and the Hokimiyat of Tashkent, the proceeds of the Loan provided for under the Loan 
Agreement will be made available to the Hokimiyat of Tashkent on terms and conditions 
set forth in said Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Hokimiyat of Tashkent and Spetstrans in consideration of the Bank’s 
entering into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, have agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
Page  2
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement, the General Conditions (as so defined therein), and the 
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein and herein set forth. 
ARTICLE II 
Execution of the Project;
Section 2.01. (a) The Hokimiyat of Tashkent declares its commitment to the 
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to 
this end, shall, with the assistance of Spetstrans, carry out the Project with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, 
engineering, environmental, and technical practices, and shall provide, or cause to be 
provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project. 
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Bank and the Hokimiyat of Tashkent shall otherwise agree, the 
Hokimiyat of Tashkent shall carry out the Project, with the assistance of Spetstrans, 
in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.02. (a) The Hokimiyat of Tashkent shall carry out the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition) in respect of the Project Agreement.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, the Hokimiyat of Tashkent shall: 
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and 
furnish to the 
Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing 
Date or such later date 
as may be agreed for this purpose between the 
Bank and the Hokimiyat of 
Tashkent, a plan for the future 
operation of the Project; and 
(ii)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Hokimiyat 
of Tashkent on said plan.
Section 2.03. The Hokimiyat of Tashkent shall duly perform its obligations under 
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, the Hokimiyat of Tashkent shall not take or concur in any action which would 
have the effect of assigning, amending, abrogating or waiving the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.04. (a) The Hokimiyat of Tashkent shall, at the request of the Bank, 
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of the Project, the 
performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b)
The Hokimiyat of Tashkent shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition 
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or the performance by the Hokimiyat of 
Tashkent of its obligations under this Agreement, and under the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Management and Operations of Spetstrans  
Section 3.01. Spetstrans shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs 
in accordance with sound administrative, financial, technical and environmental 
practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by 
competent staff in adequate numbers. 
Page  3
Section 3.02. Spetstrans shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, 
machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, 
make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound 
engineering, financial, technical and environmental practices. 
Section 3.03. Spetstrans shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, 
or make other provisions satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such risks 
and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Hokimiyat of Tashkent shall maintain records and accounts 
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and 
financial condition and to register separately the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Hokimiyat of Tashkent shall: 
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements for each 
fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently 
applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
(6) months after the end of each such year, (A) 
certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) above for such year as so 
audited and (B) the report 
of such audit by said auditors of such scope and in 
such detail as the 
Bank shall have reasonably requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records, accounts 
and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof, as the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. (a) Spetstrans shall maintain records and accounts adequate to 
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial 
condition and to register separately the operations, resources and expenditures 
related to the Project.
(b)
Spetstrans shall: 
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently 
applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
(6) months after the end of each such year, (A) 
certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) above for such year as so 
audited and (B) the report 
of such audit by said auditors of such scope and in 
such detail as the 
Bank shall have reasonably requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records, accounts 
and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof, as the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably request. 
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination 
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
Page  4
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of the 
Hokimiyat of Tashkent and Spetstrans thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the 
following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate; or
(ii)
the date twenty (20) years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)
If the Loan Agreement terminates before the date specified in paragraph 
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Bank shall promptly notify the Hokimiyat of Tashkent and 
Spetstrans of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other addresses as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request.  The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for 
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For the HOKIMIYAT OF TASHKENT:
Hokimiyat of Tashkent
Mavaroynnahr Street 6
6 SP 700000 Tashkent City
Republic of Uzbekistan
For SPETSTRANS:
Proizvodstvennoe Upravlenie Spetstrans
Obvodnaya Street 11
Promzona Massiv Oktyabr
700132 Tashkent
Republic of Uzbekistan
Section 6.02. (a) Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any 
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of the 
Hokimiyat of Tashkent or by the Hokimiyat of Tashkent on behalf of the Borrower under 
the Loan Agreement, may be taken or executed by its Hokim (Mayor), or by such other 
person or persons as the Hokimiyat of Tashkent shall designate in writing, and 
Spetstrans shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the 
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Page  5
(b)
Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any documents required 
or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of Spetstrans, may be 
taken or executed by its General Director, or by such other person or persons as 
Spetstrans shall designate in writing, and Spetstrans shall furnish to the Bank 
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each 
such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Tashkent, Republic of Uzbekistan, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ David Pearce
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia
HOKIMIYAT OF TASHKENT
By /s/ Kozim Tulyaganov
Authorized Representative
PROIZVODSTVENNOE UPRAVLENIE SPETSTRANS
By /s/ Bakhtier Mamadaliev
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1 
Implementation Program
1.
The Hokimiyat of Tashkent and Spetstrans shall: ensure that the turning access 
from the highway to the Aghangaranskoe landfill referred to in Part A (4) of the 
Project meets safety standards acceptable to the Bank; ensure that the closure of the 
Zangiata and Xansanbay landfills under Part A (5) of the Project is done in an 
environmentally sustainable and publicly and socially acceptable manner acceptable to 
the Bank; ensure that the design and siting of the four waste transfer stations under 
Part A (6) of the Project is acceptable to the Bank; and (i) maintain policies and 
procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in 
accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Bank, the carrying out of the Project 
and the achievement of the objectives thereof; (ii) prepare, under terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank, on or about June 30, 1999, a report 
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant 
to sub-paragraph (i) of this paragraph, on the progress achieved in the carrying out 
of the Project during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and (iii) 
review with the Bank, by November 15, 1999, or such later date as the Bank shall 
request, the report referred to in sub-paragraph (ii) of this paragraph, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
Page  6
recommendations of the said report and the Bank views on the matter.
2.
The Hokimiyat of Tashkent shall: (i) by January 1, 1999, engage consultants for 
the preparation of a strategic solid waste management plan (Strategic Plan) under 
terms of reference acceptable to the Bank; (ii) have the Strategic Plan completed by 
June 30, 1999; (iii) upon completion of the Strategic Plan, furnish the same to the 
Bank for its review and comments; (iv) by December 31, 1999, adopt the Strategic Plan 
taking into account the comments, if any, thereon by the Bank; and (v) thereafter 
implement the Strategic Plan in a manner satisfactory to the Bank; and
(i) by December 31, 1999, engage consultants for the preparation of a tariff study 
(Tariff Study) under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank; (ii) have the Tariff 
Study completed by April 30, 2000; (iii) upon completion of the Tariff Study, furnish 
the same to the Bank for its review and comments; and (iv) by July 1, 2000, adopt and 
put into effect a policy on tariffs on the basis of the Tariff Study and taking into 
account the comments, if any, thereon by the Bank. The said tariff policy shall, as a 
minimum, provide for: (i) full adjustment of the tariffs for inflation on an annual 
basis; and (ii) real term increases to achieve full recovery of all operating and 
maintenance costs for the solid waste management system by such time as demonstrated 
feasible in the Tariff Study. To the extent that the tariffs do not cover the full 
operating and maintenance costs of Spetstrans and other waste management operators, 
the Hokimiyat of Tashkent shall contribute the funds (including proceeds from the City 
Improvement Tax) to cover any shortfall of the said operators.
3.
Spetstrans shall:
(i) undertake and, by October 15, 1998, complete an assessment of its requirements for 
insurance; (ii) prepare, on the basis of such review, a plan for insurance of its 
assets and operations against such risks and in such amount as shall be consistent 
with appropriate practices; (iii) furnish the said insurance assessment and plan to 
the Bank; and (iv) commencing January 1, 1999, implement the insurance plan taking 
into account the comments thereon, if any, by the Bank; take all measures necessary to 
ensure that its accounts receivable (after allowances for accounts receivable 
determined to be uncollectible) do not exceed three (3) months of sales revenue on 
December 31, 1998, and two (2) months of sales on December 31, 2000; and (i) by 
January 1, 1999, engage consultants for the design and implementation of a utility 
accounting system under terms of reference, acceptable to the Bank; (ii) have the said 
system design completed by August 31, 1999; and (iii) by July 1, 2000, implement the 
utility accounting system in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
SCHEDULE 2 
Procurement Procurement of Goods
Part A:
General 
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and September 1997 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Goods shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.  
(a)
Grouping of contracts 
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $300,000 equivalent or more each. 
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.  
Page  7
(c)
Notification and Advertising 
The invitation to bid for each contract estimated to cost $10,000,000 equivalent 
or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures applicable to large 
contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations for bidding or to bid for contracts, 
the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its 
review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of 
said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review 
With respect to each contract for goods under Part B hereof, the procedures set 
forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
