                                     Documentof
                                  The World Bank




                                                     ReportNo. 44111




                  PROJECTPERF'ORMANCEASSESSMENTREPORT

                             REPUBLICOFUZBEKISTAN

                TASHKENT SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
                                     (LOAN 4326)



                                      June 9,2008




Sector Evaluation Division
Independent Evaluation Group (World Bank)

Currency Equivalents (annual averages)

Currency Unit = Soum

1997 US$l.OO        66.4 Soum                 2003  US$l.OO        971.3 Soum
1998 US$l.OO        94.5 Soum                 2004 US$l.OO        1,119.2 Soum
1999 US$l.OO        124.6 Soum                2005  US$l.OO       1,112.9 Soum
2000   US$l.OO     236.3 Soum                 2006  US$l.OO       1,218.9 Soum
2001   US$l.OO     422.6 Soum                 2007  US$l.OO     *1,266.3 Soum
2002   US$l.OO     771.5 Soum                                        * mid-year


Abbreviations and Acronyms

CAS                       Country Assistance Strategy
CIS                       Commonwealth o f Independent States (of the former Soviet Union)
EBRD                      European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ERL                       Emergency Recovery Loan
ERR                       Economic Rate o f Return
FRR                       Financial Rate o f Return
GOU                       Government o f Uzbekistan
ICB                       International Competitive Bidding
ICR                       Implementation Completion Report
IDA                       International Development Association
IEG                       IndependentEvaluation Group
IEGWB                     IndependentEvaluation Group (World Bank)
IFRS                      International Financial Reporting Standards
LA                        LoanAgreement
M&E                       Monitoring and Evaluation
MAKHSUSTRANS              (name inUzbek language of) Tashkent Municipal Solid Waste Management
                          Company
MOF                       MinistryofFinance
O&M                       Operation and Maintenance
PA                        Project Agreement
PAD                       Project Appraisal Document
PIU                       Project ImplementationUnit
PPAR                      Project Performance Assessment Report
SCRUDSCE                  State Committee o f the Republic o fUzbekistan on Demonopolkation, Support
                          o f Competition and Entrepreneurship
SPETSTRANS                (name inRussianlanguage of,)Tashkent Municipal SolidWaste Management
                          Company
S W M                     Solid Waste Management
TA                        Technical Assistance
TTACS                     Tashkent Territorial Association for Communal Services
WB                        World Bank (IBRD)

Fiscal Year

Government:               January 1-December31

Director-General, Independent Evaluation                      : Mr.Vinod Thomas
Director, Independent Evaluation Group (World Bank)           : Ms.Cheryl Gray
Manager, Sector Evaluation Division                           : Ms. MonikaHuppi
Task Manager                                                  : Mr.RoyGilbert

                                                             i


 IEGWB Mission: Enhancingdevelopmenteffectivenessthrough excellence and independenceinevaluation.


About this Report
      The Independent EvaluationGroup assessesthe programs and activitiesof the World Bankfor two purposes:
first,to ensure the integrity of the Bank's self-evaluationprocess and to verify that the Bank'swork is producing the
expected results, andsecond, to helpdevelop improved directions,policies, and proceduresthroughthe
dissemination of lessonsdrawnfrom experience.As part of this work, IEGWBannuallyassessesabout 25 percent of
the Bank's lendingoperations throughfield work. Inselectingoperations for assessment,preferenceis givento those
that are innovative, large,or complex; thosethat are relevant to upcomingstudiesor country evaluations; those for
which ExecutiveDirectors or Bank management haverequested assessments; and thosethat are likely to generate
important lessons.
      To preparea Project PerformanceAssessment Report (PPAR), IEGWBstaff examine projectfiles and other
documents, interviewoperationalstaff, visit the borrowingcountry to discussthe operation with the government,
and other in-countrystakeholders, and interview Bank staff and other donor agency staff bothat headquartersand
in local offices as appropriate.
      Each PPAR is subject to internal IEGWB peer review, Panel review, and managementapproval. Once cleared
internally,the PPAR is commentedon by the responsibleBank department. IEGWB incorporatesthe commentsas
relevant.The completed PPAR is then sent to the borrowerfor review;the borrowers' comments are attached to
the documentthat is sent to the Bank's Board of ExecutiveDirectors.After an assessment report has beensent to
the Board, it is disclosed to the public.

About the IEGWB Rating System
      IEGWB's useof multiple evaluation methods offers both rigor and a necessary levelof flexibility to adapt to
lendinginstrument, project design, or sectoral approach. IEGWBevaluatorsall apply the same basic methodto
arrive at their project ratings. Followingis the definitionand ratingscale usedfor each evaluation criterion
(additional information is availableon the IEGWBwebsite: http://worldbank.org/ieg).
      Outcome: The extent to which the operation's majort objectives were achieved, or are expectedto be
achieved, efficiently. The rating has three dimensions: relevance, efficacy, and efficiency. Relevanceincludes
relevanceof objectives and relevanceof design. Relevanceof objectives is the extent to which the project's
objectives are consistentwith the country's current development priorities and with current Bank country and
sectoral assistancestrategies and corporate goals (expressed in Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers, Country
Assistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers, Operational Policies).Relevanceof design is the extent to which
the project's design is consistent with the stated objectives. Efficacy is the extent to which the project's objectives
were achieved, or are expected to be achieved,taking intoaccount their relative importance. Efficiency is the
extent to which the project achieved, or is expected to achieve, a return higherthan the opportunitycost of capital
and benefitsat least cost comparedto alternatives.The efficiency dimensiongenerally is not applied to adjustment
operations. Possibleratings for Outcome: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, ModeratelySatisfactory,Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory,Highly Unsatisfactory.
      Risk to DevelopmentOutcome: The risk, at the time of evaluation,that development outcomes (or
expectedoutcomes)will not be maintained(or realized). Possibleratingsfor Risk to Development Outcome: High
Significant, Moderate,Negligibleto Low, Not Evaluable.
      BankPerformance: The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry of the
operationand supported effective implementationthrough appropriatesupervision(including ensuring adequate
transition arrangementsfor regular operationof supported activities after loanlcredit closing, toward the
achievementof developmentoutcomes. The rating has two dimensions: quality at entry and quality of supervision.
Possibleratingsfor Bank Performance: HighlySatisfactory, Satisfactory, ModeratelySatisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory,Unsatisfactory,Highly Unsatisfactory.
      BorrowerPerformance: The extent to which the borrower (includingthe government and implementing
agency or agencies) ensured qualityof preparationand implementation,and compliedwith covenantsand
agreements,toward the achievement of developmentoutcomes.The rating has two dimensions:government
performanceand implementingagency(ies)performance. Possibleratingsfor BorrowerPerformance: Highly
Satisfactory,Satisfactory, ModeratelySatisfactory, Moderately Unsatisfactory,Unsatisfactory, Highly
Unsatisfactory.


                                                                          ...
                                                                          111



Contents

PRINCIPAL RATINGS               ....................................................................................................................           V


KEY STAFF RESPONSIBLE                      ..........................................................................................................          V


PREFACE     ......................................................................................................................................            vi1


SUMMARY     ......................................................................................................................................            IX


1.      BACKGROUNDAND CONTEXT                                    ......................................................................................        1


2.      OBJECTIVES AND DESIGN                           ..............................................................................................         1


3.      IMPLEMENTATIONAND COSTS                                   .....................................................................................        4


4.      MONITORINGAND EVALUATION                                    ...................................................................................        5


5.      PROJECT OUTCOMES BY OBJECTIVE                                        ..........................................................................        6

             Restoringthe SolidWaste Operation.........................................................................................                        6

             Efficiency.................................................................................................................................. 10
             Improvingthe Basisfor ContinuingTashkent's SWM Operations..............................................                                           8

             Subsidies..................................................................................................................................      10


6.      BROADER ISSUESARISING FROM THIS EVALUATION                                                          ............................................      10
                                                                                                    .........................................................
             To Attract PrivateSector ParticipationOperations must be Profitable.....................................
             Sustaining Everyday Funding:A Mustfor Any Operation                                                                                              10
                                                                                                                                                              11
             Ex-post Evaluationof Operationswith Parallel Financing........................................................                                   11


7.      RATINGS         ..........................................................................................................................            12

             Outcome...................................................................................................................................       12
                                                                                                                                                              13
             (World) Bank Performance.......................................................................................................
             Risk to DevelopmentOutcome.................................................................................................
             Borrower Performance............................................................................................................. 13             13



8.      FINDINGS AND LESSONS                         ..............................................................................................           14


ANNEX A BASIC DATA SHEET
           .                                     ..................................................................................................           15


ANNEX B IEG SIMULATIONSOF ERR AND FRR ESTIMATES
           .                                                                                            ...............................................       17


This report was preparedbyRoyGilbertwho assessedthe projectinSeptember 2007 RomaynePereira
providedadministrativesupport            .                                                                                     .

                                  iv


ANNEX C. FINANCIAL DATA OF MAKHSUSTRANSAND TASHKENT MUNICIPALITY........18

                                                 V



Principal Ratings
                                       ICR*                   ICR Review*                PPAR

Outcome                             Satisfactory               Satisfactory           Moderately
                                                                                      Satisfactory
Risk to Development                  Moderate                  Moderate                Significant
Outcome
Bank Performance                    Satisfactory               Satisfactory           Moderately
                                                                                     Unsatisfactory
Borrower Performance                Satisfactory               Satisfactory            Moderately
                                                                                      Satisfactory
*ICR ImplementationCompletion Report (ICR) is a self-evaluationby the responsible Bank department.The
  TheReviewisan intermediate IEGWB productthat seeks to independentlyverify the findings of the ICR.



Key Staff Responsible
Project                           Task Managed               Division Chief/       Country Director
                                       Leader                Sector Director
Appraisal                        Roger Batstone            Michelede Nevers          lshrat Husain
Completion                       Janis Bernstein            Juergen Voegele          Annette Dixon
                                                                         *>


                                               vii


Preface

This is a Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) for the Uzbekistan;Tashkent
SolidWaste ManagementProject(Ln.4326), for which the World Bank approved a
loan inan amount o fUS$24 million on M a y21,1998. The loan was closed on June 30,
2006 two-and-a-half years later than planned, when US$2.6 millionwas cancelled.

The report is based on a review o fproject documents, including the Implementation
Completion Report, the Program Document, the Memorandum to the President, legal
documents andproject files, as well as discussions heldwith World Bank staff and
consultants involved inthe project, as well as EBRD staff and consultants. An IEG
mission visited UzbekistaninSeptember 2007 to review project results and met with
officials o f the FinanceDepartment andthe Department o f Investments o f Tashkent
Municipality, the Tashkent Territorial Association o f Communal Utilities, the
Makhsustrans solid waste operator inTashkent (its HQ,transfer station, repair depot,
Yunosabad District, andthe Ahangaran Road disposal site), and the private Fayzli-Trans
waste collection service. The IEGalso met with many project beneficiaries on field visits
throughout the city, as well as operators o f secure collection areas, and Makhsustrans'
field staff. The mission also visited EBRDinLondon andTashkent. IEGgratehlly
acknowledges the courtesies and attention freely given by these interlocutors inTashkent
andLondon.

IEGselected this project for a PPARfield assessment, for the reasons recommended at
the ICR Review stage, namely: (i)    As an inputto IEG's special study ofmunicipal
management; (ii)    to review the use o f social assessments indecisionmaking andproject
management; and (iii)    to derive lessons for corporatization and reform o f solid waste
management.

Following standard IEGprocedures, copies o f the draft PPAR were sent to government
officials and agencies for their review and comments but no comments were received.


                                                 ix


Summary
With 2.6 millioninhabitants, Tashkent is Central Asia's largest metropolis andregional
hub.Uzbekistan's post-Soviet transition severely disruptedmunicipal services suchas
Tashkent's solid waste management (SWM) that had depended upon subsidies and Soviet
supply chains that were cut in 1991. The World Bank (WB) identified a recovery
operation, in 1997, the Tashkent Solid Waste Management Project one o f its first
investment operations inthe country.
The first project recovery objective o frestoring Tashkent's S W M is substantially relevant
today. A major city like Tashkent cannot do without a S W M system. Any failure o f it
would have to be overcome immediately. For similar reasons, the second project
sustainability objective o fimproving the technical, financial and institutional basis or
future operations remains highlyrelevant.
Butpoorly conceivedparallelproject financingbythe WB andthe EuropeanBank for
Reconstructionand Development (EBRD) ledto a flawed project design. Beyond system
recovery and operational sustainability that bothbanks supported, EBRD, differently
from the WB, had the distinct objective o f the immediate privatization o f the solid waste
operation. For its part, the WB focused uponlonger term sustainability o f the operation,
whether inthe public or the private sector. Achieving this WB institutional goal o f
sustainability hadto rely upon EBRD financed components-none             funded bythe WB.
The WB financed only physical investments andnot all o f these. There was also a major
difference o f approach at the outset between the two banks. EBRDreckoned a two-year
project engagement was enough while the WB planned a five-year implementation.
Project start up was slow. Loan effectiveness was one year behind schedule and the first
large disbursement two years after that. Bythe original completion date, just 50 percent
o fthe loan hadbeendisbursed. A combination o f Uzbekistan's first large international
competitive bidding(ICB) for solid waste equipment and vehicles (resulting incost
savings), GOU's lack o f compliance with EBRD's privatization covenants, and Tashkent
Municipality's shortfall o f counterpart funding slowed project implementation. Between
2001 and 2003 the pace accelerated, slowing again after EBRD2003 Annual Meetings
heldinTashkent. Tashkent municipality's solid waste operator called here by its Uzbek
nameMakhsustrans-but often referredto as Spetstrans inEnglish language reports in
the WB-took     on increased responsibilities for SWM during implementation, including
the direct collection o f user charges, or tariffs, with a deteriorating collection
performance to begin with, however. Both financial management and performance o f the
loss-makingMakhsustransremained weak. Onthe other hand, project implementation
was an opportunity to give attention to community participation inSWM-the           first time
inTashkent.
Project monitoring and evaluation (M&E) was weak, since most o f the 35 "key
performance indicators" were not measurable according to the ICR. The few that were,
were focused upon the delivery o fproject components rather than the achievement o f
project objectives. Beneficiary surveys found users more satisfied with Tashkent's SWM
after the project thanbefore, but this by itselfdoes not indicate that the project achieved
its objectives. Final users' experience of S W M is limited only to the collection service
they receive. Their answers to survey questions about the quality o f the waste disposal

                                                X



service which they do not experience or know cannot be meaningful. Nor could they give
informed opinions about the technical and financial performance o fthe SWM system.
Inrestoring Tashkent's solidwaste operation, the firstproject objective, efficacywas
substantial. Tashkent's SWMrecoveredthrough renewal o fthe vehicle fleet, the
introductiono fwell functioning secure collectionpoints and large scale transfer stations,
all equipped by the project. The projecthaddesigns on all three o f Tashkent's disposal
sites. The Ahangaran Road site was upgraded into a controlled landfill, but not a full
sanitary landfillwhere leachateand methane gas would be collected andtreated. The old
environmentally hazardousZangiata dumpsite-given just two more years o f useful life
bythe PAD in1998- was to beclosed, butis still inusetoday. This i sbecauseTashkent
Municipality, chargedby the project with closing Zangiata, couldnot do so becausethe
site is outside itsjurisdiction. After the appraisal's error o f its locationwas discovered, an
August 2004 legal amendment cancelled the covenant requiringits closure. The third
more centrally located Hasanbaydumpsitei s closed and covered as agreed.
Efficacy inachieving the secondsustainability project objective o f improving the basis
for continuing operations into the future hasbeenmodest. Fundingand financial
managementneeds were improving until2003, after which the residential tariff
responsible for most of Makhsustrans' revenue was frozen. Duringthe PPAR mission,
IEGdiscussedwith local authorities inTashkent the risk that a lack o fcost recovery
posedto the continuing SWM operation andto the achievement o fthis objective. In
February 2008, four months after the IEGmission, the regulatory authority increased the
tariffby 40 percent, bringingrespite to Makhsustrans' acute financial stress.
Three broader issues arise from this evaluation. First, sustaining everyday funding i s a
mustfor anoperationinany sector. Second, to attract andretainprivate sector
participationan operation mustbeprofitable. Third, ex-post evaluation o f operations with
parallelfinancing may be most easily done separately from the perspective o f eachdonor,
while ajoint evaluation couldperhapshave helpedall partiesbetter understand the
challenges eachone faced insuch circumstances.
The overalloutcome oftheproject is ratedmoderately satisfactory. An unsatisfactory
outcome ratingwould have beenwarranted without the recent adjustment o fthe solid
waste tariff inTashkent that went a longway toward achieving the sustainability
objective. Efficacy ofthe first recovery objective was substantial, but there were
moderate shortcomings, notably environmental risks,on the disposal side o fthe
operation. Efficacy o fthe secondsustainability objective (withthe new tariff) was
modest, since improvements to the technical base o f future operations were weighed
down by little progressuntil very recentlyon the institutional and financial sides.
Efficiency is rated modest, with substantial economic returns, but negligible financial
ones. The Riskto Development Outcome i s ratedsignificant, giventhe uneven financial
support given to the project inthe past. (World) Bank Performance i s rated moderately
unsatisfactory, givena flawed project design that didnot fully align the perspectives of
the two parallelfinancers, and the WB's inadequate appraisal and supervision o fthe
important financial, environmental andjurisdictional aspectso fthe project. Borrower
performance i s ratedmoderately satisfactory for the effective technical implementation
o f the project, but with sufficient attention to its financial and institutionalneeds only at
the beginningandvery end o fthe project.

                                             xi


The experience o f this project reinforces the following IEGlessons:

e     Parallel funded operations inwhich all donors do not share a key objective
      (privatization inthis case) should generally be avoided andpreference given to a
      single donor approach. Ifoperations with divergent aims cannot be avoided, then
      the project design should ensure each donor has control over the components that
      are instrumental to the achievement o f its own particular objectives.

e     Carehl assessments o f users' willingness and ability to pay, borrower agencies'
      institutional and financial performance, the financial impact o f a project upon
      users andproviders should always be part o f the appraisal o f projects that incur
      significant operating costs over the medium to long term.

e     Cost recovery andproject financial performance shouldbe monitored thoroughly
      duringsupervision. The WB should bringproblems-such          as financial
      shortfalls-that   imperilproject achievements immediately to the attention o f a
      borrower, continually offering highquality hands-on technical advice on solutions
      as needed. Ifcurrent revenues are insufficient and repeated requests for
      strengthening them ignored, then the WB should seek remedies under the legal
      agreements that might include the suspension of disbursements andor
      cancellation o f a project.




                                                           Vinod Thomas
                                                          Director-General
                                                            Evaluation


                                               1


1. BackgroundandContext

1.1     With a current populationof2.6 million, the Uz,ek capita Tashkent is Central
Asia's largest metropolis, havingbeenthe Soviet Union's urbanhub for that region. The
city's impressiveboulevards, squares and monumental public buildings and spaces, re-
built after the massive 1966 earthquake, facilitate atransport-intensive municipal service
such as the solid waste management (SWM) system of collection and disposal reviewed
here. But the visual opulence o f central Tashkent belies Uzbekistan's US$680 GDP per
capita-the   thirdlowest inthe Commonwealth ofIndependentStates (CIS). The country
became IDA eligible in2002.

1.2     While the post-Soviet transition hadamilder macro-economic impactinUzbekis-
tan thaninother CIS countries, it severely disrupted Tashkent's SWM. Before 1991, both
capital and current expenditures were heavily subsidized and equipmentprocured through
discount supply chains from within the Soviet Union. After 1991,these benefits ceased
and, with rising inflation, SWM inTashkent headedfor a crisis. Garbage collections were
curtailed, trashpiledup incity streets, and flies and rodentsproliferated. Adhoc on-street
incineration also took its toll on the quality o f the city's air. Inother words, with a SWM
failure, Tashkent faced apotentialpublic health and environmental emergency.

1.3     By 1997,Uzbekistan's economy beganto improve andthe country's international
relations broadened and deepened. The World Bank (WB) identified the Tashkent Solid
Waste Management Project reviewedhere. Although not formally designated as an
emergency recovery loan (ERL), this first WB financed investmentproject inthe country,
was a defacto recovery operation to confront what the project appraisal document
described as Tashkent SWM's "approaching state of collapse" (PAD p. 22).



2.      ObjectivesandDesign

2.1     Theproject was financed inparallelbythe World Bank (WB) andthe European
Bank for Reconstruction andDevelopment (EBRD).The WB lent US$24.0 millionto the
Government o fUzbekistan (GOU) for 20 years with five years' grace, with GOU on-
lendingthe proceedsto the Municipality (called the "Hokimiyat" inUzbekistan) ofTash-
kentfor 12years withthree years' grace. TheEBRDloanofUS$19.2 millionwent direc-
tly to the Municipalityfor a 10year term with three years' grace. EBRDalso channeled
an additional US$2.1 million o fbilateral donor grant funding, particularly from Japan and
the Netherlands for technical assistance(TA) under the project's institutional support
component,

2.2     Bothbanks (the WB and EBRD)were committedto help Tashkent's SWM
system to recover, but there was an important difference inthe objectives o fhow to
sustain andnurture it (Box 1).EBRDwanted to pursuethis through the privatization of

                                                                2


Box 1:Tashkent SolidWaste Management Project Design Summary                       -
        Objectives                                                     Components

WORLD BANK                     A (i). Investment: (appraisal cost ~ $ 3.Om.;actual cost US$27.4m.)
                                                                                     1
(US$24m.)*                      - Collection infrastructure (appraisal cost US$13.lm.; actual cost US$7.lm.), mainly
                               collectionbins.
(a) to restore Tashkent`s      -- Collectionvehicles
                                  Transfer stations (appraisal cost US$5.1m.; actual cost approx.US$!Xm.)
municipalsolid waste
management collection and                             and support equipment (appraisalcost US$12.8m.; actualcost
disposal system to a            US$15.7), as well as compactors and servicevehicles.
satisfactory levelof service.
("recovery"objective)
(b) to improve the technical,
financial, and institutional
basis for its future operation
and development.
("sustainability"objective)

EBRD (US$19.2m.)*               A (ii). Investment: (appraisalcost US$13.lm.; actual cost US$7.0m.)
                                - Transfervehicles   (appraisal cost US$4.7m.; actual cost approx.US$5.3m.)
(c) to promote the              - Vehicle fleet development (appraisal cost US$2.7m.; actual cost US$1.7m.), upgrading
corporatization and             district service centers and central repair workshop.
improvement of the financial
performance of                  - Landfillmodernization (appraisalcost US$3.8m.; actual cost US$3.7m.), bulldozers, landfill
Makhsustrans.                   compactors, excavators, construction of site service buildingsand upgrading of access
                                road.
(d) to encourage private        - Landfillclosure (appraisal cost US$1.Im.; actual cost US$1.3m.), necessary equipment
sector participation in the     and civil works.
provision of solidwaste
services.                       - Biomedicalwaste    facilities (appraisal cost US$0.8m.; actual cost US$0.3m.), provisionof
                                dedicatedvehicles, containers and a segregateddisposalcell at the main landfill.
(e) to restructure the
Tashkent Municipal Service      B. Institutional Support: (appr. cost US$4.1m; actual cost US$$3.3m.)
Board.                          -implementationunits
                                  Projectmanagement support (appraisal cost US$0.3m.; actual cost US$O.Gm.),for project
                                                       (PIU).
(9to rehabilitate and update    - Institutionalstrengthening(appraisal cost US$3.8m.; actual cost US$2.7m.), TA and
the municipalsolidwaste
collection and disposal         training for strategicSWM plan, financial management, a tariff study, landfill
                                operation/closuredesigns, and public participation/educationprograms.
system.

Sources: WorldBank PAD and ICR. EBRD Project Document. Notes: *loan commitments,not including US$lO.Im.
Tashkent municipality counterpart; Totalproject costs were estimated by the World Bank at appraisal as US$56.0m. and
actual US$43.2m. and by EBRD at appraisal as U$41.Im. and actual US$35.5m.
Note: ThisPPAR does refer to EBRD financed project components,but does not assess project achievements of the EBRD
objectives-something already done by EBRD's own evaluation (details Table 4)




  Makhsustrans', the municipal SWM operator, while the W B wanted to lay the foundation
  for the SWM operationto continue into the future, whether inthe public or private sector.
  How eachbank saw its involvement inthe project was different too. The W B estimated
  five years for implementation, while EBRDjust two. Eachbank had to relyinpart on the
  other's funding to finance components that would help it achieve its own objectives.
  Crucially, for institutional and financial improvements, the WB dependedupon the
  institutional support component funded and supervisedby EBRD(Box 1). At completion,
  bothbanksand GOUrecognized that the design o fwhat should have been an integrated
  operation was weakenedbythis bifurcation o f intent (ICR p. 17; p. 45 andEBRDICRp.



  1 The Uzbek name i s usedinthis report as it is inTashkent and inRussianlanguage project documentation.
  Itis the same agency that is called "Spetstrans" inEnglishlanguage WB reports.

                                               3


99). Inthe words o f the Bank ICR: "preparation was made more complicateddue to the
decision to enter into a parallel financing with EBRD(...)that conditioned disbursement
o f 80 percent o f its loan on the hokimiyat's (Tashkent Municipality) meeting triggers that
proved difficult to meet. The Bank (WB) should have consideredan alternative project
design that would have made it less dependent on the EBRD's funding decisions" (p. 17).
Inlatercomments, the Regionagreesthat this arrangement was "not optimal", butpoints
out that this was the only one that EBRDwould accept at the time, because o f EBRD's
needto retain control over its own funds. Of course, the EBRDoffered GOUthe
advantage o f grant fhding o f technical assistance (TA) that would have beenloan
funded iffinanced bythe WB. IEGi s not against the partnership with EBRDitself, but
endorses the ICR's concerns about the problems that arose from the way it was
conceived. It resulted ina flawed design that stymied reformthrough the separation o f
the institutional support components from most o fthe investment components.

2.3      WB project objectives (Box 1)-those     coveredby this PPAR-remain
substantially relevant to Borrower and WB priorities, such as the calls for greater
efficiency inpublic service delivery inthe 2002 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS p.
34). Also as Uzbekistan's capital city andmain economic center, Tashkent cannot afford
to be without a working SWM system-so         recovery has always to be paramount incase
the S W M should face any stress. Sustaining Tashkent's S W M operation must hence be a
highlyrelevant objective for all levels government and, not least o fall, for final users.
Project appraisal emphasized the first recovery objective more than the second
sustainability objective, where the PAD noted that: "The primary object o f the project is
to prevent the system's collapse and to restore it to the basic level o f service that it was
designed to provide" (PAD p. 5). Today, now that it has recovered, sustaining the S W M
i s the higher priority.

2.4      The relevance o f the project design-covering components funded byboth
banks-to    achieving WB project objectives was modest. The components themselves
were the right instruments, but the untidy WB/EBRD financing arrangements divorced
valid sub-components from their respective objective and from the bank that was trying
to help achieve it. The technical (investment) side o fthe project made good use o f
existing facilities and assets, from the Makhsustrans operator itselfto all three o fthe
city's disposal sites (one for upgrading andtwo for closure andrehabilitation). One o f the
two slated for closure at Zangiata to the south o f Tashkent, should not have been included
inthe project since itwas locatedoutside thejurisdiction ofthe MunicipalityofTashkent,
charged by the project to close it. After this mistake became clear, an amendment to the
legal documents cancelledthe covenant requiring its closure. Onthe other hand,
legitimate technical alternatives o f disposal, such as waste composting andincineration
were considered but rejected on environmental grounds. The main technical innovation
was through opening 395 secure collection points-fenced       o f f and staffed 24 hours-in
residential areas, in-town transfer stations and social assessmentsto help gauge users'
willingness to pay for and satisfactionwith the services provided. The project also
introducedUzbekistan to international competitive bidding(ICB) for procuring
Tashkent's fleet o f S W M vehicles and equipment. The institutional support side o fthe
project-for   the most part under the responsibility o fEBRD-included        project
implementation units (PIU), important strategic SWM planning and design work for
landfill operations. The PAD noted that the SWM's "present cost data i s inadequate" so

                                                4


that it had to propose a tariff study for the future, insteado f reviewing the adequacy and
affordability o fthe then current system o f tariffs and charges during appraisal (PAD
p.32). For the same reasons, the design hadto leave out an analysis o f Makhsustrans'
own financing and financial management needs, and the financial impact o f the project
upon the Municipality.



3.       Implementationand Costs

3.1      Start up was slow. Cross conditionality inthe complex parallel funding design, as
the ICR hadnoted, was the main reason. As a result, the WB Loanbecame effective in
M a y 1999; nearly one year behind schedule, andthe first large-US$25O,OOO-plus-
disbursement was more thantwo years later inJune 2001, Bythe original closing date o f
December 31,2003, only halfthe Loanhadbeen disbursed. Inlater comments on this
PPAR, the Regionreckonedthat the shortfall had come from savings yieldedbythe low
prices o f international competitive bidding (ICB) o f the equipment. The project closed
two-and-a-half years late on June 30,2006 when 11percent remaining o f the Loanwas
cancelled. Uzbekistan's first ever I C B for the fleet o f 270 vehicles and related collection
equipment (particularly bins), eventually supplied from Korea, proved time consuming.
Delays inGOUcompliance with EBRD transition covenants held up EBRD financing o f
transfer vehicles. Overcoming these challenges and delays, the project did succeed in
delivering the vehicles and equipment planned. Duringfield trips throughout the city, the
IEGmissionvisited-sometimes          inthe company oflocalofficials, sometimes not-a
transfer station, the landfills, the repair depot and several secure collection points. All
project equipment inspected appeared to be ingood working order. Well maintained
collection trucks with the prominent "Makhsustrans" logo plyingTashkent's boulevards
and streets were a common sight.

3.2     WB missions were fielded frequently from Washington with regular backup from
a WB consultant based inthe WB's Tashkent field office. A mid-term review in
September 2001 launchedbeneficiary assessments and proposed cost saving measures for
Makhsustrans, but didnot produce fundamental changes inproject design (ICR p. 19).
Surprisingly, given the start-up delays and the uneven financial progress o f the project,
supervision missions always rated development outcomes and implementation progress
as satisfactory. According to later comments by the Region, "the ratings reflect the WB
team's view that most o f the ingredients for a sustainable system were inplace, or almost
there, and the project would meet the DOs (development objectives)." Sometimes EBRD
joined WB missions, but EBRD also followed up project implementation through its
local office inTashkent, referring major decisions, on counterpart funding, loan
agreement compliance and extensions, for instance, to its headquarters inLondon. Little
progress with privatization, inadequate municipal counterpart funds and protracted
processingo f extensions stretched EBRD's participation inthe project from two to seven
years. But less than halfits loan was disbursed. Progress was particularly slow after the
2003 Annual Meetings o f EBRDwere held inTashkent, where a number o f delegates
openly criticized Uzbekistan's political system and regime.

                                                 5


3.3     Project implementation introducedUzbekistan to the large scale procurement o f
vehicles and other solid waste equipment for the first time. As to be expected, this was a
very time consuming process, but it resultedincost savings that allowed additional
equipment to be procured. Implementation also introduced financial audits that in2003
and 2004 gave qualified opinions on Makhsustrans' accounts. The auditors found that the
accounts didnot truly reflect the operator's financial position, especially through
understatingit revenues. More complete reporting subsequent to 2005 brought the
accounts back inorder. Social assessments and community participation also featured
strongly duringimplementation. They were to learn about residents' opinions about the
location o f the transfer stations, for instance, and user satisfaction more generally. The
project paid a lot o f attention to the interests o f waste pickers, although they were far
fewer inTashkent thancommonly found indeveloping country cities.



4.      Monitoring and Evaluation

4.1     IEGendorses the ICR's view that project monitoring and evaluation(M&E)was
more geared toward tracking project implementation progress than to the achievement o f
outcomes (ICR p. 17) and that too many indicators were not monitorable (ICR p.7). The
design described, for instance, two "key performance indicators" (of the 35 listed) as
being Makhsustrans' "financial independence'' and "long-term development options"
without explaining how they would be measured and what criteria o f success would be
used (PAD pp. 13-20). M&Ewas strongest inhandling operational baseline, target and
achievement data, such as the tonnage o fwaste collected, taken to transfer stations, or
directly to the landfill.Financial data inthe M&E system was weak as financial
indicators were measured incurrent prices. This was adequate for reporting financial
ratios, but didnot provide useful time series over a period inwhich inflation accumulated
870 percent. Another M&Eweakness was its treatment o f user satisfaction survey results
as evidence o f the achievement o f project objectives. The latter had a lot to do with the
disposal side o fthe S W M system, the technical efficiency o fthe operation and it
finances; topics upon which final users cannot be expected to give informed opinions.
Typically, residents o f any large urbanarea like Tashkent will have no direct experience
o f solid waste disposal systems to which their own waste may eventually be transported.
Their answers to survey questions about the quality o fthe waste disposal service which
they do not experience or know cannot be meaninghl. Nor could they give informed
opinions about the technical and financial performance o f the S W M system. Thus IEG
considers that survey respondents' answers to questions o f this type cannot be used as
measures o fproject success or failure. Also, mediareports o f the cleanliness o f Tashkent
city do not provide convincing evidence o fproject success, since they depend mostly
upon the city's effective street cleaning service that was not the object of this project.
Later Region comments point out that Makhsustrans has responsibilities for street
cleaning activities too, but IEGnotes that they were not the object o f the project presently
under review.

                                                6


5.      Project Outcomesby Objective

RESTORINGTHE SOLID WASTE OPERATION


5.1     SubstantialEfficacy: The project was instrumental inhelping to restore
Tashkent's S W M system to a satisfactory level o f service as intended, more through the
provision of essential vehicles and equipment-via      the project's investment component
that accounted for 91 percent o f total costs-than   through institutional change. Although
the waste collection volume reported today is below the baseline andthe project's own
target (Table l), probably does not represent a real shortfall. Itrather reflects the poor
                  this
quality o f baseline (and hence planning) data that was not empirical, but insteadbased
upon unrealistically highSoviet era standards o f expected waste per capita. Project
figures, by contrast, are now amounts actually weighed-something          made possible by
transfer station and landfill equipment provided by the project itself. Still, the baseline
data does serve to remind us that there was a S W M system inTashkent prior to the
project, albeit instate o f imminent collapse. Bybringingabout a number of operational
improvements, the project helped prevent that from happening.

Table 1. Restorationof Tashkent SWM I:Waste Collection Indicators

                                            Baseline             Target         Achievement
                                             (1998)              (2002)             (2007)

Waste collected (million tonnes p.a.)          1.4                 1.5               1.2

Collection bins                                 0                21,500            19,250

Secure collection points                        0                  na                395

Collection vehicles (number)                   398                 475               444

Sources: PAD, ICR and PPAR mission



5.2     Project results on the collection side o f S W M are reported inTable 1. First, was
the large scale introduction o f steel collection bins o f various sizes for temporary storage
at collection points. The IEGmission saw them ingood condition and inintensive use.
This was particularly evident at locations o fthe second project innovation o f"secure"
collection points, paved andwalled patios with on-site caretakers inresidential areas to
which residents o f local apartment buildingswould bringtheir trash. IEGinspected
several o f them-some     independently o f Makhsustrans-finding       them all well managed,
clean andwith regular pickups bythe operator. Inlater comments, however, the Region
clarified that the project didnot include the construction o f the secure collection points,
only the provision o f equipment to them. But the IEGmission also saw several
unguardedcollection sites (withpiles o f uncollected garbage) indifferent parts o f the
city. These still out-number the secure collection points by two to one inTashkent.
Despite the progress thus far, many more secure collection points are still needed. The
thirdimprovement came through the internationalprocurement o f270new vehicles in

                                                7


2001. They renewed more thanhalfthe existing fleet rather actually than expand it (Table
l), thenewtransferstations(seebelow)meantthatasmallerfleetcouldbeusedmore
   but
efficiently since fewer collection vehicles hadto go a distant landfill. Makhsustrans'
green trucks plyingthe streets throughout Tashkent appear well-maintained. The operator
reports that 75 percent are inuse at any one time, thanks to the repair depot providedby
the project. Duringits visit to depot the IEGmission could see the highlyprofessional
maintenance work carried out there, but also the depletion o f the generous stock o f spare
partsthat hadbeenprovided bythe project. Following all these improvementsto solid
waste collection inTashkent, the findings o fproject surveys among final users point to a
greater user satisfactionwith the service today thanprior to the project.

Table 2. Restorationof Tashkent SWM II: Waste Disposal Indicators

                                     Baseline           Target                Achievement
                                      (1998)            (2002)                   (2006)

Transfer stations (number)              0                 4                         3

Transfer vehicles (number)              0                 36                       32

Disposalsite 1.Ahangaran Road       Dumpsite        Sanitary landfill       Controlled landfill

Disposalsite 2. Zangiata            Dumpsite      Closed and covered      Continuing Dumpsite

Disposalsite 3. Hasanbay            Dumpsite      Closed and covered       Closed and covered

Source: PAD,ICR and PPAR mission



5.3     S W M disposal results arising fromthe project are summarized inTable 2. First,
the project introduced transfer stations to Tashkent for the first time. During
implementation, it was found that three transfer stations provided sufficient capacity,
insteado f the four planned. Duringa site visit to one o f them, the IEGmission found
intense delivery, weighing, compacting andremoval operations going smoothly.
Importantly, the weighbridges directly fed operational information to computer systems
on site. Second, a small fleet o f transfer trucks, Tashkent's first, transported cylindrical
containers containing compacted waste to the distant landfill. Economies o f scale and
efficiency gains o f a transfer operation come from a large ratio between capacities o f the
transfer trucks andthe collection trucks-but     this wasjust 10tonnes to 6 tonnes
respectively under this project, according to figures given to IEGduring a transfer station
visit inTashkent. Inlater comments, however, the Regionstated that each transfer station
truck had a capacity o f 18.5 tonnes. Thirdly, the project had designs on all three o f
Tashkent's solid waste disposal sites, but with mixed results. The Ahangaran Road site,
located some 30 k m s south east o f the city, was upgraded to a controlled landfill
operation, but not fully to the sanitary landfill, with leachate andmethane gas collection
and treatment, as intended. There were no evident signs o fproblems-no         smell of gas,
spontaneous combustion, or visible leachate seepage-in        the arid environment o f the site.
ButIEGlearned that there hadbeenanexplosion there-indicating             methane gas
accumulation-ten     years before. Duringits site visit, IEGwitnessed waste being weighed
upon arrival, discharged bythe transfer trucks ina predetermined cell and rapidly

                                               8


coveredby soil-something        not duringwinter months when the ground is frozen. Waste
pickingcontinues at the site, but on a very small scale-35    people according to the
Region principally to recover plastic products. The project's intended separate handling
o fbio-medical waste was not implemented, so presumablythis kindo fwaste continues to
be disposed together with regular garbage. IEGvisited the environmentally hazardous
Zangiata site, to the southwest o f Tashkent that was still inuse, and not closed as the
project appropriately intended. As mentioned earlier, the failure to close arose from a
mistakenbeliefat appraisal that the Zangiata site was within thejurisdiction o f the
Tashkent Municipality, and that the Municipalityhad the authority to close it. That was
not the case. After it was later found to be located outside the Tashkent Municipality an
August 2004 amendment to the project's legal agreement cancelled the covenant
requiring the closure o f this site. Onthe other hand, the older Hasanbav site also visited
byIEG,just 12kms from central Tashkent, is now fully closed andcovered as agreed,
butthe site still has to bebrought back into some worthwhile alternative use.

IMPROVINGTHE BASISFORCONTINUINGTASHKENT'S                  SWMOPERATIONS
5.4     Modest Efficacy: The project contributedmost to the technical foundation, and
less tofinancial and institutionalaspects for future operation. Each one is considered in
brief and separately here.

Technical: Through introducingkey elements o f a working SWM system-particularly
secure collection points, collection and transfer vehicles, transfer stations-the project
helped improve the technical basis for future S W M operations. Exposing the operator
Makhsustrans andTashkent Municipalityto this kindo f operation for the first time
prepared them for taking it into the future. The project enabled them through on-the-job
experience to buildup their technical knowledge o fmany aspects o f a modern S W M
system. Particularly through monitoring the day-to-day performance o f the SWM system,
the project also left Makhsustranswith reliable operations and management information
systems for the first time. Thanks to the project, the operator was able to buildup an
important skillbase for the highly skilled maintenance needed to keep such a large
operationunder way. As noted before, a more solid foundation was laid on the collection
than on the disposal side o f the operation.

Financial: Overall the project's cost recovery results were only modest inintroducing
Tashkent to the ideathat current financing had to be constant and at an adequate level to
ensure the continued operation o f its S W M system. Cost recovery performance was best
during 1999-2003, aperiodthat saw a significant real increase inthe value o fthe
residential tariff (Fig. 1). It was weakest during2003-2007, a period without tariff
adjustments depriving the system o f needed cash and also leaving the project innon-
compliance with one o f the main loan conditions requiring annual adjustments (PAD
p.12). Local officials inTashkent told the IEGmission that Makhsustranshadreceived
generous support and subsidies from the Municipality especially inthe form o f donations
o f equipment. But the operator was inneed o f a stronger cash flow, not more equipment
that it had no revenues to operate. Eventually, there was an "eleventh hour" hope o f
recovery o f current revenue, following a tariff increase inFebruary 2008. Had this latest
change not occurred, efficacy would have beenrated as negligible. Makhsustrans had
succeeded inlowering operating costs and collecting tariffs more aggressively, but these

                                               9


efforts alone were not enough to prevent the erosion o fprofitability while tariffs
remained unchanged (Table C. 3). As part of its assessment ofthe S W M system financial
performance, the IEGmission discussed with local authorities inTashkent the risk to the
future operation o f the S W M system o f the failure to adjust tariffs or raise alternative
revenues to fbnd it. Some four months after the IEGmission, the solid waste tariffwas
raised by 40 percent reaching the highest level, inreal terms, inall its history (Fig. 1)-
an important ifbelated step to help restore SWM's financial foundation as well as
compliance with project legal covenants (PA Schedule 1). According to later comments
bythe Regiononthis PPAR, the WB project teamhadnumerous discussions about the
failure to raise the tariffs. But IEGfound that these were not translated into prominent
conclusions or recommendations insupervision mission Aide Memoires. Since 2004
they have always highlighted good project progress inthe main text, while consigning
mention of the cost recovery issue to a briefnote inan annex, with the assurance that the
WB missionhadbeen assuredthat the (unadjusted) tariff level was sufficient. Duringits
own mission inTashkent, IEGfound few interlocutors well-informed about the financial
crisis facing the S W M operation that arose from the failure to adjust tariffs or how to
solve it.


             Fig.1. ResidentialTariff per capita (in constant 2007 Soums)



       350

       300

    5  250
    u)
       200
    v) 150

       100

        50


              1998   1999     2000  2001  2002    2003   2004    2005    2006    2007    2008 I
Institutional: Project results were only modest inreforming S W M inTashkent, starting
with the failure to establish a self-financing system (that could eventually be privatized,
even ifimmediate privatization was EBRD's aim only). An excellent tariff studywas
completed under the project. Some important recommendations, notably the unitarytariff
structure throughout the city, were adopted, but methods for assessing necessary tariff
levels for (operating and maintenance) cost recovery were not used bythe local
authorities. Inhindsight, agreement on these policies would have beenbetter achieved
before project start-up. IEGcould see that Makhsustrans' still needs to modernize its
accounting and financial management systems, as auditors had earlier noted. On the
positive side, the project ICB experience to procure a large number of S W M vehicles had
a lasting demonstration effect. It convinced local authorities that this was the best and
most economical method for investing intheir system.

                                                               10


EFFICIENCY
5.5       Although the ICRreported an internal rate o f returnfor the project o f 11.6
percent, the Regionwas unable to provide the worksheets anddata usedfor this estimate.
For that reason, IEGmade its own estimate basedupon actual costs and simplified
simulations o fthe likely benefits (Table 3, with details inAnnex B). Usingthe
willingnessto payresults o fthe project's tariff study that correspondsto a realtariff
revenue approximately twice the maximum achieved prior to this year's adjustment (in
2003), IEGestimates a 14.2 percent economic rate o freturn(ERR) for the project,
somewhat higherthan reported bythe PAD or ICR. Onthe other hand, weak SWM
systemfinancial flows, eventaking into account the 40 percent tariffincrease inFebruary
2008, yield no financial rate o freturn (FRR) at all-hardly                        surprisingfor a loss-making
operation, where total net financial benefits are only US$9.6 million, against a cost o f
US$43.2 million (all incurrent prices).

Table 3. Tashkent SWM Project: EstimatedInternal Rates of Return

                                               Appraisal (PAD)           Completion(ICR)               IEG ((PPAR)
EconomicRate of Return- ERR                           13.2%                       11.6%                    14.2%
Financial Rateof Return- FRR                           3.0%                (not estimated)                 None

Key assumptions: IO yr useful life (PAD/ICR); 12yr usefullife (PPAR); ERR benefit streams from willingnessto pay for
health and other externalities derived from project tariff study; FRR benefit streams from projected (PAD) and
actuaWprojected(PPAR) financialresults; ERRIFRR costs include project investmentsplus operating expenditures.

Sources: PAD, ICR and IEG simulation.


SUBSIDIES
5.6      Evenwith the recent tariff increase, it is likelythat Tashkent's SWM system, like
those inmany cities inother countries, will not reach financial sustainability to the point
o fpaying off capital investmentstoo. For that reason, subsidiesby the Municipality
and/or higher levels o f government will continue to benecessaryto ensure the continuing
operation o f the system. Already, the Municipality provides a significant subsidy
amounting to approximately US$4.7 million annually through amortizing the WB/EBRD
loans that are not charged to Makhsustrans. As an alternative or complement to further
tariff adjustments, the Municipality could consider making direct budget support to
Makhsustrans. Ifthe Municipalitywere to decide to subsidize the city's SWM inan
amount equivalent to one percent o f its total revenues, it could still offer US$1.9 million
budget support to Makhsustrans per annum, after payingoffthe external loans for the
project (Table C.4)


6.       Broader IssuesArising from this Evaluation

SUSTAININGEVERYDAY                 FUNDING: A MUST ANYOPERATION FOR

6.1      Assuringongoing finance through the medium-termfor operations and
maintenance (O&M) is essential for the cost recoveryo f any service-providing project to

                                               11


continue to yieldbenefits throughout its usefullife. Beyond that, more finance still i s
neededfor investment inreplacement equipment ifanoperationis to continue into the
longer term after the usefullife o f existing equipment has expired. Apart from the
fundingitself, it is also important for all project stakeholdersto understand the
importance o f sound financial management and for executing agencies to carry it out
effectively. Without adequate finance and solid financial management, technical
solutions, however brilliant and innovativecannot beputto the test and sustained. Inthe
case o f the Tashkent SWM, for example, improvements intechnical operations o f
collectionand disposal, strengthening environmental controls andpublic participation
will all come to naught unless fundingis made available to sustain an operation on a day-
to-day basis. Indeedproper financingi s not an endinitself, but a means towardrealizing
the intendedeconomic and social impacts ofanoperation. As abank, the WB can and
always should bringconsiderable financial know-how to the technical operations it
supports. Suchhands-on assistanceto borrowers and implementation agencies givenas-
needed canbeparticularlyvaluable intransition economies such as Uzbekistan's, where
public sector entities understandably have hadlittle experience o f financial management
as autonomous agencies.


TO ATTRACTPRIVATE SECTOR PARTICIPATIONOPERATIONS MUST BE PROFITABLE
6.2      Inadequaterevenues stuntprivate sector operations inSWM as inany other sector
or line o fbusiness. An international tender in2003 for the private operation o f
Makhsustrans' Chilanzar and Shaihantaur districts of Tashkent failed to yield any bids at
all for this reason(ICR p. 42). It led several local officials to ask whether SWM can ever
beprofitable enoughinTashkent for market mechanisms to work properly there. Another
more detailed way o f asking the same question i s to inquireabout the level o f subsidies
necessaryto make an operation profitable. Evenwithout subsidies, some parts o fthe
operation can appear profitable at times. In2005, for instance, collection services o f
Sergeli, one o f the eleven districts ("rayon") inTashkent, were contracted out to the
former Makhsustrans manager o f that district who had set up his own private firm
Fuyzlitruns specifically to runthe franchise. For its revenue, the firm collected tariff
payments from beneficiaries that (initially) more than offset its main cost o fmonthly rent
of 32 Makhsustrans vehicles. With the same tariff as the rest o fthe city, the new
company collected its revenueswith more rigor and lowered costs by laying off staff and
consolidated collectionroutes. It reported a first year profit in2005 o f 18 percent o f
revenues in2005, falling to just 5 percent in2007, as a result o fthe frozen tariff
discussed earlier inthis report. The recent tariff hike should inject new life-blood into a
privateoperation, but only ifthe regulatory authorities responsible adopt a policy that
continues to set tariffs highenough-with       or without subsidies-to allow profitability.

EX-POST    EVALUATIONOPERATIONS WITH PARALLELFINANCING
                          OF
6.3     Before the WB loanwas closed, EBRD's EvaluationDepartment hadproposed
conducting ajoint evaluation with IEG. This can rewardingbut challenging to do within
a results-basedframework, with EBRD's privatization objective not sharedby the WB. In
such cases, ex-post evaluation i s more straightforward ifdone separately from the
perspective o f each donor's objectives. Identicaloutcomes might thus be assessed
differentlyfrom the perspective of eachdonor's objective. With its explicit aim of

                                                             12


privatizingthe SWM operation, EBRD found the lack o fprogress towardprivatization,
for instance, to be an unsatisfactory outcome, one that was `not accomplished'. The WB,
on the other hand, without an explicit privatizationobjective for the short term, would not
fault project performance on these grounds. Different time frames o f involvement also
conspire againstjoint evaluation. Nevertheless ajoint evaluation o f Tashkent SWM
project may have helpedeachbankto learnmore from the other, better understand their
differentperspectives andhow they were resolved. That said, conditions forjoint
evaluation are most straightforward under a co-financing arrangement where all donors
sign up to the same aim and agreeto pursue the same goal, especially at the same time.

Table 4: Summary of EBRD Internal Evaluationof Tashkent SWM Project

OVERALL ASSESSMENT                          Significant positive development impacts,           **Rating: Partly successful
                                            but without a tariff increase' financial
                                            sustainability remains an issue
Lessons Learned:
0   Restructuringpublic utilitieswill usually involve tough tariff decisions. Without the necessarytariff adjustments,the utility
    will remain loss-makingand therefore will not be an attractive privatizationtarget.
0   In a difficult investment environment, local privatization-involving a localentrepreneurestablishing his own businessto
    run the collectionservice in one particulararea-may be a good first step.
0   Projectobjectives-such as those about internationalprivatizationin this case-should be achievable in the life of the
    project.
0   Projectimplementation duration needs to be realistic.
0   Project monitoringof public sector projects requiresa morestructuredapproach, particularlywhen there are multiple
    stakeholders.
0   Maintain flexibilityin funding decisions, sustainingfunding levels in the face of cost saving, for instance,by expanding
    procurementpackages.
0   Joint evaluationmay prove difficult to coordinate, especially when timing and proceduresare different between the
    parties.
0   A project`s financial demands upon the client should be realistic.
0   Don't change a winning team when the relationshipbetween the client and (project management) consultantis good.
0   Ensure that sufficientfunds are ready for possibleprojectextensions when it is likely that a loan agreement will be
    extended.
Source: EBRD
Notes:    *reported inmid-2007before the February 2008 increaseof 40%.
          ** rating scale: Highly Successful, Successful, Partly Successful, Unsuccessful


7.

OUTCOME
7.1       The overall outcome ofthe project is rated moderately satisfactory, since there
were some shortcomings inachieving the first recovery objective, and moderate
shortcomings inachieving the secondsustainability objective. An Unsatisfactory
outcome ratingwould have beenwarranted hadthere not been the February 2008 tariff
adjustment that preventedthe financial collapse o fthe SWM system. Efficacy i s rated
modest overall, beingsubstantial for recovery, while modest for buildingthe foundation
for a sustainableoperation. Efficiency i s rated modest overall, beingsubstantial for
economic efficiency, while negligible for financial efficiency as indicated by the
respective internal rates ofreturn.

                                                13


RISKTO DEVELOPMENT          OUTCOME
7.2      Currently this risk i s rated significant. Although tariffs have recently been
adjusted, further adjustmentswill be neededinthe future to assure ongoing hndingo f
the SWM operation and reinvestment.For a four-year periodbetween 2003 and 2007,
Tashkent's SWM systemwas seriously under-funded, without even an inflation
adjustment o fthe tariff. Inthis regard, the appraisal's words o f 1998 are relevant today:
"Project sustainability i s principally dependent on the establishment andmaintenance o f a
stable financial and institutionalstructure for the operation o fthe SWM system. Inthe
absence o f these, the project investmentsimply delays rather thanpreventsthe
anticipated collapse of the system." (PAD p. 10).

(WORLD) BANKPERFORMANCE
7.3      Ratedmoderately unsatisfactory, becauseo f a flawed project design and
insufficient appraisal and supervision of the financial and cost recovery challenges facing
the project. The weak design arosemainly from a poor conception o fthe WB/EBRD
partnership, with eachbank having a different aim toward privatization inparticular.
While the EBRDwas contemplating withdrawal from the project, the WB went ahead
signing a LA for an (incomplete) part of an operation. Project designwas also
underminedbythe appraisal's failure to realize that the environmentally riskyZangiata
dumpsite was located outside thejurisdiction o f the Tashkent municipalauthorities, who
couldnot close it as the project required. Especially after 2004, Bank supervision could
have provided more hand-on support and advice to the borrower on the financial
challenges facing SWM. With tariffs frozen, the project was innon-compliance with loan
conditions, but supervision aide memoires continued to report satisfactory project
progress intheir maintext. Cost recovery was reported briefly inan annex where one
couldread that "the missionwas informedthat the current SWM tariff are sufficient for
Spetstransto adequately cover its O&M" (November 2005 supervision mission aide
memoire, Annex 4). Instead, the WB couldhave done its own analysis, alerted the local
authorities to the scale impendingSWM financial crisis, andprovide useful hands-on
advice to help solve it during every mission. Officials inTashkent told IEGthat they felt
that there was no champion for cost recovery on the WB side o f this project, something
that IEGendorses from the tenor o f the documentation just cited. Inlater comments on
the PPAR, the Region felt that fieldinga separate mission in2004 for financial analysis
was an appropriate response. O fcourse, the WB was throughout implementation
constrained by the project's agreeddivision o f labor-technical       for WB, and
institutionaVfinancia1 for EBRD-itself       aproduct o f the weak project design.

BORROWER      PERFORMANCE
7.4      Rated moderatelysatisfactory, principally for the effective implementation o f
most aspects o fthe project until2003, and thereafter primarily o fthe technical side.
Insufficient attention to the operation's financial and institutionalneeds during2003-
2007, endedby an eleventhhour tariff adjustment in2008. This response, albeit belated,
brought financialrespite to Makhsustrans and does demonstrate awarenessinTashkent o f
the importance o f cost recovery, and o f the needto bolster Makhsustrans as an effective
and efficient operator of this capital city's large and vital SWM system.

                                             14


8.      Findings andLessons

8.1     Parallel funded operations inwhich all donors do not share akey objective
(privatization inthis case) should generally be avoided andpreference given to a single
donor approach. Ifoperations with divergent aims cannot be avoided, thenthe project
design should ensure each donor has control over the components that are instrumental to
the achievement of its own particular objectives.

8.2     Carehl assessments o fusers' willingness and ability to pay, borrower agencies'
institutionaland financial performance, the financial impact o f a project uponusers and
providers should always bepart o fthe appraisal o fprojects that incur significant
operating costs over the mediumto longterm. Inthe case o fthe Tashkent SWMproject,
only the first, willingness-to-pay, aspect was adequately covered.

8.3     Cost recovery andproject financial performance should bemonitoredthoroughly
duringsupervision. The WB should bringproblems-such         as financial shortfalls-that
imperilproject achievementsimmediatelyto the attention of aborrower, continually
offeringhighquality hands-on technical advice on solutions as needed.Ifcurrent
revenues are insufficient andrepeatedrequests for strengtheningthem ignored, thenthe
WB should seek remedies underthe legalagreements suchas suspensionof
disbursementsand/or cancellation of aproject.

                                            15


Annex A. Basic Data Sheet

UZBEKISTAN: TASHKENT SOLIDWASTE MANAGEMENT
PROJECT(LN4326 UZ)



                                         Appraisal      Actual or      Actual as % of
                                          estimate   current estimate appraisal estimate
Total projectcosts                          56.0           43.2            77.1%
Loan amount                                 24.0           21.4            89.2%
Parallelfinancing (EBRD)                    21.3           11.5             54.0%
Cancellation                                 0.0            2.6



CumulativeEstimatedandActual Disbursements
                                      FY99 FYOO FYOl FY02 FY03 FY04 FY05 FY06 FY07
Appraisal estimate (US$ million)      2.9   9.6  16.8 22.8 24.0 24.0 24.0 24.0 24.0
Actual (US$ million)                  0.0   0.0  6.5   10.1 12.3 14.3 15.0 20.9 21.4
Actual as % of appraisal              0%    0%   39% 44% 51% 59% 63% 87% 89%

Date of final disbursement:August 4, 2006



ProiectDates
                                               Original                 Actual
ProjectConcept Note                           04/17/1997              04/17/1997
Appraisal                                     10/28/1997              01/13/1998
Board approval                                05/21/1998              05/21/1998
Signing                                       11/I6/1998              11/16/1998
Effectiveness                                 06/30/1998              05/13/1999
Closing date                                  12/31/2003              06/30/2006

                                          16


Staff Inputs(staffweeks)
 Stage of Project Cycle                      Staff Time and Cost (WB Budget Only)

                                     No. of staff weeks                 USD Thousands (including
                                                                       travel and consultant costs)
Lending                                            *76                                   316.2
SupervisionllCR                                   172                                    819.3
Total                                             248                                  1,135.5
*Data not available. This estimate pro-rated from supervisiodICR figures



Mission Data
                    Date        No. of Staff Specializations Performance Rating Types of
                (month/year) persons days          represented            rating       trend problems
                                           in
                                          field
Identification/                    6              TTL, Eng, Fin,
Preparation                                        SOC,Env LC
Appraisal                          6              TTL, Eng, Fin,
                                                   SOC,Env LC
Supervision        12/1998         3              TTL, SOC,LC               S
                   07/1999         3             TTL, Env, Eng,             S
                                                        LC
                   12/1999         4               TTL, E-TTL.              S
                                                     Proc, LC
                   07/2000         4             TTL, Eng, SOC,             S
                                                     Fin, LC
                   03/2001         4                 TTL, LC                S
                   09/2001         6             TTL, Eng, SOC,             S
                                                   Fin, Env, LC
                   05/2002                           TTL, LC                S

                   09/2002                           TTL, LC                S
                   06/2003                        TTL, Fin, SOC,            S
                                                     Fin, LC
                   05/2004                         TTL, Fin, LC             S
                   11/2004                           TTL, LC                S
Completion         01/2006                        TTL, Econ, LC             S



TTL-task team leader; Eng-engineer,Fin-financialspecialist; Soc-social scientist; Env-environmental
specialist: Econ-economist;E-TTL-EBRDtask team leader.

                                                                           17


Annex B. IEGSimulationsof ERR and FRREstimates


Table BI. Tashkent SWM Project: IEG Simulations of Internal Rates of Return

ERR: 14.2%                   8         a
                                       N          O
                                                  0                 0n        W          b       a       a          o       r       $ ! z
                                                  0      d0 l                  0         8       8       8
                                                  N        N
                                                           0        N
                                                                    0          0
                                                                               N         N       N       N          sN zN oN                  N
                                                                                                                                              0


                                                             (in millions of US dollars)
Willingnessto pay                               13.9      13.9      13.9      13.9     13.9    13.9     13.9      13.9     13.9    13.9      13.9

- Operatingcosts                                 6.6      6.3       5.9       5.9       7.0     7.0      7.0       7.0     7.0     7.0        7.0

= Benefit                                       -0.4      0.1       0.2       0.2      -0.1     0.6      0.6       0.6     0.6     0.6        0.6

-Project investment         13.1       7.2       4.5      4.1       1.4       12.0      1.1      -
= Net Benefits              -13.1      -7.2      2.6      3.4       6.5       -4.1      5.8     6.2      6.2       6.2     6.2      6.2       6.2


 non none                    $j        2           m                           8         b       0
                                                                                                 a       0
                                                                                                         a
                                       0           0 80 . 8                              0                          2 : :                     E
                                       N          0N       N        0
                                                                    N          0
                                                                               N         0
                                                                                         N       N
                                                                                                 0       N
                                                                                                         0          N       N       N         N


                                                             (in millions of US dollars)
Operatingincome                                  6.2      6.4       6.1       6.1       6.9     7.6      7.6       7.6     7.6     7.6        7.6

- Operating costs                                6.6      6.3       5.9       5.9       7.0     7.0      7.0       7.0     7.0     7.0        7.0

= Netincome                                     -0.4      0.1       0.2       0.2      -0.1     0.6      0.6       0.6     0.6     0.6        0.6

-Project investment         13.1       7,2       4.5      4.1       1.4       12.0      1.1      -
= Net Benefits             -13.1       -7.2     -4.9      -4.0      -1.2     -11.8     -1.1     1.6      1.6       1.6     1.6      1.6       1.6

Sources:ICR and IEG re-estimate

Notes:All 2001-2007operatingincome and cost data from Makhsustrans accounts, and project investment data prorated as per actual
disbursementof W6 loan. 2a. uses ICR assumptions (ICRp. 30) of: (i) 10year project life (butextended here to 13years to take account of
project implementationdelays);(io 10% increase of operating income in 2007, and constantthereafter; (iii) operating costs constant from 2008.
2b.assumptionsare the same, except that they indicate the theoretical levels of operatingincome (in bold underlinedfont) that would be
necessaryto generate the 11.6%ERR repoded in the ICR, and taxes are assumed to be 10% of net income from 2008.For ERR, benefits are
based upon project estimatesof willingnessto pay. Willingness to pay assessmentsmay not always be accurate.Some respondents may

they are willingto pay in the belief that they will never actually have to pay anything. Thereis no evidence that these biases cancel out. For
understatethe amount they are willing topay in order to hide their income levels frompossible tax assessments. Others may overstate what

FRR, benefitsare estimatedupon actual revenues during 2003-2007 and projected revenuesthereafter that incorporate the February 2008
tariff adjustment.

b
0
0
hl
*

co
0
0
hl



m
0
0
hl




b
0
0
(u




m
0
0
hl




hl
0
0
hl




7 m o m
0 b 0 3 Q ) I
0 a
hl m m h l
     m 0



0
0
0
hl




Q)
z
Q)




03
z
Q)

     \                                  r-
     3                                 0
     3                                 0
     U                                  tv


     0                        n
     3                         v)
     3
     U                         Q)
                               0
                               k
                              .I




     n
     3  ? c u r : ' r : U !    c,
                               E         CD
     3  n m o o o o                     0
     N                         2        0
                               L        cv
c                              a
.-h                            i
v)                             0
Q)
0    f3
     N                         0
                               a
c,
E                              v)
                               y.        v)
7
E                              0         0
                                         0
                               -
                               v)        cv
     r)
     3
-Em  3                         .-E0
     N                         .I
                               E
I


W
0 N  3                         E
     3                         c
v)   N                         I-
3                              O         8
y.                             0
0                              Y         0
                                         cv
.-5
v)   r                         cr)
     3                         0
-.-E 3                         0
     N                         hl
I                              v)
                               L
                               Q)

E                              .-a
                               c,
.I   3
h    3
I- N 3                         W         m
0                              E         0
                                         0
0                              Q)
Y                              P         cv

Qo                             w
                               X

Q,   3)
Q,   3)                        'El
F    2                         E

v)                             m
c,                             v)
a
I                              Q)
                               3
2
-.-tu
v)   3;)                       E
                               2>
     3)
     2                         Q)



                               -5
0
m
E                              c,
                               .I

ii
E

v)                             z
E
e                              .-.-0Q0E
c,
v)

v)
a                              c,
c                              E
                               Q)
Y                              c
                               Y
P4                             Fto
0                              0
                               B
?i
Q)
                               Q)
F                              ?i
                               F


