CYFILE COPY    RESTRICTED
FILE  COPY  Report No. TO-600a
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL OF A
REVISED HIGHWAY PROJECT
TANZANIA
January 18, 1968
Projects Department



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit:               Tanzanian Shilling
US$ 1                   =   T sh 7. 14286
T sh I                       US$ 0.14
T sh 1 million          =   US$ 140, 000 n L 50, 000
l I                          T sh 20
FISCAL YEAR
July 1                  -   June 30
UNITS OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES: BRITISH
METRIC: BRITISH/US EQUIVALENTS
1 kilometer (km)        =   0. 62 mile (mi)
1 meter (m)             =   3.28 feet (ft)
1 hectare (ha)          =   2. 47 acres
I liter (I.)            =   0. 26 US gallon (gal)
-   0. 22 imperial gallon (IG)
1 metric ton (m.t.)     =   1. 10 US short tons (shtn)
-   0. 984 ton (tn)



TANZANIA
APPRAISAL OF A REVISED HIGHWAY PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page
SUMMARY                                                              i - ii
1.  INTRODUCTION                                                       1
2.  BACKGROUND                                                         3
A.  Country                                                        3
B.  The Transport System                                           3
C.  Road Transport                                                h
D.  Road System                                                    5
F. Road Administration                                             6
F. Road Maintenance                                                6
3. THE REVISED PROJECT                                                 8
A. Description                                                     8
(i) Detailed Engineering and Construction of
Six Road Sections                                     8
(ii) Detailed Engineering of a 142 mile section
of the (8) Morogoro-Iringa Road                      10
(iii) Detailed Engineering of Secondary and
Tertiary Roads                                       10
(iv) Staffing and Training Program for Roads
and Aerodromes Division                              11
B.  Cost Estimates                                               11
C.  Execution                                                    13
D. Financing                                                      14
4. ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION                                             15
A. Review of the Economic Justification of the
Original Project                                           15
B. Developments on the Project Roads since
Appraisal in 1963/64                                       16
C. Proposed Geita Peninsula Roads                                 18
5.  CONCLUSIONS                                                       19
This reappraisal report is based on the findings of missions to Tanzania
by Messrs. Soges and Jaycox.



-2-
Table 1 - Status of Original Project, November 1967
Table 2 - Central Government Road Expenditures
Table 3 - List of Roads
Table 4 - Morogoro-Mahenge Section of the Morogoro-Iringa Road. DesIgn
Standards.
Table 5 - Cost Estimates
Table 6 - Traffic and Unit Savings Estimates
Table 7 - Estimated Future Traffic Growth Rates
Chart - IBRD-3398 - Proposed Organization of the Roads and Aezodromes
Division
Map  -  IBRD-2066R2  -  Highway System



TANZANIA
APPRAISAL OF A REVISED HIGHWAY PROJECT
SUIVMARY
i.        The Association granted a development credit for US$14 million
to the United Republic of Tanzania (Credit 48-TA) on February 5, 1964, for
a highway project then estimated to cost a total of US$18.8 million equiva-
lent. The project consisted of the detailed engineering and construction
of eight road sections totalling 734 miles in length.
ii.       The project, which is being executed under the responsibility of
the Roads and Aerodromes Division (RAD) of the Ministry of Communications
and Works, has been delayed by more than two years and costs exceed by 40
percent the original estimates including contingencies. A major reason
for the delay was the shortage of personnel in the RAD which developed in
1964 and 1965 as a result of the departure of expatriates. The cost in-
crease is mainly due to the underestimate of the amount of works in the
preliminary engineering by the RAD, and to increases in prices.
iii.      In 1966 the Government asked that the Closing Date be extended
and that a supplementary credit be made. Subsequently the project was re-
appraised, and a revised project is proposed in which the detailed engineer-
ing and construction of six road sections totalling 533 miles in length is
retained unchanged, one road section is deleted, and the detailed engi-
neering of one road section (142 miles) is retained but its construction
is deleted. As new items, the revised project includes the detailed
engineering of secondary and tertiary roads (208 miles), and a staffing
and training program for the RAD.
iv.       The total cost of the revised project, including contingencies,
is estimated at US$22.8 million equivalent. It is proposed to maintain the
same rate of IDA financing as before, namely 75 percent, or a total of
US$17 million equivalent, of which US$14 million equivalent has already
been provided under Credit 48-TA and the remaining US$3 million would be
provided by the proposed supplementary credit.
v.        Eighty-five percent of the construction works in the revised
project are already underway and on an overall basis they were about 50
percent complete in November 1967. All construction should be completed
by mid 1971.
vi.       The revised project is technically well conceived and has a satis-
factory economic justification. The estimated rates of return on the project
investment range from 9 percent to 15 percent. On the basis of preliminary
analyses the estimated rates of return for the secondary and tertiary roads
to be engineered under the prolect would be in excess of 15 percent. The
staffing and training program will help Tanzania to overcome the staff
shortage in the RAD which was a major difficulty in the execution of the
original project, and to develop a sound highway administration.



- ii -
vii.      The revised project provides a suitable basis for an IDA credit
of US$3.0 million eouivalent to supplement the UStl4.0 million equivalent
of Credit 48-TA.



TAPIZA1NTA
APPRAISAL OF A REVISED HIGHWAY PROJECT
1. IMTRODUCTIOIT
1.1       The Association granted a development credit for US$14 million
(Credit 48-TA) to the Republic of Tanganyika (now the United Republic of
Tanzania) on February 5, 1964 for a highway project estimated to cost
US$18.8 million. It was the first loan/credit to Tanzania for roads.
The credit became effective on April 16, 1964; the closing date was
December 31, 1967.
1.2       The original project was appraised in 1963 on the basis of pre-
liminary engineering studies, and consisted of the detailed engineering
and construction of eight road sections, totalling 739 miles in length
(see Report TO-396a of January 21, 1964). Execution under the responsi-
bility of the Roads and Aerodromes Division (RAD) of the Nlinistry of
Communications and Works (Comworks) was scheduled to be completed by June
1967.
1.3       Execution of the project was seriously delayed and costs in-
creased substantially. The first delays arose because of protracted
negotiations in engaging engineering consultants for design and super-
vision. Further delays were due to the contractors' slow progress on two
contracts, partly because of defective pavement design and inadequate
supervision by the RAD on one contract, and the long period involved in
awarding the other contract and unexpectedly bad soil conditions en-
countered during its execution. The delay on works now underway is about
two years.
1.4       A major factor underlying the delays has been the shortage of
professional staff in the RAD which developed in 1964 and 1965 (see
para. 2.15), at a time when the workload was increased by the expansion
of road construction generated by the IDA prolect.  Within a year after
the credit was negotiated, practically all the senior engineers in the
RAD had left Government service including those who had prepared the proj-
ect and negotiated the credit. The Association had not anticipated that
an exodus of expatriate administrative and technical personnel on this
large scale would result from Independence. The resulting difficulties
in the management of the project were resolved in 1966 by the increased
use of consultants and by successful recruitment of new staff for the RAD
(see paras. 2.16, 3.3 and 3.9).
1.5       Estimates in 1966, based on completed detailed engineering and
contractor's tenders, indicated that costs would exceed the 1963 estimates
by 40 percent. The substantial cost overrun is due primarily to the inac-
curacies of the preliminary engineering, done by the RAD, on which the
original cost estinates were based. The detailed engineering prepared by
the consultants revealed that the FAD had substantially underestimated the



amount of works involved, and indicated increased work quantities and
higher costs. While the Association did succeed in persuading the RAD
to increase its estimates somewhat at the time of appraisal, the extent
of the underestimate was not recognized at that time. Also contributing
to the cost increases were escalating prices, aggravated by the contin-
ued delays in execution. The PAD estimated that the rise in road con-
structior unit prices from 1963 to 1965 was about 10 percent, a trend
which is continuing.
1.6       In view of the delays in execution and cost increases, the
Ministry of Finance requested in March, 1966, that the scheduled completion
date be deferred and that the credit be supplemented to meet increased
costs. Following this request, the project was reappraised and a revised
project is now proposed.
1.7       For the last three years the Bank/IDA have required that loans
and credits for highway projects be based on completed detailed engineer-
ing. This policy was adopted because past experience with this and other
road projects had indicated that preliminary engineering is not a satis-
factory basis for providing reliable cost estimates.
1.8       The status of the original nroject is as follows.  The detailed
design of seven road sections has been completed. Construction contracts
for two road sections were awarded on the basis of international competi-
tive bidding in 1965, followed by awards for tWo other sections in 1966.
A fifth road section is being built by Departmental forces. This work,
located in a remote area, was already undenray when the credit was appraised.
These five road sections representing about 65 percent of the works i -
eluded in the original project and 85 percent of the works in the proposed
revised project, and on an overall basis were about 50 percent complete in
November 1967. The quality of construction is satisfactory and the cost
of works executed so far have been reasonably close to the engineers' esti-
mates.  The status of the original project is shown in more detail in
Table 1.
1.9       This report is based on the original appraisal report and the
findings of IDA missions to Tanzania by Messrs. F. Soges and H. Young,
Engineers, and E. Haker and E. Jarcox, Economists.



2.  BACKGROUND
A.  Country
2.1.      Tanzania lies a few degrees south of the eauator, and is roughly
about the size of France and Spain combined. It is bounded on the north by
Uganda, Lake Victoria and Kenya, on the east by the Indian Ocean, on the
south by Mozambique, Malawi and Zambia and on the west by Lake Tanganyika,
Burundi and Rwanda. It has an area of 361,800 square miles, a large part
of which consists of an arid high plateau in the center.  Agricultural
production is concentrated in the more fertile areas on the periphery where
rainfall is also more abundant: the Lake Victoria region, the highlands
around KilimanJaro, the Southern Highlands, and the Northern Coastal
district.
2.2       Tanzania's estimated population was 10.4 million in 1966 and is
believed to be increasing at about 2.2 percent annually. It includes 80,000
Asians who are engaged predominantly in commerce, and some 30,000 Europeans
who are employed in the public services, trade, banking and industry and to
a lesser extent in large-scale farming and p'antation enterprises. With a
density of 28 people per square mile the country is sparsely populated;
however, population pressures exist in some agricultural areas.
2.3       Gross domestic product per capita is very low - $75 in 1966.
In the period 1960-62 to 1966, monetary GDP at constant prices grew at
the rate of 5.9 percent per annum, and real per capita incomes rose at an
average of 2.7 percent per annum. Agriculture is the principal economic
activity.  Crop production, animal husbandry, forestry and fisheries
together account for about 52 percent of domestic production. About
half of total agricultural production is consumed for subsistence. The
main cash crops are cotton, sisal and coffee. The small but rapidly
growing industrial sector accounts for some 5 percent of GDP. Mining
of gold and diamonds is important for exports, but exploitation of
other known mineral deposits is as yet insignificant, partly due to
remoteness from markets.
B. The Transport System
2.h       The basic transport system consists of three main seaports, about
1,500 miles of railway line, 21,000 miles of primary, secondary and tertiary
or district roads, 20 airports handling scheduled flights, and coastal and
lake shipping services.  Seaports and railways form part of the East African
Railways and Harbors system, a common service to Tanzania, Kenya and Uganda.
The transport system is extensive in relation to the volume of traffic it is
called upon to handle because population and production centers are widely
dispersed around the periphery of the country.



- 4 -
2.5       The main flow of traffic and, consequently, the orientation of
the country's trunk transpoit system * run roughly east-west to and from the
seaports, mainly Dar es Salaam and Tanga.  This pattern reflects the econ-
omy's dependence on exporting primary products and the reverse flow of
manufactured goods and fuel distributed throughout the country from the
coast where they are either imported or produced. The trunk system of
Tanzania is also utilized by neighboring landlocked states and the eastern
part of the Congo, which rely on it in varying degrees for access to the
sea.
2.6       In connection with Bank Loan 428-EA for the East African Railways
and Harbors, the Governments of Tanzania, Kenya and Uganda undertook to
carry out a transport coordination study. The UNDP has agreed to assist
in financing this study which is now underway with the Bank as Executing
Agent. The object of the study is to provide each of the three Govern-
ments with a sotnd basis for formulating its transport policies; the study
should develop an appropriately phased series of measures to coordinate the
use and development of the various modes of surface transport in and among
the three countries, so that the resources employed are used in the most
efficient manner.
C. Road Transport
2.7       While the road system is fairly extensive, traffic volumes gener-
ally are low except in the vicinity of the major coastal centers and in the
Lake Victoria area. The main function of road transport lies in the rela-
tively short-haul services for the delivery and collection of goods to and
from rail lines and terminals. However, the recent increases in industrial
goods' consumption have created demand for a greater range of transport
services, particularly for interurban road transport. On the basis of very
fragmentary information, it is estimated that primary road traffic is in-
creasing at about 7-8 percent annually, much higher than recent growth of
the monetary GJDP.
2.8       The vehicle fleet is growing at an estimated annual average rate
of 7.5 percent. In 1966 there were about 55,000 registered motor vehic'les,
or about one vehicle per 190 inhabitants compared with 180 in Uganda and
100 in Kenya. About 20 percent of the fleet consists of trucks, buses and
tractor-trailers. Over 70 percent of the total fleet has been registered
during the nast five years, indicating that the fleet is not over age, and
has probably been growing in capacity and efficiency more rapidly than in
numbers.
2.9       While the road transport industry has been growing rapidly, it is
still not highly developed. The carriage of goods and passengers for hire
is restricted by route-llcensing and area-licensing regulations designed
primarily to protect the railway's differential tariff from road competition.
The industry consists primarily of owner-operator truckers and small rural
bus companies; there are a few large firms offering long-distance services



- 5 -
on main routes. The newly formed Zambia-Tanzania Road Services, a Govern-
ment controlled corporation owning about 400 large trucks, is exclusively
engaged in the movement of Zambian import/export traffic through Tanzania.
2.10      Extraordinary burdens have recently been placed on the Tanzanian
transport system by Zambian requirements arising from Rhodesia's declaration
of independence (UDI) in November 1965, and the subsequent diversion of
Zambian traffic from Rhodesian routes. This has overloaded Tanzania's trunk
system and disrupted the movement of domestic traffic. Zambia's current
transport requirements through Tanzania have increased pressures to improve
Tanzania's trunk system and port capacity, and have drawn both transport
services and public concern away from the lower class roads, which require
attention.
D.  Road System
2.11      The road network comprises about 10,100 miles of primary and
secondary roads maintained by the central Government, about 10,700 miles
of tertiary or district roads maintained by District Councils, and an
unknown mileage of unclassified minor roads and tracks for which there is
no established public responsibility (see Map). About 850 miles of roads
are bituminous paved and 800 miles are engineered gravel; the remaining
19,000 miles of public roads are low-standard gravel or earth roads.
2.12      Provision of a serviceable road system at reasonable cost has
been a problem in Tanzania because the density of traffic is low and popu-
lation centers are widespread.  Historically, the Government has met the
problem by constructing an extensive low-standard, low-cost network of all-
weather roads which, with a few gaos, is capable of meeting road transport
requirements with reasonable efficiency.  However, traffic growth will
require progressive upgrading of the primary roads, including major
reconstruction and realignment to fully engineered standards.  This next
stage of Tanzania's main road development, which is, to a limited extent,
already underway, will be much more expensive than the present all-weather
facilities.
2.13      Central Govern-ent exnenditures on the road network over the
past five years, including adrinistration, maintenance and construction,
have averaged about US$9 million equivalent a year (see Table 2). The
level of expenditure, particularly on maintenance, is low in relation
to the extent of the road system and its utilization, and has resulted
in a slow erosion of the investment in road facilities. The Bank's 1966
economic mission to East Africa recornrended an increase in expenditure
on roads to attain an annual lev,el of about US$20 million equivalent by
1967/'68, reraining at that level in subsequent years.  The Government's
initial reaction to this reconnendation has been favorable.



-6-
E. Road Administration
2.14      The responsibility for the administration of the road system is
vested in the Roads and Aerodromes Division (BAD) of the Ministry of Com-
munications and Works (Comworks) (see Chart).  The Division is directly
responsible for the primary and secondary road systems, and also provides
technical assistance to the District Coumcils which are in charge of the
tertiary roads.  The Mechanical and Electrical Division of the M,Tinistry
takes care of road construction and maintenance equipment. The organi-
zation of the highway administration is basically sound; however, the
executive capacity of the RAD has been seriously impaired by shortage
of competent professional staff.
2.15      The staff shortage developed in 1964 and 1965 with the pro-
gressive departure of expatriate engineers and the difficulties of
replacing them from either local or foreign sources. The administrative
establishment of about 50 engineers would barely meet the current re-
quirements of Tanzania's highwray system, but only about, 85 percent of
these positions are filled and even this staff partly consists of new
graduates with little experience. Wihile it is Government policy to fill
administrative positions with Tanzanian nationals, the supply of qualified
nationals is inadequate and will remain so for many years. In the mean-
time, the RAD will have to continue to depend heavily on foreign nationals.
2.16      The Government recognizes the need to restore the strength of the
RAD and has taken steps to that end. Engineering salaries were recently
increased to more competitive levels and an overseas recruitment campaign
launched. It attracted ten new engineers in 1966 and 14 in 1967, and fur-
ther recruitment is under way. The provision of expatriate engineers and
funds for their salaries have been ar.nnged under a Swedish bilateral pro-
gram (SIDA) and similar assistance is being sought from other countries.
The Government has reouested the Association to help obtain additional
foreign experts to take executive rositions in the BAD and to finance their
salaries in part (see para. 3.14).
2.17      The Government is providing incentives, through scholarships and
promotional campaigns among students, to attract young nationals to Comworks.
The Ministry plans to recruit annually at least five new graduate Tanzanian
engineers for the RAD. These recent graduates will, however, require exten-
sive on-the-job training under experienced supervisors.  The Ministry expects
that in five years the supply of naticnal professionals will be sufficient to
provide trainees for all functions in the establishment of the RAD.
F. Road Maintenance
2.18      Maintenance expenditures on the 10,100 miles of primary and secon-
dary roads under the authority of Comworks are met from the central Govern-
ment's current budget. The maintenance of the 10,700 miles of tertiary



roads is financed by various locally-collected taxes supplemented by the
central Government.  Cor,mwoQrkhs assesses its maintenance requirements on
formulae developoed a number of years ago, related to prices Lfor labor,
equipnent and materials that are no longer operative.  On this basis, the
annual allocation for maintenance of various types of roads is US$1,250
equivalent a mile for bitu-minouis paved roads, US^$600 equivalent for gravel
roads and US$330 equivalent for earth roads.  In accordance with these
allocations, maintenance exypenditures on the Comworks roads were restricted
in 1965/66 to about USt4.2 million equivalent.  F-unds available for district
roads were far less, averaging only about UIS$60 equivalent a mile.  The
amomnts allocated are insufficient for adequate maintenance, particularly
for periodic repair of gravel and earth roads.  During negotiations, assur-
ance was obtained from the Government that road maintenance requirements
will be reassessed on the basis of present cost levels and traffic.  The
Government is committed under the Credit Agreement to maintain adequately
the roads included in the pro,ect; during negotiations the Govern-ment
agreed to extend this obligation to cover the entire road system under the
jurisdiction of the Central Government.



3. THE REVISED PROJECT
A. Description
3.1       The reappraisal of the original project has led to a revised
project which consists of (see Table 3 and Map):
(i) the detailed engineering and construction of six road sections
totalling 533 miles in length;
(ii)  the detailed engineering of a 142 mile section of the Tanzam
highway between Morogoro and Iringa;
(iii)  the detailed engineering of four secondary roads totalling 110
miles in length, and of tertiary roads totalling 98 miles in
length, and
(iv)  a staffing and training program for the Roads and Aerodromes
Division for a five year period.
In the revised project, six of the eight road sections in the original
project are retained unchanged under item (i) above; the detailed engineer-
ing of the Morogoro-Iringa road section is retained and extended from 104
miles to 142 miles under item (ii) but construction is deleted; and one
road section, Musoma-North Mara, is deleted entirely. The detailed engi-
neering of the secondary and tertiary roads, item (iii), and the staffing
and training program for the RAD, item (iv), are new.
(i)  Detailed Engineering and Construction of Six Road Sections
3.2       (1)  Chalinze-Segera Road.  This road was improved from an
earth track to engineered gravel standard under a contractor-financed
scheme before the original credit was made. The project provides for its
bituminous paving, for which a contract was awarded in July 1965 to Ingra
(Yugoslavia). The pavement design was prepared by the RAD, which was also
to supervise construction.
3.3       From the beginning, the contractor's organization was weak, and
progress of work was slow. The supervision by the RAD was poor due to in-
sufficient staff on the site and lack of assistance from headquarters.  The
first sections of pavement, which consisted of a lime-stabilized base with
a bituminous paving, failed, requiring a revision to the pavement design.
At the Association's request, consultants, Scott, Wilson, Kirkpatrick &
Partners (UK), were engaged in November 1966 to review the pavement design
and supervise construction. Where necessary, stabilization by lime was
replaced with more expensive cement. The quality of the work has irmproved
and is now satisfactory. Progress is still slow, but equipment was increased
and further increases are planned to accelerate the work, which was about
45 percent complete in November 1967.



- 9 -
3.4       (2)  Mkumbara-Kisangiro Road.  The nrolect provides for the re-
alignment and reconstruction of this road including bituminous paving.
Detailed engineering was done by consultants, Scott, Wilson, Kirkpatrick
& Partners (UK), who are also supervising the construction, which is being
carried out by Stirling Astaldi, Ltd., (UK-Ttaly) under a contract awarded
in January 1966. The construction work was about 60 percent complete in
November 1967 and is satisfactory.
3.5       (3)  Mingoyo-MIasasi Road.  The project provides for the recon-
struction of this road to a gravel standard. Detailed engineering was
prepared by RAD and construction is being carried out by FAD forces. Pro-
gress has been slow, but construction work is now more than 90 percent
complete and is satisfacto-y.
3.6       (4)  Uyole-Itungi Port Road.  The project provides for the recon-
struction of this road including bituminous paving. Detailed engineering
was done by consultants, Italconsult (Italy), who are also supervising
construction, which is being carried out by Ph. Holzmann (Germany) under
a contract awarded in May 1966. The work has been delayed because of the
long period involved in awarding the contract and because of bad weather
and unexpectedly difficult soil conditions encountered during execution,
but plant and personnel have been increased and night wor3 introduced to
accelerate progress. The construction work was about 25 percent complete
in November 1967 and is satisfactory.
3.7       (5)  Kolondoto-Bariadi Road.  The project provides for the recon-
struction of this road to a gravel standard. The detailed engineering was
prepared by consultants, Ingeroute (France), who have also been retained to
supervise construction. The call for tenders on the basis of international
competitive bidding was held in abeyance, pending the revision of the proJ-
ect. Tenders are now due in February 1968.
3.8       (6)  Dar es Salaam-Kibiti Road.  The project provides for the
reconstruction of this road including bitilminous paving. Detailed engi-
neering was done by the RAD which is also supervising construction being
undertaken by Ingra (Yugoslavia) under a contract awarded in November
1965.  The work was about 60 percent complete in November 1967 and is
satisfactory.
3.9       As the expected developments in the service area of the road have
not taken place (see para. 4.8), the Association requested that means be
explored to reduce construction costs. Scott, Wilson, Kirkpatrick & Part-
ners (UK), were commissioned by the Government to investigate gravel
sources with a viewT to substituting a gravel course for the stabilized base
and bituminous paving.  The gravel search proved negative.  In the meantime,
the earthworks have been completed on the whole road, but construction of
the pavement followed only slowly, leaving a large gap of unpaved formation.
Traffic over the unpaved section was diverted to service roads and moved
under adverse conditions, involving complete stoppage during rainy periods.
Under these circumstances, the completion of an adequate pavement has become
imperative. Stabilized soil base with a bituminous paving, as originally
planned remained the only technically feasible solution. The consultants
refined the pavement design, which resulted in some construction cost
savings.



- 10 -
3.10      (7)  Musoma-North Mare Road.  The original project provided for
the reconstruction of this road to gravel standard, but no engineering or
construction has been undertaken.  There has been no traffic growth and
none is anticipated. The economic reappraisal indicates a rate of return
below 7 percent (see para. 4.9). The Association and the Government have
agreed to drop this road from the project.
(ii)  Detailed Engineering of a 142 mile section of the (8) Morogoro-
Iringa Road
3.11      The original pro3ect provided for the detailed engineering,
partial reconstruction and bituminous paving of a lOll-mile section.  The
detailed engineering was completed in 1965 by consultants, Sir A. Gibb &
Partners (UK), to standards consistent with normal traffic growth fore-
seeable at that time.  The revised project provides for the redesign by
consultants of the l04-mile section to higher standards, and for the de-
tailed engineering by consultents for the improvement of a further 38-mile
section in the vicinity of Morogoro which is of relatively low standard.
3.12      The Morogoro-Iringa road forrs part of the Tanzam highway.  The
extraordinary increase in traffic due to 2ambian transit raised the ques-
tion whether the standards followed in the engineering of the 104-mile
section still remain adequate to meet the changed traffic requirements. It
also raised the question of how to maintain heavy traffic during recon-
struction of the road, a part of which is located in a deep gorge. In view
of these probler.s the Government, with the concurrence of the Association,
has deferred reconstruction of the road section for the time being, has
stepped up maintenance to meet increased traffic, and has decided to have
the engineering of the road revised to higher standards consistent with
present traffic forecasts (see Table 4). The engineering for the recon-
struction or improvement of the other sections of the Tanzam highway in
Tanzania, not included in the proposed project, is being carried out under
USAID auspices.
(iii) Detailed Engineering of Secondary and Tertiary Roads
3.13      The Government submitted feasibility studies, including prelimi-
nary engineering, for six roads prepared by consultants, William Halcrow &
Partners (UK), Scott, Wilson, Kirkpatrick & Partners (UK), and the Econo-
mist Intelligence Unit (UK). A mission from the Nairobi Office visited
Tanzania late in 1966 and on the basis of the feasibility reports and its
own findings recommended a project consist-ng of the engineering and con-
struction of four secondary roads totalling 110 miles in length and of
tertiary roads totalling 98 miles in length. These roads are situated
in the Geita Peninsula on Lake Victoria. The preliminary cost estimate
for engineering and construction, including an appropriate allowance for
contingencies, amounts to US$4 million equivalent. The present project
provides only for the detailed engineering, and financing for construction
would have to be obtained subsequently.



- 11 -
(iv)  Staffing and Training Program for Roads and Aerodromes Division
3.14      The steps taken so far by the Governm.ent to meet both the short
term need for foreign experts and the longer term goal of a national staff
are soundly conceived, and worthy of external support (see paras. 2.16 and
2.17). The Bank's 1966 economic mission to East Africa emphasized the need
for further strengthening the staff of the BAD as quickly as possible.
Under the staffing and training scheme for which financial assistance is
to be provided under the project, a team of up to eight experienced for-
eign experts is proposed, composed of a transportation economist and
engineers of various specialties including design, construction and main-
tenance (see Chart). For a planned period of five years, the experts will
be appointed to executive positions in the RAD and concurrently will train
national counterparts, to be designated by the Government, to take over
eventually the functions exercised by them and other expatriates. As
time goes on, the experts' duties will become increasingly of an advisory
nature as the counterparts gain experience and take over resnonsibilities.
The actual number of experts to be engaged will be determined and reviewed
from time to time, in consultation between the Association and the Govern-
ment, on the basis of the availability of qualified counterparts.  During
negotiations agreement was reached with the Government to begin the program
with a first group of six training experts. Assurance was also obtained
from the Government that it will pursue its efforts to strengthen the RAD
and the engineering education of nationals, and that responsibilities
presently held by expatriates rill be transferred to nationals gradually
in order to ensure that the accumulated experience of expatriates is passed
on to them.
B. Cost Estimates
3.15      The cost estimates of the original and revised project are
summarized below (for details see Table 5):



- 12 -
US$ Million
B Million    Equivalent
(i) Original project, 1963 estimates:
A.   Construction                                 5.29          i4.8
B.   Engineering Services                         0.53          1.5
C.   Contingencies, about 15 percent             o.88           2.5
Total                       6.70          18.8
(ii) Revised project, 1967 estImates:
A.   Construction                                 6.50          18.2
B.   Engineering Services                         o.88           2.4
C.   Roads and Aerodromes Division Staffing
and Training Scheme                         0.15           0.4
D.   Contingencies
(a) for quantity variations, about
6 percent                              o.46           1.3
(b) for price variations, about 3 per-
cent on remaining works and services 0.16             0.5
Total                       8.15          22.8
The revised estimates for construction are considered accurate since they
are based on almost comnpleted work by Departmental forces on one road, on
tender prices and partly corrnleted work on four other roads, and on com-
pleted detailed design for the sixth road. The revised estimates for
engineering services are also considered accurate as they are based, for
the construction part of the project, on fees paid for completed designs
and on contractual prices for supervision of construction, and for the
detailed engineering of a section of the Morogoro-Iringa road and of the
Geita peninsula roads on the consultant's estimate of fees.  The estimate
for the stafting and training program is based on the provision of an
average number of six experts for a th;^ee year period; this is considered
sufficiently accurate and variet4ions in it would not significantly affect
the total project cost. Possible quantity variations were assessed in
the light of experience with already executed works.  In view of the rela-
tively advanced stage of the project, price variations will be limited.
The contingency allowances for quantity and price variations are therefore
considered adequate.
3.16      The foreign currency corponent of the construction costs was
estimated at 75 percent in the original project.  Since the time of the
original appraisal, it has been reduced due to recent industrial develop-
ment in Tanzania, including the opening of a refinery at Dar es Salaam,
and to the rapid rise of local labor rates.  The foreign exchange com-
ponent is now estimated at about 65 percent.



- 13 -
C. Execution
Engineering and Construction
3.17      Comworks will continue to be responsible for the execution of
the project, assisted by consultants who are supervising the bulk of the
works. As mentioned before, about 85 percent of the construction works
in the revised project are in the hands of contractors or departmental
forces, and the last construction contract is scheduled for international
competitive bidding by February 1968. It is expected that construction
will be completed by mid 1971. Engineering consultants selected under
procedures and terms satisfactory to the Association will be employed for
the detailed design of the Geita Peninsula secondary and tertiary roads.
Staffing and Training ProgramL  or RPAD
3.18      The experts will be recruited and engaged by the Government,
under contracts satisfactory to the Association, for two terms of two years,
with provision for possible extension of their term as appropriate. The
experts' emoluments will be determined individually in their contracts
(the average is expected to be about US$18,000 per year). The Government
will pay a part of the emoluments, at the rate of establishment salary
scales applicable to the administrative functions held by the experts
(about us$6,ooo equivalent per year). As establishment salary scales are
designed for the requirements of local administrations staffed by nationals,
they are inadequate to attract foreign experts and IDA will finance the
remainder of their salary as well as international travel costs. The Gov-
ernment will also provide the experts with the usual amenities incidental
to their functions, such as furnished housing, duty-free importation of
certain personal effects, etc.; will permit the free transfer of a part of
the emoluments to their home country; and will provide the facilities and
assistance required for the performance of their duties. During negoti-
ations, agreement was reached with the Government on the guidelines for the
contractual arrangements with the experts including their salary ranges.
3.19      The Government is prepared to start recruiting experts for
the RAD staffing and training program immediately, and it is expected
that the program will be operational within nine morths.  The Associa-
tion's financial support, under the proposed project, would cover the
first three years approximately of the five year program. During negoti-
ations, assurance was obtained from the Government that it will carry
out the program for the five years and that adequate funds for this pur-
pose will be made available. During this time, the Association and the
Government will evaluatte, in periodic consultations, the progress under
the program, and determine the need for any further extensions.



- 14 -
D. Financing
3.20      The Association's participation in financing the original
project was established at the rate of 75 percent, based on the foreign
exchange component of the original cost estimate, and the Government has
requested that this share be maintained throughout the revised project
as defined in this report, notwithstanding the lower foreign component of
65 percent discussed in paragraph 3.16. For general economic reasons set
forth in the report of the recent economic mission, "Prospects for Economic
Development in Tanzania" (AF-58), it is recommended that the Association
agree to maintain a 75 percent share in the financing of the revised project.
On this basis, the Association's contribution is estimated at US$17 mil-
lion equivalent, of which US$14 million equivalent is provided under
Credit 48-TA and US$3 million equivalent would be provided by the supple-
mentary credit.
3.21      The Government is prepared to finance the remaining costs.  The
revised project would require a supplementary local contribution of about
US$1.0 million equivalent.
3.22      The projected disbursements schedule of the revised project is
as follows:
Calendar Years       1964-1967    1968    1969    1970       1971    Total
Disbursements
(US$ million):        7.0        6.o      2.0     1.2       0.8      17.0
The disbursement procedures will be as follows: for engineering and con-
struction, IDA will disburse 75 percent of total expenditures.  For the
Staffing and Training Program, IDA will disburse for the actual salary over
and above normal Tanzanian civil service scales and for international travel
costs. If engineering, construction and staffing and training costs are
lower than estimated, any surplus funds remaining in the credit account
would be cancelled.



- 15 -
4. ECONCIAITC JUSTIFICATIOM
A. Review of the Economic Justification of the Original Prolect
4.1       The substantial increases in the estimated costs of the road works
included in the original project have made it necessary to review their
economic justification. Other factors have affected the economic analysis in
addition to the increased cost estimates. In the first place the completion
of detailed engineering has resulted in sor.e changes in the proposed align-
ments and in the standards of the roads to be improved.  Secondly, the
condition of many of the roads has deteriorated since the original appraisal.
These two factors affect the estimated unit vehicle operating savings used in
the analysis. In the third place, as a result of the delay in construction
of the roads and the growth of traffic during this interval, in most cases
there will be increased traffic on the improved facility at the time it comes
into operation. Finally, since the original appraisal, the Bank/IDA has
modified and improved its method of appraising road projects. The original
appraisal was based on rates of return according to the annuity method, which
does not allow for benefits accruing from future normal traffic growth or
generated traffic, or from the differential in future maintenance costs at
higher traffic densities. The economic analysis in this report is based on
the methodology now practiced within the Bank/IDA and the results are not
strictly comparable with those of the original appraisal report.
4.2       Tables 6 and 7 show the traffic and traffic growth estimates on
which the economic evaluation has been based. Table 6 also shows the esti-
mated unit savings per vehicle mile based on the average truck and car
using each road and on the changes in riding quality which the proposed
improvements would entail. Each road included in the original project is
described briefly below. In summary, the rate of return calculations
produce the following results:
Ref. No.
(See Map)                                       Rate of Return
1             Chalinze-Segera                    10%
2             Mkumbura-Kisangiro                 15%
3             Mingoyo-Masasi                     13%
4             Uyole-Itungi Port                  13%
5             Kolondoto-Bariadi                   9%
6             Dar es Salaam-Kibiti                8%
7             Musoma-Forth Mara                   7%
8             Morogoro-Iringa                    13%



- 16 -
B. Dlevelopments onthe Pro! ctRoads since A-ppraisal- in 1963/64
4.3       The (1) Cbalinze-Segera road was improved in 1964/65 from an
earth track to an engineered gravel standard under a contractor-financed
scheme arranged prior to the original IDA Credit, whi-ch was for bituminous
paving. In 1962 there were only 30 vehicles -per day using this road. The
1964/65 improvement generated considerable traffic. Traffic is currently
estimated at 145 vehicles per day with over 60 percent consisting of trucks
and buses. It is estimated that this traffic will grow at the annual aver-
age rate of 6 percent per annum through 1979, then drop to a growth rate
of about 5 percent poer annum for the remaining 10 years of the im-proved
road's economic life. The unit benefits from vehi-cle o-perating savings
are relatively low since the road. has been realigned and reconstructed to
high gravel standards and the present improvement involves only bituminous
pa-ving. Generated traffic would therefore also be relatively small. 'Road
maintenance cost savings, ho-wever, will be an im-portant element of the
economic benefits. The econonic rate of return on this road is estimated
at slightly more than 10 pnercent.
4.4       The (2). Mkumbura-Xisangiro road has been shortened by 10 miles
in the process of final design. Estimated savings in vehicle operating
costs have subostantially increased as a result. Howqever, due to realign-
ment, some existing traffic would not use the new road (about 14 vehicles
pDer day at present). Since 1962, traffic on the road has risen from- about
105 to 185 vehicles per day, of which 50 percent are trucks and buses.
Marketed agricultural production (especially coffee, wheat, and livestock)
from the Kilimanjaro and Arusha districts has increased rapidly and
fThrther agricultural and other economic development is ex-nected. The
headquarters of the East African Cormmunity secretuariat is now schedul-ed
to be established at Arusha which should increase traffic on this road
substantially. It is estimated that traffic will continue to grow at
about 6-7 percent per annum through 1975 and then slow to about 5 percent
annually over the remaining 15 years of the improved. road's economic life.
The benefits from savings in vehicle operating costs per mile will be
substantial, since the road would be improved from a mediocre earth con-
dition to a two-lane bituminous surfaced road. As a result there would
be substantial generated traffic if the road is imprroved; this is esti-
mated at, 100 vehicles per day shortly a-fter opening of the improved
facility. The rate of return on the investment required to achieve
these benefits is estimated at 15 percenyt.
4.5       The (3) Mingoyo-Masasi road in the Mtwara region, which is being
reconstructed to gravel standards, is nearly complete. Traffic on this
road has increased from about 60 vehicles per day in 1961 to nearly 280
vehicles per day in 1967 including traffic that has already been diverted
to the road or generated as a result of the improvements. Normal traffic
growth has been in the order of 5-6 percent per annum. over recent years
and is expected to continue through 1975 at least, by whi-ch time stage
improvement to a bituminous surfaced road will be justified. For the



- 17 -
purposes of the econromic analysis benefits from traffic growth beyond
1975 are not considered since the gravel road will have reached its effec-
tive capacity. The estimated rate of return on the investment in the
present improvement is 13 percent.
4.6       The (4)  ole-Itungi Port road is a major feeder outlet from the
Mbeya province of the Southern Highlands.  The area is heavily populated and
agricultural development (especially tea, coffee, and bananas) has taken
place at a faster pace than foreseen by the original appraisal report. This
development has been offset by the withdrawal of the Malawi transit traffic
formerly using this road so that average daily traffic has changed little
over the past few years. The region has excellent prospects for further
development and traffic is expected to grow by at least 6 percent per annum
through 1980, then dropping off to a lower rate during the remaining 10 years
of the improved roads economic life. The savings in vehicle operating costs
per mile are estimated to be very high, at about 16 US¢ for the average truck
and 4 US¢ for the average car. The road now has not much more than a poor
earth surfacing.  Gradients, drainage, and curves are bad.  Relatively heavy,
trucks are in use in this area of Tanzania, and they constitute roughly 60
percent of total traffic. A very large generated traffic is expected on
this road due to the large unit savings. Savings in road maintenance costs
will also be substantial. The rate of return on the proposed investment to
improve the existing road to a two-lane bituminous-surfaced road is esti-
mated at about 13 percent.
4.7       The (5) Kolondoto-Bariadi road is a major feeder road serving a
rain-fed cotton area south-east of Lake Victoria. Production in the area
has increased rapidly in recent years. Traffic on the road increased from
an estimated 30 vehicles per day to about 125 vehicles per day since 1961/62.
The outlook for future growth is not as spectacular as recent trends would
indicate, but remains fairly good.  It is estimated that traffic will con-
tinue to grow at about 5 percent per annum through 1985, the estimated end
of the improved road's economic life. The savings in vehicle costs per
mile as a result of improvement from earth to gravel would be substantial
and lead to generated traffic through increased production.  The estimated
economic rate of return on the investment required to improve the road as
proposed is 9 percent.  Although this rate of return is not high, it is
not so low as to rule out this road improvement, particularly in view of
the original commitment of IDA and the Government to carry the project out.
4.8       The development anticipated along the (6) Dar es Salaam-Kibiti
road has not takIen place and future prospects are not very favorable.
Present traffic is about 86 vehicles per day of which 70 percent are
trucks and buses. It is estimated that future traffic growth would be
in the order of 4 percent per annum over the 20-year life of this road,
which, if inproved at all, must be built to bituminous standards due to
the lack of gravel in the area. Savings in vehicle operating and road
maintenance costs would be sufficient to yield a rate of return of
slightly over 8 percent orn the investment as a whole. This rate of re-
turn may be considered marginal. However, these works are now well



- 18 -
underway, and the road that ser-ved this area prior to construction has
been completely torn up in the construction process. The incremental
investment to complete the road and to serve the traffic now travelling
on temporary parallel earth tracks would yield an economic return of
over 20 percent. From an economic point of view the correct decision
at this time would take account only of the incremental costs and
benefits.
4.9       Traffic on the (7) M soma-lorth _Iara road has not grown as
originally expected and prospects for future growth do not appear good.
Traffic between Kenya and Tanzania over this road has fallen off consider-
ably and local developmernt has not been taking place.  improvement to
gravel standards would yield a rate of re-turn of about 7 percent.  From
the beginning, this road was considered as a marginal case, and as men-
tioned before was dropped f"rom the project.
4.1o      The (e) Lvlorogoro- ria road is part of the main trunk road con-
necting the fertile Southern Highlands and the iringa province of Central
Tanzania with the capital Dar es Salaam and the export market. Agricul-
tural develorment in both areas has exceeded tPe forecasts of the original
appraisal report and prospects for future growth appear bright especially
for tea, livestock, and staple foods. Estimate of the cost of reconstructing
this road to higher standards must awrait the completion of the revised de-
tailed engineering.  However, on the basis of normal traffic and the design
standards found suitable for this traffic, the rate of return on the invest-
ment would be about 13 percent.
4.l1      The overall economic return on the investment for reconstruction
of the six roads in the revised project is estimated at about 11 percent,
which is satisfactory.
C.  Proposed Geita Peninsula Roads
4.12      The constrruction of these four secondary roads totalling 110 miles
in length, and the 98g miles of tert-lanr roads associated with them, appears
to be justified. Feasibility studies by consultants conclude that the re-
turn on investment would be on thle order of 15-16 percent.  The roads serve
a substantial, well defined traffic, primarily cotton, in an area of high
present production and considerable flurther potential.  The Bank's 1966
economic mission to Tanzania has identified this area as one where secon-
dary and tertiary road network improvremerlts have not kept pace with local
production developinents or traffic gro-th. The feasibility reports bear
out this judgment. The regional concentration of the project lends itself
to efficient execution, and would place a minimal burden on the limited
capacity of the RAD. Detailed engineering of these roads is deemed justi-
fied in view of the present estimates of economic returns from eventual
construction.



- 19 -
5. CONICLUSIO"!S
5.1       The revision of the project under Credit 48--TA is necessary to
take account of increases in costs and other developments which have oc-
curred since appraisal of the original project.  The revised project is
technically feasible and well conceived, and has a satisfactory economic
justification.  IPlost of the project works are in the hands of consultants
and contractors, and are progressing satisfactorily.  The RAD staffing
and training program will help Tanzania to develop a sound highway adninis-
tration.
5.2       In view of the time required to complete the engineering and con-
struction part of the revised project, it is recommended that the Closing
Date of Credit 48--TA be extended from December 31, 1967 to June 30, 1969,
and the Closing Date for the supplementary credit recommended in this re-
port be December 31, 1971.
5.3       During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government
on the method of carrying out the staffing and training program (see para-
graphs 3.14, 3.18 and 3.19). The Governhment also agreed to adequately
maintain the en-tire road system under its jurisdiction (see paragraph 2.18).
5.4       The revised nroject provides a suitable basis for an IDA credit
of USt3 million equivalent, to supplement the US$14 million equivalent of
Credit 48-TA.



T A N Z A N I A
Status of Original Prolect. November 1967
Original Cos t      Forecasted Cost
Time of Construc-           Forecasted           E4timste Includ-          Including
Hel. No.         Road Section               Enineerine             Coastruction Bv          tion Award              Comnletion Date        iLa  Contineencies       Contingencies            Percent of Comoletion
!see Map)                                                                                                                                   ---------- -----   1     -
1.         Chaliaze-Segera          RAD and Scott, Wilson,
Kirkpatrick & Partners   Ingra Ltd.                July 1965               Dec. 196B                    580                     887                           45
2.          lnkmbara-Kisangiro      Scott, Wilson,              Stirling
Kirkpatrick & Partners   Astaldi Ltd               Jan. 1966               Sep. 1968                  1,220                   1,652                           60
3.         Mingoyo-Masasi           RAD                         RAD                       n.a.                  aune  1968                    450                     574                           90
h.          Uyole-Iturngi Port      Italconsult                 Ph. Holzmann             May 1966               Dec. 1968                     990                   1,634                           25
5.         Kolondoto-Bariadii       Ingeroute                      n.a.                 Sched. May 1968         June 1971                     750                   1,064                            0
6.         Dar Es Salaam-Kibi1i   RAD &Scott, lilson,Kirk-   Ingra Ltd.                 Nov. 1965               July 1968                     910                  1,6                             60
1/      patric and Partners 
7.         Musoma-North Mara         -                               - p a                                                                    170
8.         Morogoro-Iringa          Sir A. Gibb & Partners          - 1/                   -                        -                       1,030
Totals
6,100                   6,907
~/ Deleted trom revised project.
--  - - -  - - - - - -  - - - - - - -  - - - - - - -  - - - - - -  - - - - - -  - - - - - -  - - - - - -  - - - - -  - - - - -  - - - - - -  - - - - - -  - - - - -  - - - - - -  - - - - -  - - - -  - - - - -  - - - - -  - -



Table 2
REVISED HIGITJAY PROJECT
Central Government aoad Exnenditures
(in Dn million)
Year        Administration-/       T'Jaintenance     Construction        Total
1961/62             0.4                   1.5              1.2            3.1
1962/63             0.6                   1.4              1.0             3.0
1963/6L4            9.6                   1.5              1.0            3.1
1964/65             0.7                   1.4              1.2            3.3
1965/66             0.7                   1-5 '            1.4            3.6b
1966/67             0-7                   1.8 a,b/         3.2 a/          5.7 a,b,/
a!   estimated
b/   not including extraordinary .aintenance cn the Great North lioad required
by Zar3bian energency traffic.
Source; Conworks



Table 3
T A N Z A N I A
REVISED HIGFIWAY PROJECT
List of Roads
Ref No.                                      Length            Description
(see Map)         Road Section          (approx. milea          of Work
A.  Engineering and Construction
1.        Chalinze-Segera                  108      bituminous paving
widening of bridges
2.        i4kumbara-Kisangiro               95      realignment and recon-
struction, bituminous
paving
3.       ,Ningoyo-Masasi                    77      reconstruction,
gravel surfacing
L.        Uyole-Itungi Port                 75      reconstruction,
bituminous paving
5.       I%olondoto-Bariadi                100      reconstruction,
gravel surfacing
6.        Dar es Salaam-Kibiti              78      reconstruction,
bituminous pavirig
Total Length               533
3. Design
Redesign_
8.        Morogoro-Mahenge section of
the Morogoro-Iringa road        1h2
Detailed Design, Geita Peninsula
Secondary and Tertiary Roads
i)  Sengerema-Katunguru                   10
ii)  Buchenzi-Karumo                       36
iii)  Busisi-Tharuiir^wa                    44
iv)  Line road to Busolwa                  20
Total, secondary roads              110 miles
Tertiary roads                        98 miles



Table 4
TANZANIA
REVISED HIGR AY PROJECT
Morogoro-Mahenge Section of the Morogoro-Iringa Road
Desigi Standards
Terrain
Flat         Rolling        Mountainous
Widths (feet)
Roadway                               34             32                28
Pavement  1/                          22             22                20
Shoulder                               6              5                 h
Surface Type                                  Double Bituminous Surface
Shoulder Type                                            Gravel
Grades (Percent, maximum without
length limitation)                 4               5                 7
Design Speed (m.p.h.)                      70              50               40
Stopping sight dist, (feet)               600             75               350
Horizontal Curvature (feet,mininum)   1,485            1,043               694
Passing sight dist. (feet minimum)    2,300            2,000             1,700
Bridges
Width:  Spans less than 30 feet :    Equal to Roadway Widths
Spans more than 30 feet :    24' curb to curb
Design load : H20 - S16 - U4
/ Pavement design based on a 9000 lb. wheel load equivalent.



"                               0     <                          0t~>          L' 
£r                      00 I                       [         * <r          
a                                                              C   OWC     vcgLe        gS,X        55gV =g 
a~~   ~~~  C<                          - .'a  °aa^-i   eS     
V  C  30            °    C                                      -,      
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i 13                                 11  
i_    .~~~0                     0                                       iC
S;                                            W                         F          I    ,1 CI 
,~ ~ ~ ~~~~I                                    2         -npi+W_Os           et iI2VP    
H~~~~~~~ C'                                                      H 
g~~~~ ,-                                                                               . 
O~ ~ ~ ~~~H   H                                              vL-'  H Hal   'CIJIC
4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                      !
! !
0~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~o jo                                                    i
CC                                C>   I 0c'  0                               1C
v-OC  0                            C-C                              vS toP 00C I[0
H~~~~~~~~~~    .
,-, aCqC



TANZANIA
REVISED HIGHWAY PROJECT
Traffic and Unit Savings Estimates
Estimated Generated                              Estimated
Traffic on                                  Savings per
Project                                                      Estimated ADT in 1970         Completion of         Estimated ADT on        Vehicle Mile
Road                               Estimated ADT 1967        without Improvement    Improved Facilities   Improved Facilities    (U.S. cents)
Number             Road             Heavy  ILght  Total    Heavy   Light   Total   Heavy  Light  Total   Heavy  Light  Total   Heavy  Light
1.      Chalinze-Segera             88     56    144        104       66    170         10      7    17       ll       73    187        4. °    1.5
2.      Mkumbura-Kisangiro          92     92    184        114      112    226         50     50   100       157a/  155a/  312a/   12.8    3.2
3.      Mingoyo-Masasi             134     55    189        160       65    225       124      52   176b/   284    117    4oi           8.o    1.5
4.      Uyole-Itungi Port           80     53    133         97       63    160         58     38    96       155    101    256        16.0    4.0
5.      Kolondoto-Bariadi           74     49    123         86       56    142         22     14    36       108      70    178        8.o    1.5
6.      Dar es Salaam-Kibiti        60      26     86        69       29      98        31     13    44       100      42    142       12.8    2.5
7.      Musoma-North Mara           38     37      75        44       43      87         5      4      9       49      47      96       3.5    1.0
8.      Iringa-Morogoro            228     24    252        272       30    302 c/    65       10    75       337      hO    377        6.o    1.5
a/   excluding traffic which would be diverted from road due to realignment with improvement.
b/   including traffic diverted to the road from a parallel earth track and discontinued rail line.
c/    excluding Zambian transit traffic.                                                                                                                  13
1H



TANZANIA
REVISED HIGHWAY PROJECT
Estimated Future Traffic Growth Rates
(percent per year)
Project                                                                                                                                    Economic
Road                                                                                                                                      Life in
Number                    Road                   1967/70           1970/74           1975/79           1980/8h           1985/89             Years
1.             Chalinze-Segera                     6                6                  6                 5                 5               20
2.             Mcumbura-Kisangiro                  7                6                  5                 5                 5               20
3.             Mingoyo-Masasi                      6                5/                 -                 --                                 15
.              VUy-oleItungi Port                 6                6                  6                 5                 5                20
5.             Kolondoto-Bariadi                   5                5                  5                 5                 -                15
6.             Dar es Salaam-Kibiti                4                4                  4                 4                 4                20
7.             Musoma-North Mara                   5                5                  5                 5                 -                15
8.             Iringa-Morogoro                     6                6                  6                 5                 5                20
a/   traffic projections discontinued beyond 1974 since further investment to bituminize surface will be required.



TANZANIA: REVISED HIGHWAY PROJECT
PROPOSED ORGANIZATION OF THE ROADS AND AERODROMES DIVISION
|MINISTRY OF WORKS AND COMMUNICATIONS|
PRINCIPAL SECRETARY
DIRECTOR
PLANNING UNIT                         ROADS AND AERODROMES                      |   OTHER DIVISIONS                           REGIONAL ENGINEERS
l           l                l        ~~~~~~~~~~~DIVISION                L__ _           _    _-Lll
MAINTENANCE ENGINEERS
TRANSPORTATION ECONOMIST,                                                                                                         MAINTENANCE ENGINEERS,
TRAINING                                                                                                                         TRAINING
TRAINEE COUNTERPARTS                                                                                                             TRAINEE COUNTERPARTS
ASSISTANT DIRECTOR                       MATERIALS                       ASSISTANT DIRECTOR
DEVELOPMENT                          LABORATORY                          MAINTENANCE
DESIGN ENGINEERS           RESIDENT ENGINEERS
-, - - - r { i X | ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.    .;. -...: ... ... ... 
SENIOR DESIGN             DESIGN ENGINEERS,         RESIDENT ENGINEERS,                           SENIOR MAINTENANCE
|ENGINEER, TRAINING   -             TRAINING     t            RINING         -                     .  ENGINEER, TRAINING   
TRAINEE COUNTERPARTS       TRAINEE COUNTERPARTS        TRAINEE COUNTERPARTS                          TRAINEE COUNTERPARTS
LEGEND
ROADS AND AERODROMES
DIVISION TRAINING STAFF
Mcy, 1967                                                                                                                                            (R) IBRD-3398  I



X   Z m X
(-   _   _
41~~~~~~~~~~~~~
lr~~~



