RESTRICTED
FILE     COPY                      Report No.  P-58
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED SUPPLEMENTARY DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
FOR A HIGHWAY PROJECT
February 19, 1968



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PRCPOSED SUPPLEMENTARY DEVELOPIvIENT CREDIT TO
THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA FOR A HIGHWAY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
supplementary development credit in an amount in various currencies equi-
valent to US$ 3.0 million to the United Republic of Tanzania..
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.        The Association granted a development credit of US$ b.0      -
million equivalent to the United Republic of Tanzania (Credit No. 48-TA)
in February 1964 to cover the foreign exchange cost of a highway project
which was then estimated, on the basis of preliminary engineering, to
cost a total of $18.8 million equivalent. The Closing Date of this
credit was December 31, 1967. As of that date about $ 7.4 million
remained undisbursed.
3.        This project has experienced serious delays and substantial
cost over-runs. The main reason for the delays was the shortage of per-
sonnel in the Roads and Aerodromes Division of the NEnistry of Communi-
cations, Labour and Works, due to the departure of a number of experienced
expatriates shortly after the credit was signed. In the last year the
situation has substantially improved because of increased use of consult-
ants. The cost increase was due mainly to an underestimate of the
amount of works in the preliminary engineering and to general increases
in the cost of labor, equipment and. materials.
4.        In March 1966, the Government requested that a supplementary
credit be made to cover part of the additional cost of this project. It
was also recognized that the Closing Date for the existing credit would
need to be postponed. Subsequently, the project was reappraised and a
proposed revised project agreed with the Government.
5.        The Government was invited at the end of September 1967 to
negotiate the proposed supplementary credit during October. The inten-
tion was that both the proposed supplementary credit and the proposal to
postpone the Closing Date of the existing credit would be presented. simul-
taneously in December to the Executive Directors for approval. However,
the Government wias unable to negotiate the proposed. supplementary credit
in October, and. the negotiations were held in Wlashington from December 11
to December 14, 1967. The Borrower's delegation was headed by Mr. A. E.
Mbuya, Principal Secretary of the MJinistry of Communications, Labour
and, Works, and included a representative of the Treasury and the Director
of the Roads and Aerodromes Division of the Ministry of Communications,
Labour and Works.



-2-
6.        This would be the fourth IDA credit for Tanzania.  In
November of last year the first Bank loan, to the Tanganyika Electric
Supply Company, Limited (TANESCO), was made. This proposed credit
would bring total Bank/IDA financing in Tanzania to $31.8 million.
The following is a summary statement of the IDA credits and the Bank
loan to Tanzania as of Jaruary 31, 1968:
Loan or
Credit                                              Amount (U.S. $ Million)
Niumber   Year   Borrower   Purpose                 Bank   IDA Undisbursed
45-TA     1963   Tanzania   Education                        4.6       _
48-TA     1964   Tanzania   Highways                        14.0      7.1
80-TA     1966   Tanzania   Agricultural Credit             5.0       2.5
518-TA    1967   TANESCO    Electric Power          5.2               5.2
Total now outstanding                     5.2    23.6
Amount sold:                              0.1
Total now held by Bank and IDA            5.1    23.6
Total undisbursed                         5.2     9.9      15.1
7.        A livestock project has recently been appraised and applications
for lending for a second education project and for the construction of
part of the highway between Dar es Salaam and the Zambian border are under
study.
8.        In addition to the above loan and credits, the Bank has made
three loans for common services in East Africa, of which two are for
railways and harbors and. the third for telecommunications. Each one is
guaranteed jointly and severally by Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda, with the
first loan also being guaranteed by the United Kingdom. The status of
these three loans as of January 31, 1968 was as follows:



-3-
Amon   (U$ Million)
Loan No.  Year   Borrower          Purpose                Bank Undisbursed
llO-EA    1955   East African
Community *    Railways and Harbors   24.0       -
428-EA    1965   East African
Community *    Railways and Harbors   38.0     16.8
483-EA    1967   East African Posts
and Telecomrainica-
tions Corp.*   Telecommunications     13.0     10.1
Total                                           75.0
of wihich has been repaid to Bank and others 12.5
Total now outstanding                           62.5
Amount sold:                            23.8
of which has been repaid            12.4    11.4
Total now held by Bank                          51.1
Total undisbursed                                        26.9
9.        Although disbursements on the 1965 loan for railways and harbors
(No. 428-EA) have been rather slow so far, most of the loan amount is
commiitted and the loan is expected to be fully disbursed by eid-1969 as
originally planned. A third railways and harbors project is being pre-
pared for presentation to the Bank.
10.       IFC made two investments in 1960 and 1964 in the Kilombero Sugar
Company, amounting to $ 4.0 million in loans and $ 0.7 million in shares.
As of January 31, 1968 $ 0.4 million of the loans was undisbursed.
PAIRT II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED CREDIT
11.       Borrower:        United Republic of Tanzania
Amount:          Various currencies equivalent to $ 3.0 million
Purpose:         To help finance, together with Credit 48-TA,
(a) the detailed engineering and construction
of approximately 533 miles of main roads,
(b) the detailed engineering of approximately
352 miles of additional main and feeder roads,
and (c) a staffing and training program in the
Ministry of Coimmunications, Labour and Works.
* Successors to the East African Common Services Authority.



- h -
Amortization:    In semi-annual installments beginning February 1,
1978 and ending August 1, 2017.
Service Charge:  3/4 of 1% per annum.
PART III - THE PROJECT
12.      - An appraisal report entitled "Appraisal of a Revised Highway
Project - Tanzania" (To 600a dated January 18, 1968) is attached.
13.     - The original project, for which the existing highway credit
(No. 48-TA) was made, consisted of the detailed engineering and construc-
tion of eight major roads, totalling 734 miles. The proposed revised
project, which both the existing credit and this proposed supplementary
credit would help to finance, consists of: (1) the detailed engineering
and construction of six of the original eight roads, totalling 533 miles;
(2) the detailed engineering of a 1L2 mile section of the main road to
the Zambia border from Dar es Salaam; (3) the detailed engineering of
feeder roads totalling about 210 miles in the Geita Peninsula area; and
(4) a staffing and training program in the Road,s and Aerodromes Division
of the Ministry of Communications, Labour and VIorks.
14.       The economic justification of the eight roads included in the
original project was reviewed during the reapprai-sal of the project.  The
construction of the section of the Dar es Salaam-Zambia border road was
not included in this project, but it is under active consideration as a
separate Bank/IDA project. The engineering and construction of another
of the original roads was dropped as traffic had not grown as originally
expected; no work had started on this road. The justification for the
other six roads remains satisfactory, the overall economic return being
about 11 percent.
15.       The detailed engineering of the Geita Peninsula. roads has been-
included in the proposed revised project to assist the Government in pre-
paring a feeder road construction project. The Bank's 1966 economic
mission to Tanzania stressed the importance of developing the country's
feeder road network and specifically identified the Geita Peninsula area
as one where further feeder road development was called for.
16.       The Roads and Aerodromes Division of the Ministry of Communica-
tions, Labour and TAbrks has overall responsibility for the execution of
the project, though much of the detailed engineering and supervision of
construction is being carried out by consultants. The inclusion of the
staffing -and training program in the proposed revised project will further
strengthen the Division as well as help to ensure the maintenance of high
standards as non-nationals are replaced by Tanzanians.
17.       The proposed revised project's estimated total cost, including
an 8% allowance for contingencies, is $22.8 million equivalent, an increase
of $ h.0 million over the originally estimated total cost. As the con-
struction costs, amounting to about 85% of the total, are now based on-



- 5 -
completed detai'led engineering, they are considered reliable. The pro-
posed supplementary credit of $ 3.0 million is equivalent to 75% of the
additional costs. Though the foreign exchange compor.ent of the additional
cost is estimated to be about 65%, it is proposed to maintain the samie
percentage contribution (75%) as was provided in the original credit.
18.       About 85% in value of the construction works in the proposed
revised project is already underway and, on an overall basis, was about
50% complete in November 1967.  However, the construction of one road,
totalling 100 miles, has not yet begun, as the Goverrnment has been delay-
ing going out to tender until supplementary financing is assured. Sim-
ilarly, the start of the staffing and training program is dependent on
the availability of supplementary financing.
19.       The Closing Date of the proposed supplementary credit would be
December 31, 1971. The disbursement procedure agreed with the Tanzanians
allows for no withdrawals from the proposed supplementary credit with
respect to construction or engineering services until the existing credit
is fully disbursed; this would not apply, however, in the case of dis-
bursements on the training program which would begin soon after the new
credit is declared effective.
20.       While arrangements for carrying out and supervising the work
financed out of the US$ '4 million credit of February 1964 (No. 48-TA)
have been improved substantially, it has been impossible to meet the
original constructicn schedule. I am accordingly proposing to postpone
the Closing Date of this credit to June 30, 1969.
PART IV - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
21.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the United
Republic of Tanzania and the Association and the Recommendation of the
Commituee provided for in Article V, Secuion l(d) of the Articles of
Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
22.       Apart from the provisions concerning the modification of the
development credit agreement for Credit No. h8-TA, the draft Development
Credit Agreement conforms generally to other agreements entered into by
the Association for highway projects.
PART V - THE ECONOMY
23.       A report entitled "Prospects for Economic Development in
Tanzania (No. AF-58b) was distributed to the Execsutive Directors on
September 13, 1967 (R 67-148). The principal findings of this report
and subsequent developments were reviewed in the President's Report and
Recommendation to the Executive Directors in connection with a loan to
Tanzania for a power project (518-TA). Recent events which might signi-
ficantly affect Tanzania's future development are summarized below.



-6-
2b.       On December 1, 1967 the new East African Community was formally
inaugurated. The Treaty for East African Cooperation w'hich is the basis
of the Community provides for a reorganization of some of the existing
Common Services, and for the establishment of new institutions. The East
African Development Bank could potentially be the most important of those
institutions, since it is expected not only to play a major role in financ-
ing and stimrilating investment in manufacturing but also in redressing
past imbalance in this field arong the three countries, by allocating a
higher proportion of investment capital to Tanzania and Uganda, relative
to Kenya. The East African Development Bank will finance, wherever possible,
projects designed to make the economies of the three East African countries
increasingly complemantary in the industrial field. This objective would
be further strengthened by the establishment, within the Community, of
the Economic Consultative and Planning Council which will assist national
planning in the three countries by consultative means.
25.       The East African Community has evoked widespread interest in
different parts of the world, both because of the statesmanship reflected
in its establishment by three sovereign nations, and the highly pragmatic
approach revealed. in its administrative and institutional arrangements.
An example of the prompt response by some of the neighboring countries is
the decision of Zambia and Ethiopia to apply for maribership of the Com-
munity, and the distinct possibiLity that Somalia will follow suit.
26.       On the domestic scene, there is growing evidence that some of
the unccrtainty which characterised the situation in the period immediately
following the nationalization measures in early 1967 is being overcome.
Negotiations on compensation payments have proceeded satisfactorily in
most cases, and settlements have already been reached on the majority of
claims.  The Government has issued a clear and detailed statement indicat-
ing areas and specific types of enterprise which are open to private
investors, either exclusively or, if they prefer, in association with the
governmenat-owned National Development Corporation.
27.       Tanzania's recent economic performance has been satisfactory.
In recent years, the gross domestic product has grown at an average annual
rate of about 6 percent, rising to 8.8 percent in 1966. Although agricul-
ture continues to be the dominant sector in the economy, the steadily
rising contribution of the other sectors - notably manufacturing - has
brought about some diversification in output. Concerning Tanzania's
economic performance in 1967, only preliminary comments can be made,
since complete economic data are not yet available. As a result of inade-
quate rainfall in the latter part of 1966 and also the late arrival of the
'ong rains -in 1967, output of some of the leading commodities is likely
to be lower, and hence the rather spectacular growth of GDP which took
place in 1966 is not likely to be repeated in 1967. Encouraging progress
is, however, being made in the output of other crops and, with a steady
improvement in infrastructure, marketed output is expected to be higher.
7he contribution of the manufacturing sector increased by about 16 percent
in 1966 and is likely to be fairly high also in 1967.  Taking these fac-
tors into accouwt, it is expected that GDP in 1967 may increase by about
five to six percent.



28.       In recent years, Tanzania has been successful in increasing the
rate of investment (from around 11 percent of GDP in 1961-63 to about 16
percent in 1966), and in financing a growing proportion of this investment
from domestic savings.  Public sector savings have continued to grow, as
a result of increases in government revenue and a strict avoidance of
unproductive expenditure.  These savings are projected to grow further
in the 1967-71 period. However, given the rise in government investment
which now seems feasible and desirable in the next few years, it seems
likely that, even after taking account of the estimated increases, domestic
savings would be sufficient to finance only about one-half of the total
investment program. Moreover, only 70 percent of the total program is
likely to be eligible for external financing. Thus, if the total program
is to be financed,external assistance would need to cover, on an average,
about 70-75 percent of the total cost of projects eligible for external
financing.
29.       Tanzania's total external debt (including a notional one-third
share of debt on account of the Common Services) stood at $257.8 million
on June 30, 1967. The ratio of debt service payments to estimated foreign
exchange earnings in 1966 was 4.5 percent.. Projections of debt service
payments and foreign exchange receipts indicate that, while Tanzania could
incur a. modest amount of conventional debt in addition to borrowing for
the Common Services, the major part of future borrowings by Tanzania should
be on concessional terms.
PART VI - COMPLIANCE WITEI THE ARTICLES OF AGREENENT
30.       I am satisfied that the proposed development credit would comply
wTith the Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VII - RECONMENATION
31.       I recommend that the Executive Directors adopt the following
resolution:



- 8 -
RESOLUTION NO.
Approval of Development Credit to the United Republic of Tanzania
in an amount equivalent to U.S. $3,000,000.
RESOLVED:
THAT the Association shall grant a development credit to
the United Republic of Tanzania in an amount in various currencies
equivalent to three million United States dollars (U.S. $3,000,000)
to mature on and prior to August 1, 2017, to bear a service
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3A. of 1%)
per annum, and to be upon such other terms and conditions as
shall be substantially in accordance with the terms and con-
ditions set forth -in the form of Development Credit Agreement
(Highway Project - Supplementary) between the United Republic
of Tanzania and the Association, which has been presented to
this meeting.
George D. Woods
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
February 19, 1968



