Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 19086-BO
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 64.7 MILLION
(US$88.0 million equivalent)
TO
BOLIVIA
FOR THE
ABAPO - CAMIRI HIGHWAY PROJECT
APRIL 28, 1999
Finance, Private Sector, and Infrastructure
Country Management Unit - LCC6C
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit           Bolivianos ($Bs.)
LC $Bs. 1               US$ 0.18
US$ I                   LC $Bs. 5.72 (Exchange Rate April 28, 1999)
SDR 1                   US$ 1.36202 (Exchange Rate Feb. 28, 1999)
BORROWER'S FISCAL YEAR: January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AADT        Average Annual Daily Traffic
ACA-HP    Abap6 - Camiri Highway Project
ADL         Administrative Decentralization Law
CABI        Captainship of Upper and Lower Izozog County (Capitania de Alto y Bajo Izozog)
CAF         Andean Development Corporation (Corporaci6n Andina de Fomento)
CAS         Country Assistance Strategy
CIDOB       Federation of Indigenous Peoples of Bolivia
(Confederaci6n Nacional de Pueblos Indigenas de Bolivia)
ECP         Export Corridors Project
EIA         Environment Impact Assessment
EMP         Environmental Management Plan
ENFE        Bolivian National Railway (Empresa Nacional de Ferrocarriles del Estado)
ERR         Economic Rate of Return
FONPLATA Financial Fund for the Development of the River Plate Basin
(Fondo Financiero para la Cuenca del Plata)
GOB         Government of Bolivia
HDM         Highway Design and Maintenance Standard Model
HIMP        Highway Investment and Maintenance Program
HIPC        Heavily Indebted Poor Countries
IBRD        International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (World Bank)
ICB         International Competitive Bidding
ICR         Implementation Completion Report
IDA         International Development Association (the Association)
IDB         Inter-American Development Bank
IRI         International Roughness Index
MDE         Ministry of Economic Development (Ministerio de Desarrollo Econ6mico)
NCB         National Competitive Bidding
NGO         Non Governmental Organization
PAD         Project Appraisal Document
PADI        Indigenous Peoples Development Plan
PCD         Project Concept Document
PCU         Project Coordination Unit
PID         Project Information Document
SDC         Departrnental Road Service (Servicio Departamental de Caminos)
SNC         National Road Authority (Servicio Nacional de Caminos)
SRMP        Second Road Maintenance Project
VMT         Viceministry of Transport, Communications and Civil Aeronautics
(Viceministerio de Transportes, Comunicaciones y Aeronauitica Civil)
VOC         Vehicle Operating Cost
Vice President:        Shahid Javed Burki
Country Manager/Director:         Isabel Guerrero
Sector Manager/Director:         Danny Leipziger
Task Team Leader/Task:          Jos6 Maria Alonso-Biarge



Bolivia
Abap6 - Camiri Highway Project
TABLE OF CONTENTS                                                  Page No.
A. Project Development Objective .........................................................                                            2
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators ................                                            2
B.  Strategic Context ..............................................................                                                  2
1. Sector-related CAS  goal supported by the project ................................                                       2
2. Main  sector issues and Government strategy ......................................                                       3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices .............                                         5
C. Project Description Summary ............................................................                                           5
1. Project components ...............................................................-                                      6
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project ..................                                          8
3. Benefits and target population .......................................................                                    8
4. Institutional and  implementation arrangements ...................................                                        8
D. Project Rationale ..............................................................                                                    10
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection .........................                                      10
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies  11
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design ........................                                         12
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership ..............................    14
5. Value added of Bank support in this project ........................................                                      14
E. Summary Project Analyses ..............................................................                                            15
1. Economic ..............................................................                                                   15
2. Financial ..............................................................                                                  15
3. Technical ..............................................................                                                  15
4. Institutional ..............................................................                                              16
5.  Social ..............................................................                                                    16
6. Environmental assessment .............................................................                                    17
7. Participatory  approach ..............................................................                                    18
F. Sustainability and Risks ..............................................................                                            18
1. Sustainability ..............................................................                                            18
2. Critical risks ..............................................................                                            20
3. Possible controversial aspects .........................................................                                 21
G. Main Loan Conditions ..............................................................                                                22
1. Effectiveness conditions ..............................................................                                  22
2. Other ..............................................................                                                      22
H. Readiness for Implementation .............................................................    23
I. Compliance with Bank Policies .............................................................    23



Annexes
Page No.
Annex 1.    Project Design Summary ...................................................                                  24
Annex 2.    Detailed Project Description ...................................................                            28
Annex 3.    Estimated Project Costs ...................................................                                 34
Annex 4.    Cost-Benefit Analysis Summary ...............................................                               35
Annex 5.    Financial Summary ...................................................                                       43
Annex 6.    Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements ..............................                                    44
Table A.          Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements ............................                            47
Table Al. Consultant Selection Arrangements    .                                       .48
Table B.   Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review ................                                     49
Table C.         Allocation of Loan Proceeds .................................................                      50
Annex 7.    Financial Management Assessment Summary ...............................                                     51
Annex 8.    Environmental and Social Assessment ........................................                                53
Annex 9.    Project Implementation Schedule ..............................................                              60
Annex 10. Project Performance Monitoring Indicators .61
Annex 11. Project Processing Budget and Schedule .66
Annex 12. Documents in Project File .67
Annex 13. Statement of Loans and Credits .69
Annex 14. Country at a Glance .71
Maps No. IBRD 30220 and IBRD 30221



Bolivia
Abap6 - Camiri Highway Project
Project Appraisal Document
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
Country Management Unit - LCC6C
Date: April 28, 1999                               Task Team Leader/Task Manager: Jose Ma. Alonso-Biarge
Country Manager/Director: Isabel Guerrero          Sector Manager/Director: Daniel Leipziger
Project ID: BO-PE-55230  Sector: Transportation    Program Objective Category: Economic Management
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan       Program of Targeted Intervention:   [   Yes  [X] No
Project Financing Data               [  Loan      [X] Credit      [] Guarantee      [] Other [Specify]
Amount (US$m/SDRm): US$ 88.0 million equ./SDR 64.7 million
Proposed terms:                       [X] Multicurrency      []  Single currency, specify
Grace period (years): 10         []   Standard Variable  []  Fixed          [    LIBOR-based
Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee Standard'
Service charge: 0.75%
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                             Local             Foreign          Total
Government                                                 28.0                4.0             32.0
Cofinanciers
IBRD
IDA                                                        36.4               51.6             88.0
Other (specify)                                             0.0                0.0              0.0
Total         64.4               55.6            120.0
Borrower: Government of Bolivia
Guarantor:
Responsible agency: Servicio Nacional de Caminos - SNC (National Road Authority)
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):    2000      2001       2002      2003      2004
Annual    16.8       25.4       26.1      13.0       6.7
Cumulative    16.8       42.2       68.3     81.3      88.0
Project implementation period: 10/01/1999 - 06/31/2003
Expected effectiveness date:  10/01/1999
Expected closing date:     06/30/2004
I A variable rate between 0% and 0.5% of the undisbursed credit balance set annually by the Executive Directors of IDA.
OSD PAD Form: July 30, 1997



Page 2
A: Project Development Objectives
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators (see Annexes land 10):
The overall purpose of the project is to improve transport conditions along a strategic north-south corridor
linking the Bolivian departments of Beni, Santa Cruz, Chuquisaca, and Tarija and continuing to Argentina
and Paraguay. By rehabilitating and improving the Abap6-Camiri section of the Trinidad-Yacuiba Highway,
the Project aims to:
(a) lower transport costs;
(b) foster the economic development of the Project Area;
(c) improve the income level of the indigenous peoples in the Project Area; and
(d) establish economic transport links between the Borrower's territories and neighboring countries.
The project also aims to introduce comprehensive maintenance by contract of part of the national road
network with two purposes: (i) to ensure that the remaining corridor and the roads feeding into it will be in
good condition when the project is completed; and (ii) to extend the program to the entire national network,
if it proves successful, so contributing to solve the road maintenance problems caused by the
decentralization-recentralization process, still underway.
Key indicators of the project's performance will be: (i) year-round good condition for all sections of the
corridor and connected roads feeding into it; (ii) traffic volumes in the corridor increased by 80%; (iii)
vehicle operating costs in the corridor reduced by 50%; (iv) transportation costs in the corridor reduced by
20%; (v) average travel time between Abap6 and Camiri reduced by 3 hours; and (vi) maintenance by
contract extended to the whole national network and installed capacity in SNC to implement concessions.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project
(see Annex 1): CAS document number: 17890B0   Date of CAS Discussion: June 16, 1998
•  The project is consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy discussed by the Board on June 6, 1998.
This document was formulated within a participatory framework both internally in the IDA and with the
GOB, which has identified three priority focuses for the IDA's support: (i) opportunity; (ii) equity, and
(iii) institutionality. Within each area, top three strategies to be pursued have been defined. The
proposed project responds to the highest strategic priority in the area of opportunity. Within this
framework, the project would create opportunities by improving the physical and productive
infrastructure, particularly the Bolivian national road network, and ensuring adequate road maintenance
planning, financing and execution.
*  The project contributes to the objective of developing regions of high agricultural potential by facilitating
their access to the international markets. The project addresses those areas highlighted in the CAS for
special attention.
*  The poor condition of the Abap6-Camiri section is a major remaining constraint to achieving the
integration of Bolivia into the regional economic bloc (Mercosur) through the completion of the
Trinidad-Yacuiba export corridor to Argentina and, in the future, Paraguay. When completed, together
with the West-East Corridor between the borders of Chile and Brazil, this corridor would link the



Page 3
agricultural regions of Beni and Cochabamba with Santa Cruz and all of them with export markets in
Argentina, Brazil and Paraguay. This would facilitate the diversification of agricultural production to non-
traditional cash crops for export in order to meet the commitment to eradicate coca production. The Santa
Cruz-Abap6 and Camiri-Yacuiba sections of the corridor have already been completed; the Santa Cruz-
Trinidad (Beni) section is under construction, and the construction of the complementary road from
Boyuibe to Hito Villaz6n, that connects with Paraguay, is expected to be financed by FONPLATA. The
CAS includes, in the transport program, the construction of the San Jose-Puerto Suarez section of the Santa
Cruz-Corumba (Brazil) highway to complete the West-East corridor. These two operations will assist the
GOB in the timely completion of Bolivia's highest priority export corridors. The proposed investment has
been defined in close coordination with the Government, IDB, CAF, FONPLATA and other international
donors active in this sector.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Road Sector Issues: As a landlocked country with rugged topography, Bolivia sorely needs a well
functioning transport system to sustain its economic development. Distances between cities are long; rural
areas are thinly populated and lack access to markets due to high transport costs; mountains and rivers act as
barriers; and access to seaports is limited and costly. In the past nine years, the Bolivian transport sector has
witnessed important changes that have brought about, with IDA's support, reductions in the transport costs
for externally traded goods and commerce in particular in the western part of the country, where for the first
time a paved road has been constructed connecting Bolivia with the port of Arica in Chile. The main sector
issues are:
*  The geography of Bolivia, which spans from peaks of 6,500 meters in the highlands of the Andes to 200
meters in the lowlands of the Amazon basin. As a consequence, Bolivia has to maintain all- weather
roads and spend more to sustain the road transport sector, compared to other countries.
* Road maintenance management and financing. Traditionally, external financing to SNC has been
mainly allocated for new construction and major rehabilitation programs. The implementation of the
Second Road Maintenance Project (SRMP), financed by IDA, marked a change in emphasis of activity
of SNC, with a greater focus on maintenance. Maintenance and equipment management systems,
designed and implemented under the Export Corridors Project, were extended to the old SNC's districts
and allocations for maintenance and the national budget substantially increased, following the
requirements of the project covenants. Unfortunately, this process was interrupted by the administrative
decentralization of SNC and the entire network carried out in 1995.
The new government, which took office in August 1997, immediately recognized the weaknesses of the
institutional framework. It passed Law 1788 on September 16, 1997 to restore responsibility for the
national road network to SNC. In essence, it aimed to recentralize the national network and rebuild
SNC. Under this framework, the decentralized Servicios Departamentales de Caminos (SDCs) are to
keep responsibility for the secondary networks in their respective departments and the municipalities for
the rural roads. The human resources, equipment, most of the financial resources and materials
transferred to the departments under the decentralization will remain with the departments. The
proposed framework, according to Supreme Decree No. 25134, was officially approved by the Cabinet at
the end of August 1998. This establishes: (a) the National Road Network with approximately 10,000
km distributed among 11 routes; (b) a Road Maintenance Account and, (c) that the resources SNC needs
to take over the responsibility of the national network should come from tolls and funds from the
National Treasury. The government has decided that all maintenance works will be done by contract
except for emergency works, but major tasks required to execute routine maintenance by contract are not
yet ready. The GOB, based on the approved Supreme Decree, has already started to prepare the
reorganization of SNC, which is expected to be completed by the end of 1999.



Page 4
The government's intentions aim in the right direction, and SNC shows adequate capacity and
motivation to take control of the national network. SNC is taking over responsibility for planning,
coordination, and supervision of the national road network, so that a consistent approach can be followed
in the overall development of the system. Responsibility for the secondary network and rural roads is to
be left with the Prefecturas and Municipalities. SNC will be responsible for implementing projects with
the international agencies financing the national network and establishing national priorities in close
coordination with the Ministry of Finance. Maintenance of the national network is to be carried out by
contract. However, until now, there is no experience in Bolivia of maintenance by contract. Hence the
importance of including a comprehensive maintenance by contract program as a component of this
project. Concerning the secondary network, a study, financed under the SRMP, is evaluating the
situation under the new administrative framework. The study is expected to be completed by June 1999.
Although road users pay substantial amounts of user charges and taxes, the system of reallocating them
through the budgetary process has left substantial funding gaps. Ensuring an adequate flow of funds to
the road sector is one priority that has also been addressed in the new Supreme Decree, by establishing a
Road Maintenance Account (Cuenta de Conservacion Vial) to be funded mainly with resources from
road tolls and, if necessary, complemented with National Treasury funds. Of the total tolls collected
nationally and managed by SNC, 70% will be allocated to the main road network and 30% to the
secondary network.
Attention is also being given to the possible participation of the private sector in maintenance,
rehabilitation and construction of roads. In Bolivia, given the current levels of traffic (which even if they
justify an investment on economic grounds may not be enough to make it bankable exclusively on the
basis of tolls), it is difficult to envision a wide participation of the private sector in the construction or
rehabilitation of roads. Nevertheless, the country should move in the direction of exploring ways to
reduce the costs of maintaining the roads and doing it in an effective manner. For this purpose, the
participation of the private sector will be explored in an incremental manner, beginning with a
maintenance by contract program financed by the project and possibly expanding to concessions for
maintenance and rehabilitation. Concessions for construction (or BOT projects) could also be explored
for specific links on the basis of public-private partnerships. The IDB is financing a study on the
prospects and framework for road concessions. The proposed project would provide technical assistance
to carry out the feasibility study on the Santa Cruz - Puerto Suarez concession initiative. Furthermore,
the law that establishes the legal framework for concessions of transport public works (Ley de
Concesiones de Obras Puiblicas de Transporte) was approved by the Congress on June 1998. The
bylaws of this law have been drafted and are expected to be approved in early 1999.
*  The location of the existing road infrastructure, which, to a large extent, has been built in the
western part of the country because, in the past, Bolivia mainly relied on mineral exports and the
corresponding transport network was developed to support this sector. The highlands, where the mines
and much of the population are located, have one-sixth of the land area, but contain over one-third of the
total transport infrastructure. With a decline in the dominance of the mining industry, future economic
prospects require that the development emphasis shift to agricultural regions and growing of non-
traditional export crops. Therefore, the eastern part of the country is expected to have most of the
economic growth and future development. This would require the development of a road network,
particularly in the valleys and the lowlands to link the rural agricultural communities with the main
export centers.
While the above issues need to be addressed by furthering the process of reforms, the prospects for improved
sustainability of the institutional capacity are good and the government is already aware of the risks involved
in the more contentious aspects of the decentralization of road management. As noted above, the
government has already taken actions to recentralize the national network and improve the road maintenance
system with the support of the on-going SRMP.



Page 5
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategy:
The project would assist the Government in defining and implementing the agreed transport-sector strategy.
It will contribute to: (i) support export corridors development; (ii) improve the interconnection between
cities and the integration of inter-regional trade and commerce; (iii) provide access to markets for regions
with high agricultural potential; and, (iv) through the program on road maintenance by contract and technical
assistance for a road concession program, provide an instrument to ensure adequate maintenance practices
and financing in the national network and increase the participation of the private sector.
C: Project Description Summary
The Santa Cruz-Yacuiba road is part of the Trinidad-Yacuiba "integration corridor" (so called by the
Bolivian Government) which is about 1,084 km long to the border of Argentina and provides an outlet to
Rosario, a port on the Parana River reached by ocean-going ships. The corridor has 8 sections. Two are
under construction and financed with CAF funds (Casarabe - San Pablo and San Pablo - Yotau). Five other
sections are already paved and in service (Trinidad - Casarabe; Yotaii - San Ram6n - Pail6n; Pail6n - Santa
Cruz; Santa Cruz - Abap6; and Camiri - Yacuiba. The Abap6-Camiri section is the missing link. This
corridor also provides access to the regions between Santa Cruz and Cochabamba served by the East-West
export corridor (between the borders of Brazil and Chile). Among those regions is the Chapare, where the
coca plant is grown and is being replaced by alternative crops, for which the natural market is Argentina.
The proposed IDA credit would finance the reconstruction and paving of the Abap6-Camiri highway, which
is 152 km long following Route 9, including the 7.3 km by-pass to avoid going through the town of Camiri.
The project consists of reconstruction and paving of the existing road, which is now in poor condition, and
construction of a new bridge over the Rio Grande of about 420 m. The road is currently a gravel road with
good geometric characteristics. However, it needs minor re-alignments and by-passes to avoid crossing
small villages, resettlement and safety problems. The road would be strengthened to fully accommodate
growth in export traffic. Realignments and reconstruction works would meet the geometric and structural
standards established for national roads in Bolivia, under which the Santa Cruz-Abap6 and Camiri-Yacuiba
sections were reconstructed. Land acquisition and people relocation will be financed by the Government
under a plan satisfactory to IDA. The engineering studies are already completed for Abap6-Camiri highway
and the access road to El Espino.
The project would also include a program of comprehensive maintenance by contract for the period 1999-
2003. The objective of this program is to ensure that the remaining corridor and the roads complementing it,
will be in good condition when the project is completed. The project would also provide technical assistance
to strengthen SNC's and VMT's institutional capacity, to study the feasibility of a Santa Cruz - Puerto
Suarez highway concession initiative, support the Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) and training activities;
and strengthen SNC's Environmental Unit.
The credit would provide US$88.0 million equivalent to finance the project, divided among the following
components:



Page 6
1. Project components (see Annex 2for a detailed description and Annex 3for a detailed cost breakdown):
Component                 Category  Cost Including    % of       Bank-       % of
Contingencies    Total   financing    IDA-
(US$M)                  (US$M)   financing
A. Abap6-Camiri Highway:               Physical       97.3        81.0%       77.8       80%
Reconstruction and paving of the Abap6
- Camiri highway of 152 km. A two-lane
road, 7.3 m wide with two shoulders 1.5
to 2.0 m each (depending on terrain
characteristics), fully paved and re-
aligned. The indicative cost includes:
*  Direct costs,
*  physical and price contingencies, and
*  supervision.
The changes in alignments will allow a
speed of 80 km/h in the hilly terrain and
100 km/h in the planes. The estimated
time for construction is 36 months. The
proposed credit would finance 80% of the
total cost for civil works and 80% of
supervision.
The road will be split in the following
segments:
(a) New bridge (420 m) over the Rio                    4.9         4.0%        3.9        80%
Grande in Abap6 incl accesses (0.44 kin)
(b) Abap6-lpita (63.5 kmn)                            40.3        33.6%       32.3        80%
(c) IpitA-Ipati (49 km) including the by-             30.1        25.0%       24.0        80%
pass of Gutierrez
(d) Ipati-Camiri (30.7 km)                            16.6         13.8%      13.3        80%
(e) By-pass of Camiri (7.3 km).                        5.4         4.5%        4.3        80%
Construction and paving of a 7.3 km
bypass to avoid going through the town of
Camiri.
B. Access Road to El Espino (38 km):   Physical        8.5         7.0%        6.8        80%
Reconstruction and paving of an existing
dirt road that runs parallel to the rail track
to Charagua, a two-lane road, 6.0 m wide
with two shoulders 0.5 m each, to provide
access to the corridor for the indigenous
communities.
The indicative cost includes:
*  direct costs,
*  physical and price contingencies, and



Page 7
Component                Category  Cost Including    % of      Bank-       % of
Contingencies   Total   financing    IDA-
(US$M)                 (US$M)  financing
* supervision.
The proposed credit would finance 80%
of the total costs for civil works and 80%
of supervision.
C. Comprehensive Maintenance by      Institution     12.2        10.2%       2.9       24%
Contract:                            Building/
Physical
A program of comprehensive
maintenance by contract for the period
1999-2003. The indicative cost of this
component includes supervision and
technical auditing and encompasses about
900 km of roads in the department of
Santa Cruz. The proposed credit would
finance:
(i) 20% of civil works, and
(ii) 80% of supervision.
D. Institutional Strengthening:      Institution     2.0         1.7%        0.5       25%
Building/
Institutional strengthening of VMT and    Physical
SNC through the provision of technical
assistance for:
(a) Consulting services to:
(i) carry out a feasibility study for the           0.1                    0.1        100%
San Jose - Puerto Suarez highway
concession initiative,
(ii) strengthen and operate the Project
Coordinating Unit, SNC's                        0.1                    0.1        100%
Environmental Unit, and provide
training to SNC, and
(iii) prepare technical and financial
audits
(b) Acquisition of goods                             0.1                     0.1       100%
(c) Routine maintenance program                                                        80%
0.1                    0.1
(d) Implementation of the Resettlement                                                 20%
Plan, Indigenous People Development                  0.2                     0.1
Plan, and the Community Relations Plan.                                                 0%
1.4                    0.0
The proposed credit would finance:
100% of consultants and services for (a);
80% of goods and equipment for (b); and
20% of maintenance works for (c).
Total       120.0       100%        88.0      73%



Page 8
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
Reforms to carry out maintenance of the national road network by contract will be at the top of the project's
agenda, because neglect of road maintenance can ultimately result in high costs to restore infrastructure and
in particular the proposed highway. As there is no current experience with contract maintenance, a
comprehensive program will form part of the proposed project. If it proves successful, the program will be
extended to the entire national network. This would substantially solve the road maintenance problem
caused by the decentralization-recentralization process, still underway. The Spanish Consultant Trust Fund
has financed the preparation of this program by consultants.
3. Benefits and target population:
As noted above (page 3), the project will remove constraints in transport and reduce transport costs for goods
and passengers. It will promote social and political interaction among the indigenous people and local
communities. This will enable a higher level of economic activities and stimulate education, trade, exports
and the mobility of people. By reducing travel time and improving road alignments, the proposed project
would upgrade transport communications between Santa Cruz and Yacuiba, the border with Argentina and
also with Paraguay, when the Boyuibe - Hito Villaz6n section is finished. Compared to the existing road, (i)
average travel time would be reduced by more than 3 hours between Abap6 and Camiri; and (ii) cost per
vehicle-kilometer for the vehicles using the new road would be reduced from US$0.55 to 0.19 for cars and
from US$1.59 to 0.64 for heavy trucks (see Annexes 4 and 10). The reliability, safety and quality of freight
and passenger transport services would be improved, and opportunities provided for increased education as
well as socio-political interaction among the communities along the entire corridor.
These benefits would accrue to two main groups:
First, the medium and long-distance users of the export corridor. The main beneficiaries are located in the
Chapare region of Cochabamba, the southern provinces of Beni, the entire Santa Cruz department, the
Hernando Siles and Luis Calvo provinces of Chuquisaca and the Gran Chaco province in Tarija.
Second, the beneficiaries of the access road to El Espino which are the agricultural population and local
communities of the Santa Cruz, Rositas, Oquitas, Izozog, El Espino and the Ava Guarani indigenous people
settled in the vicinity of the Abap6-Charagua-Yacuiba railway. The representatives (Capitanes Grandes) of
the Karaguazu, North Charagua and Upper and Lower Izozog ethnic groups have officially requested that
adequate access be provided, mainly to Santa Cruz, to benefit from the construction of the highway and the
access to El Espino.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The Economic Development Ministry-MDE (Ministerio de Desarrollo Econ6mico) and in particular the Vice
Ministry of Transport, has overall responsibility for the transport sector and the policy framework within
which the project will be implemented. SNC, the national road agency,will have the mandate to manage the
national road network beginning 1999 and would be responsible for the execution of the project.
During implementation of the Export Corridors Project (Credit 2012-BO) and the Second Road Maintenance
Project (Credit 2395-BO), SNC was strengthened with the development of: (a) maintenance and equipment
management information systems, (b) organizational structure that gave proper emphasis to the maintenance
function, and (c) processes that emphasize adequate consideration to planning and environmental control.
The maintenance and equipment management systems were extensively used by the district offices to report
to SNC management on maintenance execution. Furthermore, traffic counters and axle-load control
equipment were purchased. This equipment allows SNC to control the overloading of vehicles (to prevent
premature deterioration of the infrastructure), and, along with equipment that measures surface and structural
conditions, to build an information base upon which to establish investment priorities and plans.



Page 9
In August 1995, the Administrative Decentralization Law (ADL) established a new institutional framework
for the sector, mandating the transfer of road management functions to the nine Prefecturas, along with a
sizable amount of human and financial resources (including road tolls). As the number of staff was reduced,
SNC weakened and its budget was also cut. As described above, the Government has already dealt with most
of the problems caused by the ADL with the approval of the Supreme Decree that re-establishes the national
road network and clarifies SNC's role.
SNC is now being improved through the technical assistance component of the on-going SRMP project to
assist the Government in a reorganization aimed at: (i) strengthening the role of the regional and local
administration in line with the new Decree; (ii) streamlining existing departments, (iii) strengthening SNC's
capacity to deal with environmental issues; (iv) training its personnel; (v) tightening up financial and
procurement procedures; (vi) developing a plan of action to deal with the shortage of technical personnel
and further improve salary policies, financial controls, and budget mechanisms; and (vii) shift the role of the
Vice Ministry of Transport to mainly deal with policy issues. The SDCs will continue to be in charge of
maintaining the secondary network and the municipalities will be in charge of rural roads. The project will
finance a program to contract out comprehensive maintenance with the purpose of extending it to the whole
national network, if it is successful. Future financing of maintenance could be provided by the proposed road
maintenance account, which has been designed with IDA's support and supervision.
Accounting, Financial Reports, and Auditing. For the purposes of carrying out the project, a Special
Account would be opened and maintained in US Dollars at the Banco Central de Bolivia on terms and
conditions satisfactory to IDA. Deposits into the Special Account and their replenishments, up to the
Authorized Allocations set out in the Disbursement Letter, will be made initially on the basis of Applications
for Withdrawals (Form 1903) accompanied with the supporting and other documentation as specified in the
Disbursement Handbook. Once the accounting and financial management systems of the SNC are deemed
compliant with LACI requirements, and are certified as such by IDA, a migration to a Project Management
Reports PMR-based type of disbursements may be implemented as described hereafter.
Since the project is to be administered by SNC, IDA conducted a review of the accounting, controls over
disbursements and resources, planning and budgeting, as well as, the level of administrative staff. It was
determined that SNC has in place accounting and internal control systems that accord with such accounting
standards or agreed format and that reliably record and report all assets and liabilities and financial
transactions of the project and the entity, including those transactions involving the use of Bank funds; and
provide sufficient financial information for managing and monitoring project activities.
Migration to LACI. During negotiations, it was agreed that within a year from the date of effectiveness SNC
would complete their action plan for the strengthening of its financial management system in order to enable
it to prepare quarterly Project Management Reports (PMRs) which they cannot do at present. Each of these
reports would: (i) show actual sources and applications of funds for the project, both cumulatively and for the
period, and projected sources and applications of funds for the project for the following six months; (ii) list
separately expenditures financed out of the credit during the period covered by the report and expenditures
proposed to be financed during the following six months; (iii) describe physical progress in project
implementation, both cumulatively and for the period covered, and explain variances between the actual and
previously forecast implementation targets; and (iv) set forth the status of procurement under the project and
expenditures under contracts financed from the credit, for the period covered.
Audit Arrangements. An independent external auditing firm, satisfactory to IDA, would be hired to carry
out annual audits of the project and the entity. IDA's Financial Accounting, Reporting and Auditing
Handbook (FARAH), published in January 1995, would be used by external auditors, in accordance with
existing IDA procedures. Audit reports would be presented to IDA no later than six months after the closing
date of the previous fiscal year. It was agreed during negotiations that the financial audit will be contracted
for the total estimated period of project implementation and that the procurement process for the audit will
start as soon as the credit is effective.



Page 10
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection: The only alternative that could be considered is
the railway (ENFE - Empresa Nacional de Ferrocarriles) that goes from Abap6 to Yacuiba passing through
Charagua, which was capitalized through private sector participation in 1996 with the support of the Export
Corridors Project. With this capitalization, the GOB did not sell the company's assets but instead
contributed to the formation of a corporation with a 50% participation of a private partner, an amount which
stays in the company, thus increasing its value. While the track and infrastructure have remained in the
hands of the GOB, their maintenance and improvement have been carried out by the capitalized company. In
order to use the railway effectively, it is necessary to have a complementary road transport system in place to
bring produce from the farm to the railway's loading points. Taking advantage of its monopoly power on
many routes, ENFE keeps its tariffs high, causing non-traditional agricultural exports to be less competitive.
Moreover, under the current structure, investments in the railway's maintenance, modernization and
expansion are dependent on the GOB's decisions and the willingness of the private partners to advance
capital. The GOB has continued to provide funds to meet ENFE's recurring resource gap, as its
performance contracts with the Government have not yet worked well. The company needs additional
incentives and financial resources to operate effectively. Given this scenario, the railway can not be
considered a viable alternative.
Concerning the proposed project, two alternative routes were considered: The first alternative was to
upgrade the original road and, additionally, build and pave the existing access road to El Espino. The second
alternative assumed that the proposed road would not follow the original route and would include a diversion
through El Espino - IpitA. This alternative would increase the total length of the main road by 10 km,
significantly affecting the project economics, as proved by the economic analysis carried out. Furthermore,
this alternative posed some serious environmental and social concerns. The preparation mission in February
1998 suggested to the Government that it carefully internalized the cost of such concerns into the analysis.
The resulting analysis showed that the cost of the diversion through El Espino would be high and its socio-
environmental impacts would be adverse. Under these circumstances, the project would have had to be
environmentally rated "Category A", which would have translated into additional cost and time to prepare.
The cost difference between both alternatives may well finance the access road to El Espino, while protecting
the benefits to the medium -and long- distance traffic. Taking into account these factors, the Minister of
Economic Development sent a letter to the Bank, on February 27, 1998 expressing the interest of the GoB in
following the first alternative. During the June 1998 preparation mission a meeting with the national,
departmental and local authorities was held and the outcome of the meeting was a consensus of choosing the
first alternative, under the following conditions: (i) that the access road to El Espino should be financed with
IDA funds under the proposed project; and (ii) it should be reconstructed at the same time as the Abap6-
Camiri highway.



Page 11
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing
and planned):
Sector Issue                     Project                Latest Supervision (Form 590)
Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation   Development
Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Bank-financed
Overall terms project objectives.  Bolivia Export Corridors Project (Cr.  S           S
The physical implementation.    2012-BO). Closed June 30, 1996
Institutional capacity building  Second Road Maintenance Project     S                S
(Cr. 2395-BO). Closing date:
June 30, 2000 (two extensions with a
total of 24 months).
Other development agencies
IDB - Interamerican          *  Cotapata - Santa Barbara; 49.1       S                S
Development Bank Road            Km under construction; expected
Construction                     to finish in June 2000
*  Rio Seco - Desaguadero; 95.3         S               S
Km under construction; expected
to finish in Dec. 99
Technical Assistance - Studies    .  Ventilla - Tarapaya, 60 km;     S                S
studies completed Dec. 98.
Negotiated February 99. Board
approval scheduled by May 99.
*  Pail6n- San Jose; 219 Km,          N.A.             N.A.
studies expected to finish in
April 99.
*  Study on prospects and
framework for road concessions,
in the bidding process; finished
in Dec. 98.
CAF - Andean Development     *  Padcaya - Campanario; 25 Km         N.A.            N.A.
Corporation                      under construction; extended to
Road Construction                La Mamora; 23 Km, expected to
finish in Jan. 2000.
*  La Mamora - Emborozu; 20 Km
under construction; expected to
finish in April 2000.
*  San Pablo - Casarabe; 88 Km
under construction; expected to
finish in Sep. 99
.  Yotau - Ascenci6n de Guarayos;
48 Km under construction;
expected to finish in Oct. 99.



Page 12
Sector Issue                    Project                Latest Supervision (Form 590)
Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation   Development
Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
•  Ascenci6n de Guarayos - San
Pablo; 113.5 Km, under
construction; expected to finish
in Sep. 99.
*  Yamparaez - Tarabuco; 35 Kin;
under construction, expected to
finish Apr. 2000.
.  Potosi - Cuchu Ingenio; 37 Km;
under construction, expected to
finish Apr. 2000.
*  Sunchu Tambo - Puente
Sacramento, 17 Km; under
construction, expected to finish
Nov. 99.
*  Challapata - Ventilla 93 Km; to
begin construction.
FONPLATA                     *  Abap6 - Camiri; 152 Km,             S               S
Technical Assistance - Studies  studies finished in Jan. 99.
•  Boyuibe - Hito Villaz6n, 135
Km studies ongoing; expected to
finish in March 99.
* Cuchu Ingenio - Villaz6n, 323
Km studies ongoing; expected to
finish in Dec._99.
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Prior to the Export Corridors and Second Road Maintenance Projects, the Bank Group's operations in the
transport sector were limited to five loans/credits during FY1972 to FY1978. Three were for railways
(FY1972, FY1974 and FY1977), one for road maintenance (FY1978), and one for civil aviation (FY1977).
SNC benefited from extensive financial and technical assistance provided by the US Government since 1964
and by IDB in the 1970s. The absence of new operations between 1978 and 1986 reflected the deterioration
of the country's economic management during this period.
The Bank Group's first involvement in roads was the Highway Maintenance Project (Ln. 1567-BO) in 1978
(Bolivia was an IBRD borrower prior to 1985, when it once again became eligible for IDA, because of
economic collapse between 1980 and 1985). The Export Corridors Project (Cr. 2012-BO) was approved in
May 1989 and closed on June 30, 1996, one year after the original closing date. The Second Road
Maintenance Project was approved in May 1992 and is still under implementation.



Page 13
The ICR for the Export Corridors Project (ECP) was completed on May 15, 1997. This project was designed
to: (a) upgrade key links in the transport network, particularly on those corridors connecting Bolivia to its
two export railway routes, one to the Pacific (to the port of Arica in Chile) and another to the Atlantic (via
the river port of Puerto Quijarro on the Parana) and one export road to the Pacific (La Paz-Patacamaya-
Tambo Quemado-Arica and its connection with Oruro and Cochabamba, the West-East corridor); and (b)
strengthen the functioning of key transport sector institutions, particularly the national railway company
(ENFE) to make it more market oriented and the national road agency (SNC) to improve road maintenance.
The credit for the Second Road Maintenance Project (SRMP) was originally due to close on June 30, 1998
but, to complete the works already awarded, a first extension (of nine months) was approved until March 31,
1999; and based on GOB's compliance with 6 conditions that will contribute to achieving the project's
objectives, a second extension of 15 months until June 30, 2000 was approved in January 1999. The project
was designed to: (i) improve road conditions in order to reduce vehicle operating costs, improve access to
markets and encourage trade development; (ii) improve the road maintenance budget process; (iii) improve
road maintenance management, planning and operations; (iv) improve investment planning; (v) assure
adequate maintenance funding and financial self-sufficiency for the national road authority (SNC); (vi)
strengthen the domestic construction industry; and (vii) transfer maintenance technology and organization to
the road regional districts of SNC.
The Export Corridors Project, with five different components in two subsectors and several implementing
agencies, did not have a substantive impact on some of its objectives except in the road subsector, in which
the El Alto-Patacamaya-Oruro highway was successfully completed on time, road maintenance and
equipment management systems were fully implemented and the assistance to the Emergency Social Fund
was successful. The project was perhaps too ambitious because of the breadth of interventions. It is
instructive that to achieve a greater impact, either the objectives of particular project components need to be
less ambitious or the number of sub-sectoral components must be reduced to allow for a sharper focus and
more specific and pragmatic interventions.
During the implementation of theses two projects, many components often suffered from continuous
reshuffling of staff. Shielding project implementation from staff changes is not a simple task, but it could be
improved by:
(a) engaging key long-term consultants that sustain the implementation pace in spite of staff or
administration changes, though this approach may be to the detriment of achieving the intended
institutional development objectives;
(b) designing projects in an incremental or stepwise fashion in such a way that each stage must be
completed within a given governmental administration;
(c) subsequent stages are contingent on the accomplishment of the specified implementation and
development indicators and benchmarks; and
(d) carrying out reforms in the civil service through which a more limited but well-remunerated human
resource base, subject to satisfactory performance, assumes the responsibility for managing
investment projects in the public sector. This lesson is particularly critical in situations where the
managerial and technical resource base of the public sector is limited.
The experience of the implementation of the Bolivian institutional reforms confirms that reform processes,
when undertaken without a clear consensus and no pre-defined strategies, rarely produces the intended
results. The application of the Administrative Decentralization Law (ADL) to the road sector during the
implementation of the SRMP lacked a clear strategy. The experience shows that it is not enough to pass
legislation, it is also necessary to internalize strategies and concepts, and to define an incremental process
which would allow change to take place in the light of the acquired practice and institutional capacities.
In the road sub-sector, the lack of a pre-defined strategy and the sheer magnitude of the tasks required the
issuance of a specific decree for the purpose of limiting the overall impact of the ADL and clarifying the new
institutional structure. However, the decree attempted to achieve a compromise totransfer some functions to



Page 14
the VMT which, in light of the capitalization of the public enterprises under its jurisdiction, was being
divested of major responsibilities. The decree also established supervisory standards which require a strong
institutional base and a clear structure of incentives. Most of them have not been implemented because of
the weak institutional base and insufficient efforts to overcome it through institutional strengthening
programs. Rushed approval of legislation and the lack of an integrated strategy to support the change, in a
country with limited institutional capacity, has led to an uncertain outcome.
Furthermore, the following issues (some of them not specifically identified in the appraisal report) have
arisen during the implementation of the SRMP: (a) enforcement capacity in the central government for
maintenance programs is inadequate; (b) commitment of central governmnent to implement a sustainable
financing mechanism for maintenance is weak; (c) the financial and execution capacity of contractors is
limited; (d) the project management and internal control capacity of the executing institution is inadequate;
(e) civil works started late and some cost overruns occurred; and (f) severe storns during rainy seasons
affected the pace of project management and implementation. The bad weather during part of project
implementation, changes in government administration (in 1993 and 1997) and continuing difficulties with
the institutional framework have contributed to delays in project implementation.
The design of the proposed project adequately internalizes the lessons learnt from these projects. The project
is basically limited to three components (road and bridge construction, comprehensive maintenance, and
institutional strengthening) and adequate technical assistance is being included to further the reform process
initiated under the previous and on-going projects to enhance sustainability. The technical assistance would
build adequate capacity to enhance execution capacity in the VMT and SNC.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
GOB's ownership of the project is confirmned by the priority given to the project in the National
Development Plan to the works already underway (to complete other sections of the corridor) and the
request for IDA support.
This project was identified by the Government as high priority in its development plan for its contribution to
poverty alleviation, regional integration and promotion of non-traditional export crops. The project has been
discussed at the highest level of the Government.
The road reconstruction works have been divided in five packages, and all of them are subject to pre-
qualification of contractors. The pre-qualification process is underway.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
IDA support to the sector is critical both for timely and responsive funding for urgent priorities and for its
technical cooperation and assistance. This response is being re-enforced by the on-going reform program
and construction of other sections of the Santa Cruz-Yacuiba road financed by other donors, particularly IDB
and CAF.
Through its sequence of loans to the transport sector, IDA has built up credibility for its integrity, strong
control of funds, and avoidance of political interference. During the conception and execution of the project,
it will contribute to ensure transparency in the bidding process and, therefore, better use of public resources.
IDA involvement is also expected to benefit the design and quality of construction of highways, and foster
improved practices in the areas of environment, land acquisition and resettlement. IDA will also bring to
bear its extensive experience in similar projects in countries with institutional and maintenance problems at
different stages of decentralization.



Page 15
The project is very costly relative to the internal resources the Government can devote to roads. IDB has
already lent a large amount of its available resources for road construction in the past years; and CAF is no
longer able to lend large amounts due to debt reduction agreements, from which Bolivia is benefiting through
the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Program, that establishes limits on the amounts the country may borrow
on commercial terms.
E: Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 12)
1. Economic (supported by Annex 4):
[X] Cost-Benefit Analysis: NPV=US$56.0 million; ERR= 19.1% []Cost Effectiveness Analysis:
[] Other
The Abap6-Camiri section and the access road to El Espino, and all roads to be rehabilitated and/or
maintained under the comprehensive road maintenance program were evaluated using the Highway Design
and Maintenance Standards Model (HDM), which simulates life cycle conditions and costs and provides
economic decision criteria for multiple road design and maintenance alternatives, based on a survey of road
characteristics, traffic, and agency and user costs.
All sections to be paved on the Abap6-Camiri highway and all sections in the comprehensive road
maintenance program yielded an economic internal rate of return (EIRR) greater than 12 percent. The
paving of the access road to El Espino is expected to yield an EIRR of 10.5 percent based on lower vehicle
operating costs but it will also generate non-quantifiable social benefits to the indigenous communities in the
area (36,000 inhabitants in 2002), whose economic base is agricultural production.
The analysis yielded a project net present value (NPV) of $56.0 million at 12 percent discount rate and an
EIRR of 19.1 percent. The highway component yields an EIRR of 19.1 percent and the road maintenance
program yields an EIRR of 19.4 percent. Around 50 percent of the benefits will accrue to low-income
groups. The economic justification is robust; agency costs would need to increase by 69 percent or user
benefits to decrease by 41 percent to yield a zero net present value. A worst case scenario of increasing
agency costs by 20 percent and decreasing user benefits by 20 percent yields an economic internal rate of
return of 13.5 percent.
2. Financial (see Annex 5):
A set of performance indicators is included (see Annex 10) to monitor adequate financing of the project
maintenance activities, as well as the Road Maintenance Account set up by the GOB to finance maintenance
of the whole main road network.
Fiscal impact:
The direct total fiscal impact of the project is a domestic financed deficit of US$32.0 million. This is to be
funded by the Borrower in the 1999 - 2003 period (calendar years, Borrower's fiscal years) as follows: 1999
- US$2.7 million; 2000 - US$6.9 million; 2001 - US$8.9 million; 2002 - US$7.8 million, and 2003 - US$5.9
million. This is a tentative schedule and may suffer changes. The counterpart funds, averaging US$6.4
million per year, are equivalent to about 2.2% of the US$286 million, which is the fiscal deficit target (3.9%
of GDP) agreed with the IMF for CY 1999.
3. Technical:
The design standards for the project roads are shown in Annex 2.  Alternative pavement types were
evaluated. Cement concrete paving would be more resistant to rainfall but considerably more expensive,



Page 16
even on the basis of life-cycle costing. The cost estimate for the major bridge assumes a post-stressed
concrete structure; bidders could be invited to submit alternative designs in accordance with IDA's standard
bidding procedures. The term "comprehensive maintenance" includes not only routine and periodic
maintenance, but also user and maintenance management services, and emergency coverage.
4. Institutional:
a. Executing Agencies: SNC, the national road agency, will be responsible for managing the Bolivian
national road network beginning 1999 and for implementing the proposed project. Law 1788 aimed to
recentralize the naticnal network, as well as SNC. The GOB started preparing for the reorganization of SNC
during 1998. The government's intentions aim in the right direction, and SNC shows adequate capacity and
motivation to take control of the national network. Under this framework, SNC will also be responsible for
executing the construction and maintenance of the main network with international financing agencies and
establishing national priorities.
b. Project Management: The Administration, which took office in August 1997, has approved new
legislation that will contribute to: (a) clarifying the institutional framework for the road administration; (b)
tailoring the application of the decentralization to the capacities and resources of each SDC; and (c)
promoting cooperation between SNC and the SDCs, to strengthen the technical, planning and administrative
capacities of both. Furthermore, the proposed road maintenance account will contribute to ensure sustainable
financing of road maintenance.
5. Social (supported by Annex 8):
The project area of influence includes the agricultural regions of the country with the best prospects for
developing crops which could replace coca as a major source of export income. The United States and other
Governments are fully supporting a program to help farms switch from growing coca to other alternative
products. By providing outlets to export markets, the project would provide incentives for the poor rural
farmers to replace coca by non-traditional export crops.  The project would also provide short-term
employment during construction and through small contracts for maintenance works once in operation.
As part of the Environmental Impact Assessment, a social impact assessment was carried out. The
assessment focused on the direct impacts on families that will need to be resettled and the potential indirect
impacts on indigenous communities in the project's area of influence. Consultations with civil society
representatives took place during the assessment process. During the consultations widespread support for
the project was found and the potential positive and negative social impacts were discussed with the
participants.  The social assessment resulted in three specific action plans aimed at avoiding and/or
mitigating possible negative impacts and enhancing access to the expected benefits of the project: (i)
resettlement plan; (ii) indigenous peoples development plan; and (iii) community relations plan.
(i) Resettlement Plan
A total of 34 families would be resettled or relocated. Based on the degree of vulnerability, affected
families would: (i) receive cash indemnification; (ii) be relocated within the same property; or (iii) be
resettled to a new location in the vicinity. Among the families to be resettled, some have small shops. In
this case, these families would also receive help to restore their economic activity. Also, there are about
92 small merchants and service providers that would not need to be resettled but their economic activities
would be affected by the highway construction. For these families special cash compensations would be
granted. SNC would be responsible for the general implementation and supervision of the resettlement
plan. Some specific activities would be decentralized to either contractors or local governments. The
resettlement plan would be launched before construction works begin and support to affected families
would continue until the affected families have been satisfactorily reestablished.



Page 17
(ii) Indigenous Peoples Development Plan
*  Izozenio indigenous communities organized in three "Capitanias"(Kaaguasu, Kami and Charagua Norte)
with a surface of about 455,000 Ha and 16,000 indigenous people live in the project's area of influence.
Lack of regular transport has been a chronic feature contributing to the communities' poverty. Currently,
indigenous communities in the area lack permanent and easy access to basic services and markets. The
indigenous people see the road to El Espino as an effective solution to their problems. However, they are
aware of the potential negative impacts the road may have in terms of opening their lands to colonization
as well as the weakening of their social organization and culture. During the project preparation, several
meetings were held with indigenous leaders from CABI and CIDOB (highly organized indigenous
organizations representing the communities in the project area) as well as with the communities living in
the project area of influence. In these meetings the potential impacts of the new road were discussed and
an Indigenous Peoples Development Plan was agreed. The Plan comprises several activities ranging
from support to land titling to bilingual education.
(iii) Community Relations Plan
*  To facilitate communications and to avoid conflicts with the local community, a community relations
plan was developed as a result of the assessment. Also, specific recommendations on location of
workers' camps, workers' code of conduct and indemnification procedures for potential damages were
introduced in the Environmental Management Plan. The community relations plan involves: (i) the
establishment of a civil society consultative committee, (ii) procedures and mechanisms for information
dissemination and community access to project management and; (iii) support to local governments for
urban planning initiatives.
6. Environmental Assessment: Environmental Category []A   [X] B    []C (Supported by Annex
8)
The proposed highway reconstruction and paving will follow the existing gravel road alignment for the most
part in an area of the southern part of the Santa Cruz Department where the natural vegetation has already
been widely cleared. Direct environmental impacts will be road widening and realignment that may be
required in some sectors, which may cause the resettlement of a small number of dwellers (see previous
paragraph). Direct impacts on vegetation and fauna will be minimal, as most areas have long been
deforested and local fauna has been driven to more remote areas. Erosion control and embankment stability
will be needed in some segments as the road crosses mountain range. Indigenous populations are mainly
settled in areas over 30 km from the road, though some do live close to the access road to El Espino. Indirect
impacts on these indigenous populations are expected to be minimal.
Additional pressures on natural resources (logging, colonization) are also expected to be small. There are no
critical natural habitats. The area has no known archaeological sites and the potential for chance findings is
low. Local expectations towards this project are quite high specially among the indigenous communities.
These communities want improved access to Santa Cruz for their products.
Based on the Environmental Impact Assessment, a detailed environmental management plan was prepared
for all road segments and by-passes. A summary of the EIA and environmental management plan is
presented in Annex 8. The plan includes:
(i) specific erosion and stability measures along the entire road segments, which have been included in
engineering designs and budgets;
(ii) a community information and consultation program, which includes technical assistance to rural
municipalities to deal with land use planning, road safety, and re-ordering of economic activities
along road by-passes;



Page 18
(iii) a detailed set of environmental specifications for contractors, including explicit environmental
behavior guidelines for workers, restrictions regarding camp locations near rural communities and
procedures for chance findings of archaeological sites. Compliance with these specifications will be
enforced by an environmental supervision team within the technical supervision arrangements;
(iv) a resettlement plan (see Annex 8); and
(v) an indigenous peoples' development plan, which includes measures to avoid major impacts from
having a major international road traversing their lands, and support to on-going initiatives for land
titling, commercialization and bilingual education.
This plan includes a detailed schedule for implementation, institutional arrangements, and budget.
Environmental management capacity in SNC is being strengthened through the on-going Road Maintenance
Project.  The proposed reorganization of SNC (starting January 1999) will upgrade SNC's existing
environmental unit to a higher hierarchical status within the organization reporting to the SNC's Deputy
Director. The project will provide additional support to SNC to strengthen environmental management
capabilities.
7. Participatory Approach:
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
The primary beneficiaries would be the direct road users of medium and long distance of the main export
corridor whom would benefit from improved transport services, better safety, and improved access to new
export centers.
Indigenous populations are mainly settled in areas over 30 km. from the road. The extension to El Espino
will provide access to the regional markets for the indigenous communities and will be financed by the credit
as a contribution of the project to the development of those communities. The indigenous communitiesare
well aware of the project and have been alerted to its potential impacts from its conception. They are most
interested in the construction of the road to facilitate their access to markets. This interest has been
confirmed by representatives (Capitanes Grandes) of the Kaaguasu, Kami, Charagua Norte and Upper and
Lower Izozog communities, who officially requested that the construction of the road go through El Espino,
and also by the identification mission in informal meetings with the corregidor (the mayor) of the
community of El Espino
b. Other key stakeholders:
Other stakeholders are large land owners, menonite communities, local governments and chambers of
commerce in the largest towns served by the road. All these actors have participated in a series of
consultations that took place during project preparation as part of the EIA process.  During these
consultations, IDA missions cautioned the indigenous communities about some of the potential negative
impacts if the Abap6-Camiri highway were to pass near El Espino, due to the potential risk of colonization
and encroachment, and emphasized the importance of land titling as a mechanism to prevent colonization. It
was agreed that permanent consultation with CABI and CIDOB, as well as with the local communities and
their leaders, would be essential to ensure that they were well aware and participated in the assessment of
project alternatives and the design of appropriate measures to ensure that the indigenous communities would
get all the benefits of the upgraded road.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The sustainability of the project's physical investments is dependent on the quality of the initial construction
and adequate funding for future routine and periodic maintenance. The use of independent consultants for



Page 19
construction supervision, technical audits and regular IDA supervision missions will help ensure quality
control.
The government is taking a three-prong approach to improving project sustainability: (i) clarifying and
strengthening the roles of the VMT, SNC and the SDCs; (ii) developing strategies to enhance road sector
funding and other maintenance policies; and (iii) developing a viable investment program (including
maintenance) to further reduce transport costs.
* After the institutional changes generated by the decentralization process, in which several agencies were
in charge of various aspects of the transport sector, the clarification of roles and strengthening of these
institutions was considered critical. The new SNC, a reorganized autonomous national entity, must
plan, supervise and enforce maintenance activities at the national level. In addition, SNC must lead the
coordination and monitor the implementation of technical assistance programs at sub-national level. To
achieve this, the government has recentralized the national network to supplement actions already taken
to revisit the institutional framework and devise ways to make it work.
*  To strengthen the road sector funding and axle load control policies, actions are already being taken
under the on-going SRMP. These actions entail ensuring that the resources generated by road user
charges are reinvested in the road network so that its deterioration is stopped in time to prevent higher
vehicle operating costs and higher rehabilitation costs in the future. The new decentralized scheme
requires fiscal discipline to enforce adequate maintenance of the network. The new decree establishes
that 70% of the tolls collected on the roads should be spent on maintaining the main network and 30%
on maintaining the secondary network maintenance, but there is a need to ensure compliance and to
generate additional funds to cover the gap, so far financed by Treasury funds.
- IDB is financing the Government's initiatives to develop a transport master plan to define priorities for
the transport sector in the medium term. The objective is to continue to rehabilitate the national network
and construct key missing links along the main export and integration corridors in the country. In
addition to seeking international financing, the government has started to explore the possibilities,
however limited due to the low traffic levels, of incorporating the private sector into the financing and
operation of road investments.
*   To complement the preparation of the master plan, SNC together with the SDCs should prepare a
comprehensive maintenance program with time-slice targets. This would be complemented with
institutional building programs to ensure: (a) the mechanisms developed under the Export Corridor
Project and the SRMP are implemented; and (b) the progress achieved under the SRMP in the
management of the national road network is effectively sustained. (These efforts would include the
elimination of force account for non-routine or emergency activities in the departments). Furthermore,
maintenance to be carried out by contract would take advantage of existing small local contractors. It
was considered prudent that a program to test comprehensive maintenance by contract be included in
the proposed project for part of the Santa Cruz Department national network before it is adopted for the
entire national network.
The sustainability of the decentralization process in the road sub-sector will be further improved by helping
build partnership between SNC and the SDCs. This requires SNC to make its pool of experts available to the
SDCs and for the latter, to accept the role of SNC. These aspects are being addressed under the on-going
SRMP to further advance this agenda of reforms.



Page 20
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                   Risk Rating          Risk Minimization Measure
Annex 1, cell "from Outputs to
Objective
Delays in completion of civil works in the   N       The reconstruction and paving of the Abap6-
Trinidad-Yacuiba corridor.                           Camiri section is the only one not yet started in the
entire corridor. The civil works of this section
will be executed by international and/or national
contractors. The experience with the construction
of other sections in the same and other corridors
has been satisfactory.
SNC's lack of management experience with     M       The program and the methodology to be used in
private  sector  participation  in  road             the program of comprehensive maintenance by
maintenance.                                         contract has been prepared by consultants with
experience in other countries. The program itself
includes advice for its implementation.
The  road  maintenance  account is not       M       The new  decree that establishes the  road
implemented yet and there is a chance that           maintenance account has already been approved
there will not be sufficient funds for road          and the account opened. It proves that there is a
maintenance.                                         strong commitment by the Government to ensure a
satisfactory financing mechanism for road
maintenance.
A legal and regulatory framework for road    M       The law for concessions of transport public works
concessions has not been established and the         has been already approved by Congress. IDB is
bylaws for its implementation  are not               financing the preparation  of the legal and
expected to be ready in early 1999.                  regulatory framework for road concessions. The
project includes technical assistance to carry out a
feasibility study for the Santa Cruz - Puerto
Suarez highway initiative.
Risk                   Risk Rating          Risk Minimization Measure
Annex 1, cell "from Components to
Outputs"
Delays in the final design for civil works.  N       Engineering designs have been completed by a
consulting firm contracted by SNC and financed
by FONPLATA.
The land acquisition and resettlement plans  N       A  land acquisition and resettlement plan in
are not prepared on time.                            accordance with the engineering designs, and
satisfactory to IDA has been completed.
Delays in the "Declaratoria Ambiental' given  N      An environmental assessment has been prepared
by the Ministry of Sustainable Development           by the same consultants and under the same
and Environment.                                     contract for the engineering designs. According to
the Bolivian Environmental Law, the Ministry of
Sustainable Development and Environment will



Page 21
Risk                  Risk Rating         Risk Minimization Measure
issue the "Declaratoria Ambientar'.
Delays in availability of counterpart funds  M     It is important to ensure that the counterpart funds
during implementation.  In particular the          are available on time. Particularly the financial
funds to be provided by the Prefecturas.          resources needed for the first year of
imnplementation (1999). IDA required the GOB to
include in the National Treasury Budget the
counterpart resources needed for 1999.
Overall Risk Rating                       M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
This is the fourth IDAIIBRD-financed road project in Bolivia. It has been prepared on the basis of lessons
learned from the implementation of the ECP and the on-going SRMP. Under these two projects, institutional
reforms have been and are being implemented. The problems created by the decentralization-recentralization
are being addressed by the SRMP and the risks from the implementation and passage of the administrative
decentralization law have been minimized with the approval of the Supreme Decree, which re-established the
national road network and contributed to a better definition of SNC's roles and responsibilities.
There is a risk that the economic development objective, in contrast to the road improvement objective, will
not be achieved. The development of non-traditional exports depends on a range of actions, not only on the
building of a road, i.e. the GOB's actions to promote non-traditional exports and curtail the production of
coca. The GOB is taking satisfactory actions to increase non-traditional exports. The project includes an
analysis of the linkage between the development objective and the project economic rate of return. The
analysis shows that, if the development of non-traditional exports in the Chapare area does not occur, the rate
of return of the highway component would be reduced from 19.1% to 18.6%, which is not a significant
difference.
The risk of delays in starting the physical works is being addressed by SNC's ensuring that the following
actions are taken before project negotiations: (i) prequalifying bidders for the civil works of construction and
starting the prequalification process for the comprehensive maintenance component; and (ii) completing the
plan to start the acquisition of land for the right-of-way, and resettlement in accordance with the engineering
designs already prepared.
The main remaining risk is delay in bid awarding and contract signature, and cost overruns. This risk is
proposed to be addressed through intense supervision and continuous dialogue with the implementing
agency.
Bank-wide experience also shows that there is risk of over-estimating traffic growth, which is a key
assumption in estimating the project benefits. The economic evaluation of this project has considered
scenarios with low traffic growth, low generation of traffic and cost overruns (see Section E above).
3. Possible ControversialAspects:
The only controversial aspect of the project concerned the two design alternatives considered at the
beginning of project preparation, mentioned in section D. The first alternative was to upgrade the original
road, and, additionally, rebuild and pave the existing access road to El Espino. The second alternative
assumed that the proposed road would not follow the original route but would include a diversion through El
Espino - Ipita. This controversy was solved during the follow-up mission in June 1998 in the way described
in Section D.



Page 22
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Conditions for Project Approval and Effectiveness-:
The four conditions for project approval have been met. There will be no specific conditions for
project effectiveness.
2. Other:
(i)  The Borrower shall carry out, through SNC, the Environmental and Social Management Plan, in
accordance with its terms.
(ii) The GOB shall, open and thereafter maintain, until the completion of the Project, a Fiscal Account,
under the terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA, for the purposes of managing all funds required to
make payments in Bolivianos under contracts to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit;
(iii) The Borrower shall maintain or adjust road user charges at the level required to allocate each Fiscal
Year, as a minimum, the amounts for routine maintenance set forth in the Monitoring Indicators and
Targets for each such Year.
(iv) SNC will consult with IDA before making any commitment under the project, if final designs of
subprojects have resulted in cost estimates exceeding 20% (in US$ equivalent) those of the estimated
original costs as approved by IDA.
(v) SNC, shall:
(a)  not later than September 30 of each year of project implementation, furnish to IDA a report,
containing: (i) information on: (A) the overall progress in the execution of the Project; and (B) the
implementation of the SNC Reorganization Plan, both for the immediately preceding semester; and
(ii) proposals for: (A) a highway investment and maintenance program; and (B) a training program
for the institutional strengthening component of the Project, both for the upcoming Fiscal Year;
(b)  not later than March 31 of each year of project implementation, furnish to IDA, a report, on: (i)
(A) the overall progress in the execution of the Project, including an evaluation on the basis of the
Monitoring Indicators and Targets; and (B) the implementation of the Reorganization Plan, both
for the immediately preceding semester; and (ii) the implementation of the highway investment and
maintenance program in the previous Fiscal Year,
(c)  review with IDA, not later than November 30 and May 31 of each year of Project implementation,
starting in May 31, 2000, the immediately preceding reports and proposals referred to in
paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section.
(vi) The Borrower, through SNC, shall carry out the Reorganization Plan as approved by IDA.
(vii) The Borrower shall not initiate any civil works under Parts A, B and C of the Project until the
resettlement of the families affected by such civil works has been completed, to the satisfaction of
IDA, in accordance with the Environmental and Social Management Plan.
(viii) SNC will carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the Association for the strengthening of its
financial management system for the Project in order to enable the borrower and SNC, not later than
twelve (12) months after the Effective Date, to prepare quarterly Project management reports,
acceptable to IDA.



Page 23
H. Readiness for Implementation
[X]  The engineering design documents are complete and ready for the start of project implementation.
[X]  The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
[X]  The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
[XI This project complies with all applicabl IDA policies.
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:  Jose      o so-Biarge
Sector Manager/Director:   D
Country Manager/Director:   Isabel Guerrero



Page 24
Annex 1
Abap6 - Camiri Highway Project (ACA-HP)
Project Design Summary
Narrative Summary        Key Performance          Monitoring and               Critical Assumptions
Indicators             Evaluation
Sector-related CAS                                                       (Goal to Bank Mission)
Goal:
Freight volumes       *  Traffic statistics     Allocation of sufficient funds to complete
Foster economic         between Santa Cruz and     between Santa Cruz    construction of the remaining integration
development of Bolivia    Yacuiba increased by     and Yacuiba.          corridors
with the construction and   20%.               *  Cooperation between
maintenance of the export                          SNC and SDCs.
corridor Trinidad-                             *  Road network
Yacuiba.                                           statistics.
Project Development                                                      (Objective to Goal)
Objective:
To promote export       Year-round good        *  No traffic             There are no delays in completion of civil
opportunities and regional  condition for all     interruptions due to   works in the Trinidad-Yacuiba corridor.
development.            sections of the corridor   severe weather;
and connected ones,                             SNC has the institutional capacity to
Strengthen the          including secondary    *  Road Statistics;       effectively manage private sector
institutional capacity of    roads                                       participation in road maintenance.
the public sector and also                     *  Capacity evaluations;
promote private sector  Maintenance by                                   The Road Maintenance Account is
participation in the road    contract extended to the  *  National road network  implemented, thus providing adequate
maintenance industry.   whole national network     maintained by         financing for routine road maintenance.
and installed capacity to  contract.
implement road                                  Legal and regulatory framework for road
concessions.                                    concessions is implemented.
Outputs:                                                                (Outputs to Objective)
1. 152 kms of high-     1.1 Traffic volumes in    *  Records on traffic  SNC's acquires management experience
standard, two-lane      the corridor increased     volumes and speeds;    with private sector participation in road
highway between Abap6   by 80% above the                                 maintenance;
and Camiri;             current average 250    *  Road usage surveys
vehicles per day;         performed by SNC;    The road maintenance account is
implemented and there will be sufficient
1.2 Vehicle operating    *  Vehicle operation   funds for road maintenance;
costs reduced by 50%      costs analysis by SNC;
of 1997 costs;                                  A legal and regulatory framework for
*  Technical audits;     road concessions program has been
1.3 Transportation costs                        established and the bylaws for its
reduced by 20-30%;    *  Good condition of      implementation are ready in 1999.
roads connected to the
1.4 Average travel time   corridor. Budget
between Abap6 and         allocations to
Camiri reduced by 3       maintenance.
hours;
2. Maintenance of the   2.1 Contract Program   *  Semi-annual reports
whole national road     for Comprehensive          onSNC does the contracting out of
network, contracted out    Maintenance signed and  implementation;       comprehensive road maintenance
by SNC;                 working;                                         component on time.



Page 25
Narrative Summary       Key Performance          Monitoring and               Critical Assumptions
Indicators             Evaluation
2.2 Plan for SNC
Institutional Capacity    .  Progress Reports;
Strengthening
developed and under    *  Consultant's
implementation;           evaluation;
3. Completion of the    3.1 Legal and fiscal  *  Legal information;
feasibility study for the    framework for
Santa Cruz - Puerto     concessions established   *  Technical reports and
Suarez concession       and working; contract     traffic statistics.
initiative;             for consulting services
signed and study
progressing
4. The local communities  4.1 Access for rural
have access to markets    communities provided
through rural roads.    by secondary roads
rehabilitation.
Project                 Inputs: (budget for                             (Components to Outputs)
Components/Sub-         each component)
components: (see Annex
2 for project
description)
A. Abap6-Camiri            US$97.3 million    *  Highway construction   There are no substantial changes in the
Highway                                           starting and          final design of civil works;
Construction and paving                           progressing as planned
of the Abap6 - Camiri                             in the PIP;           Land acquisition and titling program is
highway of 152 km. The                                                  not delayed for extemal/political reasons;
indicative cost includes:                     &  Technical assistance
*  direct costs,                                  according to the      Ministry of Sustainable Development and
.  physical and price                             projections in the PIP.  Planning issues the "Declaratoria
contingencies, and                                                  Ambiental" in due time;
.  supervision.
The road will be split in                                               No delays on availability of counterpart
the following segments:                                                 funds during implementation from the
central and departmental governments.
(a) New bridge (420 m)           4.9
over the Rio Grande in
Abap6 including accesses
(0.44 km)
(b) Abap6-Ipita (63.5 kmn)      40.3
(c) Ipita-Ipati (49 km)         30.1
including the by-pass of
Gutierrez
(d) Ipati-Camiri (30.7 km)      16.6
(e) By-pass of Camiri (7.3       5.4
km). Construction and
paving of a by-pass to
avoid going through the
town of Camiri.



Page 26
Narrative Summary        Key Performance          Monitoring and                Critical Assumptions
Indicators              Evaluation
B. Access Road to El        US$8.5 million
Espino (38 km)
Construction and paving
of an existing dirt road
that runs parallel to the
rail track to Charagua, a
two-lane road of 6.0 m
wide with two shoulders
0.5 m each, to provide
access to the corridor for
the indigenous
communities.
C. Comprehensive            US$12.2 million     *  Comprehensive         No delays on availability of counterpart
Maintenance by                                     maintenance by         funds during implementation from the
Contract                                           contract pilot program   central and departmental governments.
A program of                                       commencing and
comprehensive                                      progressing as planned
maintenance by contract                             in the PIP;
for the period 1999-2003.
The indicative cost of                          *  Technical assistance
this component includes                            according to the
supervision and                                    projections in the PIP.
encompasses about 900
km of roads in the
department of Santa Cruz.
D. "Institutional           US$2.0 million
Strengthening
Institutional strengthening
of SNC and VMT through
the provision of technical
assistance for:
(a) Consulting services to:
(i) carry out a                 0.1
feasibility study for
the San Jose -
Puerto Suarez
highway concession
initiative,
(ii) strengthen and              0.1
operate the Project
Coordinating Unit,
SNC's
Environmental Unit,
and provide training
to SNC, and
(iii) prepare technical          0.1
and financial audits
(b) Acquisition of goods          0.1



Page 27
Narrative Summary        Key Performance          Monitoring and               Critical Assumptions
Indicators             Evaluation
(c) Routine maintenance          0.2
program
(d) Implementation of the        1.4
Resettlement Plan,
Indigenous People
Development Plan, and
the Community Relations
Plan.



Page 28
Annex 2
Abap6 - Camiri Highway Project (ACA-LIP)
Project Description
The proposed IDA credit would finance the reconstruction and paving of the 152 km Abap6-Camiri
highway, which is the only missing section in the Trinidad-Yacuiba corridor to the border of
Argentina that provides an outlet to the port of Rosario. This corridor would also give access to the
regions between Santa Cruz and Cochabamba served by the East-West export corridor (between the
borders of Brazil and Chile), including the Chapare region, where the coca plant is grown and is
being replaced (under active support from the US government) by alternative crops, for which the
natural market is Argentina.
The project consists of construction and paving of the existing road which is now in poor condition
and will also include the construction of a new bridge over the Rio Grande of about 420 m. The
road is currently a gravel road and offers good geometrical characteristics. However, it would need
minor re-alignments and by-passes to avoid crossing small villages, resettlement and safety
problems. The road would be strengthened to fully accommodate growth in export traffic.
Realignments and reconstruction works would meet the geometrical and structural standard
conditions established for national roads in Bolivia, under which the Santa Cruz-Abap6 and Camiri-
Yacuiba sections were reconstructed. The upgraded highway, together with the rehabilitation of the
existing access road of 38 km to El Espino, will serve the poorest communities of the region to
transport the agricultural products to consumption centers. Land acquisition and people re-location,
if necessary, will be financed by the Bolivian Government under a plan satisfactory to IDA. The
engineering studies are already completed for Abap6-Camiri highway, the access road to El Espino,
the bridge over the Grande river and the Camiri by-pass. The project would also include a program
of comprehensive maintenance by contract for the period 1999-2003. The objective would be to
ensure that the remaining corridor and the roads complementing it, will be in good condition when
the project is completed.
Project Component A. Abap6-Camiri Highway - US$97.3 million (total cost of component).
The proposed credit would finance 80% of the total cost for civil works and supervision.
The reconstruction and paving of the Abap6 - Camiri highway of 152 km. A two-lane road of 7.3
m wide with two shoulders 1.5 to 2.0 m each (depending on terrain characteristics), fully paved and
re-aligned. The indicative costs include:
*  direct costs,
* physical and price contingencies, and
*  supervision.
Geometrical design is based on the SNC guidelines for Road Category II. The design parameters
used are presented in the following table:



Page 29
Design Parameters          | Symbol  Unit                 Terrain
Plane     Hilly   Mountaino
us
Vehicle speed                            S      Kinh       80        60         40
Minimum radius for circular curve       Rmin      m       229       123         47
Lateral friction factor                  F                0.14      0.15        0.17
Maximum radius requiring superelevation           m      3,200     2,300       1,400
Maximum radius requiring transition curves        m       550       300         130
Roadway width (2 lanes of 3.65 m each)            m       7.3        7.3        7.3
Shoulder width                                    m        2         2          1.5
Extra width in horizontal curves        EW        m       0.5        0.8        1.6
Minimum transition curve length          Le       m        58        49         50
Minimum superelevation in circular curve  E       %8                 8           10
Lateral slope of roadway                 B        %       2.5        2.5        2.5
Lateral slope of shoulders                        %3                 3           3
Maximum longitudinal slope               M        %        5         6           8
Minimum longitudinal slope in cuts                %       0.5        0.5        0.5
Minimum longitudinal slope in fills               %       0.3        0.3        0.3
Longitudinal friction coefficient        Fl               0.3       0.33        0.37
Minimum stopping distance                Sd       m       137        85         45
Minimum passing distance                 Pd       m       565       377         214
Convex vertical curve parameter          K                 40        15          4
Concave vertical curve parameter         K                 32        17          7
The changes in road alignment will allow a speed of 40-60 km/h in the hilly and mountainous
terrain, and 80 km/h in the plane terrain. The estimated construction time is 30 months. In all
sections, vertical and horizontal traffic signs will be part of the project.
Costs. Four project paving alternatives were considered: (i) asphalt concrete, (ii) double surface
treatment, (iii) simple surface treatment, and (iv) gravel. Based on the analysis of the estimated
costs for the 3 road sections and the bridge over the Rio Grande, the asphalt concrete alternative
was finally selected.
Road sections. The road will be split in the following segments:
(a) Bridge over the Rio Grande in Abap6 vicinity, including accesses. [US$4.9 million]
(420 m. span and 440 m. of accesses). Estimated time of construction: 24 months.
The proposed bridge is located in the progressive 0+127 in the Abapo - Ipita Section, in the Abapo
vicinity, and approximately 200 m apart from the existing railroad bridge. The bridge (420 m span)
will have a total width of 10.6 m, with two lanes of 8 m total width each, and two sidewalks of 1.3
m each side. Its superstructure will be divided in two sections: (i) the first 60 m will be a two
consecutive sections, with beams of 30 m long and 1.6 m height, and a 20 cm reinforced concrete
slab; and (ii) the remaining 360 m will be a continuous prestressed concrete structure composed by
five sections: two 51 m long on each end and three intermediate 86 m long sections. The bridge
will be constructed using the balanced cantilever segmental construction method and with a
variable rectangular cross section (box girder of variable height). Its substructure will have two
abutments and six reinforced concrete piers of different heights, ranging from 9 to 14 m, with
foundations of 1.2 m diameter reinforced concrete piles. The bridge accesses of approximately 600
m will be included in the bridge construction contract.



Page 30
(b) Abapo-Ipita. [US$40.3 million]
(63.5 km.). Estimated time of construction: 30 months.
Along this section of approximately 63.5 km long, there are several private properties on both sides.
In some parts, its topography is mountainous, it goes across many small rivers, and passes by the
Opabusu lagoon near the Tatarenda Village.
There are 3 different sections: (i) the first section, of approximately 40 km located between Ipita and
El Limon ranch, has the terrain mostly plane; (ii) the second section of about 10 km from El Limon
ranch to El Algodonal ranch has a marked mountainous characteristics, and (iii) the third section of
approximately 14 km between El Algodonal and the Abap6 village presents a mixed plane-rolling
topography.
The alignment goes through the existing dirt road and runs largely parallel to an oil pipeline. In this
section there are no bridges or other significant additional structures.
In this part of the road there are no towns or important concentrations of population. The
communities of Caraguatarenda, Tatarenda, Tatarenda La Vieja and Ipaticito del Monte are located
closer to IpitA where there is potential to develop agricultural activities.
(c) Ipita-Ipati including the Gutierrez by-pass. [US$30.1 million]
(49 km). Estimated time of construction: 30 months.
In this section of approximately 50 km, the road goes through a cattle raising area, along the
Pipirenda sierra where the town of Gutierrez is located and, after the Las Frias hill and a small
community called La Herradura, the road reaches Ipati. Along the existing road there are many
ranches and small communities for whom agriculture is their main activity. Ipati is the point in
which the so called Diagonal Jaime Mendoza (that comes form the Chuquisaca department) links
with the Santa Cruz - Yacuiba export corridor. For this reason it is a must that the road passes
through Ipati.
In the first section of approximately 50 km, the terrain presents mostly rolling topography; and in
some sectors a mixed plane-rolling topography.
(d) Ipati-Camiri. [US$16.6 million]
(30.7 km). Estimated time of construction: 24 months.
In this section of approximately 30 km, a higher traffic volume exists (compared with the other
sections) mainly due to its proximity to the town of Camiri. A large part of the traffic flow is
generated by heavy trucks transporting cattle, diesel, wood and many other commercial trade
products between Bolivia and Argentina.
In this section the road crosses the Urundaiti river several times and 4 bridges have been designed
for this purpose.
In this part of the road there are no adequate materials to construct the pavement structure, and the
alternative of providing these materials from the Parapeti and Grande rivers (located in the project
extremes) is being considered.
The Itacua, Yrenda and Choreti as well as many ranches whose main activities are cattle raising and
maize production are located in this section.  The commercial and industrial activities are
concentrated in the city of Camiri .



Page 31
In this section the terrain presents mostly rolling topography.
(e) By-pass of Camiri. [US$5.4 million] (total cost).
(7.3 km). Estimated time of construction: 18 months.
The 7.3 km by-pass to avoid going through the town of Camiri has the same design standard of all
the other sections of the Abap6 - Caminri highway. Its main objective is to provide a direct and
safer connection between the end of the Ipati - Camiri section of the proposed highway, and the
Camiri - Yacuiba paved road. It will directly benefit the long distance traffic of the Santa Cruz -
Yacuiba export corridor. Presently the traffic goes through Camiri and interferes with the local
transit of vehicles as well as pedestrians, and other urban activities.
Three alternatives were considered: first, the existing one that goes through the town, a second one
around the town which would generate the same problem in the short run (5-7 years); and the third
alternative that goes beyond the urban development plans. The last was selected, being the one
with the least resettlement and expropriation needs and minimum negative impact for Camiri.
Project Component B. Access Road to El Espino (38 km) - US$8.5 million (total cost of
component). The proposed credit would finance 80% of the total cost for civil works and
supervision. Estimated time of construction: 18 months.
The project consists of the reconstruction and paving of an existing dirt road that runs parallel to the
rail track to Charagua. Its main objective will be to provide safe and permanent access to Abap6
and Santa Cruz (the consumption center) for the indigenous communities located along the road
and to promote greater economic activities in the area of influence through transport costs
reduction.  The road is currently a dirt road in poor condition but with good geometrical
characteristics that would require only minor re-alignments. The indicative cost includes:
*  direct costs,
* physical and price contingencies, and
*  supervision.
This road passes by the following villages and reference points: Puerto Viejo (km 4), first railroad
cross section (km 5.3), Tacovo station (km 13.2), Nuevo Muchuri station (km 27), second railroad
cross section (km 34), access to El Espino Viejo and the Itani stream (km 38). The topography is
mostly plane with smooth slopes of a maximum of 2%. There is a need for a small bridge (20-30
m long) to cross the El Limon stream.
The geometrical design for the 38 km access road is based on the SNC guidelines and the following
parameters.
Design Parameters           Symbol   Unit                Terrain
Plane    Hilly   Mountainous
Vehicle speed                            S      Kni/h    80       60         40
Minimum radius for circular curve      Rmin      i       229      121        47
Lateral friction factor                  F              0.14     0.15        0.17
Maximum radius requiring superelevation          m      3,350    2,200      1,300
Maximum radius requiring transition curves       rn      550      300        130
Roadway width (2 lanes of 3.0 m each)  _                 6.0      6.0        6.0
Shoulder width                                   m       0.5      0.5        0.5
Extra width in horizontal curves        Ew       i      0.52     0.81        1.63
Minimum transition curve length          Le      m       60       51         41
Maximum superelevation in circular curve  E      %        8        8          10



Page 32
Design Parameters            Symbol   Unit                Terrain
Plane    Hilly    Mountainous
Lateral slope of roadway                  B       %       2.5       2.5        2.5
Lateral slope of shoulders                        % __2.5           2.5        2.5
Maximnum longitudinal slope              M        %/       4        5           7
Minimum longitudinal slope in cuts                 0      0.5       0.5        0.5
Minimum longitudinal slope in fills               %       033      0.33        0.33
Longitudinal friction coefficient         Fl              0.31     0.33        0.37
Minimum Stopping Distance                Sd       m       165       98         51
Minimnum Passing Distance                Pd       m       562      375         213
Convex vertical curve Parameter           K               40        15          4
Concave vertical curve Parameter          K                32       17          7
Four alternative types of surface layers were considered and based on the economic and financial
evaluation it is recommended the construction with a double surface treatment. In all sections,
vertical and horizontal traffic signs will be part of the project.
Project Component C. Comprehensive Maintenance by Contract - US$12.2 million (Total cost
of the component). The proposed credit would finance 20% of civil works, and 80% of
supervision.
The project includes a comprehensive maintenance program, covering about 900 km of the basic
highway network of the Departamento de Santa Cruz. Its components are roads of the national
main network which feed the Abap6-Camiri highway (see Table below). The terrn "comprehensive
maintenance" includes not only routine and periodic maintenance, but also user and maintenance
management services, including emergency coverage.
Table. Comprehensive Maintenance by Contract Program Routes
Length   Width            Traffic  Condition    Cost *
Route     Start        End        (km)    (m)   Surface  (ADT)    Rating    (US$000)
0004  Yapacani   GuabirA         70.1      7.1     A.C.    2171        4         650.2
0004  GuabirA     Warnes         27.2      7.8     A.C.    4794      3 & 4       211.5
0004  Warnes      Sta. Cruz      26.0    12.0    A.C.    4258        3 & 4       318.8
0010  Okinawa    GuabirA         41.1      6.2     A.C.    665       4 & 5       176.7
0009  San Ramon  Los Troncos    54.2       7.3     S.T.     570      3 & 4       601.6
0010  Los Troncos Okinawa        30.7      8.5    Gravel   247       2 & 3       433.2
0004  Sta. Cruz   Cotoca          14.6     7.3     A.C.    6560        4         167.4
0004  Cotoca      Pto. Pailas    28.7      6.7     A.C.    5876      3 & 4       436.6
0004  Pto. Pailas  Pail6n         14.5     6.6     S.T.     500      2 & 3       401.2
0009  Pail6n      Los Troncos    62.1      7.3     S.T.     570      2 & 3       380.9
0007  Mairana    Angostura       79.1      6.1     A.C.    644    2 & 3 & 4    1,683.4
0007  Angostura   La Guardia     36.5      5.8     A.C.    1302        3         544.7
0009  Abap6       Km 13          125.8    7.5      A.C.    276         4         1,400.1
0006  Camiri      Boyuibe        60.6      7.3     S.T.     175      2 & 3      2,262.1
0006  Yacuiba    Boyuibe         184.1    7.3      S.T.     175      2 & 3       1,455.0
0006  Ipati       Incahuasi      38.4      6.0     Earth     53       1 & 2      294.8
TOTAL  893.7  km                        TOTAL COST   11,418.2
Supervision    811.8
TOTAL COMPONENT   12,230.0
Condition 1: POOR      Condition 3: REGULAR  Condition 5: GOOD



Page 33
Notes:
A.C. Asphalt Concrete.
S.T.: Surface Treatment.
*Includes physical and price contingencies
The contract shall be of three years' duration, and its activities are grouped as follows: (i) routine
maintenance: operations that should be programmed and performed at least once a year; (ii)
periodic maintenance: operations that can be planned for and which must be carried out
periodically, normally for periods exceeding one year, to ensure the adequacy of the conditions of
the highways. Given the deficiencies presented by some of the sections of the contract's roads, a
series of priority actions to be carried out in the first year of the contract will be decided upon; (iii)
emergency coverage: unforeseeable and occasional actions which must usually be carried out
immediately after noticed to restore the flow of traffic or to guarantee normal driving conditions;
(iv) minor works: occasional activities aimed at correcting deficiencies or improving certain parts
of the highway; (v) works management: all those tasks required to plan, monitor and document the
execution and evaluation of the work and activities carried out; and (vi) training in comprehensive
maintenance activities for maintenance professionals and specialists of the public and private
sectors.
Project Component D.  Institutional Strengthening - US$2.0 million (total cost of the
component).
The project has also an institutional strengthening component for SNC and VMT to provide
technical assistance for:
(a) Consulting services to:
(i) carry out a feasibility study for the San Jose - Puerto Suarez highway concession initiative,
(ii) strengthen and operate the Project Coordinating Unit, SNC's Environmental Unit, and
provide training to SNC, and
(iii) prepare technical and financial audits
(b) Acquisition of goods
(c) Routine maintenance program
(d) Implementation of the Resettlement Plan, Indigenous People Development Plan, and the
Community Relations Plan.
The proposed credit would finance:
100% of consultants and services for (a);
80% of goods and equipment for (b);
20% of maintenance works for (c), and
0% of the Plans in (d).



Page 34
Annex 3
Abap6 - Camiri Highway Project (ACA-BIP)
Estimated Project Costs
Project Component                              Local      Foreign      Total
------------------US $ million-------------
A. Abap6-Camiri Highway                          46.4        36.4       82.8
B. Access Road to El Espino                       3.8         3.5        7.3
C. Comprehensive Maintenance by Contract          4.6         5.6       10.2
D. Institutional Strengthening                    1.6         0.4        2.0
E. Supervision Contracts                          2.0         4.7        6.7
Total                                            58.4        50.6      109.0
Total Baseline Cost
Physical Contingencies                          4.4        3.6         8.0
Price Contingencies                             1.6        1.4         3.0
Total Project Cost                               64.4        55.6      120.0



Page 35
Annex 4
Bolivia: Abap6 - Camiri Highway Project
Cost-Benefit Analysis Summary
Net Economic Benefits (NPV) at 12%
Discount Rate (M$)
Users                             128.5
Agency                            -72.5
Project                            56.0
Economic Internal Rate
of Return (EIRR) in percent
Project                            19.1
Project Components
A cost-benefit analysis was done for the civil works being financed under the project, which
represent 95 percent of the project costs and consists of: (i) upgrading the Abap6 - Camiri road,
including the Bridge over Rio Grande; (ii) upgrading the access road to El Espino; and (iii) a road
maintenance program in the project area. The current Abap6 - Camiri road was subdivided into
four sections (Abap6 - IpitA road, Ipita - Ipati road, Ipati - Camiri road, and Camiri bypass), based
on traffic and paving cost considerations, which were evaluated independently. The following table
presents the evaluated project components.
Component                     Activity      Length (km)   Financial Base Cost
(M US$)
Abap6 - IpitA Road *           Upgrading       64.4             38.5
IpitA - Ipati Road            Upgrading        49.0             25.5
Ipati - Camiri Road            Upgrading       30.7             14.3
Camiri Bypass Road            Upgrading        7.3              4.6
Access road to El Espino       Upgrading       38.0             7.2
Road Maintenance Program       Maintenance     893.7            10.2
Total                                         1,083.1          100.3
* Includes the Bridge over Rio Grande
The Abapo - Ipita road starts at the end of the Santa Cruz -Abap6 paved road, crosses the Rio
Grande River, and ends in the town of Ipita. The Ipita - Ipati and Ipati - Camiri roads connect the
towns of Ipita and Ipati and the perimeter of the town of Camiri. The Camiri bypass road connects
the Ipati - Camiri road with the end of the Camiri - Yacuiba paved road bypassing the town of
Camiri. The access road to El Espino, not being part of the Santa Cruz - Yacuiba corridor,
connects the town of Abap6, and Santa Cruz, with the town of El Espino to provide an all weather
access to the indigenous communities of El Espino and Charagua.
Project Main Objectives and Benefits
The project main objective is to reduce road transport costs on the Santa Cruz - Yacuiba corridor
and maintain the road network in the area in an efficient and sustainable manner. The investments
will: (i) reduce road user transport costs by lowering vehicle operating, accident, and travel time
costs; (ii) remove physical constraints to international road transport of goods and people in the
region; and (iii) allow for the provision of more reliable and safer transport services.



Page 36
The Santa Cruz - Yacuiba export corridor (561.0 km connecting Santa Cruz with the border with
Argentina at Yacuiba) is considered a national priority because it connects important agricultural
and cattle areas in the departments of Santa Cruz, Chuquisaca, and Tarija as well it is an
international corridor by connecting extensive areas of the country with Argentina and, in the
future, Paraguay. At the moment, the section of the Santa Cruz - Yacuiba corridor that has not yet
been paved is the Abap6 - Camiri section (152 km) which is in very bad condition due to lack of
maintenance and the fact that heavy traffic has increased in recent years due to the upgrading of
other sections of the corridor.
The Abapo - Camiri highway project has two complementary functions: (i) to drive the economic
development of existing agricultural areas in the Chapare region in Cochabamba, the southern
region of Beni, and northern part of Santa Cruz that will have better access to markets, and (ii) to
improve the integration and interconnection of the Bolivian road network and the export corridors.
The Abap6 - Camiri highway is part of the North - South corridor of South America, connecting
Santa Cruz and Buenos Aires; at the town of Ipati it joins with National Route No 6 that goes to the
departments of Chuquisaca and Potosi through important cities such as Sucre, Padilla, Monteagudo,
and Muyupamapa; and at the town of Ipita it connects to Route 501 that goes to the Vallegrande
region.
The objective of upgrading the access road to El Espino is to: (i) provide safe and permanent access
to Abap6 and Santa Cruz for the indigenous communities in the area of influence of the project, and
(ii) to promote greater economic activities in that area, which has a high potential due to the flat
terrain, climate, and availability of natural resources, by reducing road transport costs and ensuring
all-weather access.
Main Assumptions
Net benefits were evaluated using the Highway Design and Maintenance Standard Model (HDM),
which simulates life cycle conditions and costs and provides economic decision criteria for multiple
road design alternatives.
The SNC estimated paving and maintenance costs in financial and economic terms (net of taxes and
subsidies). Economic costs are on average 84 percent of financial costs for paving and 87 percent
of financial costs for maintenance activities, based on applying the following conversion factors set
by the Ministry of Finance in 1998 for the economic evaluation of Bolivian projects.
Item                Conversion Factor
Skilled Labor                           0.440
Unskilled Labor                         0.640
National Materials and Equipment        0.840
Imported Material and Equipment         0.886
Fuel                                    0.877
The table below presents representative maintenance costs obtained from the Maintenance
Department of SNC.
Activity                  Financial Cost  Economic Cost
Unpaved Road Grading ($/km)                   109.6           95.4
Unpaved Road Spot Regravelling ($/m3)         15.44           13.44
Unpaved Road Regravelling ($/m3)              14.15          12.31
Unpaved Road Routine Maintenance ($/km/year)   952            828
Paved Road Patching ($/m2)                    13.14           11.43
Paved Road Double Surface Treatment ($/m2)     4.54           3.95
Paved Road 4 cm Overlay ($/m2)                 8.74           7.60
Paved Road Routine Maintenance ($/km/year)     1138           990



Page 37
SNC also defined representative vehicle fleet characteristics and road user unit costs for six vehicle
classes.. With this information, the HDM model computed road user costs with and without the
project, economic road user costs being on average 83 percent of financial costs. The table below
shows typical economic road user costs as a fimution of roughness, typical road user costs
composition, and the vehicle fleet characteristics and economic unit
costs adopted in the analysis. The value of time was defined estimating that, on the area of
influence of the project, the average hourly income is $ 1.63 for car passengers and $ 0.72 for bus
passengers and 85 of the passengers are on work related trips. The value of leisure time was set to
25 percent of the hourly income.
Car    Pickup    Bus    Medium    Heavy   Articulated
Truck     Truck       Truck
Economic User Costs per Roughness ($/vehicle-km)
Paved road, 2 IRI       0.20     0.29     0.92      0.42       0.67       0.99
Paved road, 4 IRI       0.21     0.31     0.93      0.47       0.71       1.05
Paved road, 6 IRI       0.23     0.34     0.97      0.50       0.79       1.15
Paved road, 8 IRI       0.26     0.39     1.02      0.56       0.88       1.26
Paved road, lOIRI       0.30     0.46     1.10      0.62       0.98       1.39
Unpavedroad, 18IRI      0.54     0.84     1.72      1.01       1.58       2.11
Road User Costs Composition for 2 IRI
(percent)
Fuel & Lubricants       16%      32%      14%       29%       25%         25%
Tires                   1%       2%        5%       7%         8%          8%
Maintenance Parts &     18%      20%      12%       20%        29%        31%
Labor
Crew Time               0%       0%        3%       7%         4%          4%
Depreciation & Interest    34%   24%      29%       37%        34%        32%
Passenger Time          31%      22%      37%       0%         0%          0%
Vehicle Fleet Characteristics and Economic Unit Costs
Gross Vehicle Weight (t)   1.5   2.8      17.0      15.5       10.7       42.7
Standard Axle Load      0.0      0.0       3.9      2.7        4.6         5.3
Factor
Number of Axles          2        2         2        2          2           5
Number of Tires          4        4         6        6          6          18
Number of Passengers     3        3        35
Service Life (y)         10       10       10        7          7           8
Hours Driven per Year   500      750      1000      1200       1280       1280
(h)
Km Driven per year     30000    45000    55000    60000       64000      64000
(km)
Interest Rate (%)        12       12       12        12         12         12
Vehicle Price ($)      14135    21079   107683    44924       83862      111182
Tire Price ($)          30.7     88.9    223.8    193.2       223.8       223.8
Maintenance Labor ($/h)   2.05   2.05     2.05      2.05       2.05       2.05
Crew Time ($/h)         0.00     0.00     2.00      1.41       1.54       1.86
Passenger Time ($/h)    1.45     1.45     0.64      0.00       0.00       0.00
Fuel Costs ($/1)        0.40     0.34     0.34      0.34       0.34       0.34
Lubricants Costs ($/1)  1.62     1.62     1.62      1.62       1.62        1.62
The normal traffic growth rate was defined based on recent GDP growth rate data (5.0
percent annual growth from 1988 to 1993 in Santa Cruz and 4.0 percent annual growth in
Bolivia on the same period) collaborated by other statistics. Traffic growth rate was set for
all vehicles to 5.0 percent for the period 1999-2010 and 4.0 percent for the period 2011-
2021, assuming conservatively a traffic growth elasticity to GDP growth of one and
assuming that initially GDP will grow at a rate similar to the historic regional GDP growth



Page 38
to finally stabilize at the historic national GDP growth. From 1992 to 1995, the annual
growth of gasoline consumption was 4.8 percent for the districts of Santa Cruz, Camiri,
Yacuiba, and Villamontes and the population annual growth rate of Santa Cruz was 4.2
percent. Historic traffic counts indicate that on the Santa Cruz - Abap6 and Abap6 - Camiri roads
traffic has increased from 1984 to 1995 by around 90 percent corresponding to a 6 percent annual
growth.
Upgrading Program
Each section to be upgraded under the project was evaluated, using the HDM model, with current
data for existing road, traffic, vehicle fleet, and paving characteristics. To access the condition of
the existing unpaved roads, a survey of speeds was undertaken in which the tags of vehicles passing
a control point were registered to determine their travel time to the next control point.
Five control points were setup along the Abap6 - Camiri road, on average 37 km apart, and the
following average travel speeds were obtained.
Vehicle        Average Speed         Number of
(km/h)           Observations
Cars and Utilities        22                 276
Buses                     20                  185
Medium Trucks             13                 205
Heavy Trucks              11                 449
Articulated Trucks        10                  127
These average speeds include the time the vehicles stopped along the road for some reason and
were measured at the end of the rainy season (March 1998), but not on a particular critical period,
when the road condition is not as good as the dry season. Nevertheless, these measurements
indicate the terrible condition of the existing road that is also substantiated by the IDA mission
observations.
Traffic origin-destination surveys and traffic counts were undertaken during 7 days, 24 hours per
day, at the exit of Abap6, at the exit of Camiri, and at the middle of the Ipita - Ipati section. The
traffic data indicates that the section with highest traffic is Ipati - Camiri with 332 vehicles per day
in 1997, followed by the Camiri bypass with 260 vehicles per day. The Abap6 - Ipita section has
221 vehicles per day and the intermediate section Ipita - Ipati has 208 vehicles per day, while the
access road to El Espino has 32 vehicles per day. On average, 44 percent of the traffic is composed
of trucks, 20 percent of buses, and 36 percent of cars and utilities. Traffic is well distributed over a
24-hour period, with 72 percent of the traffic travelling from 6 a.m. to 10 p.m..
Paving the roads, thus lowering transport costs, will generate some traffic that otherwise would not
have used the road. For passenger vehicles and medium trucks a conservatively assumption of
generated traffic due to lowering transport cost being 20 percent of normal traffic was adopted,
considering that road user costs will decrease on average by 55 percent. For heavy trucks and
articulated trucks, generated traffic will occur due to lower transport costs and the economic
development in the direct area of influence of the project and the area of Chapare where non-
traditional exports are being encouraged. For these trucks, generating traffic was determined
evaluating the expected net increase, with the project, in agricultural and cattle production
dedicated to the market, and transforming this additional production into additional vehicles per day
considering, for example, that 20 tons of agricultural products equate to one truck or 20 cattle heads
equate to one truck. The table below presents the resulting generated traffic for heavy and
articulated trucks as percent of normal traffic in 2002. On the Santa Cruz - Abap6 and Camiri -



Page 39
Yacuiba highways, which were paved in recent years, an evaluation of historic traffic counts
indicates that generated traffic was on the order of 60 percent of normal traffic.
Highway            Generated Traffic as Percent of Normal Traffic
Section             in 2002 for Heavy and Articulated Trucks
Abap6 - Ipita Road                             32.0
Ipita - Ipati Road                             35.0
Ipati - Camiri Road                            32.0
Camiri Bypass Road                             32.0
For the Abap6 - Ipita section, two project alignment alternatives were considered. Aside from the
alternative of paving the existing Abap6 - Ipita road, it was also considered the alternative of
constructing a new road and paving a parallel road to the east of the existing road to server the
towns of Espino and Charagua. The evaluation has shown that this alternative (Abap6 - El Espino
- Ipita) has a greater length (72.0 km) compared to the existing Abap6 - Ipita road (67.0 km), has 3
percent higher construction costs, higher environmental concerns, and a resulting lower economic
rate of return. Therefore, this alternative was discarded and to serve the communities of El Espino
and Charagua, the upgrading of the access road to El Espino was proposed with a lower paved road
standard (6.0 meter wide surface treatment road) due to the current low traffic level. The direct
area of influence of the access road to El Espino will have around 36 thousand inhabitants in 2002,
at the opening of the road, and now the economically active population is 48 percent, of which 54
are occupied in the agricultural sector, 9 percent on the education and social service sectors, and 5
percent on trade, restaurants, and logging. This indicates that the economic base of the influence
area is agricultural, which will benefit with an all-weather access.
Different surface layer alternatives were evaluated. The without project alternative includes routine
maintenance, spot regravelling at 30 m3/km/year, and gradings every 90 days. The four project
alternatives evaluated for each road are: (i) asphalt concrete paving, (ii) double surface treatment
paving, (iii) single surface treatment paving, and (iv) regravelling the road with a 100 mm gravel
layer each time the gravel layer reaches 30 mm. On all paving alternatives, paving starts in 1999
and the construction duration is 3 years with an annual costs distribution of 40, 35, and 25 percent
of the total project costs. After paving, the maintenance policy includes routine maintenance,
patching, and reseals every seven years. The evaluation period is set to 25 years, the discount rate
is 12 percent, and the salvage value is 40 percent of the project costs.
The table below presents the main section characteristics and the resulting economic internal rate of
return (EIRR) and net present value at 12 percent discount rate (NPV), for the corresponding
project alternative with higher NPV. For all roads between Abapo and Camiri the optimal
alternative is asphalt concrete paving, while for the access road to El Espino, a double surface
treatment paving is the optimal alternative.



Page 40
Existing  New  Average  1999  Alternative   Base    Base
Road      Road   Road  Vertical  Daily     With   Financial Financial
Section    Length Length Gradients Traffic  Highest    Cost    Cost    EIRR  NPV
(km)   (km)    (%)   (ADT)   NPV           (M$)  (000$/km)  (%)  (M$)
Abap6 - Ipita  67.0   64.4    1.7    243   AC Paving   38.5    598         17.5  16.2
Ipita - Ipati   50.0   49.0    4.0    229   AC Paving   25.5    520        18.3  12.5
Ipati - Camiri  30.9   30.7   1.0    366   AC Paving   14.3    466         27.6  18.8
Camiri        8.0    7.3      1.8    286   AC paving    4.6      630       18.3   2.4
Bypass
Access Road   39.0   38.0    2.0       35   DST Paving   7.2      189      10.5  -0.7
El Espino
Total        194.9  189.4                                90.1    475       19.1  49.3
All sections on the Abap6 - Camiri corridor yield an EIRR higher than 12 percent on the base and
sensitivity scenarios. The upgrading of the access road to El Espino yields an EIRR of 10.5 percent
indicating that this component is not justified by only accessing resource savings in vehicle
operating costs and time for the expected normal and generated traffic. Considering that the
objective of this component is to provide all-weather access to the indigenous communities in the
area, which will bring many social non-quantifiable benefits, and that the economic return is very
close to 12 percent, the component is expected to yield positive overall society benefits.
The overall EIRR of the upgrading program is 19.1 percent with a NPV of M$ 49.3. Six sensitivity
tests were done: (a) a 20 percent increase in agency costs reduces the EIRR to 16.4 percent; (b) a 20
percent reduction in benefits reduces the EIRR to 15.9 percent; (c) a 20 percent increase in agency
costs and 20 percent decrease in benefits reduces the EIRR to 13.7 percent; (d) eliminating the
generated traffic originated by an increase in agricultural production in the region of Chapare,
which represents 78 percent of the total generated traffic, reduces the EIRR to 18.6 percent; (e)
eliminating all the generated traffic reduces the EIRR to 17.5 percent; and (f) reducing the traffic
growth rate to 4 percent during the first 10 years and to 3 percent afterwards reduces the EIRR to
17.6 percent.
EIRR Sensitivity
Base        Costs        Benefits    Costs +20%
Scenario      +20%          -20%      Benefits -20%
Abap6 - Ipita             17.5%        15.1%         14.6%         12.5%
Ipita - Ipati             18.3%        15.8%         15.3%         13.1%
Ipati - Camiri            27.6%        23.9%         23.1%         19.9%
Camiri Bypass             18.4%        15.8%         15.2%         12.9%
Access Road to El Espino  10.5%         8.5%          8.1%          6.4%
Upgrading Program         19.1%        16.4%         15.9%         13.5%
Base      Generated    Generated    4 % & 3%
Traffic      Traffic
Scenario     Without   Equal to Zero    Traffic
Chapare                     Growth
Abap6-Ipita               17.5%        17.1%         16.2%         16.1%
Ipita- 1pati              18.3%        17.8%         16.9%         16.9%
Ipati - Camiri            27.6%        27.1%         25.6%         25.9%
Camiri Bypass             18.4%        17.8%         16.8%         16.9%
Access Road to El Espino  10.5%        10.5%          8.2%          9.4%
Upgrading Program         19.1%    1   18.6%         17.5%          17.6%



Page 41
The switching value analysis indicates that agency costs need to be increased by 71 percent or user
benefits need to be decreased by 42 percent to yield an EIRR equal to 12 percent, which is very
unlikely, therefore, the program is well justified.
Comprehensive Maintenance Program
The road maintenance program will fimd maintenance, for the next three years, for a road network
of about 900 km in the area of influence of the project. SNC estimates that periodic works,
comprising asphalt concrete overlays, surface dressing, and gravel resurfacing will be needed on
156.6 km of the network. All periodic works under this program were evaluated, using the HDM
model, with current data for road, vehicle fleet, works characteristics, and costs. For paved roads,
the with project alternative includes the proposed work occurring in year one as well as routine
maintenance, 100% patching and future 4 cm overlays when roughness reaches 4.0 IRI; and was
compared to a without project alternative consisting of routine maintenance, 100% patching, and, if
needed, a future rehabilitation when roughness reaches 6.0 IRI. For unpaved roads, the without
project alternative includes routine maintenance and one grading per year and the with project
alternative includes gravel resurfacing in year one followed by routine maintenance and 4 gradings
per year. To approximately access the benefits of the program's recurrent expenditures to be
applied to all the network over the next three years, comprising of routine maintenance, emergency
activities, and minor works, the HDM model was used considering that on the without project
alternative 50 percent of the potholes will be patched and with the project 100 percent of the
potholes will be patched, this being a surrogate to good and deficient recurrent maintenance
activities. The table below presents the main section characteristics and corresponding results.
1997                   Financial Financial
Section       Length Surface Traffic    Work          Cost      Cost   IRR  NPV
(km)  Type  (ADT)         Type         (000$)  (OOO$/KM)  (%)  (M$)
San Ramon-Los Troncos  2.0   S.T.   570    Double Surface     54.4     27.2   15.6%  0.01
DST                                           Treatment
San Ramon-Los Troncos  3.6   S.T.   570     Single Surface    68.6     19.1   14.3%  0.01
SST                                           Treatment
Pto. Pailas-Pailon DST    4.3   S.T.   500    Double Surface    106.6    24.8   16.1%  0.02
Treatmnent
Pto. Pailas-Pailon SST    4.9   S.T.   500    Single Surface  84.1      17.2   15.0%  0.02
Treatment
Pailon-Los Troncos DST  12.3   S.T.   570    Double Surface    335.4    27.3   15.6%  0.06
Treatment
Pailon-Los Troncos SST  17.7   S.T.   570    Single Surface   336.4    19.0   14.4%  0.06
Treatment
Camiri-Boyuibe DST    25.6   S.T.  176 *   Double Surface    700.1    27.3   13.4%  0.08
Treatment
Camiri-Boyuibe SST    25.5   S.T.  176 *    Single Surface   484.2      19.0   14.9%  0.11
Treatment
Yacuiba-Boyuibe SST    184.1  S.T.  176 *    Single Surface    484.2    19.0   14.9%  0.11
Treatment
Cocota-Pto. Pailas     0.7   A.C.  5876        Overlay        43.3     61.8   131.6  0.10
Mariana-Angostura      8.4   A.C.   643        Overlay        505.0    60.1   17.8%  0.03
Angostura-La Guardia    2.0   A.C.  1302       Overlay        113.3    56.7   47.4%  0.05
Ipati - Incahuasi     38.4  Earth   53   Gravel Resurfacing   650.1     16.9   38.1%  0.78
Los Troncos - Okinawa   10.6  Earth  247  Gravel Resurfacing   254.3    24.0   33.3%  0.08



Page 42
Recurrent Activities   893.5                Recurrent Works per 2824.7      3.2    I N.A.  5.27
Year
Road Maintenance                                                                   19.4%  6.69
Program
* Generated traffic is expected when the Abap6-Carniri road is paved.
The overall rate of return of the road maintenance program is 19.4 percent with a net present value
of M$6.7. Three sensitivity test were done: (a) a 20 percent increase in agency costs reduces the
EIRR to 15.5 percent; (b) a 20 percent reduction in benefits reduces the EIRR to 14.7 percent; (c) a
20 percent increase in agency costs and 20 percent decrease in benefits reduces the EIRR to 11.8
percent. The switching value analysis indicates that agency costs need to be increased by 44
percent or user benefits need to be decreased by 31 percent to yield an EIRR equal to 12 percent,
indicating that the program is justified.
Distribution of Benefits
An evaluation of the upgrading program indicates that: (i) 88 percent of the program benefits are
due to a reduction on vehicle operating costs and 12 percent due to time savings; (ii) 13 percent of
the road user benefits go to cars and pickups, 32 percent go to buses and 55 percent to trucks; and
(iii) cars and pickups save 64 percent on road user costs, buses 47 percent, and trucks 56 percent.
To estimate the proportion of the program benefits that will directly benefit low income groups, the
following assumptions have been considered: (i) none of the benefits for cars and pickups will
benefit low income groups considering the high income of passenger cars; (ii) 88 percent of the
benefits for buses will benefit low income groups considering that this is the proportion of low
income population in the area; and (iii) 38 percent of the benefits to trucks will benefit low income
groups considering that that is the proportion of the cargo that carries agricultural products and
other goods of basic local consumption. The result of the evaluation is that around 50 percent of
the program benefits will benefit directly low-income groups in the area of influence of the project.
Overall Project Benefits
The table below presents a summary of the overall project benefits. The overall project EIRR is
19.1 percent. A 20 percent increase in agency costs reduces the EIRR to 16.4 percent. A 20 percent
reduction in benefits reduces the EIRR to 15.8 percent. A 20 percent increase in agency costs and
20 percent decrease in benefits reduces the EIRR to 13.5 percent. To yield an EIRR equal to 12
percent, agency costs have to be increased by 69 percent or benefits decreased by 41 percent.
These events have a low probability of occurrence indicating that the project economic viability is
robust.
Switching Values
Net       Internal    Increase       Decrease
Present Value   Rate    In Agency        in User
@ 12 percent   of Return  Costs to Yield  Benefits to Yield
(US$ Million)    (%)      NPV= 0         NPV = 0
Users     Upgrading Program      118.6
Maintenance Prograrn   9.9
Subtotal              128.5
Agency    Upgrading Program      -69.3
Maintenance Progran    -3.2
Subtotal              -72.5
Society    Upgrading Program     49.3        19.1%       71%             42%
Maintenance Program    6.7         19.4%       44%            31%
Overall Project        56.0        19.1%       69%            41%



Page 43
Annex 5
Abap6 - Camiri Highway Project (ACA-HP)
Financial Summary
Bank's Fiscal Years (July 1 - June 30)
(In million US$ 1999)
Implementation Period               |
2000    2001    2002    2003    2004   TOTAL
Project Costs
Investment Costs              21.0     31.5    32.1    15.4       8.1   108.1
Maintenance Costs              0.7      1.9      2.9     3.4      1.0     9.9
Technical Assistance Costs     0.4      0.4      0.4     0.4      0.4      2.0
Total                      22.1     33.8    35.4    19.2       9.5   120.0
Financing Sources (% of total
project costs)
IDA                           16.8     25.4    26.1    13.0       6.7    88.0
Government                     5.3      8.4      9.3     6.2      2.8    32.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries
Others                         0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0
Total                      22.1     33.8    35.4    19.2       9.5   120.0



Page 44
Annex 6
Abapo - Camiri Highway Project (ACA-HP)
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
Procurement methods (Table A)
The Government agreed to use IDA standard procedures for goods and civil works under ICB in
accordance with the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, January
1995," revised in January and August 1996, and September 1997. For the engagement and use of
consultants follow IDA standard procedures according to the "Guidelines Selection and
Employment of Consultants", January 1997, revised September 1997. Civil works are estimated to
account for about 92.9% of total project costs, consulting services about 7.0%, and 0.1% in goods.
Table A shows the distribution of the type of procurement appropriate for the acquisition of works,
goods and services under the project.
Civil Works.
Prequalification.
Civil work contracts for Component A Abap6-Camiri Highway (Bridge over the Rio Grande,
Abap6-Ipita, Ipita-Ipati, Ipati-Camiri), and Component C Comprehensive Maintenance will require
prequalification of contractors based on "Prequalification Procurement of Works, April 1993" and
defined in terms of minimum working capital, professional experience, volume and scope of similar
works. All contractors (foreign and local) interested in being prequalified will be evaluated on the
basis of "fail or pass evaluation criteria"; that is, only those complying with the minimum criteria
will be qualified.
International Competitive Bidding - ICB
Civil works contracts for Component A Abap6-Camiri Highway (Bridge over the Rio Grande, Abapo-Ipita,
Ipita-lpati, Ipati-Camiri, and the Camiri By-pass) and Component B Access Road to El Espino Road, as well
as any civil works estimated to cost US$10 million or more, will be procured on the basis of ICB procedures
in accordance with "Bank Standard Documents for Procurement of Works (Major Works), January 1995".
Civil work contracts for Component C Comprehensive Maintenance, as well as any civil works
estimated to cost more than US$3 million and less than US$10 million, will be procured on the
basis of ICB procedures in accordance with the "Bank Standard Documents for Procurement of
Works (Smaller Contracts), January 1995".
National Competitive Bidding - NCB
Contracts for works costing between US$3 million and US$250,000 will be procured under NCB
acceptable to IDA. These will be based on standard bidding documents to be approved by the
Association. The following principles will govern procurement under NCB: (i) foreign contractors
will be allowed to bid on all contracts and will not be required to be associated with local
contractors or suppliers; (ii) there will be no restriction on sources of labor or materials, except for
use of unskilled labor: (iii) invitation to bid will be advertised for at least three days in a newspaper
with wide circulation in Bolivia; (iv) no reference to minimum or maximum prices will be used for



Page 45
purposes of evaluation of bids for supply of goods; (v) bids will be opened in public; and (vi)
contracts must be awarded to the lowest evaluated bidder in accordance with criteria clearly set
forth in the bidding documents.
Price Quotations
Routine maintenance works estimated to cost less than US$250,000 equivalent per contract will be
procured on the basis of price quotations acceptable to IDA. The price quotations should be
obtained from three qualified local contractors (with experience and resources to successfully
complete the contract) in response to a written invitation. The invitation will include a detailed
description of the works, including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form
of agreement acceptable to the Bank and relevant drawings when necessary. The award will be
made to the lowest evaluated bidder in accordance with criteria clearly set forth in the bidding
documents.
Goods.
Goods and equipment costing less than US$50,000 per contract will be procured through local
shopping.
Consulting Services.
Consultants for civil work supervision, technical assistance, training programs, engineering and
auditing services will be selected and engaged following the January, revised September 1997 Bank
Group consultant guidelines. The hiring of consultants will be made using QBCS, LCS and hiring
of individuals will be made on Selection Based on Qualifications.
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
The Association will review ex-ante all procurement documentation (advertising, bidding
documents, bid evaluation and contract award) under ICB as well as the first two contracts in each
year under NCB. The documents for the remaining contracts under NBC will be subject to ex-post
review by the IDA. All other procurement documentation will be retained by the SNC and subject
to selective ex-post review by the IDA's supervision missions. The provisions of the Consultant
Guidelines requiring prior IDA review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures,
letters of invitations, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts shall not apply to: (a) contracts for
the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost US$200,000 equivalent or less each; or (b)
contracts for the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost US$50,000 equivalent or
less each. However, this exemption to prior IDA review will not apply to: (a) terms of reference for
such contracts; (b) single source selection of firms; (c) assignments of a critical nature as
reasonably determined by the IDA; (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting
firms raising the contract value to US$200,000 equivalent or more; or (e) amendments to contracts
for the employment of individual consultants raising the contract value to US$50,000 equivalent or
more. Under these procedures, IDA's prior review will cover 98.6% of the total contract values.
Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
Disbursements will be made against the following categories of eligible expenditures: (a) 80% of
total expenditures for civil works of road upgrading, and bridge construction; (b) 20% of total
expenditures for the comprehensive maintenance by contract program, and routine maintenance



Page 46
works; (c) 80% of total expenditures for civil works and comprehensive maintenance supervision;
(d) 100% of foreign expenditures and local expenditures (ex-factory costs), and 80% of items
procured locally, for goods; and, (e) 100% of the cost for consulting services for technical
assistance to SNC and VMT, and technical audits. Table C shows the basis of loan disbursements.
The estimated schedule of disbursements is shown in Annex 5. The Government's aim is to
substantially complete the project by December 2003, and the implementation schedule has been
developed on this basis. Experience shows, however, that some slippage is likely. The expected
project closing date is June 30, 2004.
Use of statements of expenses (SOEs):
Disbursement requests in respect of civil work contracts over US$3,000,000; and consultant
contracts over US$200,000 for firms and US$50,000 for individuals will be fully documented. In
all other cases, disbursements will be made against statements of expenditures (SOEs). All SOEs
will be transmitted through SNC, which will retain the supporting documentation in separate files
for each SOE and make it available for examination by IDA staff during supervision missions.
During project preparation, it was confirmed that there are sufficient and qualified staff in the SNC
to record, handle and report on the SOE related transactions.
Special account:
A Special Account (SA) will be opened and maintained in US dollars in the Central Bank of
Bolivia, and up to US$6 million can be advanced from the credit into the SA to facilitate
disbursements for the purpose of the project. The initial deposit will be limited to US$3 million
until the aggregate disbursed amount has reached US$12 million. IDA will replenish the Special
Account upon receipt of disbursement requests from the Borrower. The SNC will control the use of
the Special Account and be responsible for preparing the disbursement requests on behalf of the
Borrower. These requests should be submitted every month, or when the Special Account has been
drawn to 35% of its initial deposit, whichever comes first.
The operating arrangements for the Special Account have been agreed at negotiations.



Page 47
Annex 6, Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Total Cost
Expenditure Category           Procurement Method                                            (including
contingencies)
ICB            NCB           Other       N.B.F
1. Works                                                                                    111.5 (82.3)
a) Bridge in Abap6                4.6 (3.7)
b) Abap6 - IpitA                 38.0 (30.4)
c) IpitA - Ipati                 28.4 (22.7)
d) Ipati - Carniri               15.7 (12.5)
e) Camiri by-pass                 5.1 (4.1)
f) Access Road to El Espino       8.0 (6.4)
g) Comprehensive Maintenance     11.5 (2.3)
h) Routine Maintenance                           0.1 (0.1)       0.1 (0.1)
2. Goods                                                                                       0.1 (0.1)
a) For SNC & VMT                                                 0.1 (0.1)
3. Consulting Services                                                                         8.4 (5.6)
a) Institutional Strengthening                                   0.3 (0.3)      1.4
b) Supervision Civil Works                                        5.9 (4.6)
c) Supervision Compreh. Maint.                                    0.8 (0.7)
4. Miscellaneous
Total                           111.3 (82.1)    0.1 (0.1)      7.2 (5.8)      1.4         120.0 (88.0)
Note: N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed (includes elements procured under parallel cofinancing
procedures, consultancies under trust funds, any reserved procurement, and any other miscellaneous
items). The procurement arrangement for the items listed under "Other" includes civil works
procured with price quotations.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA credit.



Page 48
Annex 6, Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements
(in US$million equivalent)
Selection Method
Consultant Services Expenditure                                                                  Total Cost
Category                                                                                (including
contingene
ies)
QCBS    QBS   SFB        LCS      CQ       Other      N.B.F.
A. Firms                                                                                              8.3 (5.5)
Supervision Civil Works             5.9 (4.6)
Supervision Compreh. Maint.         0.8 (0.7)
T.A. Concession Project             0.1 (0. 1)
Tech. & Finan. Auditing                                     0.1 (0. 1)
Reset.&Ind.Peop.&Com.Rel. Plans                                                              1.4
B. Individuals                                                                                       0.1 (0. 1)
PCU & EU and Training                                                           0.1 (0. 1)
Total   6.8 (5.4)               0.1 (0.1)          0.1(0.1)      1.4     8.4 (5.6)
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines), Commercial
Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA credit.



Page 49
Annex 6, Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Procurement item as per the Procurement Plan
Review
1.0 Civil Works                                                                           Prior Review of all
prequalification
documents
Prior Review of all
contracts each year
Prior Review of first two
contracts each year
Post Review
20 Goods
Post Review of a sample
of contracts
3.0 Consultant's Services
3.1 Firms                                                                                Prior Review of
Consultants: all TORs,
short lists (including full
review of technical and
combined evaluations)
Prior Review of all TORs
and short list
3.2 Individuals
Prior Review of all TORs
and short list
Prior Review of
Consultants: CV's and
Term.s of Reference.
Post Review of
Consultants: Contracts.
Prior Review: twice
yearly review of program
of contracting.
Post Review: random
sample of contracting
documents.



Page 50
Annex 6, Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category                 Amount in       Amount in       Financing Percentage
US$ million    SDR million
1. Civil Works                                     74.30            54.60
a) Road upgrading and reconst. and bridge construct.  72.10    52.95                      80%
b) Comprehensive Maintenance Program             2.00           1.50                      20%
c) Routine Road Maintenance                      0.20           0.15                      20%
2. Consulting Services                              5.50            4.07
a) Civil Works Supervision and Tech. Auditing.   4.60          3.4                        80%
b) Supervision of a Comprehensive Maintenance    0.60          0.45                       80%
c) SNC & VMT Institutional Strengthening. PCU,   0.30          0.22                      100%
Environmental Unit & Concessions.
3. Goods                                            0.10            0.08   80% local expend., and
100% of foreign expend.
4. Unallocated                                      8.10            5.95    74% (Average)
Total          88.00           64.7      73% (Average)



Page 51
Annex 7
Abap6 - Camiri Project (ACA-HP)
SNC Financial Management Assessment Summary
The financial management assessment of SNC, which is a required component of the project
appraisal, was based on the findings of the external auditors for 1997 and work in process on the
1998 and the review conducted during the missions of November 1998 and April 1999. The
conclusion of the assessment is that now that SNC has reconciled its assets accounts with subsidiary
records and performed the other reconciliations; the records can be considered reliable hence their
financial management is adequate.
The work taken to address the problem of reconciliation between the investment accounts in the
general ledger of the entity, which relate to the projects underway, and the subsidiary project
records kept in the Project Coordination Unit is now completed, will result in an improved opinion
of the auditors, and provides a reliable link between the double entry entity wide accounts and the
project specific expense analysis, used to produced the external reports. Fortunately, the reporting
systems and other controls in place will support LACI, once minor modifications to the project
reporting are effected.
Organization and Staffing
The project will be administered within SNC's Financial Department and will be subject to all the
review and control of the operations of the entity including internal audits. The staff of SNC is of
sufficient size to permit proper segregation of functions and independent review. To achieve timely
external reporting and additional supervision over the operations, a Project Coordination Unit is
staffed and responsible for recording all project expenditures by credit agreement and preparing the
individual project external and management reporting in the format required by respective donors.
The administrative function is organized under the financial department manager (Jefe del
Departamento de Finanzas), and reporting to him are: the Head of the Accounting Department and
the Head of the Projects Unit. Additionally, there is an Internal Audit Department reporting to the
Executive Director. The background and qualifications of the staff currently appointed fully meet
the requirements for this responsibility.
Accounting System
SNC has a computer based double entry bookkeeping system designed to record all the entity's
activity (i.e. all projects and regular resources) under the uniform government accounting system.
These are the records that support the entity and the project external audit and are the source of
input or compliance with the national accounts compiled by the Ministry of Finance. The SIIF
(Sistema Integrado de Informaci6n Financiera) input is made directly from the system. However,
since the transactions are coded in the books under the uniform account code, there is no reliable
link between these and the cost categories and components presented in the credit agreement,
registered by the project reporting prepared by the Project Coordination Unit.
To address the external reporting requirements, the Project Coordination Unit processes all charges
to the project before they are actually disbursed and booked by Accounting, as such, they register
these in their subsidiary project records in the exact format of the credit agreement i.e. by cost
category and component. This record is complemented by notations on the physical progress and
the contract status. This set of project financial and physical records by contract constitute an
excellent base for monitoring and would support LACI-PMR reporting



Page 52
This approach of using subsidiary projects outside the official accounting has the advantage of
being flexible to accommodate the exact format of the credit agreement and being able to add non
financial data in the same records. This requires that these records be kept balanced to the entity
accounting records (general ledger).
Auditing Arrangements
SNC engaged external auditors for Credit 2395-BO who were satisfactory to the Bank and worked
under Terms of Reference acceptable to the Bank for both the project and the entity audits. It was
agreed during negotiations that similar arrangements will be followed for the proposed credit and
that the financial audit will be contracted for the total estimated period of project implementation
and that the procurement process for the audit will start as soon as the credit is effective.
The project financial statements of Credit 2395-BO for 1997 received a clean opinion, while the
entity audited statements were given an adverse opinion that arose from: (i) limitations in the scope,
since the auditors were not appointed on time for the year end inventory taking, so they could audit
the stock taking; (ii) the fact that 80% of SNC assets relate to finished works which should have
been passed to memo accounts and the lack of reconciliation between the asset balance and the
corresponding equity accounts; and (iii) the lack of reconciliation between the investment
accounts, which relate to the projects underway, and the subsidiary project records kept in the
Project Coordination Unit. SCN contracted in 1998 a team of professional accountants who
resolved the three issues mentioned as causes of the adverse opinion and implemented the
recommendations presented in the report on internal control.
Disbursements, Funds Flow, and Cash Management
It was determined that the project will be funded through a Special Account operated in compliance
with the provisions of Operational Guidelines and Directives (OP/BP/GP 12.20) on the basis of
cash withdrawal requests supported by Statement of Expenditures for the first 12 months and then
supported by quarterly PMRs.
Funds will be drawn from the Special Account periodically and transferred to a disbursements
account in Bolivianos in a commercial account for exclusive use by the project. Disbursements
originate with the request of the technical staff, which is recorded as a commitment in the
Accounting area and then processed for payment in Treasury following the review and approval by
Accounting of the supporting documentation.
PMR Preparation
It was agreed that during the first year of the project SNC will take the following steps needed to
produce the PMRs in accordance with the LACI Handbook.
(i)   Attend Bank workshop on LACI financial statement preparation. Aug./Oct. 1999
(ii)  Develop customize Excel Spread Sheets in the Project Coordination Unit (Report 1) with link
to contract control (Report 3). Sept./Nov 1999
(iii) Develop reporting format for the Key Performance Indicators which are quantifiable and for
which costs can be assigned (Report 2) Oct./Dec. 1999
(iv) Prepare PMRs for activity on 1999 parallel to SOEs already submitted 1st quarter 2000.



Page 53
Annex 8
Abap6 - Camiri Highway Project (ACA-HP)
Environmental and Social Assessment
Introduction
Most of the rehabilitation and paving under the project will follow the existing road alignment. An
initial environmental screening of the project identified no potentially significant direct and indirect
impacts. No precedent setting or regional impacts of importance were envisioned. Most direct
impacts will be related to erosion, slope stability and drainage concerns, easily dealt with through
the engineering design. However, the screening also identified the need to deal with issues such as:
(i) minor resettlement of rural and urban families along the right of way; and (ii) the definition of a
major alternative alignment proposed by indigenous communities that would go through or closer
to their territories.
Although the project was classified as Category B for environmental purposes, and in order to
comply with national environmental assessment legislation, a full environmental assessment was
undertaken during project preparation. The terms of reference for this study were complemented to
follow Bank guidelines specially to deal with resettlement and indigenous people issues. As part of
the EIA, an assessment of potential social impacts was completed (for a full description of the study
and its results see the Estudio de Impacto Ambiental Carretera Abapo-Camiri report, in Project
Files). The assessment focused on the direct and indirect impacts the project could have on families
within the project area of influence and on indigenous people communities.
Indirect Impacts
The EA report analyzed potential indirect or induced impacts at the regional level stemming from
improved road conditions. These impacts were deemed of lesser magnitude and importance due
mainly to the existing conditions and environmental setting of the project. Additional pressures on
natural resources (logging, colonization) are also expected to be of low magnitude because: (i) the
existing road has been operational for several decades with an existing traffic of around 300
vehicles (mainly trucks) per day; (ii) oil exploration and exploitation have been important economic
activities in the area for many decades (Camiri is indeed an oil boom town) and the area is traversed
by seismic lines, oil roads, and pipelines; (iii) the Santa Cruz-Abap6 link, as well as the Camiri-
Argentine border segment, have already been paved (for over 4 years), the only unpaved section
being Abap6-Camiri; (iv) soil conditions and negative water balance in the area preclude any
intensive agricultural activity; and (v) existing national parks and reserves are located at a
significant distance from the road and are well protected. In addition, the Santa Cruz Department
has prepared and is implementing a land use plan (PLUS) for the entire department, which
establishes land use restrictions and infrastructure construction, extensive cattle ranching being the
recommended use for the Abap6-Camiri area, with a watershed protective forest in the Abap6-EI
Lim6n area (km 30-50 of the proposed road). Local expectations towards this project are quite high
specially in the indigenous communities. These communities want an improved access to Santa
Cruz for their products.
Alternative Alignments
Improved access to markets, mainly Santa Cruz, has been a long time aspiration of indigenous
communities in the Charagua area. They proposed an alternative alignment through the El Espino
village (some 35 km from Abap6), and then connecting back to the original alignment at Ipita. This
alternative was viewed as a way to guarantee an access to indigenous communities to an improved



Page 54
international road. However, this alternative alignment would entail: (i) going through a small, yet
inaccessible watershed (Itani Creek), with high slopes and impressive scenery, but which still
maintains relicts of native flora and fauna; and (ii) a higher risk of cultural impacts as the highway
traffic would go closer to indigenous communities. The proposed alignment would also increase
traffic time and costs because of the geological restrictions. This alternative in itself would also
require a Category A classification according to Bank's EA policies. Public consultation meetings
were held, in which the benefits and negative impacts of both alternatives were presented to the
communities. As a conclusion, the government agreed that the project would guarantee access to
the communities regardless of the alignment finally selected. The final alignment would follow the
existing road between Abap6 and El Limon. However, the government agreed that the Abap6 - El
Espino link will also be paved as a major component of an indigenous peoples development plan. In
this manner, the indigenous communities will have access to project benefits but avoiding the most
potentially negative impacts of their proposal.
Other alternative alignments considered included by-passing some of the communities in order to
minimize resettlement needs and traffic safety concerns. In total, five by-passes will be built,
including a 7.3 km by-pass at Camiri. These by passes, in turn, raised some concerns in local
communities regarding the impact on roadside activities.
Principal Environmental and Social Impacts
The most significant and potentially adverse direct impacts identified by the study are related to: (i)
the resettlement of families in the right of way and the potential economic affectation of small
business; (ii) the interaction of workers with the local community and potential damages to private
property and community infrastructure, and nuisances to communities caused by construction
activities; (iii) the potential impacts on indigenous communities due to increased risk of
encroachment on indigenous lands, both in terms of land security and cultural impacts; and (iv)
localized environmental impacts due to new alignments and by-passes, road widening, and
construction activities. Measures to avoid, mitigate and/or compensate affected families and
communities were developed into specific plans.
Public Consultation
Consultation with civil society representatives and local community leaders throughout the process
helped with the identification of these potential adverse impacts, as well as with the definition of
the mitigation/compensation plans. During the consultations widespread support to the project was
found and the potential positive and negative social impacts were discussed with the participants.
Environmental Management Plan
The environmental and social assessment recommended four specific action plans aimed at
avoiding and/or mitigating possible negative impacts and enhancing access to the expected benefits
of the project: (i) resettlement plan; (ii) indigenous peoples development plan; (iii) community
relations plan; and (iv) environmental management of construction activities.
(i) Resettlement Plan
The Abap6-Camiri road passes through several small towns and hamlets. To avoid town crossings,
multiple realignments and bypasses were introduced into the project design (Tatarenda Nuevo,
Gutierrez, Ipita, Ipati and Camiri). According to Bolivian legislation, the road's right of way is 50
m. to each side. Within the right of way more than 80 households were identified by the study.
However, to minimize the affectations, the SNC allowed for a partial use of the "legal" right of



Page 55
way, identifying only those dwellings that would be physically affected by the road platform, embankments,
drainage and for road safety reasons, and reducing the actual right of way to 30 meters in key points along
the highway, thus decreasing in that way the number of families that would be forced to move only to 34.
While the road realignments and bypasses helped to significantly decrease the resettlement needs, at the
same time they could have an impact on small merchants and service providers located at the side of the
existing road, by reducing traffic and business activities on existing routes through small towns. These
merchants will be affected as with the new road their potential clientele would have to take a detour to access
them or passing by traffic would simple no longer stop. Some 92 small merchants and service providers
under these conditions were identified (see Box 1). The project will provide technical assistance to these
municipalities to identify alternatives for taking advantage of the new road conditions and by passes and the
re-establishment of economic activities for affected businesses.
Box 1. Impacts on Roadside Activities: Perhaps the most important community activities affected by
the new road conditions (by-passes, bridge) will be the crossing of the Rio Grande river at Abap6.
Over 40 small poor family business (mainly food and refreshments, some stay-over "hotels") have
thrived on the obligatory stop of buses and traffic to cross the river over a one-way railroad bridge.
Most of small business have illegally occupied lands along the existing road and the access path to the
railroad bridge. Traffic congestion is high and sanitary conditions are deficient. During public
consultation meetings, municipal and community leaders expressed their fear of the loss of business
due to the construction of a new bridge under the project. On the other hand, SNC wanted to avoid a
disorderly "migration" of these business to the new bridge access or to other sites along the right of
way of the new road. In addition to a minor cash compensation to help their relocation, the project will
provide: the basic infrastructure (clearing, paving and drainage) of a roadside site provided by the
municipality next to a future toll booth at the town entrance (around two kilometers from new bridge).
This infrastructure will be the first step towards the construction of a town rural market which is being
supported by the municipality and the cooperative of small business in Abap6.
To mitigate and compensate for the affectations caused by the involuntary resettlement of families and
business loses, a resettlement plan was prepared (See Plan de Indemnizaci6n y Reasentamientos Humanos,
PIRHon Project Files). The resettlement plan included different options based on the degree of vulnerability
and affectation of the families: (i) cash indemnification; (ii) relocation within the same property; (iii)
resettlement to a new location in the vicinity; (iv) cash compensation for potential business loses. The
resettlement seeks to improve the living conditions of the affected families, particularly of those more
vulnerable and poor. In this regard, the plan comprises the construction of a basic rural dwelling which is
substantially better that the current houses these families occupy. Most of these cases are occupants with no
land titles. The resettlement plan will provide then with secure land titles and better housing conditions.
Eleven families will receive cash indemnification, 18 families will be resettled to other location and, 5
families will be relocated within their property. Also, the right of way crosses by 112 agricultural properties
that are affected in different degrees. Direct costs of the resettlement plan are US$ 415,663. Table 1,
summarizes the types of affectations and amount of indemnification/compensation for each.



Page 56
Table 1: Resettlement Plan: Type and Number of Affectations and Compensation Costs
Type of Affectation                             Number of                  Cost
Affected                 (US$)
Units
Dwelling affectation with cash compensation         11                    111,736
Resettlement to other location                      18                    62,663
Relocation within the property                       5                    16,973
Business with cash compensation                     92                    91,815
Agricultural properties with cash compensation      112                   62,976
Staff, equipment and administration costs                                 69,500
Total                                                                     415,663
The SNC would be responsible for the general implementation and supervision of the resettlement
plan. The resettlement plan would be implemented by an executive environmental unit (Unidad
Aimbiental Ejecutora) and some specific activities would be decentralized to either contractors or
local governments. The resettlement plan would be initiated before construction works begin and
support to affected families would continue until the affected families have been satisfactorily
reestablished.
(ii) Indigenous People Development Plan
Indigenous populations are mainly settled in areas over 30 km. from the road. Some 16,000
indigenous people from the "Capitanias Kaaguasu, Kami and Charagua Norte live in the project's
area of influence. These capitanias have land claims over 455,000 Ha. However they do not have
land titles that would grant them land tenure security. Most of these communities survive from
agricultural and livestock production which are combined with seasonal wage-work. Incidence of
poverty among these communities is high, much of their basic need are unsatisfied and their overall
quality of life is poor. The lack of regular transport has been a chronic feature that has contributed
to the communities' poverty. Currently, indigenous communities in the area lack permanent and
easy access to basic services and markets.
The indigenous people see the Abap6-Camiri highway and the access road to El Espino as an
effective alternative that could contribute to improve their quality of live and provide better
opportunities for economic development. The indigenous communities are most interested in the
construction of the road to facilitate their access to markets. This interest was confirmed by
representatives (Capitanes Grandes) of the Kaaguasu, Kami, Charagua Norte and Bajo and Alto
Izozog, communities that officially requested that the construction of the road goes through El
Espino, and also by the identification mission in informal meetings with thecorregidor (the mayor)
of the community of El Espino. This access would follow an existing dirt road parallel to the
railway, surrounding an area of indigenous settlements, although it is separate enough from them
and would provide benefits to the indigenous communities without serious negative impact.
However, the indigenous communities are also aware of the potential risks the Abap6-Camiri
highway and the access road to El Espino may have in terms of opening their lands to colonization
as well as the weakening of their social organization and culture. During the consultation process
the IDA mission discussed with the indigenous communities about these potential negative impacts
and the indigenous leaders emphasized the importance of land titling as a mechanism to prevent
colonization.
As a result of the assessment and through a process of consultation with indigenous representatives
from CABI and CIDOB, as well as with the local communities living in the project area, an
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan (PADI) aimed at ensuring that the communities would



Page 57
benefit from the road was agreed. The PADI entails several activities ranging support to land titling
to bilingual education and support to handcrafts development.
Specifically, the PADI comprises four components (for details see Plan de Apoyo al Indigena,
PADI, on Project Files). First, there is a land titling component that seeks to facilitate the land
titling process. Through this component funds would become available to the communities. These
resources would enable the communities to get technical assistance and provide follow up the legal
process. Second, the PADI entails an organizational strengthening component, which seeks to help
the Capitanias of Kaaguasu, Kami, Charagua Norte to identify training needs and provide training
to some 70 community leaders. Third, there is a bilingual education component that would
contribute to the training on bilingual educatioiu of rural school teacher and would provide bilingual
teaching materials to the rural schools in the area. Finally, there is a handcraft development
component targeted to indigenous women to improve the quality of their products and help them
with their marketing. Table 2 summarizes the costs of the PADI by component.
The PADI would coordinated and supervised by a Board of Directors constituted by four
indigenous leaders (one from each of the three Capitanias and a representative from theAsociacidn
del Pueblo Guarani), a representative for the SNC, a member of the environmental supervision
contractor firm and the executive director of the PADI and PIRH. The PADI will be executed by a
contractor (the same that will implement the PIRH).
Table 2: Indigenous People Development Plan: Costs by Component
Component                                                        Cost
Land Titling                                                     38,050
Organizational Strengthening                                     50,850
Bilingual Education                                              67,050
Handcraft Development for Women                                  57,850
Administration                                                   82,650
Total Costs                                                     296,450
(iii) Community Relations Plan
Road construction works may disrupt the communities in the vicinity of the right of way as there
will be an influx of workers increased traffic of heavy machinery, potential damages to private
property and conflicts with the local population. Further to the consultation process, specific
participation mechanisms were identified and a committee with representatives from different civil
society organizations was established. This committee recommended follow-up activities to
facilitate communications and to avoid conflicts with the local community. As a result of this
process a Community Relations Plan (CRP) was developed.
The CRP involves: (i) the establishment of a civil society consultative committee, (ii) procedures
and mechanisms for information dissemination and community access to project management and;
(iii) support to local governments for urban planning initiatives.  It also involves specific
recommendations regarding location of worker's camp, workers' code of conduct and
indemnification procedures for potential damages which were introduced in the Environmental
Management Plan. Technical assistance to local communities will also be provided in order to



Page 58
support land use planning and identify alternatives to improve roadside activities under the new
conditions of the highway and the by-passes. Table 3 below summarizes the main activities and
costs of the CRP.
Table 3: Community Relations Plan: Costs by Component
Component                                                        Cost
Public Information                                               11,600
Environmental training                                           16,450
Public safety outreach activities                                37,600
Support to Urban Planning                                       154,500
Support to the Development of Marketing Strategies               52,850
Staff and Administration                                        405,400
Total Costs                                                     678,400
A Board of Directors would be responsible for the execution of the CRP. The board, composed by
representatives from the SNC, six representatives of the local governments (Abap6, El Espino,
lpita, Gutierrez, Ipati and, Camiri), a member of the environmental supervision contractor firm and
an executive manager who would also be a board member.
The area has no known archaeological sites and the potential for chance findings is low. However,
chance finding procedures for archaeological sites will be part of the environmental specifications
for construction activities. In addition, the Board of Directors of the SRP will be also responsible
for managing a contingency fund (US$20,000) for archeological salvage.
Environmental specifications for road design and construction
All mitigation measures for direct impacts (erosion control, embankment and slope stability,
drainage) have been incorporated into project design and will be included in project costs. In
addition, all the environmental requirements for road construction have been incorporated in an
environmental annex which will be part of bidding documents. This manual establishes specific
rules for minimizing environmental impacts during construction and provides guidance on the
design of specific environmental mitigation measures such as slope stability, construction waste
disposal and erosion control.  Examples of topics that are included in the environmental
specifications annex are: (i) explicit prohibitions and environmental behavior guidelines for work
crews, specially along sensitive areas and near rural communities; (ii) proper selection and
management of quarries, borrow pits, gravel extraction sites in rivers and streams; (iii) the
rehabilitation of affected areas through soil replacement and revegetation; (iv) selection of camp
sites (with specific guidelines on distance to communities according to their population),
management of camp wastes, and guidelines for camp dismantling and abandonment; (v) proper
disposal of excavated earth and spoil materials to avoid pollution of streams; and (vi) proper
disposal of wastes from construction machinery and equipment. The guidelines will also include
chance finding procedures for archaeological artifacts. Enforcement of these guidelines will be
under the responsibility of the Supervision Engineering firm.
Institutional Capacity for Environmental Management
At present, SNC's capability to address environmental issues associated with road projects
continues to be weak. However, environmental management capacity in SNC is being strengthened
through the ongoing Road Maintenance Project. The proposed reorganization of SNC (starting



Page 59
January 1999) will elevate the existing environmental unit of SNC to a higher hierarchical status
within the organization (Division Level) and under the technical Sub-Directorate. The project will
provide additional support to SNC to strengthen environmental management capabilities.



FM    11    t~~~JFM~J i-    --                          I                                                                                       I -F -               Esti 
ll 0
C,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i                                                                                                  L           . 
I,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
1   E3   113 W10                                                                                                                                                 -    -311   12  1j1  ESS   1a10 N1  LElt  '  113 1E1'   '   '   ' ES  1331   13S a  13  13   lEl 121 L   4
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. .. ... . . ... .. . \. ....   ... 7 ....
..........                     .........    .........                 .                                                              .....                             ... .-  . ...............................
1-1C - 'a -l   '- 11  -1'1   1                                                                                                                        11                      1
'0.
..........  ,              ........ ..... . . ...... ........ ..... .... .... .... .... .... ..... .... ........ .... ..... ............ .... ......... .... . ... . ... ......... ........ .... .... ................. ........ ..... ............ .... ....
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0,
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(4- "i
Ct~~~~C



Page 61
Annex 10
Abap6 - Camiri Highway Project (ACA-HP)
Project Performance Monitoring Indicators
The following set of Project Performance Indicators will serve as the basis for both the project
supervision and evaluation. They have been organized in four groups: input, output, outcome and
impact indicators to link the project objectives and components (inputs) with the expected
processes, outputs and outcomes. They will provide the project implementers with a monitoring
tool for ensuring proper use of project resources and that the goods and services the project is
expected to produce are delivered.
A.   Input Indicators measure the quantity of resources provided for the project activities.
1.    Project Resources (US$000).
Project Components             IDA           GoB           Others         Total
Civil Works                    80.0          20.1           0.0           100.1
Comprehensive Maintenance      2.2            9.2           0.0            11.4
Supervision                     5.4           1.3           0.0            6.7
Goods                          0.1            0.0           0.0            0.1
Consulting services            0.3            1.4           0.0            1.7
Total                          88.0          32.0           0.0           120.0
2.     Maintenance budget (US$ million) (not project financed)
Budget              1999        2000          2001          2002           2003
(Calendar
y ea r)__           _ _ _ _  __ _  _ _ _  __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   __ _ _ _  _ _
Planned             20.0         21.0         21.0           22.0          23.0
Executed        I           I_                _           _
3.     Civil Works Cost. (including supervision and contingencies)
Projects Components               Estimate    Actual   Differenc   %
d US$       US$      e
000        000
(A) Abap6 Camiri Highway (cost per km)          640
(B) Access Road to El Espino (cost per km)      224
(C) Comprehensive Maintenance (cost per km-year)  4.6                            =
*  (CD) Maintenance cost per kilometer (periodic)  24.0
*  (CE) Maintenance cost per kIn-year (routine)  3.0
4.     Disbursements (US$ million).
Bank's         2000          2001           2002           2003            2004
FY
IDA   GoB   IDA   GoB   IDA    GoB    IDA    GoB    IDA    GoB
Estimate    168   5       25.4    .4   26.1    9.3    13.0    6.2    6.7    2.8
Actual



Page 62
5.     Average Supervision Cost as percentage of civil works contracts.
Bank's FY                               2000      2001    2002       2003     2004
Supervision cost/civil works cost (%/O)
Supervision cost/compreh. maint..cost (%)
Estimate: 6% (Civil Works)
8% (Comprehensive Maintenance)
6.     Average percentage of physical contingencies in civil works .
Bank's FY                                2000    2001       2002    2003    2004
Physical Contingencies in Civil Works (%)
Physical Contingencies in Compr. Maint.(%)
Estimate: 8% (Civil Works)
8% (Comprehensive Maintenance)
7.     Average percentage of contingencies in consulting contracts.
Bank's FY                             l  2000  1 2001  1 2002  J 2003  | 2004
Contingencies in Consulting Contracts (%)
Estimate: 0%
8.   Percentage of contracts completed on time.
Bank's FY                  r            2000   | 2001       2002    2003      2004
Contracts Completed on time (%)      ll
More than 80%: very satisfactory  60-80%: satisfactory  40-60%: unsatisfactory   Less than 40%: very unsatisfactory
9.     Percentage of contracts completed on budget.
Bank's FY                                2000     2001  j 2002    2003  J 2004
Contracts Completed on budget (%)    I
More than 80%: very satisfactory  60-80%: satisfactory  40-60%: unsatisfactory   Less than 40%: very unsatisfactory
B.   Output Indicators measure the quantity of goods and services provided through the use of
inputs.
Project Components/Bank's FY                 2000      2001      2002       2003     2004
Civil Works (km)
Comprehensive Maintenance (km)
Supervision (% of cost)
Goods (% of cost)
Consulting services (% of cost)
Total                                    _



Page 63
C.   Outcome Indicators measure the quantity of direct results that have been achieved through
the provision of project goods and services.
1.  Vehicle Usage. Current and Estimated Future Traffic
Project           ADT             ADT (v.p.d)              ADT (v.p.d)
(v.p.d)
Components           1998               2001                     2004
Sections               Current       Planned     Actual      Planned      Actual
Abap6-Ipita              243           268                     370
Ipita-Ipati              229           252                     350
Ipati-Camiri             366           480                     559
Bypass of Camiri         286           379                     441
Access to El Espino      35            50                       59
ADT = Average Daily Traffic
v.p.d. = vehicles per day
2.     Road Condition. Comprehensive Maintenance Component
Current and Future Condition of Roads in the Comprehensive Maintenance
Component
1999            2000      2001       2002      2003
Total Roads           KM          %         KM        KM         KM         KM
Condition 1        37          4         14         0         0          0
Condition 2        147         16        120       50          0         0
Condition 3        458         51       230        194        94         0
Condition 4        252         28       450        450        500       520
Condition 5         0          0         80        200       300        374
TOTAL         894        100       894        894        894       894
3.     Progress of routine maintenance by contract.
Maintenance by Contract
Year       Km.         US$ equiv.
1999
2000
2001
2002
2003
4.     Road Condition. National Road Network
Current and Future Condition of the National Road Network
1998                  2001                 2001
Planned              Actual
National Road         KM                     KM          %         KM 
Network (*)
*  Paved               2,532        37
*  Gravel              3,853       56



Page 64
Current and Future Condition of the National Road Network
1998                   2001                 2001
Planned               Actual
*  Earth                506          7
TOTAL       6,891       100
National Road         KM           %         KM           %         KM%
Network (*)
*  Condition 1          213          3
*  Condition 2         2,204        32
*  Condition 3         3,130        45
*  Condition 4          1,292       19
*  Condition 5           52          1
TOTAL       6,891       100
Condition 1: POOR          Condition 3: REGULAR                    Condition 5: GOOD
(*) It includes only the "maintainable" sections of the network and excludes roads under construction
or non existing yet.
5.     Financing of Maintenance
Routine Road Maintenance Account (US$ millions)
Calendar year         1999       2000       2001       2002   1  2003
Budget Needs (US$)      20        21         21         22         23
Account Funds (US$)    14.0        16        18         20         23
D.   Impact Indicators measure the degree to which project objectives are being achieve through
the direct outcomes of project activities.
I1.   Objective: Improve Level of Service. Indicator: average speed on the
Abap6-Camiri Highway.
Average Speed
Vehicle Type                     Current          Expected*
(Km/h.)          (Km/h.)
Cars and Utility Sport              33                76
Buses                               30                72
Medium Trucks                       20                52
Heavy Trucks                        17                64
Articulated Trucks                  15                56
* When the civil works for Abapo-Camiri are completed.
2.     Objective: reduce road user cost. Indicator: cost per vehicle-km on the
Abap6-Camiri Highway.*
US$ per veh-km.
Vehicle Type                     Curre       Expected*
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ ___  n t
Cars                                               0.58          0.19
Utility Sport                                      0.85          0.19
Buse5                                              1.73          0.88
Medium Trucks                                      1.01          0.40



Page 65
US$ per veh-km.
Vehicle Type                     Curre      Expected*
fit
Heavy Trucks                                      1.59         0.64
Articulated Trucks                                2.13         0.94
* When the civil works for Abapo-Camiri are completed.
3.     Objective:  improve road safety.  Indicator:  Accidents (injuries and
fatalities) on the Abap6-Camiri Highway.
Accidents/Bank's FY             1999      2000      2001       2002        2003
Accidents per 100 million veh-km
InjuriesNeh-km
FatalitiesNeh.-km
4.     Objective: Improve Maintenance Efficiency. Indicator: Percentage
allocated in the Comprehensive Maintenance by Contract Program
Percentage per Maintenance Type
Type of Maintenance           1999      2000       2001       2002        2003
*  Periodic (includes resurfacing) L_X_I
*  Routine                  |_|
*  Emergencies                                       _
*  Minor Works
L  Training                            _
Total Comprehensive
Estimate: US$million 12.2 (Total Comprehensive) [100%]
(Routine) [26.9%]; 5.7 (Periodic) [47.9%l; 0.3 (Emergencies) [2.5%1; 0.4 (Minor Works) [3.4%1; 2.3
(Training) [19.3%]
5.   Objective: ensure adequate financing of maintenance. Indicator: planned,
allocated and spent resources for maintenance in the national road network.
Type                    Resources allocated to Maintenance (US$ million)
Of           CY1999           CY2000         CY2001        CY2002        CY2003
Maintenance    P   A       D     P   A                    D    P D,          P  r     D
Routine        20               21              21            22            23
Periodic       10               10              10            10           l1
Emergencies     1               1               1      1       1             1
Total          31         _         32    _     32  _ 1 .   3_3       |l34l
* P = Planned        A = Approved          D = Disbursed



Page 66
Annex 11
Abap6 - Camiri Highway Project (ACA-HP)
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                      Planned               Actual
(At final PCD stage)
IDA Budget                                        200
Spanish Trust Fund                                100
B. Project Schedule                             Planned               Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)         15
First Bank mission (identification)            10/07/1997           10/07/1997
Appraisal mission departure                    02/21/1999           02/21/1999
Negotiations                                   03/08/1999           03/30/1999
Planned Date of Effectiveness                  10/01/1999           10/01/1999
Prepared by: Bank staff in coordination with SNC personnel.
Preparation assistance: Spanish Consultant Trust Fund
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                    Specialty
Jose Ma. Alonso-Biarge             Senior Highway Engineer/Task Manager
Zia Mian (until 5/31/98)           Senior Operations/Officer/Alternate TM
Alberto Nogales                     Infrastructure Project Officer
Juan D. Quintero                      Environmental Specialist
Estanislao Gacituta-Mari6                    Social Specialist
Rodrigo Archondo-Callao                     Economic Analysis
David Varela                                Lawyer
Paul Sisk                      Financial Management Specialist
Paul Vandenheede                        Disbursement Officer
Rauil Auzmendi                    Consultant, Transport Economist
Salvador Pou                    Consultant, Maintenance Specialist



Page 67
Annex 12
Abap6 - Camiri Highway Project (ACA-HP)
Documents in the Project File*
A. Project Implementation Plan
*     Plan Preliminar de Implementaci6n del Proyecto Carretera Abap6 - Caminri, S.N.C.,
Departamento de Planificaci6n, La Paz, Diciembre, 1997.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
*     Country Assistance Strategy of the World Bank Group for the Republic of Bolivia, C.M.U.
Bolivia, Paraguay and Peru, May 21, 1998.
*     Bolivia, Country Assistance Review, Operations Evaluations Department, Report No. 17957,
June 5, 1998.
*     Bolivia, Transport Sector Strategy, Infrastructure Operations Division, Department III, Report
No. 11899-BO, June 30, 1993.
*     Implementation Completion Report - ICR for the Export Corridors Project, Infrastructure
Operations Division, May 15, 1997.
C. Other
*     Terminos de Referencia - Estudios de Factibilidad Tecnico - Econ6mica, Impacto Ambiental y
Diseino Final de Ingenieria de la Carretera Abap6 - Camiri, S.N.C. Departamento de Planificaci6n,
La Paz, Agosto 1994.
*     Decreto Supremo No. 25134 sobre la definici6n de la Red Vial Fundamental y la Constituci6n
de la Cuenta de Conservaci6n Vial, Presidencia de la Repuiblica, Gaceta Oficial de Bolivia No.
2081, Agosto, 1998.
-     Documento de Precalificaci6n, Proyecto de Carretera Abap6 - Camiri, Obras Civiles y
Pavimentaci6n de Carretera, S.N.C. Agosto 1998.
*     Documento de Precalificaci6n, Proyecto de Carretera Abap6 - Camiri, Componente de
Mantenimiento, S.N.C. Agosto 1998.
*     Dialogo Nacional "Bolivia hacia el Siglo XXI" Informe y Conclusiones, RepuTblica de Bolivia,
La Paz, Octubre, 1997.
*     "Bolivia hacia el Siglo XXI", Documento presentado por el Gobiemo de Bolivia al XI Grupo
Consultivo, Paris, Francia, Abril, 1998.
*     Corredores de Integraci6n, Plan Quinquenal de Pre-Inversi6n e Inversi6n 1997 - 2002,
Secretaria Nacional de Transportes, S.N.C., La Paz, Septiembre 1997.
*     Decreto Supremo No. 24327 que establece la normativa sobre el "Control de Cargas" para los
vehiculos de transporte que circulan por las carreteras, Gaceta Oficial de Bolivia No. 1942, La Paz,
28 de Junio de 1996.
*     Ley No. 1874, Ley General de Concesiones de Obras Publicas de Transporte, Honorable
Congreso Nacional, Repuiblica de Bolivia, La Paz, Junio, 1998.
*     Ley No. 1788, Ley de Reorganizacion del Poder Ejecutivo, Honorable Congreso Nacional,
Repuiblica de Bolivia, La Paz, Septiembre, 1997.
*     Informe de la Fase I de la Re-Estructuraci6n del S.N.C., Consultora Booz Allen & Hamilton -
CAEM Ltda., La Paz, Noviembre, 1997.
*     Inventario Vial de Mantenimiento de la Red Fundamental, Tomos I y II, S.N.C., Departamento
de Mantenimiento, Julio, 1998.



Page 68
*     Estudio del Financiamiento del Mantenimiento de Carreteras, S.N.C., CAEM Consultores, La
Paz, 1997.
*     Estadistica Vial - 1996, SN.C., Departamento de Planificaci6n y Estudios, La Paz, Octubre,
1997.
Documentos del Proyecto Carretera Abap6 - Camiri
Elaborados por PCA lngenieros Consultores S.A, 1998-1999
*     Memoria Descriptiva. Estudio de Factibilidad Tecnico - Econ6mica, Impacto Ambiental y
Disefno Final de Ingenieria de la Carretera Abap6 - Camiri, P.C.A. Ingenieros Consultores S.A.,
Santa Cruz, 1998.
*     Contrato OC- 1: Tramo Abapo-Ipita, pliego de condiciones: Voluimen I: Condiciones Generales
(Documento Preliminar)
* Especificaciones del Proyecto, Volumen III.
TOMO 1: Especificaciones Tecnicas Generales
TOMO 2: Especificaciones Tecnicas Especiales
TOMO 3: Especificaciones Tdcnicas Ambientales
TOMO 4: Servicios de Campo para el Ingeniero
TOMO 5: Construccion de Estaci6n de Pesaje
*     Estudio de evaluaci6n socio-econ6mica del estudio de factibilidad tecnico ecomomica, impacto
ambiental y diseijo final de la Carretera Abap6-Camiri.
Anexo I. Resultados Modelo HDM
*     Estudio de evaluaci6n socio-econ6mica del estudio de factibilidad tecnico ecomomica, impacto
ambiental y disefio final del "Ramal Acceso El Espino".
*     Estudio de evaluaci6n socio-econ6mica del estudio de factibilidad tecnico ecomomica, impacto
ambiental y disefno final de la "Circunvalaci6n a Camiri".
*     Evaluaci6n socio-econ6mica de la Carretera Abap6-Camiri.
*     Evaluaci6n socio-econ6mica del "Ramal Acceso El Espino".
*     Estudio de evaluaci6n de impacto ambiental consolidado incluyendo la carretera Abap6 -
Camiri, el camino de acceso a El Espino y la Circunvalaci6n a Camiri.
*     Presupuesto, precios unitarios y costo de obra, La Paz, Enero 1999
*Including electronic files.



Annex 13
STATEMEN OF LOANS AND CREDITS
As of 12-Apr-99
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                    and actual
Fiscal                                                                                                                               disbursements a/
Project ID    Year               Borrower                    Purpose
IBRD        IDA      Cancellations  Undisbursed        Orig    Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Projects: 55
Active Projects
BO-PE-57030    1999   REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA               REG REFORM ADJ CREDI                     0.00       41.78        0.00              19.81       -2.30        0.00
BO-PE-40085     1998   REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA              PARTICIP RURAL INV.                      0.00       62.80        0.00              60.98        -.34        0.00
BO-PE-40110     1998   MINISTRY OF FINANCE (MOF)        FIN DECEN & ACCT                         0.00       15.00        0.00              11.47        -.42        0.00
BO-PE-55974     1998   GOVERNMENT OF BOLIVIA            BO EL NINO EMERGENCY                     0.00       25.00        0.00              16.06        2.54        0.00                0Q
BO-PE-57396    1998   REPUBIC OF BOLIVIA                REG REFORM TAC                           0.00       20.00        0.00              20.22         .93        0.00                (B
BO-PE-6204      1998   GOV OF BOLIVIA                   EDUCATION QUALITY                        0.00       75.00        0.00              72.33       11.25        0.00
BO-PE-6186      1996   REPUB. OF BOLIVIA                ENV.IND.& MINING                         0.00       11.00        0.00               8.89        3.60        0.00
BO-PE-6191      1996   GOVERNMENT                       POWER SCTR REF TA &                      0.00        5.10        0.00               1.66        1.96        0.00
BO-PE-6202      1996   GOVERNMENT OF BOLIVIA            RURAL COMMUNITIES DE                     0.00       15.00        0.00                .82        1.95        0.00
BO-PE-6206      1996   GOVT OF BOLIVIA                  RURAL WTR & SANIT                        0.00       20.00        0.00               9.74        8.93          .67
BO-PE-6181      1995   GOV OF BOLIVIA                   EDUCATION REFORM                         0.00       40.00        0.00              19.95        7.61        0.00
BO-PE-6197      1995   GOV OF BOLIVIA                   LAND ADMINISTRATION                      0.00       20.40        0.00               6.41       -1.69        0.00
BO-PE-6205      1995   GOV'T. OF BOLIVIA                JUDICIAL REFORM                          0.00       11.00        0.00               4.55        3.65        0.00
BO-PE-6190      1994   GOVMT OF BOLIVIA                 MUNICIPAL DEV                            0.00       42.00        0.00               8.27        7.63        0.00
BO-PE-6196      1993   GOV OF BOLIVIA                   INTEGRATED CHILD DEV                     0.00       50.70       20.25              18.32       30.82        0.00
BO-PE-6180      1992   GOV'T OF BOLIVIA    A            RD MAINT                                 0.00       80.00        0.00              19.15       16.92        8.07
Total                                                                                            0.00      534.78       20.25             298.63       93.04        8.74
Active Projects      Closed Projects           Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                212.68            1,157.97            1,370.65
of which has been repaid:                  0.00              294.96              294.96
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                 514.53             841.00            1,355.53
Amount sold                                       0.00                 .05                 .05
Of which repaid              :                0.00                  .05                 .05
Total Undisbursed               :              298.63                3.20              301.83
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month and is currently as of 31-Mar-99.



Page 70
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 31-Mar-99
In Millions US Dollars
-----------Held -----------  -----------Disbursed-----------
-----------IFC ----------  ----------IFC----------
FY Approval            Company              Loan  Equity  Quasi Partic  Loan Equity  Quasi Partic
0                      Minera               0.00   3.40   0.00   0.00   0.00   3.40   0.00   0.00
1976/88/90/91/95/98   BISA                 12.00   4.70   0.00   0.00  12.00   3.16   0.00   0.00
1989/92/94/96          COMSUR              10.79   0.00   2.14   2.50  10.79   0.00   2.14   2.50
1991                   Bermejo              0.00   5.90   0.00   0.00   0.00   5.14   0.00   0.00
1991                   Central Aguirre       .60    .35   0.00   0.00   .60    .35   0.00   0.00
1992                  Inti Raymi            5.00   0.00   5.00   0.00   5.00   0.00   5.00   0.00
1993                   GENEX                 .36   0.00   .72   0.00   .36   0.00   .72   0.00
1996                  Mercantil-BOL        10.00   0.00   0.00   0.00  10.00   0.00   0.00   0.00
1996                   Telecel Bolivia     10.00   0.00   5.00  20.00   6.67   0.00   5.00  13.33
1999                  Los Andes             2.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00
Total Portfolio:                    50.75   14.35  12.86  22.50  45.42  12.05  12.86  15.83
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan Equity Quasi Partic
1999                  ILLIMANI             15.00    1.00   0.00   0.00
Total Pending Commitment:           15.00    1.00   0.00   0.00



Page 71
Annex 14
Bolivia at a glance
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                        AmerI    middle.
8odhlib   & Carib.   icome     Dewelopment diamond'
1997
Popuation, midyear (millions)                        7.8      404     2.285                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, US$)                  950      3,e80     1.230
GNP (Atlas method, US$ billions)                     7.4     1,917    2,818
Average annual growtth, 1991-97
Population (%J2.4                                              1.7       1.2    G                               G
Labor force (%)                                      2.6       2.3       1.      GNP                            Gross
per                           primary
Most recent estimate (laltet year avaftabe, W9917)                               cap ta                      enrollment
Poverty (% of populatbn below mnatlolpoeW wy   )     87
Urban population (% of total population)             59        74        42
LiUe expectancy at birth (years)                     61        70        69
Infant mortality (per 1,000 rie bitths)              67        32        38
Child malnutrition (% of childrw under 5)             9         ..        ,,              Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of population)               60         73       S4
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                 17        13        19
Gross prinary enrollment (% of schotl-age populaibon)  91     t11      111 via
Male                                               95                 18         -         Lower-middle-income group
Female                                             87         ..      113   .                       .
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976    19S6      1996      1997
-                                    Economic ratics
GDP (US$ billions)                          2.2      4.0       7.2      .7.8
Gross domestic investment/GDP                 ..    13.6      16.6      19.8                   Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP            ..    21.3       22.9      21.0T
Gross domestic savingsGDP                     ..      ..      11.2      12.3
Gross national savings/GDP                    ..      ..      16.6      15.0
Current account balance/GDP                -2.6     4.1       .5,3      -8.3     Domesti
Interest payments/GDP                       1.8      2.8       2.3      2.2      Savc                       Investment
Total debtVGDP                             58.6   140W8       72.1      67.6     Savings 
Total debt serviceexports                 21.5    35.0       29.8      30.5
Present value of debtWGDP                     ..      ..      46.4
Present value of debtlexports                ..       ..    241.4
Indebtedness
197W6   1¶9747      1996      1997   199S42
(average annual growth)
GDP                                -2.7     4.1      4.1       4.2       5,3          -Bollvia
GNP per capita                      ..      1.9      2.8       1.4      2.S               Lower-middle-lncome group
Fxports of goods and services      -5.0     8.6    .6.7       *0.5.      8.7
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976    1966      1996      1997      Growth rats ot output and Investment(%)
(% of GDP)                                                                      45
Agriculture                                  ..    28.5       14.1      14.1
Industry                                     ..    51.9       29.2      27.9    3o 
Manufacturing                               ,,      ,,      17.0      157      15s
Services                                      ..    19.6      56.7      58.0     o'
Private consumption                           ..    81.4      75.6      74.0   .-1 L       93 2         ss   "    97
General govemment consumption                 ..     9.4      13.1      13.7                    GDI    - |  GDP
Imports of goods and services                ..    25.7       28.3      28.5
(average annual growth)                 197646  1987-97      1996      1997     Growth rtes of exports and Imports (%
Agriculture                                  ..      3.3       3.6       4.9    7-
Industry                                             4.5       3.4             15 Is
Manufacturing                              ..      4.3        3.9      4.2   10
Services                     *-                      3.9       4.4       4.5
Private consumption                        -0.5      3.0       2.4       3.9    o .      _-,       ,_  ,    ,   _
General government consumption             -4.4      2.9       1.0       3.       .     2               95 89
Gross domestic investment                  -4.1      7.8      20.9      23.8
Imports of goods and services               1.6      6.0       9.7      10.3            -    Exports     lmports
Gross national product                       ..      4.4       5.1       3.8      . _ _ .
Note: 1997 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indlcators in the country (in bold) compared with its inrome-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Page 72
Bolivia
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1976     1986       1996     1997      Inflation (%)
Domestic prices                                                                      20 
(% change)                                                                            0
Consumer prices                                 ..        ..       7.9       6.7    15
Implicit GDP deflator                            .    211.4        8.9       7.9    10
Government finance                                                                    5
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                   o
Current revenue                                        18.7       26.3      24.1             92   93    94   95    96    97
Current budget balance                           ..     1.4        6.3       3.0                   GDP deflator       CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                         ..    -3.3        -2.0      -3.3
TRADE
(US$ rnillions)                              1976      1986      1996      1997       Export and Import levels (US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                             ..      588      1,132     1,167     2,000
Tin                                                   104         86        81
Fuel                                                  334        153       200     1,500                              El
Manufactures                                   .        .        144       183
Total imports (ci                               ..      674      1,568     1,810     1°000 t
Food                                                     -       148       188
Fuel and energy                                ..       .         86       349
Capital goods                                  ..       ..       586       734        o
91   92  93   94  95   96  97
Export price index (1995=100)                    .-     156        104      106
Import price index (1995=100)                   ..       50        109       110                *Exports      PImports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                        ,      310         95        96
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ rnv/lions)                              11976     1986      1996      1997       Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services                  623      704      1,318     1,362      0
Imports of goods and services                 658       816      1,779     2,050
Resource balance                               -35     -112       -461     -688
Net income                                     -36     -309       -168     -212      -4
Net current transfers                           14       99        245      252
Current account balance                        -57     -321       -384     -648
Financing items (net)                          113      432       726       751
Changes in net reserves                        -56     -110       -342      -103    -10 I
Memo:
Reserves induding gold (US$ millions)           ..      505      1,125     1,192
Conversion rate (DEC, local/US$)           3.00E-5       1.9       5.1       5.3
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976     1986       1996     1997
(US$ millions)                                                                        Compositlon of total debt, 1997 (USS millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed         1,290    5,575      5,200     5,284
IBRD                                         31       235        61        37                   G: 426 A: 37
IDA                                          53        97       843       930                                 B:930
Total debt service                             137      251        413       453           F: 504
IBRD                                          4        38        32        24
IDA                                            1        2          8       10                                      C:248
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                              11       147       394
Official creditors                           104      229        196      220         E: 1,421
Private creditors                           143        -4        44       -29
Foreign direct investment                    -8        10       426       591
Portfolio equity                               0        0          0        0                                 D.718
World Bank program
Commitments                                  68        72         59        15     A - IBRD                      E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                16         7        100      136      B-IDA     D- Other multilateral   F - Private
Principal repayments                          2        19        28        23      C - IMF                       G - Short-term
Netflows                                      14      -12        72       113
Interest payments                              2       20         12        11
Net transfers                                12       -32        59       102
Development Economics                                                                                                   10/1/9B



IBRD 30220
680                      660       --              640                      620                      60O                           1 0O
10°  B R A Z I L                                                                                            BOLIVIA
TRANSPORTATION NETWORK
MAIN ROADS
i _°  -t                                                 o MAIN RAILROADS
ACob    9H                  J                                                  *       NATIONAL CAPITAL
\' (Porvenir   .                                                           ®vJ  A  R  3  DEPARTMENT  CAPITALS                12°
120                          lanca FB                                                                   0      SELECTED TOWNS
D   \t  J  g  \        i,                                         / -                             DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES
Pto. Heath                                                         I< iNTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
>  {*   <    X              ' ?   X    9    4    O~~~~~~~Son Jc<aquin 
Cie~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
I*LI      ,Mdidi                                          Nno
i  o?dN      Bg   1< I05UGo                 N0               l      .'
X SJ 45. rj~~~~~~~~~qo uc.                  ,        C' L./ t&!,So?I                                                                         E~ 14°-
14'~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
14°  lixiBmaiS ,. /' o' r 90\l   l)   <>\                                                                                        B R A Z I L
f   Apolo         8    Rurrenabaque         /           Trinidad
'- -t-<;t 1 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~16'-
Matoroni>\                        2                Pto. ViIIarroetv e Q             e, 9         /               CSnRFe   
oresui     tVr Oc c a y ,Qn Ciiv     Vilabombat                /t                       C Xf     U A    N~or 7So Coa1
CQurrnavi
t   Coroic>oro2  +,Patocama ' '  C O C @ A v     \)Puerh Banegas    >                                                     n '~~Cor~ci~m  T
Pisige~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~    0  Potosi * ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~Sn                                             rsii
HuarinaTRi o                                                                                           60c
T, I ~/.    Atoch °                                                              --e.d a
/'   \      /    E        .>    XBalSce 2   I Yacuiba)/           >   i~~~~~~~-               an a e
'  utsr8      To Slota r\                To              . . . ..     N.
, -1 Coro              toca    l  COCEmborcaci6n                                            *,                  Cu,0.,
C HI LE                           :A RG EN T INA                                                        |4 ,Cochbmo
This map was produced by the Mop Design Unit of The World Bank.     i~C;,      i    \          | AJp  i~
24                                      The boundaries, colors,denorminations and any other information shown   24°    rF-ILE- .   ~.. 
2J14                          on this map da not imply, on the part of The World Bank Group, ony         Annthtomop d notimply on te=par of Te Word Bon\Grou, an
0    50  100  150  200  250   judgment on the legol status ofony territory,or any endorsement or                   ° to90s r                 Asunci6n
,                     I    I           acceptance of such boundaries.                                              I         S°TcHgUn    g    t
KILOMETERS                                                                                                   ( 2        Rcsistencid' 'ron
i              ~~~~68'                   66°                       64°                      62'                           AR GE NT I NA   /c,,  lge
R                           1 Pu 9A 9
Cabezas ~ ~ ~ ~   ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ A  19



IBRD 30221
BOLIVIA                                                      63a Piray                        San Ram6n      Sn Julian
ABAPO-CAMI RI HIGHWAY PROJECT                                                                          Chanc               Los Cafes
S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Independencia                                                                                       17< tFXIneedni0 , oTrns
n ic                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Santa              aos Troncos
Corani, /Chimore          Pto. Grether                         OiRosa  nw a Pt  Banegas
MiIIu  CCHAB4~MBJ4                                                                           ubir6
Quil ac  ba Ma              Ti ue          YM"                                         can
Buena Ware
e^    ~~---9% AJV Carmer  aChoco  X  Epizana                 ')        -        Vista .1               Pto.
Challa  ra   i                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pailas
Co                       inolaTraPootoc ;ai
lL,,_,e   \f   Anzaldo                amarapa                             La Guard     Santa Cruz
omaraapapao 
aiqui vasio  >   }   >rnngostur                                                       S A N TA
Huinuni       g\                                                                            1E                                x
CR U Z
Uncia        \         A              ><<              ''   8t~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Vallegadt 
Col uechaca a   Puente Ar     '0                   o0            Guadalupe
\ apoip }+ ffi )) P~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ucara bpo hie 
Mach                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Abapo
Nuevo Mundo           Mas r           ) abi
19,  OT05i 'k Sucre              Zuc~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9
cia      Padilla \El Espino
CAMIRI HIGHWAY (COMPONENTAl A)                                               Incahuasi    Cruce Ipati t Charagua
------- EL ESPINO ACCESS ROAD (COMPONENT B                        Trvit       Monteaud
_      BRIDGE OVER RIO GRANDE                                            Arduy Muyupampa
COMPREHENSIVE MAINTENANCE                              '                                                  Pzur                        20°-
(COMPONENT C)                                                                        I     Camiri       r
MAIN ROADS                                                CHU  UISA CA
MAIN RAILROADS
:     DEPARTMENT CAPITALS                                                     Huacareta    Cv,               ui6e
- - - -  DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES °
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                             Sta. Elena
B     R A Z I L                 ROADS
S      +,5            RAILROADS                                                           Huacaya
Cobijo             /                ff : & @ NATIONAL CAPITAL   Culpina
bi.%o/  N4,<  ~   DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES           21°                      /                                                       421°
\E .---INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES *
,   /   ps f t-   -   E :e  <-t                                  .            A   V~~~~~~~~~~      ~        ~      ~~~~~~~~illa Montes 
N             N  I
K  BRAZIL        Tom~~atas
9LaPaz>CgCH^QM £Bs0  --    SA N   A BPadcaya R A                         Campo Pajosoa
I           *              I,ur 2r         -                                  '    on   This map dw at opry,odue tyhe pa,-eig nt o /
CHLE           I Sj            t  .Wria;A/I    PARAGUAY    t)                      ( t'                   50cehcefuhouds   10            5
;I N _vv---4---_V_>mA p               Fortin Canperon        64°                KILOMETERS 630
MAY 1 999



