Report No. PID6848
Project Name                     Bolivia-Abapo-Camiri Road (ACAR) ...
Project
Region                           Latin America and Caribbean
Project ID                       BOPE55230
Borrower                         Bolivia
Implementing Agency              Government of Bolivia (GOB)
Servicio Nacional de Caminos-SNC
Av. Mariscal Santa Cruz esq. Oruro
La Paz, Bolivia
Tel:     (591-2)-357220
Fax:     (591-2)-391764
Date PCD Prepared                March 18, 1998
Project Appraisal                November 1998
Project Board Date               March 25,  1999
1.      Background
1.1     Bolivia, a landlocked country in South America, has a total area of
1,098,580 sq. km. (km2), a population of 7.4 million (mid-1995 est.), and GNP
per capita of US$ 800 (in 1995 dollars est.). With vast geographic area, a
harsh topography, and a sparse distribution of population and economic
activities, transport constitutes a major development bottleneck and plays an
important part in the investment priorities of the country. With its long
history of dependence on volatile prices for its mineral exports, and bouts of
hyperinflation, Bolivia has remained one of the poorest and least developed
countries. However, Bolivia has experienced generally improving economic
conditions since the introduction of market-oriented policies. Based on
economic strategy underscoring export promotion and reaching out to areas of
potential agricultural growth, the Government has focused on the development
of transport sector to improve the connections of Bolivia's lands to outside
markets and integration of the different departments.
1.2     Bolivia's road network comprises of 41,686 kms which 4.3% are paved
(1,776 kms) and only one percent is both paved and in good condition. About
8,000 km compose the national network, now being recentralized. To a large
extent, its road network has been built in the western part of the country
which is no longer useful to support the eastern part where most of the
economic growth and future development is expected to take place. With a
decline in the dominance of the mining industry, future economic prospects
require that the development emphasis shift to agricultural regions and
growing of non-traditional export crops. This would require the development
of a road network, particularly in the valleys and the lowlands to link the
rural agricultural communities with the main export centers. A well
functioning transport system is crucial to the sustained economic development
of Bolivia.
1.3     The Santa Cruz-Yacuiba road is part of the Trinidad-Yacuiba "integration
corridor" which is about 1,084 km long to the border of Argentina and
provides an outlet to the port of Rosario. This corridor is being
rehabilitated in 12 sections, the Abap6-Camiri section being the only missing
in the Santa Cruz-Yacuiba part of the corridor. This section of the corridor
also provides access to the regions between Santa Cruz and Cochabamba served



by the East-West export corridor (between the borders of Brazil and Chile).
Among those regions is the Chapare, where the coca plant is grown and is being
replaced by alternative crops, for which the natural market is Argentina. The
proposed IDA credit would finance the upgrading of the Abap6-Camiri road.
2.      Project Objectives
2.1     The overall purpose of the project is to improve transport conditions
along a strategic corridor linking the Bolivian departments of Beni, Santa
Cruz, Chuquisaca, and Tarija and continuing to Argentina and Paraguay. The
project specific development objectives are to rehabilitate and improve the
Abap6-Camiri section of the Trinidad - Yacuiba Highway to: (a) lower
transport cost through: (i) making it an all weather road; (ii) lowering the
vehicle operating cost; and (iii) reducing the travel time; (b) support the
government's initiatives, international commitments and accords to foster the
economic development of the departments of Santa Cruz and Chuquisaca to
replace coca production by creating opportunities to grow non-traditional
crops for export; (c) improve the income level of these regions and indigenous
communities by creating employment opportunities and accessibility to
indigenous towns; (d) improve and establish economic transport links from the
land-locked hinterlands to export markets through neighboring Argentina and
Paraguay; and (e) consolidate the integration of Bolivia with the countries of
the Cuenca del Plata. The project would directly benefit poor rural
agricultural zones and indigenous communities, which would be able to grow
non-traditional cash crops for export, by creating an enabling environment to
reduce their cost of transport to new export markets.
3.      Project Description
3.1     The project would have the following components:
Upgrading of the Abap6 - Camiri road of 161.0 km to a two-lane road of 7.2 m
wide with two shoulders 1.8 m each, fully paved and re-aligned as follows to a
two-lane road of 73 m wide with two shoulders 1.5 to 2.0 m each (depending
on terrain characteristics), fully paved and re-aligned. The indicative cost
includes supervision and technical auditing. The changes in alignments will
allow a speed of 80 km/h in the hilly terrain and 100 km/hr in the planes.
The estimated time for construction is 30 months. The proposed credit would
finance 80t of the total cost.   The road will be split in the following
segments:
(a) Abapo El Espino Junction (5 km) including a new bridge (380 m) over the
Rio Grande near Abapo
(b) El Espino Junction -Ipita (65 km)
(c) Ipita-Ipati (52 km) including the by-pass of Gutierrez.
(d)     Ipati-Camiri (30 km).
(e) By-pass of Camiri (8 km). Upgrading an existing road.
Upgrading the access road between El Espino Junction and El Espino (34 km):
Upgrading of an existing dirt road that runs parallel to the rail track to
Charagua, to provide access to the corridor for the indigenous communities.
The indicative cost includes supervision and technical auditing. The proposed
credit would finance 80t of the total cost.
Implementing comprehensive Maintenance by Contract: A pilot program of
comprehensive maintenance by contract for the period 1999-2003. The
indicative cost of this component includes supervision and technical auditing
-2 -



and encompasses about 600 km of roads in the department of Santa Cruz.     The
proposed credit would finance 50% of this component.
Institutional strengthening: Technical assistance to design and start
implementation of a concession program.
4.      Project Costs and Financing
4.1     Based on the preliminary estimates, the project is expected to cost about
US$ 99 million, including physical and price contingencies. IDA would provide
US$ 75 million equivalent (SDR 55.1 million) to finance these components.
5.      Project Implementation
5.1     The Economic Development Ministry (Ministerio de Desarrollo Econ6mico)
and in particular the Viceminister of Transport has overall responsibility
for the transport sector and the policy framework within which the project
will be implemented. The Servicio Nacional de Caminos (SNC), the national
road agency, has the mandate of managing the Bolivian national road network
and will be responsible for the implementation of the proposed project.
6.      Sustainability
6.1       [Note:  Flag the factors critical for the sustainability of project
benefits.]The government is taking a three-prong approach to improve project
sustainability: (i) clarifying and strengthening the roles of the SNTAC, the
SNC and the SDCs. To achieve this, the government has recentralized the
national network to supplement actions already taken to revisit the
institutional framework and devise ways to make it work ; (ii) developing
strategies to enhance road sector funding and other maintenance policies. To
strengthen the road sector funding and axle load control policies, actions are
already being taken under the ongoing SRMP. Furthermore, the Government
intends to ensure the funds necessary to maintain the national network through
a road fund, developed with the support of the SRMP; and (iii) developing a
viable investment program (including maintenance ) to further reduce transport
costs. To complement the preparation of the master plan, SNC together with the
SDCs would prepare a comprehensive maintenance program with time-slice
targets. This would be complemented with institutional building programs to
ensure: (a) the mechanisms developed under the Export Corridor Project and the
SRMP are implemented; and (b) the progress achieved under the on-going SRMP in
the management of the national road network is effectively sustained at the
decentralized departmental levels.
6.2     The sustainability of the decentralization process in the road sub-sector
will be further improved by: (a) promoting technical assistance and building
partnership between the SNC and SDCs. This requires changing the lack of
coordination between the SNC and the SDCs towards partnership, in which the
SNC provides its pool of experts and the SDCs accept the role of SNC. This
also requires the strengthening of SNC as a highly technical and autonomous,
high-performance entity which should supervise the execution of mutually
agreed programs by the decentralized entities, and provide technical support;
(b) tailoring the decentralization responsibilities to the capacities and
requests of these entities, in such a way that, if necessary, SNC could be
entrusted by particular departmental governments with the management of their
networks. SNC should initiate an institutional development program with a
flexible agenda, that could finance organizational and management of technical
assistance to be jointly agreed with those departments that request such
- 3-



cooperation; and (c) developing a clear purpose, well understood by all
participating entities, to ensure sustained commitment to it while seeking
incremental results. These aspects are being addressed under the ongoing SRMP
to further advance this agenda of reforms.
7.      Lessons learned from the past operations in the country/sector
7.1     During the implementation of the Export Corridor Project (ECP) and the
Second Road Maintenance Project (SRMP), many components often suffered from
continuos reshuffling of staff. This is particularly critical in situations
where the managerial and technical resource base of the public sector is
limited. Furthermore, the application of the Administrative Decentralization
Law (ADL) to the road sector during the implementation of the SRMP lacked a
clear strategy, which required the issuance of a specific law decree for the
purpose of limiting the overall impact of the ADL and clarifying the new
institutional structure. This experience confirms that reform processes, when
undertaken without a clear consensus, with no pre-defined strategies, rarely
produces the intended results. In addition, the following issues have arisen
during the implementation of the SRMP: (a) enforcement capacity in the central
government for maintenance programs; (b) commitment of central government to
implement sustainable financing mechanism for maintenance; (c) limited
financial and execution capacity of contractors; (d) inadequate project
management and internal control capacity of executing institution; (e) late
start of civil works and some cost overruns; and (f) harsh climatic conditions
during rainy season affecting pace of project management and implementation.
The design of the proposed project adequately internalizes the lessons which
have been learnt from these projects.
8.      Poverty Category
8.1     It is expected that the project will not be included in the Program of
Targeted Interventions.
9.      Participation
9.1     Indigenous populations are mainly settled in areas over 30 kms. from the
road. Therefore, indirect impacts on local indigenous populations are
expected to be minimal. The access to EL Espino, which will provide access
to the regional markets to for the indigenous communities and will be financed
by the credit as a contribution of the project to the development of those
communities. This access, which will follow an existing dirt road parallel to
the railway, borders an area of indigenous (Ava Guarani) settlements, although
it is separate enough from them. The Ava GuaranU indigenous communities, with
an estimated population of 13,000 inhabitants, are already aware of the
project and involved in its conception. They are most interested in the
reconstruction of the road to facilitate their access to markets. This
interest was confirmed by representatives (Capitanes Grandes) of the
Karaguazu, Charagua Norte and Bajo and Alto Izozog, ethnic groups that
officially requested that the construction of the road goes through "El
Espino", and also by the identification mission in informal meetings with the
corregidor (the mayor) of the community of El Espino. However, the
alternative of following the original route with an access to El Espino would
provide benefits to the indigenous communities without any serious negative
impact. These matters were discussed in participatory approach meetings
with the indigenous communities during the pre-appraisal mission. It was
agreed that permanent consultation with CABI and CIDOB, as well as with the
local communities and their leaders, will be essential to ensure they are well
aware and participate in the assessment of project alternatives and the design
- 4 -



of appropriate measures to ensure indigenous communities will get all the
benefits of the upgraded corridor.
10.     Environmental Aspects
10.1    An environmental assessment is under preparation to determine the
environmental impact and recommend appropriate actions to be undertaken during
the project. The pre-appraisal mission reviewed the draft Environmental Impact
Assessment (EIA) report provided by the consultants. The draft EIA report
provides valuable information and identifies some of the key project related
environmental and social impacts. The preliminary findings, considering that
the road construction is being designed to go through existing roads, were
that most of the direct impact from human intervention has already been done
are that the project will not have an overall negative impact on the
environment. Furthermore: (i) there are no critical natural habitats
affected; (ii) no substantial resettlement will be necessary; (iii) there is
no erosion potential as a consequence of the civil works; (iv) there are no
known heritage sites in the area of influence; and (v) the existing indigenous
communities are not directly affected. Therefore, the corresponding
environmental and social sensitivity could be specified as medium and the
category would be "B". During the meetings with the SNC, SDC of Santa Cruz
and the consultants, the mission discussed the issues relating to
identification and assessment of project related environmental impacts,
resettlement, indigenous peoples and participation of stake holders. Also,
the need for detailed management-mitigation, resettlement (if necessary) and
indigenous peoples development plans was highlighted. Bank's guidelines and
relevant Operational Directives were provided to the staff of the SNC and the
consultants.
11.     Program Objective Categories
11.1    Environmentally Sustainable Development and Economic Management (improved
road infrastructure) are the prime program categories. The road users will be
the main beneficiaries of the project as they will benefit from improved
transport services and communication, less traffic accidents and fatalities,
improved health, better fire protection and safety, and improved access to new
business opportunities and employment. Commercial traffic will benefit from
reduction in transport cost and access to export markets in Argentina.
12.     Contact Point:           The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending September 18, 1998.
- 5 -



