Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3235-BO
Development Credit Agreement
(Abapó-Camiri Highway Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated June 18, 1999
CREDIT NUMBER 3235-BO 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated June 18, 1999, between REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; 
(B)
the Borrower’s Law 1788 of September 16, 1997 (Law 1788) provides that 
the planning, construction, maintenance and administration of the Borrower’s national 
highway system is the responsibility of the Borrower’s Servicio Nacional de Caminos 
(SNC); and 
(C)
the Borrower’s Supreme Decree No. 25134 of August 31, 1998  (Decree No. 
25134) establishes the Borrower’s national highway system, comprising a fundamental 
road network, departmental road networks and municipal road networks; and 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through December 2, 
Page  2
1997), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, 
and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly 
renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15): 
"12.
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the Association 
determines meets the requirements set forth in Section 10 of Resolution No. 
183 of the Board of Governors of the Association, adopted on June 26, 1996; 
and ‘Participating Countries’ means, collectively, all such countries."
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not a Participating Country or for goods produced in, 
or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any 
payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or 
import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of 
the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the 
United Nations."
(c) 
Paragraph (c) of Section 9.06 is modified to read: 
"(c)
No later than six months before the Closing Date, the Borrower 
shall prepare and furnish to the Association a report, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and 
initial operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be 
derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and the Association of their 
respective obligations under the Development Credit Agreement and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a)
"BCB" means the Borrower’s Central Bank (Banco Central de Bolivia); 
(b)
"Bolivianos" means the currency of the Borrower; 
(c)
"Disbursement Letter" means the letter of even date herewith from the 
Association to the Borrower setting forth procedures for the withdrawal of the 
proceeds of the Credit;
(d)
"Environmental and Social Management Plan" means the Borrower’s 
environmental and social management plan for the implementation of the Project, 
attached to SNC’s letter to the Association dated January 12, 1999, including: (i) a 
community relations plan; (ii) environmental management guidelines for construction 
activities; (iii) an indigenous peoples development plan; and (iv) a resettlement 
plan; 
(e)
"EU" means SNC’s environmental unit (Unidad Ambiental); 
(f)
"Fiscal Account" means SNC’s fiscal account for the purposes of the 
Project, to be open in a commercial bank, in Bolivianos, as authorized by the 
Borrower’s Ministry of Finance; 
(g)
"Fiscal Year" means the Borrower’s  fiscal year, which starts on January 
1 and ends on December 31 of each calendar year; 
(h)
"Highway Investment and Maintenance Program" means any of the programs 
referred to in Section 3.09 (a) of this Agreement; 
(i)
"Implementation Letter" means the letter of even date herewith from the 
Borrower to the Association regarding the implementation of the Project;
(j)
"Monitoring Indicators and Targets" means the monitoring indicators and 
targets provided as Annex to the Implementation Letter;  
(k)
"PCU" means the unit, within SNC, for the coordination of projects 
Page  3
financed by international organizations (Unidad Coordinadora de Proyectos); 
(l)
"Project Area" means areas of the Borrower’s departments of Beni, 
Cochabamba, Chuquisaca, Santa Cruz and Tarija affected by the implementation of the 
Project; 
(m)
"Project Management Report" means each of the reports prepared pursuant 
to Section 4.02 (a) of this Agreement; 
(n)
"Reorganization Plan" means the Borrower’s plan for the reorganization of 
SNC, attached to SNC’s letter to the Association dated February 9, 1999; 
(o)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in paragraph 2 of Section 
II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;  
(p)
"Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement referred to in Section 3.03 of 
this Agreement; and 
(q)
"VMT" means the Borrower’s Vice Ministry of Transportation 
(Viceministerio de Transporte)
Section 1.03. Each reference in the General Conditions to the Project 
implementation entity shall be deemed a reference to SNC. 
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to sixty-four million seven hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR64,700,000). 
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods, works and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2004 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the Accrual Date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the Accrual Date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above.  The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year. Section 2.07. (a) Subject to 
paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of 
the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each February 15 and August 15 
commencing August 15, 2009 and ending February 15, 2039. Each installment to and 
Page  4
including the installment payable on February 15, 2019 shall be one percent (1%) of 
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of 
such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
Section 2.09. The Executive Director of SNC is designated as representative of 
the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken 
under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end shall carry out 
the Project, through SNC, with due diligence and efficiency, and in conformity with 
appropriate financial, engineering, administrative, technical, environmental and 
resettlement practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project, so as to achieve the Monitoring 
Indicators and Targets. 
(b)
Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of Section 3.01 (a) 
of this Agreement and except as the Association shall otherwise agree, for the 
purposes of Project implementation, the Borrower shall carry out, through SNC, the 
Environmental and Social Management Plan, in accordance with its terms.  
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 of 
this Agreement.
Section 3.03 (a) The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit available to 
SNC under a subsidiary agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and SNC, 
under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Association. 
(b)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in 
such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the Association shall otherwise 
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary 
Page  5
Agreement or any provision thereof. 
Section 3.04. Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of Section 
3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall, open and thereafter maintain, until the 
completion of the Project, a Fiscal Account, under the terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association, for the purposes of managing all funds required to 
make payments in Bolivianos under contracts to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit. 
Section 3.05. (a) Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of 
Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall maintain, until completion of the 
Project, the PCU with functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the Association, 
including a Project coordinator assisted by staff in adequate numbers, all with 
qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Association.
(b)
The Borrower shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the discharge of the functions and 
responsibilities of the PCU.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall: (a) promptly exchange views with the 
Association of any proposed organizational or institutional change in the Borrower’s 
highway subsector that may affect the carrying out of the Project or the activities of 
SNC; and (b) take into account the Association’s views about such proposed change 
before its effective implementation. 
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall maintain or adjust road user charges at the 
level required to allocate each Fiscal Year, as a minimum, the amounts for routine 
maintenance set forth in the Monitoring Indicators and Targets for each such Year. 
Section 3.08. The Borrower  shall exchange views with the Association before 
making any commitment to carry out any civil work under the Project, if the final 
engineering costs for such works exceed 20% of the estimated original costs as 
approved by the Association.
Section 3.09. The Borrower, through SNC, shall:
(a)
not later than September 30 of each year of Project implementation, 
furnish to the Association a report, in a format satisfactory to the Association, 
containing:
(i)
information on: (A) the overall progress in the execution of the 
Project; and (B) the implementation of the Reorganization Plan, 
both for the immediately preceding semester; and
(ii)
proposals for: (A) a highway investment and maintenance program; 
and (B) a training program under Part D of the Project, both for 
the upcoming Fiscal Year;
(b) 
not later than March 31 of each year of Project implementation, furnish 
to the Association, a report, in a format acceptable to the Association, on: 
(i)
(A) the overall progress in the execution of the Project, 
including an evaluation on the basis of the Monitoring Indicators 
and Targets; and (B) the implementation of the Reorganization 
Plan, both for the immediately preceding semester; and 
(ii)
the implementation of the Highway Investment and Maintenance 
Program during the previous Fiscal Year; 
(c)
review with the Association, not later than November 30 and May 31 of 
each year of Project implementation, starting in May 31, 2000, the immediately 
preceding reports and proposals referred to in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section; 
(d)
participate in a Project implementation mid-term review to be held with 
the Association as part of the semi-annual review scheduled for not later than 
November 30, 2001 or such later date as the Association shall establish; and 
(e)
if, as a result of any of the above reviews, the Association determines 
that the progress in the execution of the Project or in the achievement of its 
objectives is not satisfactory, the Borrower shall promptly take, or cause to be 
taken, all such remedial action, satisfactory to the Association, as shall be 
Page  6
necessary for the efficient execution of the Project or for the prompt achievement of 
its objectives. 
Section 3.10. The Borrower, through SNC, shall carry out the Reorganization Plan 
as approved by the Association.
Section 3.11. The Borrower shall not initiate any civil works under Parts A, B 
and C of the Project until the resettlement of the families affected by such civil 
works has been completed, to the satisfaction of the Association, in accordance with 
the Environmental and Social Management Plan. 
Section 3.12. The Borrower shall: 
(a)
promptly after the Effective Date enter into contractual arrangements, 
satisfactory to the Association, with an independent auditor or auditors, acceptable 
to the Association, for the purposes of the timely and efficient compliance with the 
obligations set forth in Article IV of this Agreement; and 
(b)
exercise its rights under the contractual arrangements referred to in 
paragraph (a) above in such a manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and 
the Association, and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit.
Section 3.13. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower, through SNC, shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan for the future operation and maintenance of the Project; and 
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views on said 
plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, and shall cause SNC to maintain, 
for the purpose of carrying out the Project, a financial management system, including 
records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to the 
Association, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to 
the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall: 
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section, and the records and accounts for 
the Special Account, for each Fiscal Year audited in accordance 
with auditing standards acceptable to the Association, 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association; 
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six (6) months after the end of each such Fiscal 
Year, (A) certified copies of the financial statements referred to 
in paragraph (a) of this Section for such Fiscal Year as so 
audited, and (B) an opinion on such statements, records and 
accounts and report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope 
and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably 
requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Association shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
Page  7
expenditures; 
(ii)
retain, until at least one (1) year after the Association has 
received the audit report for the Fiscal Year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Credit Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure submitted during such Fiscal Year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out, or shall cause SNC to carry out, a time-bound 
action plan acceptable to the Association for the strengthening of its financial 
management system for the Project in order to enable the Borrower and SNC, not later 
than twelve (12) months after the Effective Date, or such later date as the 
Association shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project management reports, acceptable 
to the Association, each of which: 
(i)
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following the period covered by 
said report, and (B) shows separately expenditures financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit during the period covered by said 
report and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit during the quarterly period following the 
period covered by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and (B) 
explains variances between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and 
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit, as at the end of the period covered by said report. 
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, and shall cause SNC to prepare, in 
accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Association, and furnish to the 
Association not later than thirty (30) days after the end of each quarter a Project 
Management Report for such period. 
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
SNC shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Subsidiary Agreement; 
(b)
Law No. 1788 or Decree No. 25134 shall have been amended, suspended, 
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of 
the Borrower or SNC to perform any of its obligations under this Agreement or the 
Subsidiary Agreement; and 
(c)
the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of SNC or for the suspension of its 
operations.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
Page  8
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days after notice thereof 
shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower; and 
(b)
the events specified in paragraphs (b) and (c) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 6.01. The following is specified as additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association, namely, that the Subsidiary Agreement 
has been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and SNC and is legally binding 
upon the Borrower and SNC in accordance with its terms. 
Section 6.02. The date September 16, 1999, is hereby specified for the purposes 
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this Agreement, the Minister 
of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Hacienda
Palacio de Comunicaciones, Piso 19
Av. Mariscal Santa Cruz, esq. Calle Oruro s/n
La Paz, Bolivia
Cable address: 
FINANZA
La Paz, Bolivia
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI) 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Santa Cruz, Bolivia, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
By /s/ Herbert Muller Costas  
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Page  9
By /s/ David de Ferranti 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
Section I.
General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Works
(a) Under Parts A and B   52,950,000
80%
of the Project
(b) Under Part C of
   1,500,000
20%
the Project
(c) Under Part D (b) of the  150,000
80%
Project
(2)
Consultants’ services
(a) Under Parts A and B    3,400,000
80%
of the Project
(b) Under Part C of the      450,000
80%
Project
(c) Under Part D of the      220,000
100%
Project
(3)
Goods
80,000
100% of foreign
expenditures 
and 80% of 
local expenditures 
(4)
Unallocated
   5,950,000
TOTAL
  64,700,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule, the terms: 
(a)
"foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any country 
other than that of the Borrower for goods supplied from the territory of any country 
other than that of the Borrower; and 
(b)
"local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the Borrower 
or for goods supplied from the territory of the Borrower. 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
$1,000,000, may be made in respect of Categories 1 through 3 of the table in paragraph 
1 of this Schedule on account of payments made for expenditures incurred within twelve 
months prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for the following expenditures under such terms 
and conditions as the Association may specify by notice to the Borrower: 
Page  10
(a)
for works under contracts costing less than $3,000,000 equivalent each; 
(b)
for the services of consulting firms under contracts costing less than 
$50,000 equivalent each; 
(c)
for the services of individual consultants under contracts costing less 
than $20,000 equivalent each; and  
(d) for 
goods. 
Section II.
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Section, the terms: 
(a)
"Eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (3) set forth in the 
table in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(b)
"Eligible Expenditures" means the expenditures for goods, works and 
services referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to said Eligible Categories.  
2.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in Dollars a separate special deposit 
account in BCB, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.  Deposits 
into, and withdrawals from, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the 
provisions of this Schedule and the rules and procedures set forth in the Disbursement 
Letter. 
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures. For each payment made out of the Special Account, the Borrower shall, at 
such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the Association such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures.  If the Association determines at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible 
Expenditure, the Association may require the deposit into the Special Account (or, if 
the Association shall so determine, require the refund to the Association) of an 
amount equal to the amount of such payment.
4.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  Upon such 
notification, the Association shall determine, in its sole discretion, whether further 
deposits into the Special Account may be made and what procedures should be followed 
for making such deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of its determination.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to improve transport conditions along a 
strategic north-south corridor of the Borrower’s national highway system so as to: (a) 
lower transport costs; (b) foster the economic development of the Project Area; (c) 
improve the income level of the indigenous peoples in the Project Area; and (d) 
establish economic transport links between the Borrower’s territories and neighboring 
countries.
The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part  A:
Reconstruction of the Abapó-Camiri Highway 
Reconstruction and paving of a two-lane road of about 152 kilometers long 
between Abapó and Camiri, including the construction of the bridge over Rio Grande and 
the by-passes of Gutiérrez and Camiri. 
Part B:
Reconstruction of the Access Road to El Espino  
Reconstruction and paving of a two-lane road of about 38 kilometers long between 
El Espino Junction and El Espino.
Page  11
Part C:
Comprehensive Maintenance Program 1999-2003 
Design and implementation of a comprehensive maintenance program for about 900 
kilometers of the Borrower’s fundamental road network in the Project Area, including 
supervision and technical auditing.
Part D:
Institutional Strengthening
Institutional strengthening of VMT and SNC through the provision of technical 
assistance for:
(a)
carrying out: (i) a feasibility study on the Santa Cruz – Puerto Suárez 
highway concession initiative; (ii) operation of the PCU; (iii) strengthening of the 
EU; (iv) preparation of technical and financial audits; and (v) provision of training 
to SNC and VMT staff; and 
(b)
design and implementation of a routine maintenance program. 
* * * 
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2003.
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works and Employment of Consultants
Part A:
Goods and Works 
1.
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Procurement Guidelines), and the special provisions of Section III 
of this Schedule. 
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Procurement Guidelines, the references to "Bank 
member countries" and "member country" shall be deemed to be references, respectively, 
to "Participating Countries" and "Participating Country". 
3.
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Procurement Guidelines.  Such plan should be updated 
at least once a year during the execution of the Project.  Procurement of all goods 
and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have 
been approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
Part B:
Consultants
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the special 
provisions of Section III of this Schedule. 
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to "Bank member 
countries" and "member country" shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
"Participating Countries" and "Participating Country". 
3.
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Such plan should be updated 
at least once a year during the execution of the Project.  Selection of all 
consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as 
shall have been approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 
1.
Section II.
Specific Provisions for the Procurement of Goods and Works, and the 
Employment of Consultants
Page  12
Procurement item as per the Procurement Plan
Contract Value (Threshold) Procurement Method 
>$10,000,000
ICB with Prequalification
Prior Review of all Prequalification documents
<$10,000,000 but > $3,000,000
ICB 
Prior Review of all contracts.
< $3,000,000 but > $250,000
NCB 
Prior Review of first two contracts each year.
< $250,000
Three Quotations from Qualified Contractors 
Post Review.
2. Goods
< $50,000
Shopping (Local or International) 
Post Review of a sample of contracts.
3. Consultants’ Services 
       3.1 Firms
> $200,000
QCBS 
Prior Review of Consultants: all TORs and short lists (including full review 
of technical and combined evaluations).
< $200,000
Least Cost Selection 
Prior Review of all TORs and short lists.       
3.2 Individuals
> $50,000
Individual Consultants 
Prior Review of all TORs and short lists.
< $50,000 but >$7,000
Individual Consultants
Prior Review of Consultants: CVs and TORs.
Post Review of Consultants: Contracts.Individual Consultants\0c
Definitions: "CVs" means curriculum vitae; "ICB" means the International 
Competitive Bidding procedure referred to in Section II of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1  thereto;
"Individual Consultants" means the selection procedure referred to in 
paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines; "Least Cost 
Selection" means the selection procedure referred to in paragraph 3.6 of the 
Consultant Guidelines; "NCB" means the National Competitive Bidding procedure 
referred to in paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Procurement Guidelines; "Post 
Review" means the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Procurement Guidelines;  "Post Review for Consultants" means the procedures 
set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines; 
"Prequalification" means the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 
of the Procurement Guidelines; "Prior Review" means the procedures set forth 
in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Procurement Guidelines; "Prior 
Review for Consultants" means the procedures set forth in paragraph 2 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines; "Procurement Plan" means the plan 
referred to in paragraphs 3 of Part A and B of Section I of this Schedule, as 
the 
context may require;
"QCBS" means the Quality and Cost-based selection procedure referred to 
in Section II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, 
Appendix 2 thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof 
applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants;
Page  13
"Shopping (International or National)" means the procurement procedure 
referred to in paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Procurement Guidelines; "Three 
Quotations from Qualified Contractors" means the procurement procedure under 
lump sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained 
from three (3) qualified domestic contractors in response to a written 
invitation.  The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, 
including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of 
agreement acceptable to the Association, and relevant drawings, where 
applicable.  The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest 
price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and 
resources to complete the contract successfully; and "TORs" means terms of 
reference. 
Section III.
Special Provisions for Bolivia
A.
In addition to and without limitation on any other provision set forth in this 
Schedule or the Procurement Guidelines, the following rules shall govern all 
procurement of goods and works under NCB: 
1.
A merit point system shall not be used in the prequalification of bids. 
2.
The award of goods and works contracts shall be based exclusively on price and, 
whenever appropriate, shall also take into account factors similar to those referred 
to in paragraph 2.51 of the Guidelines, provided, however, that the bid evaluation 
shall always be based on factors that can be quantified objectively, and the procedure 
for such quantification shall be disclosed in the invitation to bid. 
3.
The Borrower shall open all bids at the stipulated time and place in accordance 
with a procedure satisfactory to the Association. 
4.
The Borrower shall use a single envelope procedure. 
5.
Whenever there is a discrepancy between the amounts in figures and in words of a 
bid, the amounts in words shall govern. 
6.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the bidding process shall not 
be declared void if only three (3) bids or less have been submitted unless such bids 
have been determined not to be responsive.
7.
Any standards and technical specifications (quoted in the bidding documents) 
which are at least substantially equivalent to the national standards and technical 
specifications shall be acceptable. 
8.
Foreign bidders shall be allowed to participate. 
9.
Foreign bidders shall not be required to legalize any documentation related to 
their bids with Bolivian authorities as a prerequisite of bidding.  
10.
No margin of preference shall be granted for any particular category of bidders. 
11.
The auction procedure (Puja Abierta) shall not be used. 
12.
In the event that a bidder whose bid was evaluated as the bid with the lowest 
evaluated price withdraws its bid, the contract may be awarded to the second lowest 
responsive evaluated bid. 
13.
Foreign bidders shall not, as a condition for submitting bids, be required to 
enter into a joint venture agreement with local bidders. 
14.
No other procurement rules or regulations of the Borrower’s agencies or of any 
state-owned entity shall apply without the prior review and consent of the 
Association.
B.
In addition to and without limitation on any other provisions set forth in this 
Schedule or the Consultant Guidelines, the following rules shall govern all 
procurement of consultants' services referred to in this Schedule: 
1.
As a condition for participating in the selection process, foreign consultants 
shall not be required to enter into a joint venture agreement with local consultants, 
unless the conditions stated in paragraph 1.12 of the Consultant Guidelines are met. 
Page  14
2.
As a condition for participating in the selection process, foreign consultants 
shall not be required to legalize their proposals or any documentation related to such 
proposals with Bolivian authorities. 
3.
Foreign consultants shall not be required to be registered in the Borrower’s 
National Registry of Consultants (Registro Nacional de Consultoría).
