                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 35492

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                               (IDA-32350)

                                                  ON A

                                                 CREDIT

                               IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 64.7 MILLION
                                        (US$88 million equivalent)

                                                 TO THE

                                        REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA

                                                FOR THE

                                ABAPO-CAMIRI HIGHWAY PROJECT




                                              April 28, 2006




Finance, Private Sector Development and Infrastructure Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                  CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

            (Exchange Rate Effective April 28, 2006)

                    Currency Unit = Boliviano
                   Boliviano 1.00 = US$ 0.125
                         US$ 1.00 = Boliviano 8.0

                           FISCAL YEAR
                    January 1      December 31

             ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AADT         Average Annual Daily Traffic
ACA-HP       Abapó - Camiri Highway Project
CAF          Andean Development Corporation (Corporación Andina de Fomento)
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
CIDOB        Federation of Indigenous Peoples of Bolivia
             (Confederación Nacional de Pueblos Indigenas de Bolivia
CNCV         National Road Maintenance Account
             (Cuenta Nacional de Conservación Vial)
CRP          Community Relations Program
EIA          Environmental Impact Assessment
EMP          Environmental Management Plan
ERR          Economic Rate of Return
FONPLATA     Financial Fund for the Development of the River Plate Basin
             (Fondo Financiero para la Cuenca del Plata)
GOB          Government of Bolivia
HDM          Highway Design and Maintenance Standard Model
IBRD         International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (The World Bank)
ICB          International Competitive Bidding
ICR          Implementation Completion Report
IPDP         Indigenous Peoples Development Plan
IDA          International Development Association
IDB          Inter-American Development Bank
NCB          National Competitive Bidding
PAD          Project Appraisal Document
PCD          Project Concept Document
PCU          Project Coordination Unit
PID          Project Information Document
RAP          Resettlement Action Plan
SDC          Local Roads Agency (Servicio Departamental de Caminos)
SNC          National Roads Authority (Servicio Nacional de Caminos)
SRMP         Second Road Maintenance Project
TRMP         Third Road Maintenance Project
VMT          Vice-Ministry of Transport, Communications, and Civil Aeronautics
VOC          Vehicle Operating Cost


                  Vice President:      Pamela Cox
               Country Director:       Marcelo Giugale
                Sector Manager:        Jose Luis Irigoyen
 Task Team Leader/Task Manager:        Maria Marcela Silva

                                           BOLIVIA
                                ABAPO-CAMIRI HIGHWAY


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            11
6. Sustainability                                                                14
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 15
8. Lessons Learned                                                               16
9. Partner Comments                                                              18
10. Additional Information                                                       19
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             20
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             22
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             25
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             29
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             31
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                32
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            33
Annex 8. Borrower's Final Evaluation Report Summary                              34
Annex 9. Map IBRD 34648 (April 2006)                                             49

Project ID: P055230                                                  Project Name: ABAPO-CAMIRI HIGHWAY
Team Leader: Maria Marcela Silva                                     TL Unit: LCSFT
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: May 1, 2006


1. Project Data
                   Name: ABAPO-CAMIRI HIGHWAY                                     L/C/TF Number: IDA-32350
   Country/Department: BOLIVIA                                                            Region: Latin America and the
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: Roads and highways (99%); Central government administration (1%)
                  Theme: Regional integration (P); Other rural development (P); Access to urban services and housing
                            (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 02/03/1998                                     Effective: 10/01/1999                12/13/1999
     Appraisal: 02/20/1999                                         MTR: 11/19/2002                  03/24/2003
      Approval: 06/03/1999                                      Closing: 06/30/2004                 10/31/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF BOLIVIA/SERVICIO NACIONAL DE CAMINOS
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Pamela Cox                                     Shahid Javed Burki
Country Director:               Marcelo Giugale                                Isabel M. Guerrero
Sector Manager:                 Jose Luis Irigoyen                             Jeffrey S. Gutman
Team Leader at ICR:             Maria Marcela Silva                            Jose Maria Alonso-Biarge
ICR Primary Author:             Alberto Nogales


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

The overall purpose of the project was to improve transport conditions along a strategic north-south
corridor linking the Bolivian departments of Beni, Santa Cruz, Chuquisaca, and Tarija and continuing to
Argentina and Paraguay. By rehabilitating and improving the Abapó-Camiri section of the
Trinidad-Yacuiba Highway, the project aimed to: (i) lower transport costs; (ii) foster the economic
development of the project area; (iii) improve the income level of the indigenous peoples in the project area;
and (iv) establish economic transport links between Bolivia and its neighboring countries.

The project also aimed at introducing comprehensive maintenance by contract to sections of the national
road network with two purposes: (i) to ensure that the remaining corridor and the roads feeding into it were
in good condition when the project was completed; and (ii) if proved successful, extend the program to the
entire national network so as to contribute to solve the road maintenance problems caused by the road
decentralization-recentralization process that took place during the 1995-1999 period (see details on
Section 3.5).

3.2 Revised Objective:

The original project development objectives did not change during project implementation.

3.3 Original Components:

The project included the following four components:

Component A. Abapó-Camiri Highway - US$97.3 million (Total cost included: civil works, supervision,
and physical and price contingencies). The credit proposed to finance 80% of the total cost for civil works
and supervision. The project consisted of the reconstruction and paving of the two-lane, 7.3 m wide, 152
km long Abapó - Camiri highway with fully paved and re-aligned shoulders on each side (1.5 to 2.0 m
depending on terrain characteristics). The highway was split in the following five segments:

(i) Bridge over the Rio Grande in Abapó vicinity (420 m) including accesses (440 m) [US$4.9 million].
     The bridge was located in the Abapó vicinity, approximately 200 m away from an existing railroad
     bridge. The bridge design had a total width of 10.6 m, with two lanes of 4 m each, and two sidewalks
     of 1.3 m on each side.

(ii) Abapó-Ipitá [US$40.3 million]. This section of approximately 63.5 km long, goes across many small
     rivers, and passes by the Opabusú Lagoon near the Tatarenda Village. The alignment went through an
     old dirt road and run largely parallel to an oil pipeline. In this section there were no major bridges or
     other significant additional structures. There were no towns or important concentrations of population
     along this section, but there were some communities located close to Ipitá where there was potential to
     develop agricultural activities.

(iii)Ipitá-Ipati including the Gutiérrez by-pass [US$30.1 million]. In this section of approximately 50 km,
     the road went through a cattle raising area. Along the existing road there were many ranches and small
     communities for whom agriculture was their main activity. Ipati is the point in which the so called
     Diagonal Jaime Mendoza (that come from the Chuquisaca department) links with the Santa Cruz ­
     Yacuiba export corridor. For this reason it was necessary that the road passed through Ipati.

(iv) Ipati-Camiri [US$16.6 million]. This section of approximately 30 km carried a higher traffic volume



                                                      - 2 -

    (compared with the other sections) mainly due to its proximity to the town of Camiri which
    concentrates most of the commercial and industrial activities within the region. A large part of the
    traffic flow was generated by heavy trucks transporting cattle, diesel, wood and many other
    commercial trade products between Bolivia and Argentina. The road crosses the Urundaití River
    several times and 4 bridges were designed for this purpose.

(v) By-pass of Camiri [US$5.4 million]. The 7.3 km by-pass to avoid going through the town of Camiri
    had the same design standard as all other sections of the Abapó ­ Camiri highway. Its main objective
    was to provide a direct and safer connection between the end of the Ipati ­ Camiri section of the
    proposed highway, and the already-paved Camiri ­ Yacuiba road. This section has a direct benefit for
    the long distance traffic of the Santa Cruz ­ Yacuiba export corridor. The old road was going through
    Camiri, severely interfering with the local transit of vehicles, with pedestrians, and other urban
    activities.


Component B. Access Road to El Espino - US$8.5 million (Total costs included: civil works,
supervision, and contingencies). The credit proposed to finance 80% of the total cost for civil works and
supervision. The Access Road to El Espino consisted of the reconstruction and paving of a 38 km existing
dirt road that runs parallel to the rail track to Charagua. Its main objective was to provide safe and
permanent access to Abapó and Santa Cruz for the indigenous communities located along the road and to
promote greater economic activities in the area of influence through reduced transport costs.

Component C. Comprehensive Maintenance by Contract - US$12.2 million. The credit proposed to
finance 20% of civil works, and 80% of supervision. The comprehensive maintenance program included
routine and periodic maintenance activities, minor works (aimed at correcting deficiencies or improving
certain parts of the road), user and road maintenance management services, and attention to emergencies
over approximately 900 km of the highway network in the Department of Santa Cruz. The program was
largely composed by roads of the national main network, which fed the Abapó ­ Camiri highway. The
proposed contract duration was three years.

Component D. Institutional Strengthening - US$2.0 million. The Project had also an institutional
strengthening component for the national road agency (Servicio Nacional de Caminos - SNC) and the
Vice-Ministry of Transport, Communications and Civil Aeronautics (VMT) to provide technical assistance
for: (i) consulting services (80% financing) to carry out the feasibility study for the San José ­ Puerto
Suarez highway concession initiative; strengthen SNC's Environmental Unit; strengthen and operate the
Project Coordinating Unit; provide training to SNC; and prepare technical and financial audits; (ii)
acquisition of goods (80% financing); (iii) activities under the routine maintenance program (20%
financing); and (iv) implementation of the Resettlement Action Plan (RAP), Indigenous People
Development Plan (IPDP), and the Community Relations Plan (CRP) (to be financed through local funds).

3.4 Revised Components:

The project components were not revised. However, the scope of the comprehensive maintenance contract
under Component C was modified substantially during project implementation as described in Section 4.2.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

The Project predates the introduction of the Quality Assurance Group (QAG) at the Bank and for this
reason was not reviewed by QAG at the time of appraisal.
The project was well prepared, and the quality at entry is assessed as satisfactory taking into account that:



                                                    - 3 -

(i) the project objectives were largely consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) discussed by
the Board on June 6, 1998, responding to the objective of developing regions of high agricultural potential
by facilitating their access to the international markets; (ii) the project was well designed with good quality
feasibility studies, engineering designs, and economic analysis, and prepared within a participatory
framework defined by the Government's development program directly supporting one of its key pillars
("opportunity"); and (iii) the project team adequately complied with the Bank's safeguards policies
overcoming bottlenecks found during preparation and developing key tools that enabled a smoother project
implementation and enhanced outcomes.

The participatory approach followed during project preparation enabled making adjustments to the project
design to better accommodate the needs of the beneficiaries following sound safeguard policies. A clear
example is a discussion that took place with the indigenous population of the locality of El Espino which
was exerting pressure to pass the alignment of the Abapo-Camiri highway through the locality, to have
direct access to the corridor. Such solution was very expensive due to the technical difficulties of the area
and was not environmentally feasible. Instead, project design was modified to incorporate an access road to
El Espino into the project.

Consultations with civil society representatives and a social assessment were carried out resulting in three
specific action plans to avoid and/or mitigate possible negative impacts and enhance access to the expected
benefits of the project: (i) a Resettlement Action Plan; (ii) an Indigenous Peoples Development Plan; and
(iii) a Community Relations Plan. In addition, in order to address environmental issues, the following tasks
were carried out: (i) a detailed Environmental Management Plan (EMP) for all road segments and
by-passes; (ii) an Action Plan for strengthening the SNC's Environmental Unit; and (iii) an Environmental
Impact Assessment (EIA) study.

The framework under which project preparation took place is of paramount relevance given that at the
time, the road sector was enduring the consequences of the administrative decentralization that took place
in 1995. In the decentralization process, SNC functions and funds were transferred to newly created
departmental road agencies (Servicios Departamentales de Caminos - SDCs) in an aim to bring closer
planning and investment decision making processes to the local level. However, SDCs were given too many
responsibilities at once with inadequate technical capacities and resources. Without a comprehensive view
of the national needs, SDCs disregarded the maintenance requirements of the national network,
concentrating their attention on the secondary and tertiary networks. As a result, road quality deteriorated
sharply, transport costs rose and the sector re-emerged as a significant drag on the economy. The new
administration that took power in 1997 reversed the course and re-centralized the national network in 1999
restoring to SNC full responsibility over it, leaving under the scope of the SDCs the secondary network,
and at the municipal level all tertiary and urban roads. In the process, most of SNC's institutional memory
and human/physical assets were lost. No equipment was left to carry out maintenance activities by force
account and the country began experimenting with executing maintenance by contracts with the private
sector.

Project preparation was therefore, at the center of an important institutional reform process of SNC to put
in place the elements for effective institutional development, redirecting efforts towards results-oriented
management and improved governance. As a result, discussions for a new Bank operation began, to
support the so called "institutionalization" process which included also the implementation of sustainable
mechanisms for the proper maintenance of the network (the now ongoing Credit 3630-BO-Road
Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project).

Taking this into account: (i) the design of the institutional component was conservative and focused


                                                      - 4 -

primarily on aspects directly related to the implementation of the project and some initiatives to support the
preparation of the new operation to address the broader agenda; and (ii) in retrospect, the introduction of a
new maintenance modality such as the one envisaged at project design under the comprehensive
maintenance component, could have been less ambitious in terms of its scope and benefited from a more
gradual implementation approach in line with the level of sophistication of the road sector in Bolivia at the
time.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:


The project substantially achieved its major development objectives and its overall outcome is assessed as
satisfactory.

The main project objective of improving transport conditions along the strategic north-south corridor
Trinidad ­ Yacuiba was fully achieved with the reconstruction and paving of the Abapó ­ Camiri highway.
Transport costs in the corridor are now much lower, with costs per vehicle-km in 2005 about half of those
in 1999. Traffic volumes almost doubled after project completion and as a result, regions of high
agricultural potential have developed substantially. More importantly, economic transport links between
Bolivia's eastern region and neighboring countries have been consolidated, enhancing the country's access
to international markets, removing a major constraint to integrate Bolivia with Argentina and Paraguay.

The direct beneficiaries of the project include medium and long-distance road users, and those local
communities living along the entire Trinidad ­ Yacuiba corridor. The total population in the project area is
estimated at 1.3 million, and it includes: the urban areas of Santa Cruz and Trinidad; secondary cities like
Camiri, Boyuibe, and Yacuiba; and rapidly growing towns like San Ramon, Los Troncos, Guabira y
Montero. The rural population living in the counties of Gutierrez, Lagunillas, Camiri, and Cabezas is
estimated at more than 70,000, and the indigenous peoples identified in the project area which belong to the
Capitanias Zonales of Charagua Norte, Kaaguazu, Iupaguasi, Kaami are more than 15,000.

The highway improved the welfare of the indigenous communities in the project area: (i) facilitating their
mobility, by enabling all-year round transitability and significant time savings, and (ii) improving living
conditions in a very adverse ecological system. The highway itself, and the activities supported by the
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan (IPDP) and the Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) improved access of
their agricultural products to the main markets of the region, improved access to hospitals and schools,
provided closed water tanks for consumption reducing water related diseases, significantly reduced the
emission of dust, improved the quality of their houses, provided support for promoting handicrafts
micro-enterprises, and employment during the construction phase. More broadly, the project has
demonstrated the strategic importance of a well executed Resettlement Action Plan (RAP), Community
Relations Program (CRP), and Indigenous Peoples Alternative Plan (IPDP) for enhancing community
participation, enabling a smoother implementation and ensuring that the project's interventions reach the
most vulnerable. The CRP and IPDP were critical for promoting social and political interaction among the
indigenous people.

The objective of improving the road sections feeding the main corridor was achieved but with a different
scope from the originally envisaged in the comprehensive maintenance pilot contract under Component C
(increased periodic maintenance activities over routine maintenance). As explained in Section 4.2, the
implementation of this contract modality even at a pilot level proved to be a challenge, particularly taking
into account that the country was at an early implementation stage of road maintenance activities by


                                                    - 5 -

contract. In the future, as the sector evolves more sophisticated contract methods as the comprehensive
maintenance approach can be introduced at a larger scale. In the mean time, a new strategy to carry out the
much needed road maintenance has been worked out, which includes a very successful routine maintenance
program with micro-enterprises and small maintenance contracts with private firms.

4.2 Outputs by components:

After an initial delay in project implementation of almost two years (works under the main component only
began in January 2002 and the other components were accordingly rescheduled due to unforeseen political
instability that changed priorities within the Government as well as administrative inefficiencies and weak
procurement capabilities within the road agency) the project was delivered in record time. The agreed
outputs for the project as a whole were substantially achieved and therefore the overall rating is found
satisfactory.

As discussed below, the achievements of the outputs for the Abapó ­ Camiri highway component and for
the Access Road to El Espino component are both rated highly satisfactory. The output of the
Comprehensive Maintenance Component is marginally satisfactory; and the Institutional Strengthening
Component is rated satisfactory.

The construction of the Abapó ­ Camiri highway, including the bridge over the Rio Grande, the Camiri
Bypass, and the Access Road to El Espino were successfully completed in terms of quality and cost in
November 2004 and officially inaugurated in December 2004. The most recent Bank field visit to the
project area took place in October 2005, and found the quality of the works highly satisfactory. The project
has been highlighted as a best practice of highway design and construction for the country given its
technical standards and specifications which are comparable to those in developed countries; the fact that
costs were lower than anticipated; and the fact that works were executed within a reasonable time frame
unlike typical country standards (the actual construction time took on average 7 more months than what
was defined in the contracts, which was a substantial improvement given most experiences in the country).
The President of the Chamber of Heavy Load Transport in Bolivia in the article "Asi avanzan los caminos
de Bolivia" published by the newspaper La Prensa on December 27, 2005 said: "In the road to Yacuiba the
flow of transport has increased and the Bolivian products have gained competitiveness, through the
reduction of travel times and transport cost even by 40%". Some key elements of paramount relevance for
these satisfactory results include: (i) the experience of the construction firm; (ii) the successful
implementation of the RAP, IPDP, CRP; and (iii) the strong leadership from SNC.

The major civil works of the project were divided in seven contracts: five for the Abapó ­ Camiri highway
component, one for the Access Road to El Espino component, and another for the comprehensive
maintenance component. For each contract the PAD and ICR costs are presented. The cost estimates in the
PAD include physical and price contingencies. The actual costs of the ICR are total costs of civil works
only; they exclude supervision costs which are presented separately.

Component A. Abapó-Camiri Highway [PAD US$91.8 million - ICR US$89.5 million; excludes
supervision costs]
The output is 150.5 km of a two-lane road, 7.3 m wide, with fully paved and re-aligned 2.0 m shoulders on
each side and an asphalt concrete surface. The vertical and horizontal road markings and signs that have
been installed comply with international standards and all of them are highly visible during day and night
driving. These include: lane separators lines, edge markings to separate the travel lanes from the shoulder;
warning, right of way, and speed limit signs for improved road safety; as well as parking, service, and




                                                     - 6 -

information signs.

(i) Bridge over the Rio Grande in Abapó. [PAD US$4.9 million - ICR US$6.3 million; including
     accesses]. The bridge was completed and inaugurated together with the main highway. As designed,
     the bridge has a total width of 10.6 m, with two lanes of 4 m each, and two sidewalks of 1.3 m on each
     side. It has a 380 m span distributed in six sections: two of 54 m in each extreme, and four sections of
     68 m each in the middle. It includes a total of 398 m of accesses: 174 to the north and 224 m to the
     south.

(ii) Abapó-Ipitá. [PAD US$38.0 million - ICR US$36.5 million]. This section is 63.5 km long, goes
     across many small rivers and due largely to geometric design limitations it includes five pre-stressed
     bridges and one box culvert.

(iii)Ipitá-Ipati including the Gutiérrez By-pass. [PAD US$28.4 million - ICR US$25.9 million]. This
     section has 48.8 km. The alignment includes the by-pass to Gutierrez town. Due to persistent
     community requests appropriate north and south accesses to the highway were constructed in this
     location, including an interconnecting road to link the Santa Cruz ­ Yacuiba export corridor with the so
     called "Diagonal Jaime Mendoza

(iv) Ipati-Camiri. [PAD US$15.7 million - ICR US$16.0 million]. This section has 30.4 km and carries
     the highest traffic volume of all the sections due to its proximity to the town of Camiri. The road
     crosses the Urundaití River several times and for this purpose four bridges were constructed. The final
     alignment follows the existing road and many sections run parallel to an oil pipeline.

(v) By-pass of Camiri. [PAD US$5.1 million - ICR US$4.7 million]. The 7.3 km by-pass was built to
     avoid going through the town of Camiri and has largely the same design standard as all other sections
     of the Abapó ­ Camiri highway, except that on the 2.0 m shoulders only 1.8 m were actually paved.
     This section includes two interchanges connecting to the city of Camiri, and one interconnecting road
     linking with the Camiri ­ Palmar Grande highway.


Component B. Access Road to El Espino [PAD US$8.0 million - ICR US$8.5 million; excluding
supervision costs]

The output is a 39.4 km of a two-lane road, 6.0 m wide, with fully paved shoulders of 0.5 m on each side.
The geometrical characteristics of this section have been improved and the surface upgraded to a double
surface treatment. The road crosses the rail track to Charagua in two sections and the construction included
a small bridge to cross the El Limon stream.

Supervision of Civil Works for Components A and B [PAD US$5.9 million - ICR US$5.7 million]: A
single local consulting firm carried out the construction supervision of the highway and the access road to
El Espino and its performance was satisfactory.


Component C. Comprehensive Maintenance by Contract [PAD US$11.5 million - ICR US$10.4
million]

The Comprehensive Maintenance program covered a total length of 709.6 km of the highway network in
the Department of Santa Cruz. The program was divided in two sectors (North and South) using as a
reference the city of Santa Cruz. All the road sections under this component were feeder roads for the
Abapó ­ Camiri highway (see Map in Annex 9).

This component experienced implementation problems due to a combination of factors including: (i) not
enough expertise in the country with maintenance contracts to move into the more ambitious comprehensive


                                                      - 7 -

maintenance concept; (ii) a supervision firm that lacked the expertise to effectively deal with flexibility
built into the design of the comprehensive maintenance contract (a key element for its success), which led to
technical disputes and differences in the interpretation of contractual obligations and permanent tensions
with the contractor; (iii) a weak leadership from SNC to solve controversies; (iv) strong reliance on local
counterparts and significant delays in the disbursement of funds; and (v) changes in the implementation
period to fit initial procurement delays. After the implementation of this component was almost brought to
a standstill, substantial changes were introduced to the contract in an aim to enable the execution of works:
(i) while the contracting period originally established was 36 months as planned, it was first reduced to 19
months to meet the credit implementation period (it was later increased three times until it reached an
average of 30 months as the credit was extended); (ii) in terms of final output a significant concentration
around periodic maintenance activities was agreed (more than doubling original estimates mainly because
of deteriorated road conditions due to the additional time elapsed before works were initiated) reducing
significantly the financial resources allocated to routine maintenance activities. These modifications
allowed the completion of the component within the extended closing date. The final physical outputs were
of good quality, particularly those subject to periodic maintenance; however, due to the difficulties faced
during execution of this first attempt of comprehensive maintenance, the initial plan to apply the concept to
the rest of the road network did not take place.

Supervision of Civil Works for Components C [PAD US$0.8 million - ICR US$1.5 million] The civil
works supervision for this component was carried out by a local firm that experienced difficulties adapting
to the new comprehensive maintenance concept.


Component D. Institutional Strengthening [PAD US$2.0 million - ICR US$2.4 million]

The SNC and VMT contracted technical assistance, consulting tasks, and social programs. Some of the
activities carried out were key elements for the implementation of the project, including:

 i. The execution of the Community Relations Program (CRP) which was highly satisfactory. Most
     program activities focused on the resolution of social conflicts arising from noncompliance by the
     contractor, damage to property, inadequate disposal of materials, and perceived potential risks to
     people and animals. All these demands were dealt with appropriately. The scope of the CRP included:
     employment generation, education on road safety and environmental issues, training and community
     development seminars and dissemination, urban development, and continued implementation of the
     conflict resolution strategy. Among the physical outputs completed are the construction of peddler
     kiosks, three markets, and one multifunction and recreational center.
ii. The Indigenous Peoples Alternative Development Plan (IPDP) included 28 small projects that were
     successfully implemented and its objectives fully met. The IPDP was structured based on three
     subprograms: (a) human development which included education, health and water and sanitation; (b)
     economic development focused on agricultural productivity innovation, handicrafts, and support for
     micro-enterprises; and (c) organizational development. In addition, works on the water supply for the
     city of Camiri were implemented and agricultural equipment acquired.
iii. The design and implementation of an Integrated Accounting System for the SNC.
iv. SNC's Environmental Unit strengthening, and the staffing of the Project Coordinating Unit to properly
     carry out monitoring, supervising, and reporting activities for the project.

The project also supported key activities that served as a foundation to the preparatory works of the
broader institutional reform agenda, in particular to put in place a sound maintenance program, including:

 i. The preparation of a Strategic Plan for the Preservation of the National Road Network for the period



                                                     - 8 -

     2002 ­ 2006 that has been used in the definition of the current road maintenance plans.
ii. The preparation of an Operational Manual for the Management of the Road Maintenance National
     Account.
iii. Training to VMT and SNC staff on alternative mechanisms for the management road tolls.

The feasibility study for the concession of the Santa Cruz-Puerto Suarez Road was not carried out because
there was a change in priorities of the government and they went ahead with loans from the IDB, CAF, and
the European Union for the construction of that road. Therefore, it was not necessary to carry out the
proposed study.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:


The ex-post cost-benefit analysis was done with the same economic evaluation model and methodology
used during the ex-ante analysis. Net benefits were evaluated using the Highway Design and Maintenance
Standards Model (HDM-III) and the main project benefits were derived from the reduction of road user
transport costs by lowering vehicle operating costs and travel time costs. Other project benefits, such as the
provision of more reliable and safer transport services and the removal of physical constraints to
international road transport of goods and people in the region were not considered in the cost-benefit
analysis.

The ex-post cost-benefit analysis results are based on actual: (i) upgrading costs, (ii) timing and duration of
the road works, and (iii) actual normal traffic growth rate and generated traffic. The ex-post economic
evaluation indicates that the project was well justified with an overall Economic Internal Rate of Return
(EIRR), for the road works considered on the ex-post evaluation, of 30.1 percent that is 60 percent higher
than the appraisal estimate. The overall ex-post Net Present Value (NPV), at 12 percent discount rate, is
US$ 66.6 million, 40 percent higher than the appraisal estimate. All the road sections, including the access
road to El Espino, are economically justified with an ex-post EIRR higher than the 12 percent threshold.


                                           Economic Evaluation Comparison
                                                      Ex-ante            Ex-post     Ex-post / Ex-
                                                     Evaluation        Evaluation         ante
                                                   NPV       EIRR     NPV      EIRR  NPV     EIRR
              Road Section                       (M US$)      (%)   (M US$)     (%) (ratio)  (ratio)
              Abapo - Ipita Road and Bridge        16.2      17.5     25.9     27.8  1.6      1.6
              Ipita - Ipati Road                   12.5      18.3     21.0     32.3  1.7      1.8
              Ipati - Camiri Road                  18.8      27.6     16.41    41.3  0.9      1.5
              Camiri Bypass Road                    2.4      18.3     2.66     28.3  1.1      1.5
              Access Road to El Espino              -0.7     10.5     0.59     14.6  1.8      1.4
              Total                                49.2      18.8     66.6     30.1  1.4      1.6
              NPV expressed in 1998 US Dollars



The ex-post EIRR and NPV are higher than the appraisal estimate due mainly to the lower investment costs
and the higher generated traffic observed on the roads. The delays on starting the road works and
concluding the road works reduced the economic benefits of the project, but this reduction was largely
offset by the additional benefits due to the increase in generated traffic and the lower investment costs. The
table below presents the ex-post net economic benefits, expressed in 1998 US Dollars.




                                                       - 9 -

                                         Ex-Post Project Net Economic Benefits
                                                             Ex-Post Net Economic
                                                                   Benefits
                                                              Users       Agency   Project
                       Road Section                          (M US$)     (M US$)  (M US$)
                       Abapo - Ipita Road and Bridge           41.7        -15.9   25.9
                       Ipita - Ipati Road                      30.7         -9.6   21.0
                       Ipati - Camiri Road                     22.0         -5.6   16.4
                       Camiri Bypass Road                      4.4          -1.7    2.7
                       Access Road to El Espino                3.5          -2.9    0.6
                       Total                                  102.3        -35.7   66.6
                       Benefits expressed in 1998 US Dollars



At appraisal for the ex-ante evaluation, SNC estimated unit costs of maintenance road works in financial
and economic terms, defined the representative vehicle fleet characteristics, and road user costs for six
vehicle types, and the basic economic evaluation parameters such as the discount rate (12%) and evaluation
period (25 years). All costs were expressed in 1998 US Dollars. The ex-post cost-benefit analysis was done
using the same appraisal estimates for maintenance works costs, road user costs and basic economic
evaluation parameters in order to properly compare the ex-ante and ex-post results. The actual cost of the
upgrading works, the actual timing and duration of the road works, the actual traffic growth rate, and
generated traffic observed on the roads were considered differently at the ex-post evaluation. For the
ex-post evaluation, the actual upgrading costs were deflated to 1998 US Dollars to properly compare the
ex-ante and ex-post results.

The details on the following results are presented in Annex 3. A comparison of the appraisal, contract, and
actual investment costs, presented in 2000 US Dollars, shows that the actual investment costs are on
average, around 15 percent lower than the estimated appraisal costs, and around 94 percent of the initial
contract costs.

The actual traffic in 2005 is around 27 percent higher that the estimated traffic at appraisal for 2005. The
actual traffic growth rate in the region from 1999 to 2005 indicates that the normal traffic had a growth of
around 5.3 percent per year, similar to what was estimated at appraisal, but the generated traffic after the
road works were completed was much higher than the appraisal estimates. The results on actual generated
traffic per vehicle type indicate that the generated traffic of cars and pickups was much higher than that of
buses and trucks.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

Not applicable.

4.5 Institutional development impact:

The project was not very ambitious in defining the scope of the institutional development efforts, and given
the challenges posed by the road sector in Bolivia at the time, this evaluation finds the overall impact of the
institutional development to be positive but modest. The reason, as explained before was that the Abapó ­
Camiri project was prepared when the institutional reform process of SNC was beginning to take place and
a separate Bank operation was being discussed to support the broader agenda, in close coordination with
other donors and development agencies active in the sector.

The project served as a bridge while the new operation was in place, and its implementation, not only



                                                         - 10 -

provided the environment for a continuous dialogue with the Government on the institutional development
issues but supported key activities for the preparation of the new operation, particularly towards the
development of a strategic plan to recover and preserve the national road network, and the development of
an operating manual to manage the Road Maintenance National Account (CNCV). In addition, the project
was successful in strengthening SNC's socio-environment functions.

The empowerment of an SNC insulated from political and partisan interests continues to be a priority to
consolidate the gains achieved so far, and to continue strengthening its technical and implementation
capacities.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

The Project was approved by the Board in June 1999 but Congressional approval was delayed and the
Credit was not declared effective until December 1999, reducing the actual implementation period to three
and a half years.

Even though the project was prepared during a period of relative stability in the government, it was
implemented during a time of extreme political stress, and continuous social unrest. Between the
2000-2005 period, Bolivia was ruled by five presidents, two of which were forced to resign due to social
protests. Often violent internal conflicts, like those in April 2000, September 2000, January 2002, and
February 2003, included riots, road blockades, strikes, and massive mobilizations.
The frequent social upheavals and blockades to roads, particularly those communicating with Argentina
and neighboring countries, had a direct negative effect and slowed down the implementation of the project,
especially during the transition and crises periods, when many road projects were paralyzed due to
continuous suspension of supply of diesel and asphalt products.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

Despite the initial government's commitment to the project, lack of timely counterpart funding became an
important bottleneck for the implementation of the project, in particular for the comprehensive maintenance
component that relied heavily on local counterpart funds (80% of total, 40% of which was financed through
the so-called Non-Project of Japan). This became a major source of conflict with the contractor and
supervision firms that generated implementation delays and increased contract costs due to price
adjustments mandated by contractual clauses. Local counterpart funds, which were largely under the
responsibility of the sub-national government level (Prefectura de Santa Cruz) were planned to be
disbursed in parallel to IDA's funds but they rarely happened, since the administrative disbursement
process in Bolivia for this type of case is very cumbersome. Funds at the sub national level are channeled
from the National Treasury. When ever a Prefectura participates in the co-financing of a project, the
Prefectura has to send back the money to the national level to make payments to the contractors. A
mechanism to avoid this back and forth process and to ensure that the expected allocations are accounted
for before the execution of works was proposed but never implemented (the so called Local Counterpart
Fiduciary Account).

In addition, given the tight fiscal framework in Bolivia, SNC was not receiving enough budgetary
allocations and the gap in the projected collections of funds in the National Road Maintenance Account
(CNCV) widened, limiting the possibilities to cover the financial deficits. This problem was accentuated
especially when the counterpart proceeds from the Non-Project were exhausted, and, it was solved only



                                                     - 11 -

towards the end of project implementation following IDA's approval to disburse a higher percentage (60%)
from the credit proceeds to allow a proper closing of the project.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

This IDA credit was the largest ever for Bolivia. The reconstruction and paving of the Abapó ­ Camiri
highway was also more complex and on a larger scale than the previous ones and as such, imposed greater
challenges on the procurement capacity of the implementing agency and its ability to ensure Government's
adequate and timely allocation of counterpart funds to ensure a smooth implementation pace.

The selection of contractors was slow and with substantial initial delays, which ultimately delayed initiating
the works. The procurement of contractors and consultants was a slow and protracted process: it suffered
from a late start and took much longer than anticipated, as SNC was subject to pressures and had to
address complaints from local firms, who opposed the awarding of one large contract to the foreign firm
that had submitted the lowest bid (to enhance competition, the bidding for the main road component was
divided into lots commensurate with local construction capacity, but the awarding of more than one lot to a
bidder was allowed provided that such bidder submitted the lowest evaluated bid and complied with the
qualification requirements of the combined lots). Ultimately, SNC was able to overcome the pressures and
award the contracts in accordance with the bidding documents, but the process demanded repeated
exchanges of information and clarifications to the bid evaluation reports from SNC as well as close
monitoring over a longer than expected period of time by the Bank. As a result, commencement of works
was delayed but thanks to the capacity and financial strength of the contractor, the civil works were
completed within budget and only within a few extra months.

The implementation of an innovative scheme such as the comprehensive maintenance by contract demanded
more implementation support and a stronger stance from the SNC, particularly in terms of: (i) minimizing
the delays on the selection of the contractor; (ii) selecting a supervision firm with enough experience in the
proposed maintenance alternative; (iii) ensuring the sufficient and timely allocation of counterpart funds;
and (iv) adjusting to the new role imposed by this type of contract schemes.

5.4 Costs and financing:

The overall assessment on costs and financing is highly satisfactory. The project funds were utilized in
full, the contributions from the Bank and the Borrower were mostly in line with those agreed during project
appraisal, and most importantly, the unit costs were lower than estimated. The latter should be highlighted
because despite the circumstances and adverse environment in which the project was carried out
­characterized by frequent delays and a very unstable political scenario­ the project was able to deliver
high quality outputs.

Costs by Component and Financing Source. Total project cost at appraisal was estimated at US$120
million, including physical and price contingencies. Out of this cost US$88 million was to be financed by
IDA and the remaining US$32 million by the GOB. The final total project cost was US$118 million of
which IDA financed US$89 million and the GOB US$29 million. The Bank's final contribution to the
financial resources was slightly larger than planned (101% of appraisal) and the Government's counterpart
funds reached only 94% of the original estimate. The Bank's contribution was higher than expected (114%)
for the Comprehensive Maintenance Component and the Government's contribution higher (125%) in the
Institutional Strengthening Component. See Annex 2 for further detail.

   l The final cost of the Reconstruction and paving of the Abapó ­ Camiri (including the Bridge over



                                                      - 12 -

        the Rio Grande) was US$89.5 million, or 97% of appraisal, and the final cost of the Access Road
        to El Espino was US$8.5 million, or 107% of appraisal.
   l A total of US$10.4 million was used to implement the Comprehensive Maintenance by Contract
        which represents 90% of appraisal.
   l The final cost of the supervision of the Abapó ­ Camiri Highway which included the Access Road
        to El Espino was US$5.7 million, or 96% of appraisal, and the final cost of the supervision of the
        Comprehensive Maintenance works was US$1.5 million, or 188% of appraisal.
   l The actual cost of the Institutional Strengthening component was US$2.4 million, or 118% of
        appraisal.

Comparison of Unit Cost of Main Civil Works. The table below presents (in US Dollars Year 2000), a
comparison of unit cost estimates, contract costs, and actual costs for a two-lane road, 7.3 m wide, with
fully paved and re-aligned 2.0 m shoulders on each side. The works consisted of upgrading an earth road to
an asphalt concrete surface and a pavement structure with a thickness of 525 mm: surface 75 mm, base
250 mm, and sub-base of 200 mm. The results show that on average the works were contracted for about
15 percent lower than the estimates, and the actual costs were about 6 percent lower than the contract
costs. Compared with other sections that were constructed in Bolivia using rigid pavement with final costs
ranging from 700,000 to 800,000 US$/km the difference in cost per km is substantial. The unit costs for
the bridge is US$1,700/m2.

                               Estimate, Contract and Actual Unit Costs Comparison in US$ 2000
                                                  Unit Cost (US$ 2000)                                Ratios

                                         Estimate       Contract          Actual        Actual/Estimate    Actual/Contract
                 Road Section
                                        (US$/km)        (US$/km)        (US$/km)

          Abapo - Ipita Road             613,800         554,487         528,672            0.86                 0.95
          Ipita - Ipati Road             599,164         529,901         489,243            0.82                 0.92
          Ipati - Camiri Road            530,398         522,631         485,378            0.92                 0.93
          Camiri Bypass Road             722,222         619,396         593,959            0.82                 0.96
          Average                        616,396         556,604         524,313            0.85                 0.94
          El Espino Access Road          217,636         230,057         199,439            0.92                 0.87

                                         Estimate       Contract          Actual        Actual/Estimate    Actual/Contract
                Bridge Section
                                        (US$/m2)        (US$/m2)        (US$/m2)
          Bridge in Abapo                 1,981           2,209            1,715            0.87                 0.78

          Based on the application of the Road Cost Knowledge System - ROCKS Version 2.2 (December 2004) developed by
          the World Bank.
          The Abapo - Ipita Road does not include the cost of the Bridge over the Rio Grande.
          The unit cost of the bridge was calculated based on the area of the main carriageway (8m x 400 m). The cost,
          however, includes the cost of the accesses and sidewalks.




Allocation of Credit Proceeds and Disbursements. Due to the exchange rate variations overtime between
the Special Drawing Rights (SDR) and US dollars the total amount of credit proceeds at the end of the
project was almost US$90 million, of which US$89 million was disbursed. No funds were disbursed
against two of the eligible categories: routine maintenance works and goods. On March 14, 2006 the credit
account was closed and a total of SRD1.675 million was cancelled (equivalent to US$1.1 million).




                                                                - 13 -

                                   Allocation of Loan Proceeds and Disbursements
               Currency in Millions     PAD Allocation   ICR Allocation    Disbursed    Undisbursed
                  US DOLLARS                88.00            90.25          89.16          1.09
                     SDRs                   64.70            64.70          63.03          1.68


6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

The sustainability of the project is rated as likely for the following reasons: (i) the good quality of the
works carried out; (ii) the increased transport demand, and the more than expected traffic generated in the
lowlands along a major north ­ south transport corridor of more than 1,000 km that gives Bolivia access to
international markets in Argentina and Paraguay; (iii) the social and economic benefits for the communities
­including indigenous people­ that live in the area of influence which have already taken place and most
likely will continue to improve; (iv) the relative importance and priority given by the central and
sub-national levels of government to this corridor, and the rapid agricultural development of the eastern
area of the country, which offset the potential issues of scarcity of resources for preserving the integrity of
the corridor.

In addition, as soon as the construction period ended, the corresponding routine maintenance activities have
been initiated on the corridor. Based on two schemes, SNC has redefined the maintenance program that
includes periodic and routine maintenance of the sections financed by the project and those of the entire
national road network: one which involves private construction companies, and the other that uses
maintenance micro-enterprises. These two schemes, that complement each other, have shown to be
effective, and continue to work well. Nevertheless, given the limited resources, it is important to give
priority to routine maintenance needs to the maximum extent possible.

The on-going Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project ­effective since November 2002 and scheduled
to close in December 2007­ has among its main objectives to consolidate the revamping of the institutional
framework, the implementation of a sustainable mechanism to preserve the national road network, and to
strengthen the institutional capacity of the Prefecturas. Therefore, the Bank will continue to use this project
to ensure an adequate management and operation of the assets financed in the Abapó ­ Camiri highway
project.

Consolidating the institutional strengthening and reform of the SNC, and limiting the uncertainties
surrounding financial sustainability in the road sector are key factors to enhance the sustainability
prospects of the project.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

The Abapó ­ Camiri highway including the bridge over the Rio Grande, the Camiri Bypass, and the Access
Road to El Espino have been in service for more than one year, the construction liability period has
concluded, and all the highways elements have been reported to be performing adequately. The road
sections that were subject to periodic maintenance under the comprehensive maintenance have been
properly completed.




                                                       - 14 -

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

Bank performance in the project preparation and identification is rated satisfactory. The Bank assigned a
qualified team with extensive experience on the road sector, and with an appropriate skill mix that delivered
a well designed project, consistent with the CAS. The Bank team worked closely with the client in the
definition of the project components and was thorough and methodical during project appraisal. A series of
workshops in the field and consultations with civil society representatives were carried out as part of the
project preparation process which enabled the design of specific tools to mitigate possible negative effects
and enhance the benefits to the population in the area.

7.2 Supervision:

Bank supervision is rated satisfactory. The project had three team leaders throughout the project cycle.
One was responsible for project preparation, appraisal, and part for project implementation; the second,
performed the largest share of project supervision activities; and the third, closed the project and led the
project evaluation. The task management transition processes were performed smoothly since before
becoming task managers, the second and third Bank staffs were participating in the project. The project
reporting by the Bank was of high quality, and the Bank's policies were applied consistently. The
continuity of the Bank's project task team during implementation was crucial for the success of the project.
It also allowed a timely identification of issues and a valuable assessment of project progress; both of
which were critical in guiding the project and for overcoming implementation difficulties.

On average, the Bank fielded two supervision missions per year, some of them combined with the
supervision of the Second Road Maintenance Project, at the beginning; and with the Road Rehabilitation
and Maintenance Project, at the end. In particular, the supervision team demonstrated the ability to balance
conflicting priorities within the country, thereby avoiding potential problems. A Supervision of Risky
Projects (QSR) quality review of the project was carried out by a QAG panel during implementation. The
panel assessed the overall quality of supervision as satisfactory, as well as for three of the four main
categories, except for "realism of project performance ratings" which was found marginal.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

The overall Bank performance is rated satisfactory. The Bank task team provided timely attention to the
client's requests while adhering to agreed procedures and maintaining good control of the project and
monitoring quality.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

Borrower performance during preparation was satisfactory. The preparation was led by the ViceMinistry
of Transport (VMT) and the SNC, in close coordination with the Prefectura of Santa Cruz. The
government team properly identified the main issues and risks that were instrumental in overcoming
potential problems during project implementation. A very committed and qualified local counterpart team
was designated to prepare the project. The implementing agency, at the same time, worked closely with the
Bank, to identify highway construction issues, improvement and maintenance needs, and define the scope
and structure of the project.




                                                    - 15 -

7.5 Government implementation performance:

Government implementation performance is rated as unsatisfactory. Although relatively outside its control
and despite the commitment and support that the central and sub-national governments have provided to the
project, the political and social turmoil experienced in the country during the implementation period had a
negative impact on the implementation pace of the project. Moreover, as discussed earlier, the timely
provision of counterpart funds, which was one of the key functions under the control of government, was
not addressed properly during implementation.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

The performance of the implementing agency (SNC) is rated as satisfactory. Said performance can be
separated in two very distinct phases: (i) a shaky start during the initial two years (2000-2002) where major
problems are found and substantial procurement delays take place as a consequence of the weakened
institutional framework. Incipient actions were being prepared as part of the institutional reform process;
and (ii) a second three-year period (2003-2005) directly linked to the institutionalization process of the
SNC where works were finally initiated, the CRP was put in place, and the main obstacles were removed.

SNC initiated the process to request an extension of the period of implementation mainly to overcome the
initial delays of the project. The Bank granted an extension of the Credit Closing Date from June 30, 2004
to June 30, 2005, and again to October 31, 2005, to facilitate the achievement of the project objectives and
allow SNC to complete all components.

With the institutional reform introduced during the project period, the SNC established itself as a more
autonomous entity in charge of road development and maintenance. The revamped organizational structure
has been conducive to important improvements in terms of operational efficiency. Nonetheless, in order to
guarantee the sustainability of reforms and improve service delivery, the SNC must continue to work to
consolidate specific actions in procurement, financial management, contract administration, and on social
and environmental issues. For this purpose the undivided support from the Government is essential.

Finally, it is important to highlight the good job and support provided by the Project Coordination Unit
during project implementation. The technical skills and continue support from the project coordination team
proved to be critical, detecting potential conflicts and proactively proposing solutions to overcome the
bottlenecks that came across.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:


Overall the Borrower performance is rated as satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

A sound institutional framework that provides for adequate procurement mechanisms to ensure the
selection of good contractors and consultants is able to overcome an adverse environment, and is
conducive to obtain reasonable costs for high quality outputs. The initial focus in pursuing the core issue
of institutional strengthening of the SNC, proved critical to overcome the procurement difficulties
evidenced at the beginning of project implementation. As a result, and despite a very challenging political
and social environment coupled with initial delays in the procurement phase, the selection of sound
contractors and supervision firms with ample experience for the execution of the Abapó ­ Camiri highway
was essential for the success of the project.



                                                     - 16 -

In the design of large road infrastructure investment projects that promote economic growth,
substantial social impacts and a more inclusive development approach can be achieved by
incorporating strategic elements targeting access for the poor. The Abapó ­ Camiri project included the
improvement of a rural road (the road to El Espino) to provide access to the export corridor to local
communities in the area, even though it was initially not fully justified on economic grounds (EIRR=10.5),
precisely to strike a good balance between economic growth and poverty reduction. The alternative chosen,
coupled with a well integrated assessment and implementation of social and environmental issues, has
proven to be effective in addressing the accessibility needs of the poor and avoiding the social conflicts that
regularly affected the execution of other ongoing projects in Bolivia.

A resourceful project design is fundamental to manage conflicting issues turning them into positive
outcomes. Well-conceived and implemented Resettlement Action Plan (RAP), Community Relations
Program (CRP), and Indigenous Peoples Development Plan (IPDP) as part of any major
infrastructure project are effective means for enhancing community participation and ensuring that
the project's interventions reach the most vulnerable. Beyond the compliance of the Bank's social
safeguards, the empowerment of the local communities through a well-executed Resettlement Action Plan,
Community Relations Program, and Indigenous Peoples Development Plan proved to be essential for
promoting social and political interaction among the indigenous people and the local communities, and for
increasing the overall impact of the project in the area of influence. In a country like Bolivia, with a large
percentage of indigenous people and a track record of frequent social unrest, these instruments were critical
for improving the standard of living of local communities along the entire corridor.

Contracting out the implementation of the IPDP and CRP to independent and specialized consulting
firms, as opposed to including them as an additional item in the civil works contract, has proven to be
a good practice. In the Abapó ­ Camiri project the IPDP was carried out by a local consulting firm
dedicated solely to this effort and achieved highly satisfactory results. The CRP was included in the scope
of the civil works supervision contract, and while the CRP experienced serious initial delays and had room
for improvement, at the end, it was successfully completed and proved to be a key element to enable the
continuity of works. This experience shows that better results are achieved through exclusively dedicated
and specialized firms given that when these tasks are included as part of the civil works contracts they are
highly likely to be left out, or not be given the priority, nor the required attention.

The introduction of new maintenance contract schemes requires a gradual implementation approach
according to the level of maturity of the road sector, based on an assessment of the willingness and
flexibility to adjust to a new setting. The ex-post assessment of the introduction of the comprehensive
maintenance scheme indicates that at the time, the capacity of the construction industry in Bolivia was
limited and it did not accommodate the new maintenance concept. Particularly given that only some
incipient experiences with maintenance by contract were available and at the provincial and local levels
routine maintenance was still being carried out using force account. As a result, the complexity of the
proposed maintenance scheme was not in line with the level of maturity of the road sector in the Bolivia.
Therefore, the introduction of new contracting modalities required further support to enable a smoother and
gradual implementation. In particular, it required an important leadership from the executing agency to
solve conflicts and encourage the innovative approaches.

To ensure substantial and sustained institutional development in the road sector strong and continued
political support is fundamental. Since 1990 multilateral financial institutions ­IDB, CAF, FONPLATA
and the World Bank­ have provided support to strengthen the institutional capacity to manage and maintain
Bolivia's road assets. However, the combination of: (i) a well coordinated multilateral and donor presence;
(ii) sustained support consisting of large and overlapping investment projects over extended periods of time;



                                                      - 17 -

and even (iii) adjustment loans that have included the road sector, are important but not sufficient elements
to conduct an effective institutional reform process. A lot of effort and resources have been translated into
many achievements, but ultimately it is the Government's support along with sound and sustainable actions
(enactment of key laws for instance) that makes possible the achievement of substantial improvements in
the sector.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

Annex 8 includes an excerpt of the report sent by the SNC summarizing their experience with the execution
of the Project and the lessons learned from it. The report summarizes: (i) the history of the project; (ii) a
description of the project components; (iii) an ex-post economic evaluation; (iv) a comparison of the
situation ex-ante and ex-post; (v) main conclusions and lessons learned; and finally (vi) a series of annexes
with a detailed summary of each of the activities undertaken under the project.

In the report, the Borrower highlights the importance of the Abapo-Camiri highway and the positive impact
that the project has had from several points of view. The report also identifies some of the main difficulties
faced during project implementation and mentions aspects that could be improved in the future.

Among the positive experiences, the Borrower highlights:

    l The successful completion of the Abapó-Camiri highway in terms of both quality and cost
         indicating that most of the goals were achieved or surpassed in terms of number of kilometers
         rehabilitated and maintained according to the resources spent.

    l The achievement of the expected benefits of the project. In the report, SNC indicates that in the
         ex-post economic evaluation, all the sectors of the project present higher rates of return than those
         expected at appraisal. For example, travel time costs have been reduced by almost 50%, transport
         costs are now much lower and traffic volumes almost doubled. The report, quotes a declaration
         given by the President of the Chamber of Trucks in Bolivia who in the article "Asi avanzan los
         caminos de Bolivia" published by the newspaper La Prensa on December 27, 2005 he says: "In the
         road to Yacuiba the flow of transport increased and the Bolivian products have gained
         competitiveness, reducing travel times and transport cost even by 40%."

    l The introduction of improved technical specifications in terms of highway design in the country.
         The reports cites for example: (i) the implementation of new technical standards on road safety
         including enhanced vertical and horizontal signaling, which have been incorporated into Bolivia's
         Traffic Safety Policy, and as a result, is being implemented on other roads in the country; (ii)
         geometric improvements that were carried out in the corridor according to the traffic
         characteristics; (iii) enhanced drainage systems and protection works to avoid problems during
         rainy seasons.

    l The innovative tools implemented from the environmental point of view. The report highlights the
         usefulness of different tasks that were carried out, such as a detailed Environmental Management
         Plan, an Action Plan for strengthening the SNC's Environmental Unit and the Environmental
         Impact Assessment study. The mitigation of social and environmental issues through the
         incorporation of social and environmental programs before the commencement of works was one of
         the most important lessons learned during the implementation of the project.



                                                    - 18 -

    l The Bank's contribution to the institutional reform of the SNC. The support from the Bank is
        perceived to be of importance for the beginning of the transformation to convert the entity in a new
        institution totally technical with enhanced managerial skills. The report mentions the importance of
        the training programs to SNC professionals included in the project.

With regards to the difficulties faced during project implementation and those aspects that could be
fine-tuned in the future:

    l The report points out some issues out of the SNC's control that in their view contributed to delay
        the implementation of the Project such as the frequent changes of government administration and
        the institutional reform taking place at the time. In spite of these difficulties, all the works were
        finalized satisfactorily although with an increased period of implementation.

    l The report highlights the importance of having good and updated engineering studies before the
        bidding process take place. In those cases where studies were not updated, the designs had to be
        modified during the execution of works and generated delays in project implementation.

    l From the contractual point of view, the lack of experience of the local industry and SNC itself,
        with regards to the comprehensive maintenance contract was one element that generated differences
        in the interpretation of the contractual obligations and difficulties in the implementation of the
        component. However, the report indicates that SNC and engineering firms in the country have
        gained the expertise to undertake this type of contracts for future projects.

    l The report mentions the problems faced during project implementation due to the delays in the
        disbursements of counterpart funds from the local government, which generally affected the
        contractors' work programs.

Regarding Bank's performance during project preparation and implementation, the Borrower has
highlighted: (i) the good coordination among the Bank's staff and government officials, in particular the
SNC; (ii) the frequent participation in site visits from the Bank staff; (iii) the support to the design and
implementation of an Integrated Accounting System; (iv) the recommendations on technical specifications,
particularly those related to road safety, and (v) the support to different themes such as environmental
management, financial and control management and the institutional strengthening process of the SNC.

The Borrower concludes that the project provided higher results than those expected at appraisal and that it
has been a great benefit to the country. The transport links with neighborhood countries have been
consolidated and regions with agricultural potential have accelerated its development. People in the project
area have improved their living standards.

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information




                                                    - 19 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix




Outcome / Impact Indicators:
               Indicator/Matrix                                            1
                                                   Projected in last PSR              Actual/Latest Estimate


 (1)    Foster economic development and           Average Annual Daily Traffic       Average Annual Daily Traffic
 accessibility along the Trinidad - Yacuiba            in vehicles per day               in vehicles per day
 Corridor, as a result of improved transport     Traffic 1999 - Projected 2005            December 2005
 conditions and measured by increased
 traffic volumes in the Abapó ­ Camiri
 Highway

  l Abapó ­ Ipita Road                                     243 - 390                            605
  l Ipita ­ Ipati Road                                     229 - 369                            605
  l Ipati ­ Camiri Road                                    366 - 589                            649
  l Camiri Bypass Road                                     286 - 384                            447
  l Access Road to El Espino                                35 - 63                              55

(2) Improved level of service measured by         Average Speed in km/hour           Average Speed in km/hour
increased average speed on the Abapó ­        Average Speed 1999 - Projected 2005         December 2005
Camiri Highway in km/hour

  l Cars and Sports Utility Vehicles                        33 - 76                              80
  l Buses                                                   30 - 72                              75
  l Medium Trucks                                           20 - 52                              55
  l Heavy Trucks                                            17 - 64                              65
  l Articulated Trucks                                      15 - 56                              60

(3) Increased road user benefits measured by       Cost per veh-km in US$             Cost per veh-km in US$
reduced road user costs on the Abapó ­        Average Cost 1999 - Projected 2005          December 2005
Camiri Highway

  l Cars                                                   0.58 - 0.19                          0.22
  l Sports Utility Vehicles                                0.85 - 0.19                          0.25
  l Buses                                                  1.73 - 0.88                          0.93
  l Medium Trucks                                          1.01 - 0.40                          0.55
  l Heavy Trucks                                           1.59 - 0.64                          0.62
  l Articulated Trucks                                     2.13 - 0.94                          0.90




                                                           - 20 -

Output Indicators:
               Indicator/Matrix                                            1
                                                    Projected in last PSR                 Actual/Latest Estimate


(1) Completion of Civil Works within budget,               Unit Cost                              Unit Cost
and within an acceptable range of cost,            in US$/km (US$Year 2000)             in US$/km (US$Year 2000)
measured by the unit cost in US$/km and      Cost Estimate 1999 - Contract Cost 2001          Actual Cost 2005
compared using constant US$ for 2000.

  l Abapó ­ Ipita Road (including Bridge)
  l Ipita ­ Ipati Road                                 613,800 - 554,487                           528,672
  l Ipati ­ Camiri Road                                599,164 - 529,901                           489,243
  l Camiri Bypass Road                                 530,398 - 522,631                           485,378
  l Access Road to El Espino                           722,222 - 619,396                           593,959
                                                       217,636 - 230,057                           199,439

(2)   Completion of Civil Works within an          Time to complete the works           Time to complete the works
acceptable range of time, measured by the                  in months                             in months
time to complete the works in months         Time Estimate 1999 - Contract Time 2001          Actual Time 2005

  l Abapó ­ Ipita Road (including Bridge)                   36 - 25                                 34
  l Ipita ­ Ipati Road                                      36 - 26                                 33
  l Ipati ­ Camiri Road                                     30 - 20                                 26
  l Camiri Bypass Road                                      12 - 14                                 22
  l Access Road to El Espino                                30 - 20                                 23

(3) Allocation of Funds in the Comprehensive          Percentage Allocated                Percentage Allocated
Maintenance Component                           Total Estimate 1999 = $11.42 M         Total Actual 2006 = $10.97 M

  l Periodic Maintenance                                     47.9%                                75.4%
  l Routine Maintenance                                      26.9%                                10.4%
  l Emergencies                                              2.5%                                  0.3%
  l Minor Works (includes non-classif.)                      3.4%                                  6.6%
  l Training (includes management)                           19.3%                                 7.2%
(4) Successful Completion of Key Consulting
Assignments measured by the Delivery Date             Planned Report Date                    Actual Report Date
of the Final Report                                       Month - Year                          Month - Year

  l Feasibility Study for San Jose ­ Puerto             December 2001                          Not Contracted
     Suarez Concession
  l Indigenous People Development Plan                  December 2003                           March 2005
     (IPDP)
  l Community Relations Plan (CRP)                      December 2003                         January 2005




                                                           - 21 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal    Actual/Latest   Percentage of
                                                          Estimate      Estimate        Appraisal
                        Component                         US$ million   US$ million
A. Abapó-Camiri Highway                                     82.80          89.50           107.85
B. Access Road to El Espino                                  7.30            8.50          128.08
C. Comprehensive Maintenance by Contract                    10.20          10.40           101.57
D. Institutional Strengthening                               2.00            2.40           117.5
E. Civil Works Supervision Contracts                         6.70            7.20          107.31

Total Baseline Cost                                        109.00         118.00
 Physical Contingencies                                      8.00            0.00               0
 Price Contingencies                                         3.00            0.00               0
                          Total Project Costs              120.00         118.00
                    Total Financing Required               120.00         118.00


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category            ICB            NCB                2       N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                          111.30            0.10         0.10         0.00         111.50
                                  (82.10)          (0.10)      (0.10)         (0.00)      (82.30)
2. Goods                            0.00            0.00         0.10         0.00          0.10
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.10)         (0.00)       (0.10)
3. Services                         0.00            0.00         7.00         1.40          8.40
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (5.60)         (0.00)       (5.60)
   Total                          111.30            0.10         7.20         1.40         120.00
                                  (82.10)          (0.10)      (5.80)         (0.00)      (88.00)




                                                - 22 -

   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                   1
                                                         Procurement Method
         Expenditure Category              ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                               Other
   1. Works                               108.40              0.00              0.00             0.00             108.40
                                          (82.93)            (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (82.93)
   2. Goods                                0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   3. Services                             0.00               0.00              7.67             1.93              9.60
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (6.23)            (0.00)           (6.23)
       Total                              108.40              0.00              7.67             1.93             118.00
                                          (82.93)            (0.00)            (6.23)            (0.00)           (89.16)

    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component. (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
       Component.                  Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               Bank        Govt.        CoF.         IDA          Govt.      CoF.       IDA      Govt.     CoF.
A. Abapó-Camiri               77.80        19.50                    77.49         16.34                 99.6      83.8
Highway:
B. Access Road to El           6.80         1.70                     7.90         1.97                  116.2    115.9
Espino
C. Comprehensive               2.90         9.30                     3.30         8.60                  113.8     92.5
Maintenance by Contract
D. Institutional               0.50         1.50                     0.47         1.93                  94.0     128.7
Strengthening
Total                         88.00        32.00                    89.16         28.84                 101.3     90.1

   Cost for each component include supervision of civil works. Appraisal estimates include price and physical
   contigencies.




                                                          - 23 -

ESTIMATE, CONTRACT, AND ACTUAL COST PER ACTIVITY
                  ESTIMATED COSTS /1                             Length          Cost       Unit Cost     Date    Duration
               Component                        Activity           km          (M US$)      (US$/km)   mo-day-yr  months
Bridge in Abapo                            Reconst. & Paving           0.40         4.600   11,500,000 04/29/1999   36
Abapo - Ipita ONLY                            Upgrading               64.00        38.000     593,750  04/30/1999   36
Abapo - Ipita + Bridge                        Upgrading               64.40        42.600     661,491
Ipita - Ipati                                 Upgrading               49.00        28.400     579,592  04/30/1999   36
Ipati - Camiri ONLY                           Upgrading               30.60        15.700     513,072  04/30/1999   30
Camiri Bypass                                 Upgrading                7.30         5.100     698,630  04/30/1999   12
Ipati - Camiri + Bypass                       Upgrading               37.90        20.800     548,813
Abapo Camiri Highway                                                151.30         91.800     606,742
Access to El Espino                           Upgrading               38.00         8.000     210,526  04/30/1999   30
Comprehensive Maintenance/2                  Maintenance            893.70         11.500       12,868 04/30/1999   36
Total Works Costs                                                 1,083.00       111.300
Superv. Abapo Camiri + El Espino              Consulting                            5.900              04/30/1999
Superv. Compreh. Maint.                       Consulting                            0.800              04/30/1999
Total Supervision Costs                                                             6.700
Institutional Strengthening                   Consulting                            2.000
Total Project Costs                                                              120.000

                   CONTRACT COSTS/3                              Length          Cost       Unit Cost     Date    Duration
               Component                        Activity           km          (M US$)      (US$/km)   mo-day-yr  months
Bridge in Abapo                            Reconst. & Paving           0.42         7.631   18,170,024 08/10/2001  26.0
Abapo - Ipita ONLY                            Upgrading               63.50        36.205     570,163  08/10/2001  26.0
Abapo - Ipita + Bridge                        Upgrading               63.92        43.837     685,806
Ipita - Ipati                                 Upgrading               48.80        26.590     544,879  08/10/2001  26.0
Ipati - Camiri ONLY                           Upgrading               30.40        16.337     537,390  08/10/2001  20.0
Camiri Bypass                                 Upgrading                7.34         4.749     647,031  03/22/2002  14.0
Ipati - Camiri + Bypass                       Upgrading               37.74        21.085     558,711
Abapo Camiri Highway                                                150.46         91.512     608,219
Access to El Espino                           Upgrading               38.60         9.276     240,313  09/11/2002  20.0
Comprehensive Maintenance                    Maintenance            709.60          8.161       11,500 01/29/2002  36.0
Total Works Costs                                                   898.66       108.949
Superv. Abapo Camiri + El Espino                                    189.06          3.721              10/23/2001
Superv. Compreh. Maint.                                             709.60          0.464              09/16/2002
Total Supervision Costs                                                             4.185
Institutional Strengthening                   Consulting                            2.350
Total Project Costs                                                              115.484

                     ACTUAL COSTS/3                              Length          Cost       Unit Cost   Date/4    Duration
               Component                        Activity           km          (M US$)      (US$/km)   mo-day-yr  months
Bridge in Abapo                            Reconst. & Paving           0.42         6.264   14,914,112 11/29/2004  34.4
Abapo - Ipita ONLY                            Upgrading               63.50        36.484     574,547  11/20/2004  34.1
Abapo - Ipita + Bridge                        Upgrading               63.92        42.748     668,768
Ipita - Ipati                                 Upgrading               48.80        25.947     531,707  11/15/2004  32.9
Ipati - Camiri ONLY                           Upgrading               30.40        16.036     527,488  03/12/2004  25.8
Camiri Bypass                                 Upgrading                7.34         4.738     645,629  04/27/2004  21.6
Ipati - Camiri + Bypass                       Upgrading               37.74        20.774     550,463
Abapo Camiri Highway                                                150.46         89.469     594,639
Access to El Espino                           Upgrading               39.41         8.542     216,778  11/10/2004  21.5
Comprehensive Maintenance                    Maintenance            709.60         10.363       14,605 10/31/2005  30.0
Total Works Costs                                                   899.47       108.375
Superv. Abapo Camiri + El Espino              Consulting            189.87          5.658              01/31/2005
Superv. Compreh. Maint.                       Consulting            709.60          1.503              02/01/2005
Total Supervision Costs                                                             7.161
Institutional Strengthening                   Consulting                            2.350
Total Project Costs                                                              117.886

/1 Includes physical and price contingencies
/2 Periodic Maintenance 340.7 km (156.6+184.1) & 553 km only routine maitenance & emergencies
/3 Source: Project Completion Report - Servicio Nacional de Caminos - Credito 3235-BO - 2006
/4 Date when works were completed




                                                                    - 24 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

The ex-post cost-benefit analysis was done for the main road works components of the project consisting of
upgrading the Abapó ­ Camiri road, the Camiri Bypass and the Access road to El Espino that represent 90
percent of the project civil works costs. For the economic evaluation, the Abapó ­ Camiri road was
subdivided into three homogenous road sections (Abapó ­ Ipita, Ipita ­ Ipati, and Ipati ­ Camiri), based on
traffic, terrain and upgrading costs considerations. The Abapó - Camiri road before the project was an
unpaved road in very bad condition with 7.0m carriageway width and it was improved to an Asphalt
Concrete road standard. Table 1 presents the average upgrading works characteristics.

                                        Table 1. Upgrading Works Characteristics
                                                                         Thickness        Horizontal Vertical
                             Length Width   Shoulders   Surface  Surface    Base  Subbase Curvature   Profile
      Road Section           (km)    (m)       (m)       Type     (mm)     (mm)    (mm)    (deg/km)    (%)
      Abapo - Ipita Road      64.4   7.3       2.0       A.C.      75        250   200       60.8      6.4
      Ipita - Ipati Road      49.0   7.3       2.0       A.C.      75        250   200       41.0      4.9
      Ipati - Camiri Road     30.7   7.3       2.0       A.C.      75        250   200       71.1      3.1
      Total                  144.1
      A.C. = Asphalt Concrete



The ex-post cost-benefit analysis was done with the same economic evaluation model and methodology
used during the ex-ante analysis. Net benefits were evaluated using the Highway Design and Maintenance
Standards Model (HDM-III) and the main project benefits were derived from the reduction of road user
transport costs by lowering vehicle operating costs and travel time costs. Other project benefits, such as the
provision of more reliable and safer transport services and the removal of physical constraints to
international road transport of goods and people in the region were not considered in the cost-benefit
analysis.

At appraisal for the ex-ante evaluation, SNC estimated unit costs of maintenance road works in financial
and economic terms, defined the representative vehicle fleet characteristics and road user costs for six
vehicle types, and the basic economic evaluation parameters such as the discount rate (12%) and evaluation
period (25 years). All costs were expressed in 1998 US Dollars. The ex-post cost-benefit analysis was done
using the same appraisal estimates for maintenance works costs, road user costs, and basic economic
evaluation parameters in order to properly compare the ex-ante and ex-post results The actual cost of the
upgrading works, the actual timing and duration of the road works, the actual traffic growth rate, and
generated traffic observed on the roads were considered differently at the ex-post evaluation. For the
ex-post evaluation, the actual upgrading costs were deflated to 1998 US Dollars to properly compare the
ex-ante and ex-post results. Table 2 presents a comparison of the appraisal costs and actual investment
costs, presented in 1998 US Dollars, which shows that the actual investment costs are on average around
25 percent lower that the estimated appraisal costs.




                                                        - 25 -

                                         Table 2. Appraisal and Actual Unit Costs Comparison
                                               Ex-ante (Appraisal)                     Ex-post (Actual)            Ex-post /
                                       Length    Investment     Investment    Length    Investment     Investment  Ex-ante
              Road Section              (km)      (M US$)        (US$/km)      (km)      (M US$)       (US$/km)     (ratio)
      Abapo - Ipita Road and
      Bridge                            64.4        48.5          753,261      64.4         37.6        583,851      0.78
      Ipita - Ipati Road                49.0        32.1          655,714       49          22.8        465,306      0.71
      Ipati - Camiri Road               30.6        18.0          588,824      30.7         14.1        459,283      0.78
      Camiri Bypass Road                 7.3        5.8           793,973       7.3         4.2         575,342      0.72
      El Espino Junction - El
      Espino Road                       38.0        9.1           238,737      39.4         7.5         190,355      0.80
      Total                            189.3       113.5          599,715     190.8         86.2        451,782      0.75




Table 3 presents a comparison of the original contract costs and actual investment costs, presented in 1998
US Dollars, which shows that the actual investment costs are on average around 93 percent of the original
contract costs.

                                          Table 3. Contract and Actual Unit Costs Comparison
                                                Contract Costs (Contract)                Ex-post (Actual)           Ex-post /
                                          Length    Investment     Investment   Length    Investment    Investment  Contract
               Road Section                (km)      (M US$)        (US$/km)     (km)      (M US$)       (US$/km)   (ratio)
    Abapo - Ipita Road and Bridge          64.4        40.4          627,329      64.4       37.6         583,851   0.93
    Ipita - Ipati Road                      49         24.5          500,000      49         22.8         465,306   0.93
    Ipati - Camiri Road                    30.7        15.0          488,599      30.7       14.1         459,283   0.94
    Camiri Bypass Road                      7.3         4.4          602,740      7.3        4.2          575,342   0.95
    Access Road to El Espino               39.4         8.5          215,736      39.4       7.5          190,355   0.88
    Total                                  190.8       92.8          486,373     190.8       86.2         451,782   0.93
    Costs expressed in 1998 US Dollars



Table 4 presents the actual traffic on the roads in 1999, the estimated traffic on the roads at appraisal for
2005, and the actual traffic on the roads in 2005, which show that the actual traffic in 2005 is around 27
percent higher that the estimated traffic at appraisal for 2005. The appraisal traffic estimate for 2005 was
based on an assumption that the normal traffic will have a growth rate of 5 percent per year and that after
the upgrading works there will be a generated traffic of 20 percent of the normal traffic for cars, pickups,
buses and small and medium trucks and 50 percent per year for heavy trucks.

                                              Table 4. Estimated 2005 Traffic Comparison
                                                           Ex-ante (Appraisal)     Ex-post (Actual)      Ex-post /
                                                            1999         2005      1999       2005       Ex-ante
                                 Road Section             (AADT)       (AADT)    (AADT)     (AADT)        (ratio)
                    Abapo - Ipita Road and Bridge            243         390       243         605         1.55
                    Ipita - Ipati Road                       229         369       229         605         1.64
                    Ipati - Camiri Road                      366         589       366         649         1.10
                    Camiri Bypass Road                       286         384       286         447         1.16
                    Access Road to El Espino                 35          63         35         55          0.87
                    Average                                                                                1.27



The study of the actual traffic growth rate in the region from 1999 to 2005 indicates that the normal traffic




                                                                  - 26 -

had a growth of around 5.3 percent per year, similar to what was estimated at appraisal, but the generated
traffic after the road works were completed was much higher than the appraisal estimates, particularly for
the Abapó ­ Ipita and the Ipita ­ Ipati roads. The actual total vehicle fleet generated traffic as a percentage
of the normal traffic is 85 percent, 95 percent, and 32% for the Abapó ­ Ipita, Ipita ­ Ipati, and Ipati ­
Camiri road sections respectively. Table 5 presents the actual generated traffic per vehicle type and it
indicates that the generated traffic of cars and pickups was much higher than those of buses and trucks.


                                          Table 5. Actual Generated Traffic in 2005
                                                  Cars & Pickups        Buses   Trucks     Total
                             Road Section                (%)             (%)      (%)       (%)
                        Abapo - Ipita Road              236%            42%      41%       85%
                        Ipita - Ipati Road              217%            54%      57%       97%
                        Ipati - Camiri Road             45%             23%      20%       32%
                        Generated traffic as percent of normal traffic



It was estimated at appraisal that the road works were going to start in 1999 and the road works were going
to be concluded in 2001, but due to many delays, the road works only started in 2002 and were concluded
in 2004. Table 6 presents the construction duration, in months, specified on the civil works contracts and
the actual construction duration period. The actual construction time took on average 7 months longer than
what was defined in the contracts, representing a 31 percent increase in the construction time period.

                                          Table 6. Estimated Construction Duration
                                                                      Contract  Actual  Actual /
                                                                       Time     Time    Contract
                           Road Section                               (months) (months) (ratio)
                           Abapo - Ipita Road and Bridge                25       34      1.36
                           Ipita - Ipati Road                           26       33      1.27
                           Ipati - Camiri Road                          20       26      1.30
                           Camiri Bypass Road                           14       22      1.57
                           Access Road to El Espino                     20       23      1.15
                           Average                                      21       28      1.31



Table 7 presents the ex-post cost-benefit analysis results based on actual: (i) upgrading costs, (ii) timing
and duration of the road works, and (iii) actual normal traffic growth rate and generated traffic. The
ex-post economic evaluation indicates that the project was well justified with an overall Economic Internal
Rate of Return (EIRR), for the road works considered on the ex-post evaluation, of 30.1 percent that is 60
percent higher than the appraisal estimate (18.8 percent). The overall ex-post Net Present Value (NPV), at
12 percent discount rate, is US$ 66.6 million that is 40 percent higher than the appraisal estimate. All the
road sections, including the access road to El Espino, are economically justified with an ex-post EIRR
higher than the 12 percent threshold.




                                                             - 27 -

                                            Table 7. Economic Evaluation Comparison
                                                                                                Ex-post / Ex-
                                                      Ex-ante Evaluation   Ex-post Evaluation        ante
                                                         NPV      EIRR       NPV        EIRR   NPV       EIRR
                            Road Section               (M US$)     (%)     (M US$)       (%)  (ratio)   (ratio)
              Abapo - Ipita Road and Bridge              16.2      17.5      25.9       27.8    1.6       1.6
              Ipita - Ipati Road                         12.5      18.3      21.0       32.3    1.7       1.8
              Ipati - Camiri Road                        18.8      27.6      16.41      41.3    0.9       1.5
              Camiri Bypass Road                          2.4      18.3      2.66       28.3    1.1       1.5
              Access Road to El Espino                   -0.7      10.5      0.59       14.6    1.8       1.4
              Total                                      49.2      18.8      66.6       30.1    1.4       1.6
              NPV expressed in 1998 US Dollars



The ex-post EIRR and NPV are higher than the appraisal estimate due mainly to the lower investment costs
and the higher generated traffic observed on the roads. The delays on starting the road works and
concluding the road works reduced the economic benefits of the project, but this reduction was largely
offset by the additional benefits due to the increase in generated traffic and the lower investment costs.
Table 8 presents the ex-post net economic benefits, expressed in 1998 US Dollars.

                                         Table 8. Ex-Post Project Net Economic Benefits
                                                              Ex-Post Net Economic Benefits
                                                                  Users            Agency       Project
                                   Road Section                 (M US$)           (M US$)      (M US$)
                     Abapo - Ipita Road and Bridge                41.7             -15.9        25.9
                     Ipita - Ipati Road                           30.7              -9.6        21.0
                     Ipati - Camiri Road                          22.0              -5.6        16.4
                     Camiri Bypass Road                            4.4              -1.7         2.7
                     Access Road to El Espino                      3.5              -2.9         0.6
                     Total                                        102.3            -35.7        66.6
                     Benefits expressed in 1998 US Dollars




                                                             - 28 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                                        No. of Persons and Specialty                                  Performance Rating
                                                             (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)                     Implementation Development
                          Month/Year             Count                   Specialty                                      Progress             Objective

 Identification/Preparation
                   10/07/1997                                   3      TTL/HE (1); SL (1); IPO (1)
                   02/21/1999                                   7      TTL/HE (1); ES (1); IPO (1);
                                                                       EAS (1); SS (1); TE (1) RME
                                                                       (1);
                   06/15/1998                                   5      TTL/HE (1); EAS (1); IPO (1);
                                                                       TE (1); RME (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
                   03/30/1999                                   6      TTL/HE (1); SL (1); IPO (1);
                                                                       DO (1); ES (1);FS (1)

 Supervision
                   01/15/200                                    5      TTL/TE (1); HE (1); IDS
                                                                       (1); FMS (1); ES (1)
                   10/21/2000                                   7      TTL/TE (1); HE (1); ES (2);                           S                     S
                                                                       FMS (1); PS (1); SL (1)
                   03/10/2001                                   7      TTL/TE (1); FM (1); IDS (1); ES                       S                     S
                                                                       (1); HE (1); SL (1); HE (1)
                   10/24/2001                                   5      TTL/TE (1); HE (1); FM (1);                           U                     S
                                                                       IDS (1); SL (1)
                   01/25/2002                                   7      TTL/TE (1); HE/IDS (1); SS (1);                       S                     S
                                                                       HE (1); PS (1); FM (1); IDS (1)
                   04/01/2003                                   4      TTL/TE (1); JR. PROF (1); FM                          S                     S
                                                                       (1); PS (1)
                   09/23/2003                                   4      TTL/TE (1); TE (1); FM (1); PS                        S                     S
                                                                       (1)
                   03/29/2004                                   7      TTL/TE (1); STE (1); LTE (2);                         S                     S
                                                                       ES (1) FS (1); PS (1)
                   01/24/2005                                   7      TTL/STE (1); FMS (1); PS (1);                         S                     S
                                                                       RMS (1); SS (1); HE/EAS (1);TS
                                                                       (1)

 ICR
                   10/10/2005                                   7       TTL/STE (1); FMS (1); PS                             S                     S
                                                                        (1) RMS (1); SS (1)
                                                                        HE/EAS (1); TS (1)

TTL: Task Team Leader; HE:Highways Engineer; FMS: Financial Management Specialist; ES: Environmental Specialist; TE: Transport Economist;
PS: Procurement Specialist; IDS Institutional Development Specialist; SS: Social Specialist; SL: Sector Leader; IPO: Infrastructure Project Officer;
EAS: Economic Analysis Specialist; RME: Road Maintenance Specialist; TE: Transport Specialist; LTE: Lead Transport Specialist; STE: Senior
Transport Specialist; BE: Bridges Specialist; DO: Disbursements Officer.
Bank staff assigned to the project shared costs with the implementation of the Second Road Maintenance Project (IDA-2395-BO) at the beginning, and
with the Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project (IDA-3630-BO) at the end of the project.




                                                                        - 29 -

(b) Staff:

         Stage of Project Cycle                                          Actual/Latest Estimate
                                                          No. Staff weeks                          US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                                         49                                     147
  Appraisal/Negotiation                                              25                                       75
  Supervision                                                      127                                      381
  ICR                                                                10                                       30
  Total                                                            211                                      633
Bank staff assigned to the project shared costs with the implementation of the Second Road Maintenance Project (IDA-2395-BO) at the beginning, and
with the Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project (IDA-3630-BO) at the end of the project.
The total excludes the Spanish TF 03036 of US$99,600 used for project preparation.
The number of staff weeks are estimated using an average of $3,000 per staff week.




                                                                        - 30 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
        Social Development
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 31 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 32 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

1. Informe Ejecutivo. Cierre y Evaluación Economica Expost. Proyecto Abapó ­ Camiri.
    Crédito 3235-BO. Organismo Financiador. Asociación Internacional de Fomento. Grupo
    Banco Mundial. Servicio Nacional de Caminos. La Paz ­ Bolivia. 2006

2. Estudio de Caso: Revisión de los Planes Socio Ambientales del Proyecto Abapó ­ Camiri.
    Luz Caballero. Washington. 27 de Febrero 2006.

3. Memoria de Gestión 2004-2005. Servicio Nacional de Caminos. Bolivia. Septiembre 2005

4. Proyecto Abapó - Camiri. Componente de Mantenimiento Integral. Informe Final. Salvador
    Pou. Mayo 2005.

5. Proyecto Abapó - Camiri. Informe final del Plan de Relacionamiento Comunitario y de cada
    uno de sus componentes del Plan de Relacionamiento Comunitario, CAEM-SOINCO.

6. Proyecto Abapó - Camiri. Informe final del plan de apoyo al desarrollo indígena,
    CONAMAS-PRODEA, La Paz, Marzo 2005.

7. Bolivia Poverty Assessment: Establishing the Basis for More Pro-Poor Growth. The World
    Bank Report No. 28068-BO. February 28, 2005.

8. Proyecto Abapó - Camiri. Informe Final Fiscalización socio-ambiental, Marcelo Zilvetti
    Gonzáles, La Paz, Febrero 2005.

9. Proyecto Abapó - Camiri. Percepción de la población sobre los beneficios de la carretera
    Abapó-Camiri. CAEM-SOINCO, Enero 2005.

10. Memoria de Gestión 2003-2004. Servicio Nacional de Caminos. Bolivia. Octubre 2004.

11. BOLIVIA: Country Assistance Strategy for the Republic of Bolivia. The World Bank Report
    No. 26838-BO. January 8, 2004.

12. Indigenous People, Poverty and Human Development in Latin America: 1994 ­ 2004. The
    World Bank. Human Development Department. Gillette Hall and Harry A. Patrinos.

13. BOLIVIA: Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project. Project Appraisal Document. The
    World Bank Report No. 23625-BO. March 15, 2002.

14. Proyecto Abapó - Camiri. Informe Final del plan de indemnizaciones y reasentamiento
    humanos, SNC Octubre 2001.

15. BOLIVIA: Second Road Maintenance Project. Implementation Completion Report. The
    World Bank Report No. 23327. December 21, 2001.

16. Proyecto Abapó - Camiri. Estudio de afectaciones del plan de indemnizaciones y
    reasentamientos humanos. Unidad de medioambiente del SNC, La Paz, 1999.

17. BOLIVIA: Abapó ­ Camiri Highway Project. Project Appraisal Document. The World Bank
    Report No. 19086-BO. April 28, 1999.

18. Proyecto Abapó - Camiri. Estudio de Evaluación de Impacto Medioambiental. P.C.A
    Ingenieros Consultores S.A Santa Cruz, Bolivia. 1999.

19. BOLIVIA: Country Assistance Strategy of the World Bank for the Republic of Bolivia. The
    World Bank Report No. 17890-BO. May 18, 1998.




                                                - 33 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Final Evaluation Report Summary


                                      EVALUACIÓN EX-POST

                                 PROYECTO DE ABAPÓ ­ CAMIRI

                                          CREDITO 3235-BO

INTRODUCCIÓN.


El Proyecto Abapo ­ Camiri surge para mejorar el corredor de estrategia norte-sur de Bolivia, uniendo los
departamentos de Beni, Santa Cruz, Chuquisaca, y Tarija con las Repúblicas de Argentina y Paraguay.

Inicialmente el Crédito 3235-BO estuvo programado para el período 1999-2004, sin embargo, debido a
diferentes factores que impidieron la conclusión de los proyectos de acuerdo a los plazos programados y
para cumplir con los objetivos del Proyecto se obtuvo la aceptación del Banco Mundial ­ Asociación
Internacional de Fomento para extender la fecha de cierre del crédito hasta el 31 de octubre de 2005

Por consiguiente, habiéndose concluido las actividades financiadas con recursos del crédito, se ha acordado
y procedido al cierre del Proyecto Abapo ­ Camiri Crédito 3235-BO emitiendo el presente Informe
Ejecutivo. Para elaborar este informe se realizaron los cierres individuales de todos los sub-proyectos que
componen el Proyecto Abapo - Camiri. A continuación se presentan los detalles de la ejecución de este
proyecto.


1. CUMPLIMIENTO DE LOS OBJETIVOS Y RESULTADOS DEL PROYECTO


Dentro del cumplimiento de los objetivos del Proyecto podemos citar la materialización del tramo de
carretera a nivel de carpeta asfáltica entre las poblaciones de Abapó y Camiri incluyendo su
circunvalación, así como el tramo de Acceso al pueblo El Espino. Se han realizado las Recepciones Finales
después del cumplimiento de un año de periodo de garantía, de los 6 tramos del Proyecto Abapó ­ Camiri.

La carretera se encuentra en fase de operación, y recibiendo el tráfico proyectado. Asimismo ya se
encuentran en la zona microempresas de conservación vial, quienes se encargan del mantenimiento rutinario
de limpieza de cunetas y desbroce de material vegetal dentro del derecho de vía, paralelamente existe una
empresa de mantenimiento rutinario que es responsable de cualquier trabajo de mayor magnitud como
reemplazo de letreros, reparación de barreras, reconformación de taludes, reparaciones de cárcavas, o
cualquier otro daño ocasionado por el agua o el trafico.

El Proyecto Abapó ­ Camiri es una de las carreteras de gran magnitud administradas por el Servicio
Nacional de Caminos, cuyo costo final de construcción resultó inferior en 2.78 millones de Dólares
Americanos con relación al costo inicial de contrato (-2.76%). Las características más sobresalientes de
cada tramo se detallan a continuación.

1.1 Tramo Puente Abapó y sus Accesos

El Proyecto Abapó - Camiri se inicia en las inmediaciones de la población de Abapó, que se encuentra a
144 km aproximadamente de la ciudad de Santa Cruz. Al inicio del Proyecto se presenta el primer



                                                   - 34 -

obstáculo natural formado por el Río Grande, lugar en el cual se construyó el puente de 380 metros de
largo de estructura mixta formada por una sercha metálica y una losa de hormigón armado, que descansan
sobre las fundaciones, siendo este un diseño nuevo incorporado por existir problemas constructivos en el
diseño original de un puente de hormigón al 100% con vigas lanzadas, este cambio origino que se incorpore
en el proyecto una orden de cambio, optimizando el diseño de manera que se obtienen ahorros en el
proyecto de mas de 1 millón de dólares.

El estribo lado Norte (en Abapó) tiene 5.60 metros de altura con pantallas laterales (muros) para
contención del terraplén de acceso ejecutados con la tecnología de tierra armada sistema que se usa por
primera ves en Bolivia dejando una experiencia de transferencia de tecnología. El estribo lado Sur tiene
8.60 metros de altura con pantallas para contención del terraplén de acceso también ejecutado con tierra
armada.

Como parte complementaria de este tramo, se han considerado los accesos al puente, el acceso en el lado
Norte (Abapó) posee 174 metros y el lado Sur es de 224 metros.
En estricto cumplimiento de mitigación Social, se incorporo un diseño de paso túnel de 4 metros de ancho y
3 metros de alto, para uso peatonal y vehicular en el acceso norte del puente sector de las calles de Abapó.
El puente cuenta además con iluminación artificial.


1.2 Tramo Abapó ­ Ipitá

Este trazado de la carretera de 63.50 Km. se desarrolla en sus primeros kilómetros, a lo largo de una
variante desde la ubicación del nuevo puente sobre el Río Grande, siguiendo su trayectoria por el lado
opuesto al oleoducto con relación a la carretera antigua y se dirige hasta empalmar con el Rancho El
Algodonal. De esta manera el eje de la nueva carretera se aparta del eje de la anterior carretera, mejorando
la seguridad y estabilidad de la nueva plataforma y alejándose de las aguas de la Quebrada del Limón, que
corren en el período de lluvias por medio de la plataforma antigua.

La carretera construida a través de topografía montañosa y coincide con los valles de varias quebradas de
orientación SO-NE que desembocan finalmente en la Quebrada El Limón; debido a las restricciones
geométricas de la zona, se proyectaron seis puentes pretensados de un tramo para adecuar el trazado al
cauce de la quebrada El Limón, de los cuales sólo se materializaron cinco y el restante fue transformado en
una alcantarilla tipo cajón de dos ojos, que favoreció económicamente al proyecto.

Los problemas en el mantenimiento rutinario de la plataforma existente, ya que la misma no contaba con un
material de rodadura adecuado y se desarrollaba al borde de una quebrada. Los trabajos de excavación en
este sector fueron los de mayor magnitud y debido a deslizamientos del lado oeste en la fase de
construcción que comprometían la seguridad de los usuarios y de la misma carretera en etapa de operación,
se desplazó el eje de la carretera 7 metros hacia el este, alternativa que resultó técnica y económicamente
más factible en comparación con el túnel falso propuesto (cambio que fue considerado en una orden de
cambio con la propuesta mas económica y que con menor impacto en la ruta critica de plazo, a pesar de los
incrementos en movimiento de tierra, el presupuesto de la obra manutuvo ahorros). En localidad de
Tatarenda, población de indígenas Guaraníes se incorporo como parte de mitigación de seguridad vial,
ambiental y social la construcción de 20 viviendas y una iglesia por medio de una orden de cambio.
Pasando la población de Tatarenda (Kilómetro 111), se encuentra el acceso al banco de materiales del Río
Grande, que constituyó la principal fuente de agregados para gran parte del Proyecto.

La vegetación es en su mayoría del tipo monte medio espinoso y en varios sectores la carretera atraviesa



                                                    - 35 -

por estas haciendas y potreros (áreas cultivadas y terrenos habilitados para agricultura) y en forma paralela
al gasoducto hasta llegar al pueblo de Ipitá.

1.3     Tramo Ipitá ­ Ipati

Este tramo de 49 km, de la población de Ipati, es la variante que pasa por el sector oeste de la población.
La localidad de Ipati es el punto de intersección y/o de conexión con la ruta de la Ruta Vial Fundamental
Nº 6 denominada "Diagonal Jaime Mendoza" en el Departamento de Chuquisaca. Este tramo atraviesa
zonas particularmente ganaderas. Se desarrolla por las faldas de la Serranía de Pipirenda y pasa por las
proximidades de la población de Gutiérrez, bordeando el cerro Las Frías continuando por la comunidad de
la Herradura, hasta llegar a la localidad de Ipati.

La topografía de Ipati es de tipo ondulado y su vegetación continua siendo de monte bajo. El diseño
geométrico se ha desarrollado principalmente por el camino antiguo, realizando simplemente mejoras de
alineamiento, en algunos sectores se han realizado variantes, alejándose el nuevo eje de áreas de inundación
y de quebradas con un grado de erosión muy pronunciado.

La sección típica de la carretera es de 7.30 metros de ancho de plataforma y bermas de 2 metros de ancho,
de las cuales 1.80 m fueron pavimentadas con concreto asfáltico en un espesor de 3 cm, cambio que fue
posible por la elaboración de ordenes de cambios que generaron ahorros para mejorar la obra y se logro la
incorporación de la pavimentación de las bermas que incremento la vida útil de la carretera y garantizando
una mejor seguridad vial.

El segundo sector, entre las progresivas 61+000 y 40+000 donde predominan terrenos bajos e inundadizos,
se superan los inconvenientes con terraplenes con alturas superiores al metro y medio. En este tramo no
existen puentes.

En el presente tramo el Diseño Final consideraba la construcción de un sector de la carretera con sub base
de suelo cemento, debido a la escasez de materiales granulares y a la mayor distancia a los bancos de
provisión de dichos materiales (definición tomada en el diseño final); no obstante se reformuló la estructura
del paquete del pavimento (recomendación de cambio por el contratista) sustituyendo la subbase de suelo
cemento por una subbase granular, condición de homogeneidad del paquete estructural de la carretera sin
que este cambio genere un incremento en el presupuesto, pero si genere beneficios de ahorro al proyecto, y
acortando el plazo de ejecución, con las garantías de la calidad propuesta en las especificaciones técnicas
contractuales.

Las principales restricciones del proyecto para este tramo, fueron las tuberías de los oleoductos para los
cuales se tuvieron que crear nuevas actividades, los cruces de obras entre cuencas paralelas, las
poblaciones de Ipitá, Gutiérrez e Ipati.


1.4     Tramo Ipati ­ Camiri

La carretera construida se desarrolla por zonas de topografía ondulada desde Camiri, donde existen suelos
muy deleznables y con tráfico vehicular intenso. La mayor parte de flujo lo realizan vehículos de carga
pesada, los mismos que transportan ganado, diesel, madera y otros productos del intercambio comercial
actual entre la Argentina y Bolivia. En los lugares donde existían badenes se materializó la construcción de
cuatro (4) puentes. (Camiri se beneficio de la obra adicional de una avenida de doble vía, con los costos
adicionales de los ahorros en la misma obra.



                                                    - 36 -

Los cuatro puentes de hormigón postensado del tramo están compuestos por 4 vigas de 25 metros de
longitud cada uno. Los puentes están fundados sobre estribos de tierra armada (tecnología nueva.

Los cursos de agua principales de este tramo son el río Itacúa y la quebrada Urundaití que fluyen en
sentido N-S. El trazado actual se desarrolla a lo largo de la plataforma del camino existente y en sectores
importantes paralelos a los ductos de Y.P.F.B. y Transredes.

La fuente principal de agregados en este tramo es el río Parapetí, ubicado en progresiva 0+000.

Las principales restricciones del proyecto para este tramo, fueron las tuberías de los oleoductos y los
cruces de abras entre cuencas y pueblos, por medio de una orden de cambio de construyo el acceso a
pueblo de Choreti, por considerarse una mitigación social y articular a la carretera principal, montos que
no incrementaron los presupuestos originales.

1.5     Tramo Acceso Cruce El Espino ­ El Espino

La longitud total del tramo construido es 39.6 kilómetros, incluyendo la nueva variante en el inicio del
tramo y El Ramal al Espino Nuevo. En el tramo de Acceso Cruce El Espino - El Espino, la sección típica
está constituida por una calzada de circulación pavimentada de tratamiento superficial doble de 6.00 m. de
ancho y bermas también pavimentadas de 0.50 m. de ancho a cada lado de la calzada.

El ramal de acceso a la zona de El Espino se constituye en la parte inicial del camino a Charagua y tiene
dirección predominante Norte - Sur. El estado de la superficie de rodadura era de tierra y no contaba con
ningún tipo de revestimiento, salvo en sectores puntuales, por lo que en época de lluvias, presentaba
grandes dificultades para la transitabilidad.

Al inicio del tramo se ha proyectado el distribuidor Charagua y una variante de 800 metros de longitud
para acceder al puente sobre la quebrada El Limón de 30 metros de luz. La plataforma con terraplenes
mayores a 1.0 metro de altura mitigaron adecuadamente el drenaje superficial de la carretera.

La fuente principal de agregados es el Río Grande en las proximidades de la población de Abapó.
Las principales restricciones del proyecto para este tramo, son la carretera Abapó - Camiri, la proximidad
de la vía férrea Santa Cruz - Yacuiba, los dos pasos a nivel sobre la vía férrea, la quebrada El Limón y el
pueblo del Espino Nuevo y Viejo.

1.6     Tramo Circunvalación de Camiri

La sección típica materializada de la circunvalación esta compuesta por una carpeta de tratamiento
superficial doble en 6m de ancho de calzada y bermas de medio metro a cada lado. Obras principales
ejecutadas son el distribuidor de ingreso al centro de la ciudad de Camiri y de acceso a la variante de
circunvalación a la ciudad. A partir de este punto el trazo se dirige al oeste para emplazarse detrás de la
serranía aledaña a la ciudad en una zona montañosa.
En la progresiva 4+129 se ha construido un paso a desnivel para permitir principalmente la circulación de
peatones, en su mayoría niños por la presencia de una escuela en el lado de Peñas Blanca, y la circulación
de vehículos desde Camiri a Peñas Blancas. A partir de este punto, el diseño geométrico reduce sus
características con el fin de adecuarse a la vía existente y minimizar las expropiaciones y afectaciones.
También se construyo un viaducto que posibilita la vinculación del Barrio San José con la Ciudad de
Camiri.


                                                   - 37 -

A la altura de la progresiva 5+380 se ha construido un segundo distribuidor de acceso a la ciudad de
Camiri, denominado Camiri Sur. Desde la progresiva 6+100 se ha ejecutado una pequeña variante para
mejorar el empalme con la carretera existente Camiri - Palmar Grande.

El proyecto demandó un importante trabajo de movimiento de tierras dadas las características topográficas
de la zona.

Las principales restricciones del proyecto para este tramo, son la ciudad de Camiri y sus zonas
periurbanas, fueron los conductos de Y.P.F.B. y Transredes, el puente sobre el río Parapetí, el empalme
con la carretera a Yacuiba.

En toda la extensión de la carretera se incorporaron elementos de seguridad vial, con nuevas
especificaciones de señalización horizontal y vertical, mejorando las especificaciones a estándares
internacionales.


1.7.    Plan Piloto de Mantenimiento Integral

El año 2000 se programó con financiamiento del Crédito 3235-BO, un Plan Piloto de Mantenimiento
Integral, que serviría al país como experiencia en la contratación de actividades de mantenimiento con otra
modalidad de contratación y de base para la preparación del Programa Nacional de Mantenimiento Integral
ya que hasta ese momento las empresas privadas en Bolivia habían ejecutado trabajos de construcción,
mantenimiento rutinario, periódico y emergencias en las carreteras del país; sin embargo, no existía
experiencia en ejecutar actividades de mantenimiento integral. Esta experiencia piloto podría extenderse
posteriormente al resto de carreteras de la red fundamental del país. El objetivo del Programa Piloto fue
que permitiera realizar los ajustes, mejoras y cambios necesarios en los documentos de licitación, en la
minuta de contrato y en los procedimientos de supervisión, seguimiento y control. Se seleccionaron tramos
aledaños a la construcción de la carretera Abapó ­ Camiri.

Inicialmente el Plan Piloto del Mantenimiento Integral se programó para su ejecución en 36 (treinta y seis)
meses, debiendo iniciar en Octubre de 2000 sin embargo por demoras en el proceso de licitación y
adjudicación, recién se iniciaron trabajos a fines de la gestión 2002.
Se han encontrado las siguientes dificultades, en esta modalidad de contratación de actividades de
mantenimiento:
   l Dispersión de responsabilidades. Debido a las particularidades de los contratos, tanto del
        contratista como de la supervisión, no pudieron interpretar con claridad las responsabilidades sobre
        el control de calidad en la ejecución de los trabajos y por consiguiente resulta muy difícil la
        aplicación de las condiciones del contrato.
   l Poca experiencia de la supervisión, (condición de imponer la supervisión de manera convencional y
        de no responsabilizarse de la calidad de la obra), de la misma manera el contratista y SNC en la
        ejecución de este tipo de contratos.
   l Necesidad de gran disponibilidad de fondos: Tomando en cuenta que la responsabilidad de la
        planificación y gestión de los trabajos recae en el contratista, es de interés de este ejecutar la mayor
        cantidad de ítems en los cuales se favorece, lo que representa que la institución deba disponer de
        los recursos suficientes para atender los requerimientos.
   l Las condiciones económicas, según las cuales se aplica esta clase de contrato, no están
        contempladas en la legislación boliviana y por consiguiente la NSABS no las contemplan lo que
        imposibilita la implementación de un Programa Nacional de Mantenimiento Integral.
   l Los contratos que realiza la empresa con su personal son de carácter temporal y de corto plazo lo



                                                     - 38 -

        que implica un gran costo social.
   l Los beneficios alcanzados en el proyecto son principalmente el recapamiento de 114 Km. de
        carretera en el sector norte y en el sector sur y, además, se ha logrado establecer un programa útil
        de capacitación a profesionales bolivianos. Estos objetivos pueden alcanzarse con contratos de
        mantenimiento periódico estándares, sin embargo estos contratos, de mantenimiento periódico,
        podrían mejorarse con alguna de las prestaciones que ofrece el contrato de mantenimiento integral
        como por ejemplo la capacitación, adquisiciones para el SNC y otros.

A través del Plan Piloto se pretendió utilizar el programa computacional SAM SNC (Sistema de
Administración del Mantenimiento del S.N.C., sistema obsoleto DOS y la supervisión no permitió la
incorporación de sistemas de administración de contratos modernos en sistema Windows) a fin de facilitar
el seguimiento de las actividades ejecutadas por las empresas privadas encargadas del mantenimiento
Integral.

La longitud total del Plan Piloto de Mantenimiento Integral fue de 706.90 km, con un monto total de
contratos de $us. 11.866.882,25 y el monto de la supervisión de $US 1.503.434,29.-

Como conclusión se puede indicar que el Contrato del Plan Piloto de Mantenimiento Integral puede permitir
establecer las modificaciones de los documentos de licitación, proceso de adjudicación, adecuación de los
presupuestos y precios unitarios en Bolivia, que se utilizarán en Programas de Mantenimiento Periódico.
Por otra parte permitirá establecer con mayor claridad los lineamientos y las metodologías para la
contratación de la supervisión de contratos de mantenimiento periódico.

Los tramos incluidos en el Plan Piloto de Mantenimiento Integral, al haber sido adjudicados con mejores
presupuestos, el costo por kilómetro ha alcanzado los $US 11.500,00, ha mostrado buenos resultados en lo
que corresponde al mantenimiento periódico.

Se puede concluir que pese a los procesos de reforma, y considerando los continuos cambios políticos y de
autoridades que de alguna manera incidieron en la ejecución de los proyectos viales, los sub-proyectos del
Crédito 3235-BO fueron concluidos satisfactoriamente, aunque con un sustancial incremento en los plazos
de ejecución; dados los problemas que enfrento el Servicio Nacional de Caminos y habiéndose requerido un
gran esfuerzo por parte del personal profesional responsable.

Se ha realizado el mantenimiento rutinario y atención a emergencias en 709,60 Km. y el mantenimiento
periódico en 60 Km. en el sector sur (Tramo Boyuibe ­ Camiri) y en 54 Km. en el sector norte (Tramo
Abapó ­ cuatro Cañadas). Consiguientemente se superó en longitud lo inicialmente programado.


2. EVALUACION ECONOMICA EXPOST

Con los datos de entrada descritos en el presente documento se introdujo al modelo HDM III efectuando las
simulaciones correspondientes

La evaluación ExPost se la realizó tomando en consideración los montos finales del proyecto, y las
condiciones actuales de tráfico. Se realizaron las corridas del modelo HDM-III en un total de 3 tramos. No
se incluyeron en la evaluación el tramo comprendidos dentro del Plan Piloto de Mantenimiento Integral con
709.60 km de longitud de red vial. La longitud total de carretera Abapó ­ Camiri alcanza a 147.80 km, a
las cuales si añadimos las del Plan Piloto hacen un total de 857.40 km de carreteras (100 % del total
programado). Consiguientemente se cumplió con la longitud inicialmente programada.




                                                    - 39 -

2.1.    Indicadores de Rentabilidad

Los resultados de la evaluación se presentan a continuación:

                                        RESULTADOS DE LA EVALUACION ECONOMICA

                                         EX - POST DE LA CARRETERA ABAPÓ ­ CAMIRI

                                                                            TRAMOS

                 PARAMETROS                        ABAPÓ-IPITA      IPITA-IPATI   IPATI-CAMIRI      TOTAL

                  Longitud (Km)                       64.400           49.00         30.700         144,130

          Inversión Financiera ($us Miles)            30.253           18.994        15.528          64.775

       Valor Actual Neto al 12 % ($us Miles)          31.860           20.200        16.300          68.010

            Tasa Interna de Retorno (%)               36.600           38.200        39.300          37,600




2.2.    Comparación entre los resultados de la evaluación ex -ante versus la ex -post.

Según el cuadro a continuación, observamos que la brecha de los indicadores obtenidos es grande y todos
ellos son positivos, por lo que la evaluación Ex ­ Post proporciona indicadores de rentabilidad superiores
en más del 100 % a los obtenidos en la evaluación Ex ­ Ante.

Además es importante señalar, que los indicadores económicos se refieren solamente a los beneficios
cuantificables por una lógica de análisis técnico económico convencional.          Los beneficios intrínsecos de
una vía como Abapó - Camiri, parte del corredor Santa Cruz - Yacuiba, para la economía regional y del
país, son mucho mayores de lo que pueden medirse mediante un modelo estrictamente técnico.




                                                            - 40 -

                                   COMPARACION DE INDICADORES DE
                                               RENTABILIDAD


                                                     INDICADORES
                   TRAMO                                                              DIFERENCIA
                                                        EX - POST       EX - ANTE
            Abapo - Ipita
            Longitud (Km)                                 64.40            66.90    -       2.50
            Inversiòn Financiera ($us Miles)              30.25        45,146.00    - 14,894.00
            Valor Actual neto al 12 % ($us en miles)   31,860.00       17,030.00      14,830.00
            Tasa Interna de Retorno (%)                   36.60            17.80          18.80
            Razón Beneficio/Costo                          3.59             1.58            2.01
            Ipita - Ipati
            Longitud (Km)                                 49.00            50.00    -       1.00
            Inversiòn Financiera ($us Miles)           18,994.00       13,060.00       5,934.00
            Valor Actual neto al 12 % ($us en miles)   20,200.00       16,060.00       4,140.00
            Tasa Interna de Retorno (%)                   38.20            18.70          19.50
            Razón Beneficio/Costo                          3.64             1.23            2.41
            Ipati - Camiri
            Longitud (Km)                                 30.70            30.90    -       0.20
            Inversiòn Financiera ($us Miles)           15,528.00       23,172.00    -  7,644.00
            Valor Actual neto al 12 % ($us en miles)   16,300.00       19,040.00    -  2,740.00
            Tasa Interna de Retorno (%)                   39.30            27.60          11.70
            Razón Beneficio/Costo                          3.55             2.37            1.18




Las conclusiones principales que se obtienen de la evaluación Ex - Post en comparación con la Ex ­ Ante,
son las siguientes:

  l El proyecto de mejoramiento y pavimentación de la carretera Abapó - Camiri ha sobrepasado las
        expectativas con respecto a su ejecución planteada en la época de su concepción y, a pesar de su
        reciente apertura al tráfico, ya se aprecia el efecto de la obra tanto en la economía regional como
        nacional.
  l La evaluación Base (Ex ­ Ante), que en aquel tiempo parecía muy optimista, en la realidad se ha
        replicado en los resultados que       demostraron lo contrario,      confirmando que la misma fue
        conservadora.
  l La concreción del proyecto vial Abapó - Camiri ha sido un acierto en la política de inversión vial
        por su gran rentabilidad económica.
  l La evaluación del Proyecto no ha considerado otros beneficios que podían hacerlo mucho más
        rentable aún; entre ellos, los beneficios del desarrollo de la región y otros de difícil evaluación pero
        fácilmente perceptibles.

Consecuentemente podemos afirmar que el proyecto fue altamente beneficioso para el país.




                                                     - 41 -

3. EJECUCION PRESUPUESTARIA

Se puede mencionar que se ha alcanzado a ejecutar un 99% del monto total de $US120,000,000.-, previsto
originalmente durante la evaluación del Crédito 3235-BO.

En lo que se refiere al monto del préstamo financiado por el Banco Mundial, si se considera el monto
original de SDR 64,700,000.- ($US. 88.000.000,00) se ha alcanzado a ejecutar el 97.3% del aporte
correspondiente a la Asociación Internacional de Fomento. El monto inicial del aporte del Banco Mundial,
por variaciones cambiarias SDR/$US al cierre del Crédito se incremento a la cifra de $US.
91.876.817,25.-

En consecuencia consideramos que la ejecución presupuestaria del crédito se ha cumplido completamente,
habiendo quedado un remanente mínimo de saldo sin ejecutar.


4. SOSTENIBILIDAD Y AUTOFINANCIAMIENTO

En lo que se refiere a la sostenibilidad y autonomía financiera del Servicio Nacional de Caminos, se
realizaron varios estudios con recursos del Crédito 3235-BO que plantearon diferentes alternativas a fin de
conseguir el auto financiamiento del mantenimiento con base a cobros actualizados del peaje y/o de tarifas
incluidas en el costo de los combustibles. Los últimos estudios realizados que recogieron las
recomendaciones y experiencias fueron los Servicios de Consultoría para: "Plan Estratégico para la
recuperación y conservación de la Red vial Fundamental" y "Desarrollo del reglamento y procedimiento de
la Cuenta Nacional de Conservación Vial", realizados en la gestión 2002. Esta Cuenta ha sido aprobada
junto a su reglamento con una resolución bi-ministerial y será ejecutada con la aplicación del Convenio de
Crédito 3630-BO. De esta manera se conseguirá la sostenibilidad financiera para el mantenimiento de
carreteras en lo futuro.

5. PLANIFICACION Y PROGRAMACION DE INVERSIONES

Por otra parte los requerimientos del Banco Mundial y otros organismos financiadores referentes a las
exigencias para acceder a los financiamientos han hecho que el Servicio Nacional de Caminos, el
Vice-Ministerio de Transportes y Vice-Ministerio de Inversión Pública tomen conciencia de la necesidad de
la planificación y programación de inversiones. Consiguientemente en materia vial, se ha realizado el Plan
Maestro de Transportes y se viene actualizando permanentemente (la última actualización es del año 2000),
debiendo las inversiones que realiza el Servicio Nacional de Caminos regirse a las recomendaciones del
mismo.

6. FORTALECIMIENTO INSTITUCIONAL Y CAPACITACION

Por otra parte en lo que se refiere al Fortalecimiento Institucional, el Proyecto Abapó - Camiri ha
financiado diferentes estudios de consultoría. Entre los estudios más importantes se puede citar,
Consultaría individual de apoyo y asesoramiento al SNC para el desarrollo de la reforma institucional. El
Banco Mundial ha apoyado la reestructuración y reforma institucional del SNC, la misma que actualmente
se encuentra concluida y tiene por objetivo hacer del Servicio Nacional de Caminos una institución eficiente
y con la capacidad técnica para llevar adelante sus responsabilidades.

También con recursos del Crédito 3235-BO y dentro del programa de capacitación se ha financiado la
asistencia de funcionarios del Servicio Nacional de Caminos a cursos de capacitación tanto a nivel nacional
como internacional, habiéndose logrado mejorar el nivel técnico del personal contándose con profesionales
actualizados en conocimientos técnicos.



                                                    - 42 -

7. GESTIÓN DEL SERVICIO NACIONAL DE CAMINOS

Consideramos que la gestión técnica, administrativa, y financiera del Servicio Nacional de Caminos ha sido
satisfactoria, habiéndose concluido los proyectos y realizado los informes de cierre respectivos,
exceptuando algunos que se encuentran en proceso. Los informes de auditoria externa de los estados
financieros tanto para el Proyecto Abapó - Camiri como para el Servicio Nacional de Caminos han recibido
la aceptación del organismo financiador, que a su tiempo ha requerido los cambios necesarios para la
mejora.


Mejora Sistema Contable-Financiero del SNC.

A objeto de cubrir deficiencias y problemas identificados en la Auditoria Externa del SNC para la gestión
2002, el organismo financiador ha accedido a utilizar fondos del crédito para la contratación de
consultorías que coadyuven a resolver estos problemas y, consiguientemente, se ha procedido al
Seguimiento y Control de los Informes de Auditoria Externa, realizar el análisis y cumplimiento de las
recomendaciones del Informe de Evaluación de los Sistemas de Administración y Control (SAYCO).
Asimismo se ha procedido a la instalación del Sistema de Contabilidad Integrada hallándose el sistema en
actual operación desde el 9 de agosto de 2001. El nuevo sistema no sólo impone una rigurosa disciplina
presupuestaria sino que, además coadyuva de manera importante a las morosas conciliaciones mensuales y
anuales que se realizaban entre las unidades de presupuestos, contabilidad y tesorería. Esta última unidad
se ha reforzado a fin que puedan realizar sus actividades con mayor eficiencia.


Cambios Institucionales del SNC.

Uno de los aspectos importantes que se debe resaltar es que durante el período 2001- al 2003 existieron
cambios fundamentales que tuvieron su influencia en la administración no solamente de los sub-proyectos
del Proyecto Abapó - Camiri sino en la administración de todos los proyectos viales en general.

Al no ser el proceso de descentralización planificado y no contar las Prefecturas con la capacidad técnica y
administrativa para llevar adelante sus responsabilidades en materia de mantenimiento vial, esas
disposiciones tuvieron repercusiones negativas para el estado de las carreteras. Por estas condiciones
acéfalas el SNC se centraliza nuevamente por medio de leyes.

   l Por Ley 1788 del 16 de septiembre de 1997, Art. 18, el Servicio Nacional de Caminos asume
         nuevamente    la   responsabilidad    de   la   planificación,   construcción,  mantenimiento       y
         administración de las carreteras de carácter nacional. Según artículo 45 y 46 del Decreto
         Supremo No. 24855 el Servicio Nacional de Caminos es definido como una institución pública
         descentralizada bajo tuición del Ministerio de Desarrollo Económico.
   l El D. S. 25134 del 31 de agosto de 1998 define la nueva Red Fundamental de caminos que por
         su importancia nacional pasan a depender del Servicio Nacional de Caminos. La nueva red
         fundamental comprende 10401 Km y está clasificada en 17 carreteras que integran las capitales
         de departamento y principales puntos fronterizos del país con países vecinos.

Con relación a los inconvenientes que se presentaron en la ejecución de los proyectos, una de las
principales fue no contar con datos actualizados del deterioro de los proyectos (carreteras, puentes, etc.) en
el momento de la licitación de los mismos, por cuanto esto dio lugar a que tuvieran que realizarse
ampliaciones de contrato a fin de poder cubrir la totalidad de las obras necesarias.




                                                    - 43 -

Los procesos de descentralización y posterior reformulación de responsabilidades del SNC sufridos en los
últimos años, y la demora en el pago del aporte local así como los últimos procesos de reforma institucional
han ocasionado demoras en los procesos iniciales de contratación de los proyectos. Problemas que fueron
subsanados y con el resultado exitoso de la obra.

8. GESTIÓN DEL ORGANISMO FINANCIADOR

Se puede mencionar que la participación de la Asociación Internacional de Fomento ­ Banco Mundial en el
seguimiento de los sub-proyectos del Crédito 3235-BO ha sido de trascendental importancia para llevar a
buen fin los mismos.

La coordinación directa con los representantes del Banco Mundial a través de un representante coordinador
de proyectos entre el Banco y el SNC a fin de esclarecer dudas, obtener recomendaciones técnicas,
administrativas, ambientales y de seguridad vial, agilizaron y facilitaron el procesamiento de la
información, mitigando demoras en la gestión de las no objeciones.

La presencia y participación del Banco Mundial a través de sus diferentes misiones ha servido para realizar
seguimientos adecuados a las obras, habiéndose aportado a la mejora de las especificaciones técnicas
especialmente en lo que se refiere a señalización y seguridad vial (programas elaborados en la coordinación
del Banco en Bolivia). Una actualización de especificaciones técnicas que se han incorporado en los
Proyecto de Rehabilitación y Mantenimiento Periódico, Crédito 3630-BO.

Aun existen debilidades en los sistemas contables administrativo-financiero, porque a la fecha aun no se
cuenta con los Informes de Auditoria Externa del SNC.           Las Auditorias de los proyectos si están
concluidas para gestión 2004.

Por otra parte el impulso que el Banco Mundial ­ AIF ha dado a la institucionalización del Servicio
Nacional de Caminos ha sido fundamental, habiéndose dado el arranque inicial con la elección del
Directorio Permanente del Servicio Nacional de Caminos en el Congreso mediante Decreto Supremo, la
conformación del directorio, gerentes de áreas y la selección del Personal Técnico a través de una
convocatoria externa, condición que es revisada y elaborada por la nueva presidente del SNC, y el
directorio que esta constituido por cinco directores.


9. LECCIONES APRENDIDAS

En cuanto a la construcción del Proyecto Abapó ­ Camiri, las lecciones aprendidas se enmarcan
principalmente en la administración del contrato con las recomendaciones de la Coordinación del Banco
Mundial en la implementación en los documentos contractuales para la administración de contratos, el
sistema de archivos y los formularios para el control diario de avances de la obra y con los controles
respectivos de calidad. Este sistema de administración de contratos y el ordenamiento de la documentación,
ayudo sustancialmente en la mitigación de reclamos, claro ejemplo del arbitraje de un reclamo de 24
millones pro parte del Contratista que el SNC pago solamente 1.5 millones que si correspondía de acuerdo
al Laudo Arbitral.

En función de lo señalado anteriormente, podemos señalar lo siguiente:

    l Siendo que contractualmente se reconocían intereses por atraso en el pago de una Estimación de
        Cuenta Mensual ECM (certificado de avance de obra) en el período de 90 días, el SNC considera
        inadecuado computar el plazo desde la firma del borrador de la ECM por parte del Contratista, en



                                                     - 44 -

  virtud a que el documento presentado como borrador de ECM, generalmente es devuelto para su
  corrección y/o complementación por parte del Consultor - a pesar que el contrato determina
  registrar actas de certificación de actividades de forma mensual para el cobro respectivo - aspecto
  que generó tiempos muertos por parte del contratista, disminuyendo el tiempo racional para el
  trámite de aprobación y posterior desembolso.
l Los cambios que se deben incorporar es que el contratista sea responsable del borrador, con plazo
  determinado de 7 dias calendario, y el Supervisor debe ser responsable de la planilla mensual hasta
  el quinto día de cada mes, de manera que no exista incumplimiento de pagos, tendiendo en cuenta
  que el supervisor hace el seguimiento y aprobación de los avances de obra en forma diaria, el debe
  tener el control de la elaboración de la planilla final, además de incorporar multas al supervisor por
  incumplimiento por día de no entrega de la planilla.         Es importante la estadarización de la
  documentación de la planilla de pago, porque el SNC incrementa los plazos en el proceso de
  aprobación de las mismas por formalismos de incorporación de documentación repetitiva en cada
  planilla, por ejemplo, la incorporación de copia del contrato, teniendo en un contrato de 20 meses
  20 copias de los contratos en cada planilla, esto debe ser cambiado.
l Es de hacer notar que, el importe reconocido por el Laudo Arbitral 041/2004 por concepto de
  intereses por mora alcanzó un total del $US 204,793.91, erogación de recursos que se hubiesen
  evitado, si el contrato establecía el computó del plazo para el pago de las ECM, desde la firma de
  la ECM por parte del Presidente Ejecutivo del SNC o su defecto por parte de la Supervisión.
l Otro aspecto desventajoso a los intereses del SNC y del estado boliviano, radica en la tolerancia
  del contrato para reconocer al Contratista en términos de plazo y económicos, los efectos de
  paralizaciones por causas de fuerza mayor. Esta situación generó al Proyecto Abapó ­ Camiri la
  erogación de $US 603,909.53 al Contratista (Contratos OC-1 al OC-5), por los bloqueos en zona
  de obras a manos de comunarios y sectores sociales aledaños a los sectores de emplazamiento del
  proyecto, motivados por causa ajenas al SNC (saneamiento de tierras, reivindicaciones propias,
  etc.). Es de hacer notar que la normativa boliviana prevé sobre el particular, simplemente el
  reconocimiento de plazo de ejecución de obras por bloqueos y no así una indemnización
  económica.
l El contrato no contemplaba la participación de la Fiscalización de Obra, en representación del
  SNC, aspecto que en el principio generó una reacción de rechazo por parte del Contratista (OC-1
  al OC-5) por que dicha instancia a su entender se convertía en un obstáculo para los trámites
  administrativos, Este tema es entendible, en el reclamo del contratista, porque el fiscal que es
  represéntate del contratante, se daba atribuciones no contempladas en el contrato, y dejaba sin
  autoridad al consultor supervisor, problema que debe ser solucionado con capacitación al personal
  del SNC en seguimiento al administrador de los contratos.
l Toda cancelación de recursos, esta sujeta al ajuste generado al comienzo de la obra, debido a la
  fecha en que se solicitaba el desembolso, problema que fue solucionado con una enmienda al
  contrato de cambio de moneda a dólares equivalente con el tipo de cambio del día de la propuesta
  del contratista.
l No obstante, algunos aspectos contemplados contractualmente, pueden ser considerados como
  ventajosos para el organismo ejecutor, tal es el caso del período de garantía, establecido en un año,
  que permitió detectar defectos de construcción que fueron reparados por el Contratista a su costo.
l Otro aspecto que el SNC considera acertado y justo, se relaciona con la indemnización al
  Contratista por incremento de cantidades que superan el 30% de la cantidad total del contrato,
  condición que limita a reclamos de cambio menores a este porcentaje. Otro mecanismo de control
  que fue de beneficio al contrato con restricciones de cambios de incrementos o reducciones de
  cantidades en los ítems de hasta un 25%, que significaron un control adecuado en la administración
  de costos por ítem.
l Otra lección aprendida en el desarrollo del proyecto, se relaciona con el acompañamiento de las



                                              - 45 -

  obras en construcción de los programas sociales PRC (Programa de Reracionamiento
  Comunitarios) y PADI (Plan de Apoyo al Desarrollo Indígena), mediante la ejecución de acciones
  estratégicas que minimicen los impactos negativos a los ecosistemas y al medio sociocultural de la
  región. Estos programas fueron iniciados muy tarde desde el inicio de la obra, lo que ocasiono
  problemas sociales (bloqueos, etc), es recomendable acciones oportunas por el departamento de
  medioambiente, de manera de que cualquier programa ambiental o de mitigación social debe
  adelantarse a las actividades criticas de la obra, mitigando cualquier conflicto que perjudique el
  desarrollo normal de la obra.
l La empresa ejecutora del PADI, ha entregado obras de alambrado para cerco, construcción de
  tanque de agua de 30 metros cúbicos, taller de artesanías y textiles, entre otras, en las
  Comunidades de Karaguatarenda, Guirayurarenda, Itaimi, Iguasurenda, Kurupaity, Pampa
  Redonda, Irenda.
l En el Plan de Relacionamiento Comunitario (PRC) llevado adelante por un brazo de la
  Supervisión, se ejecutaron cuatro componentes: (i) Comunicación e Información y Tratamiento de
  Conflictos; (ii) Educación Ambiental y Vial; (iii) Generación de Empleo; y (iv) Apoyo a la
  planificación y desarrollo urbano, que incorporó el apoyo a la comercialización de productos. En la
  construcción de la carretera entre Abapó y Camiri, el PRC fue el eje articulador de la información
  generada, facilitando la comunicación de todos los actores y generando alternativas de mediación
  en la solución de conflictos. Resultó siendo el apoyo en la generación y puesta en común de las
  estrategias que contribuyeron a disminuir los impactos negativos y potenciar los positivos, con
  vistas a elevar la calidad de vida de la población asentada a lo largo de la carretera construida.
l También se contó con una Supervisión ambiental por parte del Consultor, y una Fiscalización
  Ambiental     que represento al SNC en obra, y verificó el cumplimiento de las actividades
  contempladas en el EEIA
l Se vio la necesidad de contar con estudios actualizados de los proyectos, puesto que el estado de la
  carretera sufrió variaciones y existían omisiones y errores en los diseños. Los diseños mal
  elaborados y aceptados por el SNC, ocasionaron demoras y la elaboración de diseños nuevos,
  ejemplos diseño nuevo del puente Abapó - Camiri, topografía, alcantarillas, cortes de taludes no
  considerados en las cantidades, etc., es necesario mejorar la capacidad de revisión de los diseños, y
  considerar garantías de hasta 5 años de vigencia del diseño por parte de los consultores. Este
  proyecto tuvo éxito por que no se incrementaron los costos, el supervisor consultor bajo
  recomendaciones realizo nuevos diseños, optimizando y logrando ahorros en las ordenes de cambio
  en forma General.
l Deben agilizarse también los procesos licitatorios a fin de que las cantidades estimadas no sufran
  grandes variaciones dados los tiempos transcurridos desde la estimación hasta la implementación
  de la obra, consecuentemente es recomendable que previamente a la licitación de obras se realicen
  actualizaciones de las cantidades y presupuestos previstos, así como se prevean plazos para el
  proceso de calificación y evaluación. Esta es una responsabilidad del SNC y se debe acortar los
  plazos de elaboración de la documentación y evaluación, por los tiempos que trascurren los diseños
  pueden cambiar en porcentaje o por los tiempos alargados de las evaluaciones son expuestos a que
  los procesos sean viciados.
l Es necesario crear un mecanismo de pago automático del aporte local por parte de las Prefecturas
  a fin de evitar demoras y ampliaciones de plazo en la ejecución de los proyectos. El BM recomendó
  la creación de una cuenta de fideicomiso para los aportes locales.
l Asimismo, es necesario agilizar el proceso de aprobación de las planillas de pago dentro de la
  institución, con la implementación de manuales de procedimientos con plazos para cada
  funcionario. Cuando la responsabilidad es clara y existen plazos estrictos, con responsabilidades a
  los individuos, y además de simplificar el proceso y el requerimiento de información repetitiva en
  cada planilla, es posible de optimizar el pago en 48 horas, también es necesario que se eliminen las


                                              - 46 -

        firmas de aprobación de planillas, hoy se tienen de 6 a 8 firmas.

Aspectos Técnicos

En relación a las carreteras del proyecto Abapó - Camiri se mejoraron las especificaciones técnicas, en
muchos casos el drenaje y las obras de protección se incrementaron a fin de asegurar un drenaje adecuado y
evitar problemas de erosión.

Se estableció la necesidad de incrementar la utilización de bordillos en la carretera para la mitigación en
erosiones localizadas.

En los proyectos ejecutados con recursos del Crédito 3235-BO se incorporó las recomendaciones técnicas
realizadas por la Coordinación y el Banco Mundial a las especificaciones técnicas del proyectos de
Rehabilitación y Mantenimiento de Carreteras (Crédito 3630-BO).

10. CONCLUSIONES

A la finalización del préstamo se puede concluir que el Crédito AIF 3235-BO Proyecto Abapó - Camiri ha
sido exitoso para el Gobierno de Bolivia al haberse cumplido los objetivos del proyecto. Entre los
beneficios que se obtuvieron, podemos citar los siguientes:

   l Habilitación del corredor Trinidad ­ Santa Cruz ­ Yacuiba y conexión internacional con la
        Argentina, incrementando la actividad productiva y comercial del país.
   l Más tramos de vinculación carretera se integran al Corredor Vial Internacional.
   l Disminución en los fletes de transporte.
   l Incremento de la actividad económica de las regiones aledañas a la carretera.
   l Disminución del tiempo de viaje de Santa Cruz hasta la frontera con la Argentina.
   l Mejoras en la educación, facilitando el transporte publico liviano entre los pueblos aledaños a la
        carretera.
   l Mejoras en salud pública, facilitando en el transporte de enfermos o emergencias a los puntos de
        servicios de salud publica.
   l Reducción de costos de operación vehicular.
   l Se facilita el desarrollo de los municipios, pueblos y comunidades del área de influencia de la
        carretera.

Los beneficios para las poblaciones del área de influencia de la Carretera, señalamos los siguientes:
   l Mayor seguridad vial.
   l Mejor conexión entre comunidades.
   l Menor posibilidad de migración desde las poblaciones por las que pasa la carretera.
   l Fácil transporte de productos desde entre zonas aledañas.
   l Mejora de la competitividad comercial de los productos de la zona de influencia.
   l Mayor importación de productos no existentes en el mercado local.
   l Apertura de espacios turísticos.
   l Mejor calidad del aire y medio ambiente.
   l Disminución de enfermedades respiratorias, gastrointestinales y de la piel, como producto de la
        reducción considerable del polvo que era generado por el antiguo camino.
   l Menor erosión y degradación de los suelos aledaños a la carretera, al contar ésta con los sistemas
        necesarios de protección.
   l Menor contaminación visual.




                                                    - 47 -

   l El contar con una carretera como la que nos ocupa, viable todo el año, genera un incremento
         considerable del tráfico vehicular, al que se sumará el incremento y diversificación de las
         actividades socioeconómicas, a lo largo del trazo carretero y en las áreas de influencia.
   l Incremento de la densidad poblacional
   l Disminución de accidentes por la implementación de elementos de seguridad vial y la educación en
         las escuelas en el tema.


11. RECOMENDACIONES

En la etapa actual de operación, es recomendable mantener la educación y concientización socio ­
ambiental, dirigida a las diferentes comunidades y centros poblados en el área de influencia, siendo esta la
responsabilidad de las autoridades de comunidades en el área de la carretera.

El mantenimiento rutinario es indispensable en todos los elementos básicos, y de él depende la durabilidad
de la carretera.

Finalmente, rescatamos la impresión del Presidente de la Cámara del Transporte Pesado de Bolivia, quien
en el artículo "Así avanzan los caminos de Bolivia" publicado por el periódico La Prensa de La Paz en
fecha 27/12/05 señaló: "En la carretera a Yacuiba (del que forma parte la carretera Abapó ­ Camiri)
aumentó el flujo y los productos bolivianos han ganado competitividad, reduciendo los tiempos de entrega y
el costo hasta en un 40%."

Se puede observar en base a los indicadores mencionados que los objetivos del Proyecto Abapó - Camiri,
Crédito 3235-BO fueron alcanzados, sin duda los beneficios del mejoramiento es de 144.1 km de carreteras
así como del mantenimiento mediante el Plan Piloto de 709.6 km, no solamente son los que muestran los
indicadores de TIR 38.03% y VAN de $US 63.36 Millones que exponen que los proyectos fueron rentables
y altamente beneficiosos para el país.

Sin el financiamiento de la Asociación Internacional de Fomento, para esta construcción, el estado de estos
tramos de la Red Fundamental hubiera sido completamente diferente, en detrimento del patrimonio vial del
país, y consecuentemente hubieran sido necesarias inversiones mucho más altas, además de que los costos
de operación del transporte se hubieran elevado con su efecto consiguiente en la economía.

El componente de capacitación y fortalecimiento institucional permitió financiar la asistencia de varios
profesionales del SNC a diversos cursos de capacitación.

Por otra parte el impulso que dio el Banco Mundial-Asociación Internacional de Fomento al proceso de
reforma institucional del SNC fue de extrema importancia para el inicio del cambio.
Consecuentemente dados los beneficios que tuvo el Proyecto Abapó - Camiri para la economía del país, y
para el Servicio Nacional de Caminos como institución administradora de la Red Vial Fundamental,
consideramos que el apoyo del organismo financiador en los proyectos futuros serán de importancia para la
preservación del patrimonio vial o de construcción de nuevas carreteras con beneficios y resultados
exitosos.




                                                   - 48 -

Additional Annex 9. Map IBRD 34648 (April 2006)




                                      - 49 -

- 50 -

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             IBRD 34648

                                     68°                               66°                                                       64°                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  San Ramón
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                10°                                                                      64°                                     63°        Piray                                           San Julian
                                                                                                                                                                                                         BOLIVIA                                                                                                                                       Pto. Villarroel                                                                   Los Cafes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Villa Tunari                                                                     Chané
10°          B R A Z I L                                                                                                                                        ABAPO ­ CAMIRI HIGHWAY PROJECT                                                                                                                                                                                                              Independencia                                               17°
                                                           Abuná                                                                                                                                                                                                                      17°   Independencia                                                                                                Santa                                    Los Troncos
                                                         R.                                                                                            IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT                                                                                                                                                              Chimore                          Pto. Grether        Rosa                  Okinawa
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Corani                                                                                                                         Pto. Banegas
                                               P A N D O                       Guajará
                                                                               Guajará                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Millu         C O C H A B A M B A                                                                Guabirá
                                                   Nacebe
                                                   Nacebe                         Mirim
                                                                                  Mirim                                                                        NATIONAL ROAD NETWORK:                                          TRINIDAD - YACUIBA CORRIDOR                                      Cochabamba        Mayu
                                                                                      8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Tiraque                                                                                        Montero
                                                                                            R.                                                                                                                                                                                                  Quillacollo
          COBIJA
          COBIJA                                                            Riberalta
                                                                            Riberalta                                                              4                                                                           ABAPO - CAMIRI HIGHWAY (COMPONENT A)                                             Sacaba                                                                         Yapacaní
                             13                                                                                                                                 PAVED ROADS
                                                 13                                           Mamoré                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Warnes
            18         Porvenir
                       PoPorvenirvenir                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Buena
                                         Conquista
                                         Conquista                                                                                                 8            GRAVEL ROADS                                                     - BRIDGE OVER RIO GRANDE
                                                                      El Choro
                                                                      El Choro                                                                                                                                                                                                                               V. Carmen                                                                                          Vista                     Pto.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                12°                                         Chaco                Epizana
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Pailas
                   16                                                                                                                              3            EARTH ROADS                                                      - CAMIRI BYPASS                                              Challa
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Tarata    Cliza                                                                                                   Cotoca
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Pailón
12°                        San Silvestre
                           San Silvestreios
                                          D                                                                                                                    NATIONAL RAILWAY NETWORK                                        EL ESPINO ACCESS ROAD (COMPONENT B)                   Confital                                                 Totora                Pojo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Capinola
                                        de                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Anzaldo                                                                                La Guardia
                                                                       8          Yata        9                                                                                                                                COMPREHENSIVE MAINTENANCE                                         Arque                                                                                                                          Santa Cruz
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Comarapa
                             R. Madre                                           R.                                                  R.       Iténez
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               (COMPONENT C)
                                                                                                               9                                                o                                                                                                                                                             R.
                          Pto. Heath
                          Pto. Heath                                                                                                                              Guaporé                                                      INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING (COMPONENT D):             18°                                       Caine                                                                                                                                   18°
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Saipingo          Mataral

                                                                                                                       San Joaquín
                                                                                                                       San Joaquín                                                                                             INDIGENOUS PEOPLES DEVELOPMENT PLAN (IPDP)                                       Acasio                                                                                Samaipata
                                                     Beni                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Qiquile                                       Mairana                                              S A N T A
                                                   R.             L. Rogaguado                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Angostura
                                                                                                                                        Magdalena
                                                                                                                                        Magdalena                                                                          1     CHARAGUA NORTE                                                                                                                                                                                             de
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Huanuni
                                                                                      B E N I                                                R.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2
      PERU                                                                                                                                     Ba                                                                                KAAGUAZU
                         Madidi
                         Madidi                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  C R U Z
                                                             L. Rogagua                                                   L. San                ure                                                                                                                             14°                                                                                                                                                   R.Gran
                            16          Ixiamas
                                        Ixiamas                                                                                                                                                                            3     IUPAGUASI
                                                                                                            R.               Luís                 s                                                                                                                                                Uncia                                                                                       Vallegrande
14°                                                                                                                                                                                                                        4
                                                          8                                                                                                                                                                      KAAMI
                                                                                                              9                   R.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Guadalupe
                                                                                                                                    Itonamas                                                                                                                                                                        Colquechaca         Puente Arce

                                                 Rurrenabaque
                                                 Rurrenabaque                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Pucara
                      Apolo
                      Apolo                                                                TRINIDADTRINIDAD                                                                                                                                                                                                Macha                                                                                              Abapo
                                                                            3                                                                                                                                                                                                              Challapata                         Ravelo
                         16                                                                                                                                                                                                             B R A Z I L                                                                                                                                                                    Bridge over Rio Grande
               Charazani
               Charazani        26                                                     San Ignacio                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Nuevo Mundo
                                                            Yucumo
                                                             ucumo                     San IgnacioMamoré                                                                                                                                                                              19°                                                                                                        Masicuri                                                              19°
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Huari              P O T O S Í               Sucre                         Zudañez
                 16                                                                                                                          9
                                                     3                                                                                                 R.                                                                                                                                                                                                                             V. Serrano
   Lake       Puerto Acosta
              PuePuerto Acost
                   rto Acosta                                                                                                                            San                                                                                                                                                                             Yotala               Tarabuco
                      L A PA Z                                                 24                                         Mamoré
                                                                                                                          Mamoré                                Miguel                  10                                                                                      16°                                                                                                                                        El Espino
     Titicaca                                       Caranavi
                                                    Caranavi
                                                                                                            are                  R.
                                                                                                                                        Gra                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Icla                Padilla
16°                                                                                                                     .R                                                          ConcepciónConcepción                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   i
                             Huarina
                             Huarina                                                                                                        nde                                                                                                                                                                         Yocalla                                                                                                 1
                                                                                                        Chap                                                             San Javier
                                                                                                                                                                         San Javier                                             10                                                                                                                                                                         Ipita
                                                                                                                                                                                                          San
                                                                                                                                                                                                          San                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           pet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       San Matías
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       San Matías                                                                                   Negro
   To                                            R.La Paz                                                R.                             Colonia Pirai
                                                                                                                                        Colonia Pirai                    San Ramón
                                                                                                                                                                         San Ramón                        IgnacioIgnacio                                                                                        Tarapaya            Tambo
 Matarani                    1            LA PAZ
                                          LA AZ                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Betanzos
                    Guaqui
                    Guaqui                               25     COCHABAMBA                                      inacapaY
                                                                                                                Pto. Villarroel
                                                                                                                Pto. VillarroeVillarroel                                                                    San Rafael
                                                                                                                                                                                                            San Rafael                                                                                TRINIDAD - YACUIBA CORRIDOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Potosí                                                                     Lagunillas                                         R.Para
                                                           Inquisivi
                                                           Inquisivi Villa Tunari
                                                                     Villa Tunar
                                                                               Tunari                                                                                                                                                                              R.
                                                                                                                                                                        Los Troncos
                                                                                                                                                                        Los roncos
                                         1                                                                                                           Okinawa
                                                                                                                                                     Okinawa                                                                                                         Paragua                                                                                                                         2
                                                                                                                                                                                                           17                                                                                         ABAPO - CAMIRI HIGHWAY (COMPONENT A):
                        19                   Patacamaya
                                             Patacamaya                                                          4                          Guabirá
                                                                                                                                            Guabirá                    9                                                                                                                     Mulato
                                                           COCHABAMBACOCHABAMBA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Incahuasi     Cruce Ipati
                                                                                                                                                         MonteroMontero                      S A N T A                                                                                                  - BRIDGE OVER RIO GRANDE            Puna                                                                              Charagua
                              R.Desaguadero                                                                                   Yapacaní
                                                                                                                               apacaní                                 PailónPailón                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            4
                                                                                                                                                         4                           4                                                                                     y                            - CAMIRI BYPASS                                                 Tarvita       Monteagudo
                                                                    4                                     EpizanaEpizana                                                                                                                                                                                                    Cucho        Totora Palca
             Charaña
             Charaña                 4                                                                                              La Guardia
                                                                                                                                    La Guardia                                                                                                                                                        EL ESPINO ACCESS ROAD (COMPONENT B)                                                    Muyupampa
                                                          1                                                    7                                               SANTA CRUZ
                                                                                                                                                               SANT CRUZ                    San José
                                                                                                                                                                                            San José                    Ipias
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Ipias                                                                                              Ingenio                                                 Azurduy                                      San Francisco
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                18°   20°                                                                                                              3                                                               20°
                                                ORURO
                                                ORURO                                                                             MairanaMairana                                                                                              Sto. Corazón
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Sto. Corazón                                            COMPREHENSIVE MAINTENANCE (COMPONENT C)                       R.                          Camiri Bypass      Camiri
18°                                           Toledo
                                              oledo                                       AiquileAiquile                    Mataral
                                                                                                                            Mataral                 Angostura
                                                                                                                                                    Angostura
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Roboré
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Roboré                                                                 INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING (COMPONENT D):
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Ticatica
                                      27                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Pilcomay
                      Tambo
                      Tambo                                                                                                                                                                               C R U Z                                                                                     INDIGENOUS PEOPLES DEVELOPMENT PLAN (IPDP)                              C H U Q U I S A C A
                      Quemado
                      Quemado                                                                           5
                                                                      6                                                                                                                                                                  4                                                                                          Vitichi         Padcoyo
                                                                                                                                         22
                              O R U R O                                                                                                                 Abapo
                                                                                                                                                        Abapo                                                                                       PuePuertorto
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Puerto                             Colchani1        CHARAGUA NORTE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  QuijarroQuijarro                                  Pulacayo                                                                  o           Huacareta
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               2        KAAGUAZU                                                                                         Cuevo            Boyuibe
                                     12          L. Poopo                                                                                                       Bridge over Rio Grande
                                                                      1                SUCRESUCRE                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Tumusla
                                           L. Coipasa                                                                                                                                                                                            Mutún
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Mutún                                     Uyuni
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               3        IUPAGUASI
                                                                                                           TarabucTarabuco
                                                                                                           Tarabuco 6                                    El Espino
                                                                                                                                                         El Espino
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Sta. Elena                                                Mandeyapacua
                      Pisige
                      Pisige                                                                                                                        Ipita
                                                                                                                                                    Ipita             1                                                                                                                        4        KAAMI        66°                                  65°                                                                                                 Fortin
                                                                       POTOSÍPOTOSÍ                                                       2                                                                                                          4
                                                                                                                                                    Cruce Ipati
                                                                                                                                                    Cruce Ipati                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Villazón
                                                                                                               MonteagudoMonteagudo
                                                                Río
                                                                Río                                                                                            4
                                                                Mulato       5
                                                                Mulato                                                                     3                                                                                                                                    20°
                                                                                                                                                    Camiri
                                                                                                                                                    Camiri                                                                                                                                                                   ELEVATIONS IN METERS:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Pto. Busch
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Pto. Busch                              BRAZIL                                                                                                        Huacaya
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Culpina
20°                                           Uyuni                                                           Camiri Bypass                              BoyuíbeBoyuíbe
                                             Salt Pan                                       14             1                                                                                                                                                                                                                          6000
                                                                  UyuniUyuni                               CHUQUISACA                                                6                                                                                                                                                                5000                      21°                                                                                                    21°
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      4000
    C H I L E                                                        21
                                                          5                                 CotagaitaCotagaita                                       9                                                                                                                                                                                3000
                                                                   AtochaAtocha
                                               San Juan
                                               San Juan                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               2000
                                                                                                           El Puente
                                                                                                           El Puente                                 Villa Montes
                                                                                                                                                     Villa Montes                                       P A R A G U A Y                                                                                                               1000                                                                            Villa Montes
                            To                   P O T O S Í                                                   TARIJA
                                                                                                               ARIJA                   11
                      Antofagasta                                               TupizTupiza
                                                                                Tupiza        20                                                                    11                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Palos Blancos
                                                                                                                              T A R I J A                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Tomatas
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PERU                                                                                                               El Palmar

                                                                                                            28                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Ibibobo
                                                                                Villazon
                                                                                   illazon                                  Padcaya
                                                                                                                            Padcaya                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        E. Rios
                                                                                                                                                   Yacuiba
                                                                                                                                                   YacuibYacuiba                                                                                                                22°                                                           BRAZIL          Tarija                  T A R I J A
22°                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      BOLIVIA                                                            Uriondo                              Sachapera
                                                                                      To Salta                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Concepcion                                                                  Cañada

                                                                                                               Bermejo
                                                                                                               Bermejo                   To                                                                              SELECTED TOWNS                                                                                                                                                                                                        Oruro           PARAGUAY
                                                                                                                                         Embarcación                                                                                                                                              LA PAZ                                                              Padcaya                 Campo Pajoso
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         DEPARTMENT CAPITALS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                22°                                                                                                    22°
           This map was produced by                                                                                                                                                                                      NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Yacuiba
           the Map Design Unit of The
           World Bank. The boundaries,                                                                                                                                                                                   DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES
           colors, denominations and                                                      A R G E N T I N A
           any other information shown                                                                                                                                                                                   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                               Cuyambuyo                             ARGENTINA
           on this map do not imply, on
           the part of The World Bank                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           24°
24°        Group, any judgment on the                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             El Salado
           legal status of any territory,                                                   0              50       100          150         200        250                                                                                                                                                                       PARAGUAY                                                        0              50                100                 150
           or any endorsement or
           acceptance of such                                                                                             KILOMETERS                                                                                                                                                      CHILE                               Area of                                                                                KILOMETERS
           boundaries.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        map                                                     Bermejo

                                     68°                               66°                                                       64°                                        62°                                            60°                                                                               ARGENTINA                                              Fortin Campero              64°                                63°

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  APRIL 2006

