Doument of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICUIL USE ONLY
Report No. P-6289-CD
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED
ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT
OF SDR 14.4 MILLION
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF CHAD
MARCH 10, 1994
MICROGRAPH I CS
Report No: P-    6289 CD
Type: PR
This document has a restricted distribution and may be uSed by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed witbout World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOLIVALENTS
Currency Unit                       CFA franc (CFAF)
US$1.00                             CFAF 592 (January 31, 1994)
CFAF 1 million                      US$ 1,687 (January 31, 1994)
SYSTEM OF WEIGHrS AND MEASURE: METRIC
Metric                                   U.S. Equivalent
1 meter (m)                         3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)                    0.62 miles (mi)
1 square kilometer (km2)    =       0.39 square mile (sq mi)
1 hectare (ha)                      2.47 acres (a)
1 metric ton (t)                    2,205 pounds (lb)
1 kilogram (kg)                     2.2046 pounds (lb)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ATETIP   : Public Works and Employment Program
BEAC      : Bank of Central African States
CAA       . Autonomous Amortization Agency
FRC       : Financial Rehabilitation Credit
FSFC      : Cotton Industry Support Fund
GOC       : Government of Chad
PADS      : Social Development Action Program
SAF       : Structural Adjustment Facility
SONASUT : National Sugar Corporation of Chad
STEE      : Water and Electricity Corporation of Chad
TSAIP     : Transport Sector Adjustment and Investment Program
UDEAC   : Customs Union of Central African States



FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT (ERC)
Table of Contents
I. THE GOVERNMENT'S ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL PROGRAM                                   1
A. Recent Economic Developments                                             1
B. The Decision to Change the Parity of the CFA Franc                       3
C. Macroeconomic Policies                                                   5
D. Structural Policies                                                      7
E. Social Aspects                                                           9
F. Financing Requirements                                                   10
II. IDA'S STRATEGY AND OPERATIONS IN 1994                                         11
A. Country Strategy and Operations                                          11
B. Follow-Up Operations to the ERC in 1994                                  14
III. THE PROPOSED ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT                                        15
A. Financing and Management of the Program                                  15
B. Procurement and Disbursement                                             15
C. Environmental Aspects                                                    16
D. Project Implementation                                                   16
E. Benefits and Risks                                                       18
IV. RECOMMENDATION                                                                19
Annexes
Annex I    Main Economic Indicators
Annex II   Status of Bank Group Operations
Annex III  Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Annex IV   Government's Statement of Economnic and Social Policies
Annex V    Matrix of ERC Actions
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not othenvise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- i -
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT (ERC)
Credit and Program Summary
Borrower:         Republic of Chad
Amounts.          IIDA Credit: SDR 14.4 million (US$20 million equivalent)
Termns:           IDA Credit: Standard with 40-year maturity
Program
Description:      The proposed economic recovery program launches a series of macroeconomic,
structural and social policies to accompany the decision of the African member
countries of the Franc zone to devalue their currency, the CFA franc, effective
January 12, 1994. The proposed credit would support the post-devaluation reform
program as outlined in the Government's Statement of Economic and Social Policy
whose main objectives ve to restore order to public finances and to lay the basis
for growth and the alleviation of poverty. More particularly, it would support the
measures aimed at minimizing the negative social impact of the devaluation in the
short term. The Government's program has also obtained the support of an IMF
Stand-By arrangement. Earlier adjustment efforts in the late 1980s were
supported by one adjustment operation (The Financial Rehabilitation Credit), one
sector adjustment operation (the Transport Sector Adjustment/Investment
Project), and by three annual drawings under the IMFs Structural Adjustment
Facility.
The Chadian Government has already taken a series of key macroeconomic and
structural measures to regain and consolidate competitiveness, and to stabilize its
public finances. The ERC is designed to support the implementation of these
measures in 1994. The major measures are: (i) the devaluation of the CFA Franc
from 50 CFAF to 100 ',FAF/1 FF; (ii) prudent demand management policies to
reduce absorption by the public sector and limit wage increases; (iii) budget reform
and strengthening of tax collection; (iv) increase in the producer price of cotton
for the 1994/95 crop by 50%; (v) a progran of social measures to attenuate the
effects of the devaluation on vulnerable groups; and (vi) protection of social
sector expenditures.
Estimated
Disbursements:    Due to the urgent nature of the operation, the entire US$20 million would be
available for disbursement in a single tranche shortly after effectiveness.
There is no separate staff appraisal report.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE PRESIDENT OF
THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
ON A PROPOSED ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF CHAD
1.    I submit for your approval the following report and recommendation on a
proposed Economic Recovery Credit to Chad in support of a program of economic
reform. The proposed credit would provide part of the financial support needed as a
follow-up to the recent parity change of the CFA Franc. The proposed credit would be
for an amount equivalent to SDR 14.4 millXn (US$20 million) and would be on standard
IDA terms.
2.    A twelve month stand-by arrangement with the International Monetary Fund for
the equivalent of SDR 16.52 million (40% of quota) is expected to be considered by the
IMF Executive Directors on March 23, 1994. This will pave the way for the opening of
discussions between the Chadian Government and the Bank and the Fund on a medium
term  policy framework.  This should result in the preparation of a Fourth Policy
Framework Paper in FY95, which would form the basis for possible ESAF-type support
from the IMF and new adjustment support from the World Bank. A country assistance
strategy is under preparation and will be submitted to the Executive Directors with the
next proposed adjustment credit, in the first half of FY95. The last country assistance
strategy was discussed by the Executive Directors on May 25, 1993.
PART I: THE GOVERNMENT'S ECONOMIC AND SOCAL PROGRAM
A.    RECENT ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS
3.    During most of the 1980s, the Chadian economy faced severe difficulties. These
stemmed from a combination of armed confli.,t, civil war, drought, political turmoil, and
declining competitiveness. In addition, since 1990, the terms of trade seriously worsened,
because of the fall in cotton world prices. Despite these serious problems, economic
development efforts have made promising progress in some areas during periods of
stability. In particular, encouraging steps were taken during the 1987-90 period, when
some stability was temporarily restored.
4.    During 1987-90, there were three annual arrangements with the IMF under the
Structural Adjustment Facility, and IDA approved the Financial Rehabilitation Credit.
This adjustment program focused on improving public resource management and
efficiency in the cotton sector, and also addressed efficiency issues in transport, livestock
and trade.  Substantial economic growth was recorded in 1988-89, and this was
accompanied by rising fiscal revenues, which permitted investment to double to the stili
modest level of 10% of GDP. The structural program generated major cost savings in the



2
cottor sector, restoring the cotton processing industry to profitability, and increasing
returns to farmers. Moreover, cotton exports rose as a result, reducing the external
current account deficit by 6% of GDP. The combination of liberalization and improved
road conditions reduced road transport costs by about 30%. More modest, but still
significant gains were made through a program to liberalize livestock exports.
5.    The December 1990 coup led to a renewed period of political and military
uncertainty, with a consequent negative impact on economic deveiopments. Indeed, until
April 1993, and the completion of an eleven week "National Conference" leadi.dg to the
creation of a new transitional governuent, economic issues took a back seat to pressing
military and political reforms. The interim period saw sharp increases in military spending
and declining capacity to collect revenues, and the fiscal targets of the Third Policy
Framework Paper were missed by a wide margin. Paradoxically, 1991 and 1992 saw quite
strong economic growth due to extremely favorable weather conditions. However, this
did not extend to the cotton sector, and, in particular, the performance of the processing
parastatal, COTONTCHAD, worsened sharply in the face of lower world prices and
internal management difficulties. Although the transitional government has been able to
devote some more attention to economic issues, it has not yet been able to meet the
challenge, not least because of the enormous public finance difficulties.  No new
adjustment programs have been supported by the Bretton Woods Institutions since the end
of 1990. The Financial Rehabilitation Credit was suspended in June 1991, the undisbursed
amount was then cancelled, and the credit closed in December 1992.
6.    The Chadian economy therefore alternates between periods of severe instability
associated with economic decline, and periods of serious development efforts to exploit
Chad's long term potential. However, these cycles have had a devastating cumulative
effect on both the public and private sectors of the Chadian economy. Within the public
sector, revenue collection ability has suffered drastical'y, with total revenue now only 9%
of GDP. This has led to both external and internal payments arrears, and to the inability of
the government to meet its wage and salary bill regularly. This, in turn, has led to strikes
of public servants -- including in the school system -- and to severe loss of morale, causing
further worsening of the performance of the public sector. Economic difficulties and
political uncertainty caused the closure of much of the private sector, and government
payments arrears have caused severe liquidity problems for much of what remains, while
the significant amounts of economic, physical, social and administrative infrastructure
destroyed during civil strife have yet to be rebuilt.
7.    These domestic problems were compounded by twin external problems. First, tie
declining world price of cotton together with the appreciation of the real Affective
exchange rate, generated major losses for the cotton sector, and especially for the
processing and marketing parastatal, COTONTCHAD, made worse by recurrent
management and liquidity problems in the company. This led the government to cut



3
producer prices, which only resulted in reduced production and further processing losses.
The real appreciation has also had an impact on livestonk and other agricultural exports, as
well as on manufacturing activities, which were faced with competition from cheap, often
firaudulent imports. At the same time, the country's inability to stay the course of its
economic reform program led to decliring international support and lower flows of
assistance. Partly in consequence, domestic investment fell to below 10% of GDP.
External arrears have grown and Chad has exceeded its credit position at the BEAC, its
central bank.
8.    By the time of the decision to change the parity of the CFA Franc, .he Chadian
economy was therefore in a very serious condition. In such circumstances, the priority is
to seize the opportunity offered by this decision to attempt to restore economic order and
some degree of governance, while beginning to address some of the key constraints facing
the main productive sectors of the economy. Of particular importance in this regard is the
restoration of order in public finances. Once these initial steps have been successfully
completed, it should be possible to address the deeper structural problems facing the
economy, and the experience of the latter half of the 1980s suggests that such efforts in
Chad can generate significant results. The proposed credit is in support of the initial steps
towards the restoration of an appropriate economic framework, and especially vwith
respect to the ability of the government to manage the economy.
B.    THE DECISION TO CHANGE THE PARITY OF THE CFA FRANC
9.    The Government of the Republic of Chad, after close consultations with the
member countries of the CFA zone, decided to change the fixed parity of the CFA franc
from 50 to 100 CFAF per French franc with effect from January 12, 1994. The
government has decided to use the opportunities created by this change in the parity to
launch a neow economic and social program. The aims of this program are to:
(i)   re-establish order in public finance through elimination of payments
arrears, resumption of regular salary payments and restoration of
tax collection systems;
(ii)   correct macroeconomic imbalances, notably on the fiscal accounts,
through improved revenue collection and reduced expenditures
associated with military demobilization and through monetary
restraint;
(iii)  improve economic incentives for the key agricultural sector,
esr.-6ally cotton and livestock;



4
(iv/)  restoration of public investment and an environment conducive to
private investment, which, together with the agricultural incentives,
should re-start growth; and
(v)   accompany these adjustment measures with expanded poverty
alleviation and human resource development programs.
10.   The historic decision to adjust the parity of the CFA franc was a major step in this
agenda. However, it was just thle first step for Chad, which has a !ong way to go in policy
articulation, design and implementation. Nevertheless, the decision was key for Chad in
two particular respects:
(i)   It permits a restoration of export incentives to the two key sectors
of cotton and livestock, which offer the best opportunities for short
term growth.
(ii)   By improving the prospects for restored governance and better
security, together with improved competitiveness, it could generate
a significantly improved environment for foreign direct investment.
TNis, in turn, is key for the main medium-term prospect for Chad,
that is the exploitation of known but as yet untapped reserves of
petroleum, which would be sufficient to generate large surpluses for
export.
11.   Chad, like other member states of the CFA zosie, has a histoi,; of low inflation,
which is largely due to the supra-nationality of monetary policy--a unique situation in the
world--which confers an important advantage to these countries. Experience suggests that
it should be possible to bring about a real depreciation in such circumstances, and that
appropriate macroeconomic policies can rapidly restore low inflation, while retaining the
nominal anchor of the fixed exchange rate. The macroeconomic program described below
is therefore designed to do that, returning the economy to a low-inflation growth path at a
substantially depreciated real exchange rate within a year.
12.   In order to guarantee the success of the devaluation, the Government of Chad has
formulated a set of measures to accompany the parity change. These measures fall into
three types and are described in sections C-E below: (a) macroeconomic policies designed
to reduce government absorption, while restoring the government's payments position.
This includes, significantly, resumption of wage and salary payments, but limiting wage
increases; (b) initial structural policies, in particular those designed to pass on the benefits
of the devaluation to rural producers; and (c) specific actions to preserve social sector
expenditures and to dampen price increases on essential consumption items to protect



5
vulnerable groups. In all three areas, the present program is an essential beginning,
providing the necessary base on wliich a deeper program can then be built.
C.    MACROECONOMUC POLICIES
13.   The main macroeconomic objectives are: (i) to achieve real growth of GDP of
1.5% (following an estimate decline of 3.7% in 1993) in 1994, rising to 6-7% in 1995-96;
(ii) to limit inflation to about 40% in 1994, falling back to around 6% the following year,
primarily through appropriate fiscal and monetary policies, which form the core of the
program; and (iii) to contain the current account deficit (excluding grants) to 29.5% of
GDP in 1994, falling to about 22% within 2 years. On the basis of these inflation
projections, a real depreciation of about 40% in domestic curreney terms would be
achieved.
14.   Within the macroeconomic program, public finances play a key role. As noted
earlier, the economic decline of recent years has taken a particularly heavy toll in this area.
The primary focus of the program in this regard is therefore to restore order. This is to be
achieved through the resumption of payment of salaries and particular attention to the
staffing of the agencies in charge of economic and financial management (Customs, tax,
budget). It is hoped to raise tax revenue as a share of GDP from 6.1% in 1993 to 7.2% in
1994. It is expected that more than one-third of domestic payments arrears (which
totalled 10% of GDP at the end of 1993) and all non-reschedulable external arrears will
have been eliminated by the end of 1994. With these measures, it is expected that the
primary fiscal deficit will fall from 6.5% of GDP in 1993 to 3.5% in 1994, with the
medium term aim of eliminating the primary deficit in 1996. As the adjustment program is
designed to restore Chad's credibility, the renewed availability of external Snancing will
permit the restoration of the investment program, with a projected rise in public
investment expenditure from 8.6% of GDP in 1993 to 13.7% in 1994, and total
investment in the economy rising from 9.4% of GDP in 1993 to 14.9% in 1994.
15.   Within the area of taxation, two measures should be noted in particular. First, the
operations of the autonomous debt amortization agency (the CAA)--which has claims on
certain lines of revenue--are to be immediately and fully integrated into the general
revenue collection system, to improve transparency and effectiveness. Second, petroleum
tax collection, which is currently running at a rate of only about 30% of potential due to
evasion, is expected to increase by 80%, in response to a sharp reduction in specific duty
rates, and a program of administrative strengthening of the system for the collection of
taxes on petroleum. This improvement in petroleum tax yields is a specific target under
the program with the IMF.
16.   Although wage and salary payments are to be restored, it is vital that Chad does
not lose the gain in competitiveness that the devaluation has offered. Thus, the 10%



6
reduction in wages and salaries that was introduced in 1992 is to be abolished, but no
further public sector wage increase is to be granted. While wages and salaries are thus
only 10% higher on a commitment basis, they are budgeted to be almost 75% higher in
terms of actual payments in light of non-payments in 1993. This is expected to be
sufficient to induce a return to fill-time working . It should also be noted that during the
course of 1994, the government intends to reduce the size of the army from its present
level of 32,000 to 25,000. This will yield substantial future fiscal benefits.
17.   The Central Bank of the Central African States (BEAC) has already signaled its
intention to maintain a tight monetary policy by raising its discount rate from 11.5% to
14%. In Chad, the need for tight monetary policy is compounded by the need to reduce
its credit from BEAC, as Chad is already above the statutory limit. Some CFAF 2.5
billion (0.6% of GDP) will be repaid to BEAC in 1994. Credit to the economy is expected
to be limited to a growth in nominal terms of 23% in 1994. Credit to government is
expected to rise by only 19%, while that to the private sector rises by 29% (in nominal
terms). This monetary program is designed, above all, to ensure that increased resources
available to the Chadian economy are used to ease the liquidity crisis facing the private
sector. The availability of credit and the reduction of government payments arrears are
the two key measures of the program to kick-start the formal private sector.
18.   Price Policies. Most prices in Chad are market determined, except for important
products of public enterprises, such as cotton as discussed above, as well as energy prices.
In general, in the energy sector, the full cost of the parity change will be passed throw.
Adjustments will be made to taxes on petroleum products in order to reduce the social
impact. Overall, the potential tax yield from petroleum products will be reduced by almost
50% although it should be recalled as noted earlier, that smuggling meant that effective
tax yields were well below potential. After tax reductions, prices are expected to increase
as follows: kerosene by 40%1/, diesel oil by 20%, and gasoline by 34%. Treasury
constraints permitting, this would allow the power utility (STEE) to limit the increase of
electricity prices to about 20%, a contribution to reducing production costs. Water is
supplied by the same utility, and any additional costs in supplying water are being
absorbed within this electricity price. The only other significant price interventions are in
soap, edible oils, and sugar. For the first two, which are cotton by-products, the price
was frozen for one year with any costs absorbed by additional donor support to
COTONTCHAD. Tne price increase of sugar was limited to 10% for six months, after
which it is expected to be liberalized again, since sugar is both imported and produced
domestically.  Finally, budget provision has been made to subsidize key imported
pharmaceuticals and to intervene on the cereals market to prevent any significant price
90% of the kerosene consumed in Chad is imported by a large number of informal traders,
making any subsidization difficult. Because kerosene is widely used as cooking fuel, all taxes
on this product have been elininated. This measure, together with the intense competition in
the sector, should limit price increases to a maximum of 40%.



7
change. The Government is committed to removing these price interventions within one
year, and replacing them with a targeted social safety net.
D.    STRUCTURAL POLICIES
19.   At this stage in the development of a program for Chad, the primary emphasis has
to be p!aced on addressing the major macroeconomic distortions and on re-establishing
order in the public finances. However, it has been possible for the government to address
some of the most pressing structural issues. In particular, this relates to the agricultural
sector and the most important export products, as well as human resource development.
These two sectors are important, both for translating the benefit of the devaluation into
production incentives, as well as ensuring that the impact of the devaluation does not
affect poverty alleviation efforts negatively. For industry and pi.o.ate sector development,
detailed policy reform programs will be developed later, and the main benefits in this
respect flow from the macroeconomic program. A deeper program of comprehensive
reforns will be developed by the government over the course of 1994, and outlined in the
Fourth Policy Framework Paper (PFP).
20.   Agricultural Sector Policy. The agricultural sector will be the main beneficiary of
the parity change. This offers the chance to effect a significant correction in relative prices
in Chad. For the most part, this will be achieved through market forces, as prices are free
to determine their own level. The most important government interventions are in cotton,
the key export crop, and export taxes. Cotton output has been declining n the face of
reduced incentives, as well as management and liquidity problems, and export earnings in
1993 were down 46% compared with 1992. As noted, producer prices had been reduced
that year. Cotton is marketed and processed through a government-owned monopoly
COTONTCHAD, which offers guaranteed producer prices. Following the devaluation,
the average producer price for cotton yet to be sold in the 1993/94 crop was raised from
CFAF 80/kg to CFAF 90/kg, and the price for the 1994/95 season was raised by 50% to
CFAF 120/kg. Price increases to the producer have been maximized, taking account of
the need to restore profitability of the industry as a whole, and to replenish the
stabilization fund. COTONTCHAD had been running at a loss in 1992/93, and the
proposed price increase allows COTONTCHAD to return to profitability. In addition to
this improved producer price, this price will now be supplemented by the reinstatement of
the former system under which profits of COTONTCHAD at the end of the season will be
distributed between COTONTCHAD, cotton farmers, the Government, and the Cotton
Industry Support Fund (FSFC).
21.   The government has relied on export taxes to supplement its revenue, with a 10%
export tax on animal products, cotton and oilseeds, as well as a 3% export turnover tax
and 1%  "statistical" tax.  In its Statement of Economic and Social Policies, the
government has committed itself to removing those taxes as soon as possible, and a more



specific timetable for this would be agreed in the Fourth PFP. With about 10 million head
of cattle, livestock and meat exports are clearly an area of potential for Chad that should
be stimulated by the parity change. The fin,il area of intervention is that the government
froze the prices of rice and flour for one month after the devaluation (to avoid windfall
gains) and is utilizing its grain stock to limit initial price increases of grain to about 25%.
Chad has a grain deficit of about 30%.
22.   Human Resource Development. The recent economic difficulties in Chad have hit
the human resource sector particularly hard. Due to non-payment of teacher salaries, no
school year has been completed for several years, and teachers were on strike in the period
immediately before the devaluation. As a first step, minimum outlays in the budget are to
be assured to cover for primary health care and basic education, including an increased
numbers of teachers and health workers. More importantly, wage payments have been
resumed and will be kept current from now on. A medium-term program in basic
education and health is being formulated, and will soon be put in place as an essential
accompaniment to this macroeconomic program. In education, notably, there is a target
to achieve 65% primary school enrollment by 1998. This involves a massive schoolroom
construction program (about 340 per annum) as well as teacher training, and the hiring of
a minimum of 280 new primary school teachers a year. The increase in the 1994
education budget provides for exactly this number of new teachers and associated
materials.
23.   In the health sector, provision has been made to expand the allocation for essential
drugs and to hire 90 new health agents. It is estimated that the health budget will need to
rise by 10% yearly in real terms for the rest of the decade. The 1994 budget increases the
share of health expenditures in current outlays on personnel and materials from only 6.8%
in 1993 to 10% in 1994.
24.   Industry and Private Sector Development.  Chad has an underdeveloped and
shrinking manufacturing sector, accounting for only about 20% of GDP. It is based
almost entirely on agro-processing, such as cotton, oilseeds and meat. It has been
declining at a rate of 7% a year, including, in particular, the disappearance of the textile
industry in 1991.  It has suffered from  three particular problems:  (a) lack of
competitiveness, because of the exchange rate and ineffective customs operations; (b)
severe operating difficulties, not only because of the civil disturbances, but also because of
the government's accumulation of payments arrears and domination of available credit; and
(c) an unsupportive enabling environment, including heavy public involvement in the
existing manufacturing sector and absence of support for the development of small and
medium sized enterprises. The present program goes some way to answer the first two of
those. The third aspect would be the primary focus of the later structural adjustment
program. However, the government has already committed itself in its Statement of
Economic and Social Policies to develop programs in three key areas: (a) the accelerated



9
implementation of the new  UDEAC  trade reform, including the lowering  and
rationalization of tariffs; (b) the development of new programs to support small and
medium-sized industry, especially in the development of export of animal-based products,
where Chad has substantial under-exploited potential; and (c) the rationalization and
privatization, where appropriate, of the main public enterprises, including steps to return
the power and water utility (STEE), and the sugar processing corporation (SONASUT) to
profitability. While it has not been possible in the short time since the parity change to
develop these programs, work programs have been put in place to do so over the next few
months.
25.   In the meantime, the present program is designed to support the private sector in
two key respects. First, the sector has faced severe liquidity problems, and the program
provides for at least one third of all domestic suppliers' arrears to be cleared. Further, the
greater part of available credit creation is dedicated to the private sector. Those two
measures should contribute in a significant way to improve utilization of present capacity.
Second, the parity change and the reinforcement of customs administration should
significantly improve the ability of local industry to compete both in local and overseas
markets. Moreover, the parity change and the improvements in governance--the key
elements of this program--should help to improve Chad's attractiveness for foreign
investment, including for investors interested in Chad's oil reserves. In addition, like many
other countries in the CFA zone, Chad has suffered considerable private capital outflows
in the recent period, in response both to the political situation and, more particularly, the
anticipation of the devaluation. It is hoped that the program will begin to attract the
return of this capital.
E.    SOCIAL ASPECTS
26.   Chad is fundamentally a rural economy with more than 80% of the population
dependent on agriculture and livestock for their income and consumption. As such, the
parity change itself and the accompanying measures adopted by the government are a clear
attempt to improve the welfare of the rural population. The price of cotton has already
been raised, and the market prices of livestock and other agricultural products can be
expected to reflect the new exchange rate as its impact feeds through. Nevertheless, there
are a number of vulnerable groups, primarily in urban areas, and various measures have
been put in place to protect this group. The essential strategy is to limit the immediate
price rise of a range of basic commodities. However, it is recognized by the government
that this also brings benefits to middle and upper-income groups, so by the end of 1994
these price support programs will be replaced by a more targeted social safety net.
27.   The measures to help the poorer segments of the population include the following:



10
(i)    Fiscal measures to limit price increases for a range of key
commodities, as noted earlier, including cereals, rice, flour,
oilseeds, soap, sugar, water, kerosene and basic drugs, as well as
steps to ensure the availability of such drugs. Measures include
some subsidies, reduced taxes, release of food stocks, and
intervention on the cereals markets.
(ii)   Increased budget provision in real terms for basic health and
education.
The budgetary cost of the above measures has been estimated at CFAF 4.1 billion
in food and drug subsidies, and foregone tax revenues on kerosene, and CFAF 1.6
billion in incremental health and education expenditures.
28.   In addition to these measures, the Government will also accelerate and
increase the investment operations aimed at creating employment. Implementation
of the labor-intensive public works project (ATETIP) will be accelerated.
Supplementary financing is under consideration for the Transport program to
finance rural roads, and for the social action program. These activities are all
labor-intensive and are receiving priority within the investment program.
Together, these activities might create an estimated 13,000 jobs in 1994. Their
total cost has been estimated at CFAF 20.7 billion, about two thirds of which will
be financed by external sources.
F.    FINANCING REQUIREMENTS
29.   The gross external financing requirements for the program are estimated at CFAF
134.9 billion (US$226 millions). These requirements will be met by regular project flows
of CFAF 58.7 billion, and exceptional financial assistance from bilateral and multilateral
sources. The exceptional financing already identified includes the following: CFAF 30.7
billion from multilateral institutions; CFAF 4.2 billion in immediate debt relief from France
in addition to CFAF 17 billion in new flows; and an additional exceptional financing
commitments has already been received from the EC of CFAF 10 billions. After taldng
into account project flows, this will still leave a gap to be met by rescheduling through the
Paris Club. Nevertheless, unless further assistance is forthcoming, it is not expected that
any gross reserves accumulation would be possible in 1994. Total imports for 1994 are
projected to be CFAF 110.3 billion with an associated trade deficit of CFAF 26 billion or
5.7% of GDP.



11
PART II. IDA'S STRATEGY AND OPERATIONS IN 1994
A.   COUNTRY STRATEGY AND OPERATIONS
30.   A full Country Assistance Strategy is under preparation. The following paragraphs
outline the principles which will guide future Bank interventions and provide a context for
the present operation.
31.         Background. Chad presents a major development challenge. It juxtaposes
a highly uncertain political situation, a prospect of renewed breakdown of order, extreme
poverty, with quite good long-term growth prospects. Chad is a vast country, the fifth
largest in Africa, and groups together a large number of extraordinarily diverse ethnic
groups. Health status is poor: the crude death rate of 19 per 1,000 is about twice the
average of low-income countries; life expectancy at birth (47 years) is well below the
average for SSA; maternal mortality is high; and at about 210 per thousand the under-5
mortality rate is well above the SSA average (180). Malnutrition is a serious problem. In
education, important gains have been made since the war. The primary school tnrollment
ratio increased from 51% in 1984 to 59% in 1990, the fastest primary growth rate in the
Sahel, but it still remains well below the SSA average of 78%. The adult literacy rate is
also low--30% compared to 49% for SSA--and only 18% for women (38% for SSA).
Chad's population is expected to double in the next twenty years (an estimated annual
growth rate of 2.5%) which will put serious strains on land resources and social services.
32.   With 6.2 million inhabitants and a per capita GNP estimated at US$220 in 1992,
Chad is one of the poorest, least-developed countries in the world.  Economic
development efforts have been characterized by successive promising starts stymied by
serious internal and external blows. Recurring political instability and domestic strife,
which erupted into civil war from 1979 to 1983, have been and remain the most
intractable constraints to development. Chad has also been severely affected by drought.
Despite a major post-war reconstruction effort, Chad's physical infrastructure, human
resources, and institutional and administrative capacity to support development are today
still at the level where most other low income Sub-Saharan African (SSA) countries were
in the 1960s. Chad ranks 150th out of 160 countries on UNDP's 1992 Human
Development Index.
33.   Despite all its handicaps, Chad has a number of positive elements to build up on
and good intrinsic growth potential. Compared to other Sahelian countries, Chad is
relatively well endowed with natural resources for agricultural production, especially in
the south where much of the population is concentrated. Food production is generally
sufficient to met domestic demand, and agriculture--particularly livestock and cotton
production--are key sources of future growth, whose development prospects have been



12
enhanced by the devaluation. The private sector could play a dynamic role, beyond the
informal and rural production circuit, as a driving force in the fornal economy.
Exploitation of proven oil reserves for domestic consumption could add impetus to
econonic growth in the medium term, by improving the reliability of supply and reducing
the cost of electricity and diesel fuel--key production inputs. Oil exploration in the south
holds out the promise of substantial reserves which could be exported; this could attract
significant private investment and dramatically transform Chad's long-term economic
prospects. Chad's turbulent history has also left positive elements: the civil service is
modest in size; the economy is relatively unregulated; the population has shown great self-
reliance; and alternatives to public provision of services have developed. Chad does not
have the baggage of poor policies and entrenched interest groups supporting particular
policies which hamper many other African countries, so most development efforts are
focused on building rather than dismantling. The Government has exhibited a positive,
open dialogue with donors as well as a willingness to try new approaches. Finally, the
international community has expressed a willingness to respond positively to suitable
development initiatives in recognition of the country's poverty and urgent development
needs.
34.   By creating conditions which maximize Chad's chances to realize its full economic
potential, the current adjustment efforts mark a new beginning and the possibility to
refocus the development agenda on long-term issues. But getting to the long-term
requires first that order and predictability be restored in short-term econornic and financial
management. This immediate, but essential objective, will guide the Bank's assistance in
1994. In today's difficult circumstances, the Bank could play an influential and catalytic
role. The Chadians see the Bank as a source of technical and institutional experience that
is sorely missing in their own agencies. And in recent years, the Bank has exercised a
central leadership role within the donor community, seeking to act as an impartial analyst
as well as a concerned partner. The key challenge is to provide assistance on short-term
problems in a way which preserves and protects long-term development prospects. It
implies focusing on assisting the Government in four areas: (i) adopting sound macro-
economic and sectoral policies; (ii) restoring the Government's capacity to govem and the
administration's capacity to function; (iii) maintaining the emphasis on human resources
development; and (iv) encouraging the private sector to respond to the new conditions
created by the devaluation.
(i)    Adopting sound macro-economic and sectoral policies. The first aim of
Bank policy in Chad for the immediate future will be to continue to work
with the government to draw up an appropriate policy framework.
Without this, it is unlikely that other interventions will be successfil. In
this endeavor, Bank staff will work very closely with the IMF.



13
(ii)   Restoring the Government's capacity to govern and the administration's
capacity to function. Weaknesses in institutional capacity are evident in the
absence of accountability and lack of transparency, particularly in public
finance management. The fiscal crisis has limited the Government's ability
to pay salaries on time. This has further demoralized a civil service unable
to work properly either because of a lack of resources, or of interference
by armed groups.  Restoring regularity in salary payments, reducing
interference, and using exceptional measures (such as contracting out the
mobilization of petroleum duties) should provide the base which has been
missing thus far for a lasting increase in the effectiveness of Chad's
administration. IDA will provide the needed assistance, in collaboration
with other donors, through various undertakings, particularly the
restructuring of the Technical Assistance Project for Economic and
Financial Management.
(iii) Maintaining the emphasis on human resources development. Realizing
Chad's potential will require not only the pursuit of sound economic
policies and the maintenance of a stable macroeconomic framework, but
also a strong push to improve the country's human resource base and the
rehabilitation  of its  institutional  capacities.    Without significant
improvement in its primary school enrollment ratio, access to primary
health care and concerted effort to reduce population growth and to
improve the efficiency of education and health expenditures, the country is
unlikely to make much progress. The Government's program for 1994 has
been designed so as to complement efforts already made to develop human
resources, in particular the policies launched under the Education V
Project. New IDA operations in the areas of health, population, and AIDS
are at an advanced stage of preparation and will be presented to the
Executive Directors shortly. Performance on human resource development
will be an excellent indicator in assessing the country's development efforts,
and in gauging the future level of IDA assistance.
(iv)   Encouraging the private sector to respond.  Besides sound policies
implemented in a transparent and predictable manner, encouraging the
private sector (including supply response from the rural world) requires the
elimination of remaining regulatory and physical bottlenecks. Regulatory
reform will be addressed in the context of the upcoming PFP, as will public
enterprise and financial sector reforms. In addition to such reforms, the
growth of exports will also require that infrastructure bottlenecks --
especially rural roads-- be removed. Thus, crucial Bank activities in the
provision of adequate infrastructure services are an essential support to the



14
efforts which should be undertaken in the promotion of the private sector
and the agricultural sector.
35.   In the absence of a macroeconomic framework, Chad has been in "core" mode
since 1992. IDA has been implementing a minimal program of support to alleviate
poverty through activities that address basic poverty issues, place minimal demands on
Government administration and finances, make maximum use of non-Government
capabilities, and improve the prospects for long-term growth. It emphasized operations
that could yield benefits for the next generation: health, education, agriculture,
infrastructure and energy. With the adoption of a new program of economic reforms, the
Bank will now deepen the policy dialogue with a view to adopting a medium-term policy
framework, in collaboration with the Government and the IMF. The opportunity
presented by the realignment of the CFAF and the apparent commitment of the
Government justify planning a commensurate program of financial support for macro and
sectoral adjustment operations as an important component of our strategy for Chad in the
coming years. Nevertheless, we should remain cautious, proceeding on an incremental
basis in line with the government's performance.
B.    FOLLOW-UP OPERATIONS TO THE ERC IN 1994
36.   The ERC represents an exceptional response to a historic decision. In particular,
its design and conditionality reflect two constraints: (i) the need to provide a timely first
response to the measures taken to accompany the devaluation; and (ii) the absence of any
other quick-disbursing instrument to do so. The ERC is, however, part of the response
planned by IDA to ensure the necessary conditions for a favorable supply response
following the devaluation. This response, during the remainder of 1994 would include
both quick-disbursing adjustment operations to provide the necessary financing in support
of strong reform efforts, and investment operations aimed at human resource
development, infrastructure rehabilitation, and employment creation.
37.   The next adjustment operation, a Population and AIDS SECAL, would combine
the objectives of providing financial support and sharpening the focus on human resources.
This operation is expected to be presented to the Board in early FY95. A Health project
dealing with basic health care issues and an employment creation project (ATETIP) are
expected to be presented to the Executive Directors in May 1994. IDA also intend to
accelerate the implementation of existing projects and provide supplementary credits. A
first step toward income creation and supply of essential drugs is a planned supplement to
the PADS project. A supplement to the Transport Sector II Project is also planned to
provide additional agricultural roads to link production areas and consumption centers.



is
PART IH. THE PROPOSED ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT
A.    FINANCING AND MANAGEMENT OF THE PROGRAM
38.   It is proposed that an Economic Recovery Credit in the equivalent of US$ 20
million be allocated to Chad on standard IDA terms. The objectives of the credit are: (i)
to support the Government's reform program, as cutlined in the Government's "Statement
of Economic and Social Policies", dated March 7, 1994, and more particularly, the
measures aimed at minimizing the negative social impact of the devaluation in the short-
term; (ii) to provide necessary financial assistance during the period of transition in which
follow-up operations are being prepared; and (iii) to continue the dialogue between the
government and IDA on a deeper program of structural reforms. Due to the urgent nature
of the operation, it is proposed that the credit be made available for disbursement in one
tranche upon effectiveness. The Government's ability to consolidate the early gains from
the devaluation and respect its financial program requires that budgetary support be made
available rapidly. There is no condition of effectiveness, except for the legal opinion and
ratification of the Credit Agreement.
B.    PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT
39.   Procurement procedures have been designed to permit rapid use of funds while
ensuring efficiency and accountability in the process. It is proposed that eligible imports
by public agencies and by the private sector costing the equivalent US$ 5 million or more
would be subject to simplified international competitive bidding. Procurement by public
agencies for items costing below the threshold would follow standard government
practices found to be acceptable in the past. Eligible imports below the threshold by
private entities would be procured in accordance with normal commercial practices, and
wherever possible, quotations would be sought from at least two countries. Single source
purchasing would be permitted for proprietary equipment or where compatibility with
existing equipment requires standardization. Contracts valued less than US$2,500 would
not be eligible for financing under the credit. Procurement documentation would be
maintained for ex-post review by the Association. The documentation may consist of: (i)
a brief description of procurement procedures; (ii) an evaluation summary giving numbers
of bids received; (iii) a comparative statement of prices received; (iv) dates of contracts
and payments; (v) a copy of the invoice; and (vi) any other documentation required by
disbursements.
40.   The proceeds of the credit would be used to reimburse 100% of the foreign
exchange cost of eligible imports.  On an exceptional basis, to allow for timely
disbursements, no limitation is placed on petroleum or food imports. Public and private
sector imports would be eligible, with the exception of:



(i)    A negative list of imports, specified in the Credit Agreement, including
military equipment, dangerous drugs and luxury goods;
(ii)  Imported goods already financed under bilateral or multilateral credits.
41.   The government will establish a special account at the Central Bank (BEAC) to
facilitate disbursements. The authorized allocation for the special account would be CFAF
3 billion (US$ 5 million equivalent). This account would be replenished monthly on the
basis of fully documented reimbursement applications in excess of US$ 2 million, or on the
basis of statements of expenditures (SOEs) for expenditures below that amount. The
Borrower would indicate on the SOEs the nature and origin of the goods, as well as the
payment date, and would maintain all relevant supporting documentation (invoices,
evidence of shipment, customs declarations, evidence of payment) for review by Bank
supervision missions. Expenditures under the IDA credit would be in accordance with
normal IDA rules. Retroactive financing would be permitted for an amount up to 20% of
the total credit amount for eligible import payments made no earlier than December 1,
1993, four months prior to the anticipated date of credit signing.
C.    ENVIRONMNTAL ASPECTS
42.   The state of knowledge about environmental issues in Chad is relatively limited,
but due to relatively low population pressure on land, environmental degradation in rural
areas of Chad appears to be less severe than in other Sahelian countries. In preparation
for a donors meeting, Government is working on its environmental strategy. Through its
assistance program, the Bank is helping the Government deal with three principal
environmental concerns: promotion of sustainable agricultural and livestock production,
introduction of capacity to assess the environmental impact of roads, and promotion of a
household energy strategy. The proposed project would be consistent with IDA policy
and would follow acceptable IDA procedures. In conformity with IDA policies for
adjustment operations, no environmental rating has been assigned.
D.    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
43.   The Ministry of Finance is the Government's organization responsible for
coordinating and implementing the proposed project.  Bank staff will continue to
coordinate closely with IMF staff to ensure adequate monitoring of key economic policies
and indicators. The on-going Technical Assistance Project for Economic and Financial
Management (Cr. 1872-CD) will be restructured to provide the necessary assistance to
central economic management functions, and to ensure proper monitoring of expenditures
incurred under the ERC (including quarterly audits of the special account). IDA and IDF
staff will launch a deeper dialogue with the government shortly after effectiveness to
define a deeper medium-term structural adjustment program, leading to the Fourth Policy



17
Framework Paper. The government will arrange for an audit report by an auditor
acceptable to the Association to be provided within four months after the end of each
fiscal year of the Borrower. The credit is expected to be fully disbursed by June 30, 1995.
The closing date will be December 31, 1995.
44.   The policy measures to be taken under the proposed credit are detailed in the
Government's Statement of Economic and Social Policies (Annex IV). As conditions of
negotiations, the government has already taken the following actions:
(a)   Realignment of the exchange rate, fixed at 100 CFAF for 1 FF effective
January 12, 1994;
(b)   An increase in producer prices of cotton by 50% for the 1994-95 crop
season, and a reinstatement of the previous cotton profit-sharing system;
(c)   Allocation in the 1994 budget of CFAF 4.1 billion to address the short term
adverse impacts of the parity change;
(d)   Guaranteed budgets for education and health to CFAF 1.2 billion and
CFAF 1.6 billion respectively, to raise employment in primary education by
280 and in health by 90, and to cover minimum materials and supplies;
(e)   Seeking to limit the increase in electricity and water, to 20% and zero,
respectively, for the next twelve months;
(f)    Reduced taxation of diese' oil and kerosene, thereby limiting price increase
for these commodities to 20% and 40% respectively, but compensating
with increased tax receipts from gasoline;
(g)   Selective interventions in other commodity markets, through a combination
of price controls, sale of stocks, and subsidies, as outlined in detail in the
Government's "Statement of Economic and Social Policies", to be
gradually eliminated over the course of the year. These would limit price
increases for rice, flour, soap, edible oil, and sugar. The government is
committed to eliminating all such interventions by the end of 1994.
(h)   Limiting the increase in wages and salaries to 10% in 1994, restoring the
rates of 1992, while committing to keeping current with wage and salary
payments. The Government's wage and salary bill would not exceed CFAF
25 billion in 1994;



18
(i)   Integrating the operations of the Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement into
the Ministry of Finance;
(j)    Reinforcement of the Customs Office through training programs and the
provision of equipment and materials; and,
(k)   Increasing the central bank discount rate from 11.5% to 14%, with parallel
adjustments in minimum and maximum commercial bank deposit and
lending rates.
45.   In addition to these measures that have already been taken, the government has
committed itself in its Statement of Economic and Social Policies to define a deeper range
of reforms over the course of 1994, including in such key areas as trade reform (the
implementation of the UDEAC reform program), public enterprise restructuring and
privatization, agricultural marketing, public expenditure allocation, and the tax system.
These would be expressed in the Fourth Policy Framework Paper (PFP).
E.    BENEFITS AND RISKS
46.   Benefits. The proposed operation is expected to assist the government of Chad in
managing its economy following the currency realignment. Specifically, it is designed to
support policies to ensure that a significant real depreciation of the currency is attained, to
improve the competitiveness of the economy. This will lay the basis for the resumption of
export-oriented growth of the economy, by improving export incentives and the
attractiveness of the economy for investment. In the short term, the project will assist the
government of Chad in the restoration of governance and the re-establishment of the
institutions of government, notably in the area of public finance. While assisting in policy
change and the restoration of order, the credit will provide the financing to permit the
government to address the social dimensions of the change in the parity, by increasing
budgetary allocations for human resource development, so that poverty alleviation efforts
are not compromised by the adjustment program. Above all, however, the program offers
the government the possibility to prepare a real and lasting program of policy change in
Chad, focused on growth and poverty elimination, in place of the current framework of
decline, disorder and increasing poveity.
47.   Risks. The risks are of two types. There are short term risks associated with
radical reforms such as the parity change, in terms of potential social disruption in
response to some inevitable loss of employment and income in urban areas. It should not
be down-played that a key aim of this program is to reverse the internal terms of trade in
Chad in favor of rural areas and against the urban consumer. However, important social
polices have been put in place, at least to protect the most vulnerable. A more serious risk
in the case of Chad is the ability of the government to sustain the policy chaniges that have



19
been put in place, and to implement the deep economic reforms necessary to translate
these changes into increased exports and growth. Focusing the initial steps on the
restoration of order in public finance offers the best hope to minimize this risk, together
with close supervision by Bank and Fund staff. Nevertheless, with institutions as weak as
those of Chad in recent years, and with continued political uncertainties, the risk of
implementation failure is a real one. The risk is, however, worth taking in light of the
benefits expected from  a successful management of the parity change.  Chad's
performance in implementing the 1994 reform program will be carefully monitored, and
will serve as a basis to propose the nature and level of IDA's future assistance.
PART IV. RECOMMENDATION
48.   I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the Articles of
Agreement of the International Development Association and recommend that the
Executive Directors approve it.
Lewis T. Preston
President
Washington, D.C.
March 10, 1994
Attachments



Annex I
Page 1 of 5
CHAD: Table 1: Social Indicators
Chad: Priority Poverty Indicators
Moew Sane rqioat,come group           Ncd
25-30       15-30       ren           Sui--                    hightr
Unit of            yeaw         YOws      eatia       Saharan         Loce.      inome
Indicaor                                     mwsurw               are          ago        (mA) fica               ihwme         group
POVERTY
Uppr poverty line                           locIr ur.                ..           _...
Headoour index                             % of pop.                            .-           ..            -
Lower poverty line                          local curr.              ..          ..           ..
Headoount index                            % ofpop.                 ..                       -             -
GNPpercapita                                   USS                  80          150         210          350          350        1,610
SHORT TERM LNCOME INDICATORS
Unskilled urban wages                       local curr.                          ..
Unskilled rurml wages
Rural tenin of trade
Consuma price index                         1987-100                                         111
Lower inoome                                                        ...
Food                                                                       ..              100
Urban
Rural
SOCLAL INDICATORS
Public expenditur. on basic social services  % of GDP                 -           *-           6 
Gsm enrollmert ratioe
Priy                                     %schoolaMepop.             34           35           59           70         113          100
Male                                           *                   56           51          83            76         122          106
Female                                         *                   13           IS          36           60          106           98
Infasu MOar ity                          thou. Iive birbs         183          159          124          104          70           40
Undw  5 moraity                                                     ..           -         208           177          98           53
Inmunizatioc
Measles                                   % agegroup                -            -           17           40          73           70
DPT                                                                                          I _   15     35          S1           74
Child malnuuition (under-S)                                           - _                     35            _
Life exqeaancy
Total                                        y                     36           40          47            51          63           67
Females/males                                 ratio               1.09        1.08         1.07         1.06         0.95         1.08
Total fertility ratc                     birft per woman            6.0         5.9          5.9          6.4          3.7          3.5
Maternal mortality rate                  100,000 live b.f.t_                             ..          ..           ..
Population growth rate                         Infant mortality rate                          Primary enrollment
(percent)                                (thou. of live births)                             (pervaa)
6-T                                         250 T                                          120+
I                                                                                     1
200
31 id SOs    rnid 70s     rnrc                rnid 60a       ri                      60
100 C
--w 
*~~~.*   ~~~~       50                                            203
mid6O,    mid 70s         nw                  mnid 6O     mid 7Oa      mm                    mid 60a    mtd 70a      U!U
EChad
- Low  wesn



Annex I
Page 2 of 5
CHAD: Tablh I: Social Indicators
Chad: Resources And Expenc'itures
mom Sam rqie     c.ogre.p  
2S.iO       15.20      reew        - S      ah              kiher
Unit of           yCn         YeOM    o mEa         Sa.kwra        L%        incee
Irdicator                                rgoe ge                                      (t    (mi             d Inco        prow
HUMAN RESOURCES
Populadon (mren1991)                      tusands             3,334       4.030       5,226     488.932   3,127.265      773.m03
Age dependency ratio                        raio               0.80        0.83        0.84        0.97         0.66        0.71
Urban                                     %of pop.              8.9        16.0        30.0         28.7        40.1        53.9
Population growth rate                    annual %               1.8        2.0         2.5          3.0         1.9         1.7
Urban                                        *                 6.1         2.1         4.2          5.0         5.2         3.1
Labor force (15-64)                       thousta'ds          1,282       1.496       2,014     203,947    1,448,104     302,448
Agnculture                              % oflabor foree          92          87           _.
Industry                                      ,                   3           4
Female                                        '                  23          23          21          37           33          32
Female per 100 males
Urban                                     nuraber                -          91          ..
Rural                                                                       91
NATURAL RESOURCES
Ara                                      thou. sq. km         1,284        1,284       1,284     23,066       38,228      23,990
Density                                 pop. persq.km           3.0         3.0         4.0         20.0        77.0        31.0
Agriculmml land                         %oflandarea            38.0        38.1        38.3         51.0        47.4        41.S
Change in agricultwal land                anmual %              0.0         0.2         0.0          0.0         0.0         0.0
Agricultural land under inigation            %                  0.0         0.0         0.7          5.5        13.7        12.6
Foress and woodland                      thou. sq. Itm          149         139         128        6,651       9,197       5,396
Deforestaion (net)                        annual %              .0.7       -0.7        .0.6           .
Ih'COME
Housiehold inncome
Share of top 20% of housebolds          % of in'c                _           ..         ..
Share of bottom 40% ofhouseboldr s
Share of bottom 200.' of housbholds                              - _
EXPENDITURE
Food                                      %ofGDP                  _           _         55.1           _           _           _
Staples                                      '                   _                    21.5           _            -
Meat, fliah mUl. cbeeae- eE                                                           22.6           -
Cereal imnports                       lboa. metric toa            3          10          36        7,838      36,008      44,41S
Food aid in ceroals                                                          20          27        2,677       6,669       4.047
Foodprodctiouperscpitt                   197981-100             I1O          95          95          94          122         101
Fertilizer consumption                      kg,l                0.0         2.0        380          14.5        47.5        94.2
Shar ofagriculure in GDP                  %ofGDP               41.8        43.1        40.7         29.2        2S.7           -
Housing                                   %ofGDP                  _           _         7.7            -           _           _
Average household size               perons per bouseold                                  -
Urban                                        .
Fixed investment: housing                 %of GDP                 _           _         2.0
Fuel and power                            %of GDP                 _           _         5.9           -            -
Energyconsumpuonpercapita               kgofoilequiv.            12          20          17         100          350        1,249
louseholds with electicity
Urban                                  % of housebolds          ..                                   .
Rural
Transport and conununkaion                % of GDP                -                     9.S
Fixed investme transpot equipi'em                                .                      1.1          _            *
Total road length                         thokm                   ..          ..         ..           ..km
I.NvESTMENT IN HUMAN CAPITAL
reslth
.ccess to health care                     % of pop.               ..          _           ..
Populztion per physician                   prsons            72.478      47,644      30,031           _
Population per nurse                          '              13,608       4,167       3,396            -           ..
Popuiation per hospital bed                                        . _.                1,373       1,328       1,048         509
Accesstosafewater                         %ofpop.                          26.0          ..         36.7        70.6
Urban                                        '                            43.0          ..         74.3        79.3
Rural                                        '                            23.0          ..         24.2        62.2           _
Oralrehydyrationtherapy(under.5)          %ofcaes                 ..          ..         10          35           32
Educadon
Gross errol4cnt ratio
Secondary                             % ofscbool-ge pop.          1           3           7           IS          44          56
Female                                                           o           1           3           14         37
Pupil.taher ratio: primny              pupils per teache         83          85          67          39           39          25
Pupil-teacher ratio: secondary                                   29          31          39            _          20
Pupils reaching ade 4                     %ofoohort               ..         62          79          69
Repeatr rate: prnary                    % oftotal .ou                        35          33_                       ..
Illiwtecy                             % ofpop. (age 15+)         94           ..         70           51          39
Female                               %otfern.(age 15+)           _           ..         22          62           52
Newspaper circulation                    per thdou pop.           0           0           0            5
Source: World Pank nernational Ecarnica Deparqn, Api1 1993



Annex I
Page 3 of 5
TABLE 2
CHAD- KEY INDICATORS
1987   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996
Est.   Prog.      Proj.
Economic Indicators (annual % change)
Real GDP                                        -2.0   -2.3    8.3    3.9   -3.7    1.4    6.9    7.5
T'otal real consumption per capita             -10.4   -3.3   12.7    1.5   -4.2   -0.8    3.5    4.7
Exports ( 1987 prices)                          -0.2   13.6    1.1   -2.6  -23.2    6.4   25.7   26.7
Imports (1987  prices)                          -2.1   -7.0   -2.8   -7.6  -10.8   -6.0   14.2   11.6
Cur. Acct. Bal. bef. grants (% of GDP)1/   -32.2  -25.2  -20.8  -21.9  -22.5  -29.5  -26.2  -21.6
Consumer price index                            -4.7    0.5    1.7   -5.6    2.1   43.3    5.6    3.4
National Accounts
2/ GDP at constant prices (CFAF billions)         246.2  319.4  345.9  359.4  346.2  351.1  375.2  403.3
GDP at current prices (CFAF billions)          264.1  319.4  347.4  350.8  338.9  453.0  519.2  585.6
GDI/GDP (%)                                     10.1   18.7    7.9    8.4    9.4   14.9   14.1   13.8
Private investment/GDP (%)                       0.1    0.5    0.4    0.5    0.7    1.0    1.3    1.6
GDS/GDP (%)                                    -34.5   -4.0  -11.1  -11.1   -9.9   -9.8   -7.4   -4.2
Private savings/GDP (%)                        -26.4   -8.0   -4.8   -5.0   -2.2   -4.7   -3.8   -2.2
Public savings/GDP (%)                          -8.9    4.0   -6.3   -6.1   -7.7   -5.1   -3.6   -2.0
External Debt
Total debt outstanding (US$ millions)          324.7  504.7  606.3  729.9  739.6  716.4  763.4  791.1
Total debt service (US $ millions)              11.3   14.4   11.8   11.8   11.8   12.1   10.8   16.3
Debt outstanding/GDP (%)                        36.9   43.0   49.3   55.1   62.5   94.1   88.4   82.3
Debt Service/exp. of gds. and serv. (%)          6.3    6.2    8.6   10.8   21.8   10.4   17.4   10.3
Fiscal Indicators (% of GDP)
Central government rev., incl. grants           17.4   25.0   16.5   15.7   15.4   17.3   16.8   16.4
Central government expenditures                 17.2   32.6   22.1   27.4   26.2   28.5   26.3   24.3
Current expenditures                            10.5   14.9   15.6   15.0   16.8   14.8   13.4   12.1
Capital expenditures                             6.7   17.7    7.5    7.8    8.6   13.7   12.9   12.2
Other
Population growth rate                           2.5    2.5    2.5    2.5    2.5    2.5    2.5    2.5
1/ Based on CFA values
2/ 1987 prices



Annex I
Page 4 of 5
TABLE 3
(In Millions of US dollars)
CHAD- BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
1987     1990    1991    1992       1993    1994      1995      1996
Est.    Prog.         Proj.
Trade Balance                          -116.5    -70.5   -58.1   -71.4   -68.4   -43.0   -33.1    -5.1
Merchandise exports, f.o.b.          109.5    193.5   193.5   190.0   130.2   142.4   186.2   244.3
Merchandise imports, f.o.b.         -226.0  -264.0  -251.7  -261.4  -198.6  -185.4  -219.3  -249.4
Services  (net)                        -138.1  -216.1  -202.7  -205.9  -176.6  -166.2  -181.7  -194.2
Nonfactor servizL..  inet)         -127.5  -198.3  -191.1  -208.5  -160.6  -145.0  -153.1  -168.8
Credits                           70.5     40.8    30.8    26.8       28.6    29.1       40.9    50.1
Debits                          -198.0  -239.1  -221.9  -235.4  -189.2  -174.1  -194.0  -218.9
Factor Services (net)                -10.6   -17.8   -11.7        2.6   -16.1   -21.2   -28.6   -25.4
Credits                            3.0      3.0      8.9    17.4       8.7       4.2      5.2      5.1
Debits                           -13.6   -20.9   -20.6   -14.7   -24.8   -25.4   -33.8   -30.5
Unrequited transfers (net)              228.6   149.5   116.3   170.0   157.4   118.0   115.5   130.1
Private (net)                        -10.0   -12.9   -19.9   -34.0   -20.9   -15.3   -11.6    -9.6
Public (net)  1/                    238.6    162.3   136.1   204.0   178.4   133.3   127.1   139.7
Current Account Balance                     -26.0  -137.2  -144.6  -107.3   -87.6   -91.3   -99.3   -69.2
Capital Account                              26.6      79.0    70.9    29.8        9.1    24.4      17.1    28.5
Public sector (net)                        5.0   113.1    75.5       68.4    22.0    26.4       18.0    26.8
Drawings                              11.0   118.6    82.9    82.7        45.0    39.5      40.4    41.3
Amortization                          -6.0     -5.5    -7.4   -14.4   -23.0   -13.1   -22.5   -14.5
Private sector (net)                      11.6   -47.7       4.3   -19.6    -6.6    -2.0        -0.8       1.6
Errors and omissions                      10.0     13.6    -8.9   -18.9    -6.3         0.0       0.0      0.0
Overall Balance (deficit -)                    0.7   -58.2   -73.7   -77.4   -78.5   -66.9   -82.2   -40.7
Debt Rescheduling                              4.3     61.7      0.0      0.0      0.0      7.1      2.5      2.5
Financing                                    -5.0    -3.3    73.7    77.4    78.5    26.7           60.6    15.6
Net Foreign Assets (BEAC)                 -8.7      1.8      8.5    28.0    30.4        0.8   -23.5   -34.1
Operations account and other         -15.3      6.6      8.5      9.1    32.1   -15.5   -21.8   -28.2
Net use of Fund resources              6.7    -4.8       0.0      0.0    -1.7    16.3       -1.7    -5.9
Payments arrears (reduction -)             3.7   -47.0    11.3    16.2    27.9   -53.9            0.0      0.0
Exceptional financing                      0.0     41.9    53.9    33.2    20.2    79.8         84.0    49.7
Financing Gap 2/                               0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0    33.1      19.1    22.6
1/ Including investment grants
2/ Financing gap corresponds to that in Table 4.



Annex I
Page 5 of 5
TABLE 4
CHAD- Statement of Government Financial Operations
(In Billions of CFA francs)
1987     1990     1991      1992     1993     1994      1995     1996
Est.    Prog.         Proj.
Total revenue (including grants)              73.4     79.6      57.1     55.0     51.9      78.4     87.2      96.1
Total expenditure                             82.3    105.7      80.1     96.0      88.8    129.0    136.4    142.3
Current expenditure                       27.7      47.6     54.2     52.6      56.9     66.3     69.7      70.6
Capital expenditure                       54.6      58.1     25.9     27.6      29.6     62.7     66.7      71.7
Other                                      0.0       0.1      0.0     15.8       2.3      0.0       0.0      0.0
Overall fiscal balance (comm. basis)          -8.9    -26.1    -23.0    -41.0    -36.9    -50.6    -49.2    -46.2
Adjustments (changes in arrears)           0.2    -12.7       9.0     13.6      23.8    -44.5    -15.0      -8.5
Overall Fiscal Balance (cash basis)           -8.7    -38.8    -14.0    -27.4    -13.1    -95.1    -64.2    -54.7
Financing                                      8.7     38.8      14.0     27.4     13.1      75.5     52.7      40.8
External Financing                         7.6      33.8     14.8      8.1       6.5     78.9     64.8      47.9
Drawings                               7.3      21.3     16.9     11.9      12.9     82.5     76.8      55.1
Amortization due                      -1.0      -1.0     -2.1      -3.8     -6.4     -7.8    -13.5      -8.7
Debt relief                            1.3      13.5      0.0       0.0      0.0      4.2       1.5      1.5
Domestic Financing                         1.1       5.0     -0.8     19.3       6.6     -3.4    -12.1      -7.1
Banking system                        -0.4       4.2      0.0     17.6       3.8     -3.1    -11.8      -6.8
Other                                  1.5       0.8     -0.8       1.7      2.8     -0.3      -0.3     -0.3
Financing gap                                  0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0    -19.6    -11.5    -13.9
memo:
Current balance(excluding grants)         -8.2    -16.0    -22.0    -21.2    -26.3    -23.1    -18.9    -12.1
Current primary balance                   -7.3    -14.2    -18.7    -17.6    -21.4    -15.8       -6.1      -1.2
(excluding grants)



Annex II
Page 1 of 1
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT
STATUS OF WORLD BANK OPERATIONS IN CHAD
(As of February 28 1994)
Amount in US$ million
(less cancellations)
Fiscal                                       Undis Closing
Credit No.   Year        Purpose            IDA           bursed Date
Twenty two (22) Credit (s) closed         178.82
1872-CD     1988       T.A. for Econ. & Fin. 12.80      8.79   06/30/94
1912-CD     1988       Livestock           18.60        7.05    12/31/95
1950-CD     1989       Education          22.00         2.82    12/31/94
2007-CD(S)  1989       Transport sector    60.00        2.71    06/30/94
2156-CD      1990      Social Dev. Prg.    13.40        6.50   06/30/96
2184-CD      1991      Engineering         11.00        5.62    12/31/95
2501-CD      1993      Basic Education     19.30        19.30   06/30/99
2520-CD      1993      Transport Sect.II    37.00      36.11    12/31/98
TOTAL number of Credits = eight (8)       194.10
TOTAL (incl. closed projects)  372.92
of which repaid              12.06
TOTAL held by IDA            360.86
TOTAL undisbursed                          88.76
(S)   indicated SAL/SECAL credits. The quick disbursing component was converted into
investment component in 1992, due to the deterioration of the macroeconomic situation.
Closing dated are based upon the Loan Department official data and are not taken from the Task
Budget file.



ANNEX III
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT
TIMETABLE OF KEY PROCESSING EVENTS
1.    Time taken to prepare program:                     Two months
2.    Initial discussions with IDA:                      January 10-14, 1994
3.     Appraisal mission:                                January 19 to February 3, 1994
4.     Negotiations:                                     March 9, 1994
5..    Board presentation:                               March 31, 1994
6.     Planned date of effectiveness:                    April 30, 1994
7.     Expected closing date:                            June 30,1995
The program was appraised by a team comprising Mr. F. Laporte (AF5DR, Lead Economist), Mr. Peter Harrold
(Economic Adviser, AFTPS), Mr. Amadou B. Cisse (AFSCO, Principal Country Officer), Ms. Pascale Kervyn
(Consultant, Economist), and Mr. Noel Carrere (Resident Representative). The team worked closely with the
IAF team for Chad.
Ms. Nellie Sew Kwan Kan and Ms. Yannick Brierre assisted in the production of this report.
Ms. Katherine Marshall is the Department Director, and Mr. Jean-Louis Sarbib, the managing Division Chief



Annex IV
Page 1 of 19
REPUBLIQUE DU TCHAD                                UNITE-TRAVAIL-PROGRES
MINISTERE DU PLAN ET OE LA COOPERATION
DIRECTION DE CABINET 9
No Oi /MPC/CAB/94.
LE MINISTRE DU PLAN ET DE LA COOPERATIOF
A
GI   t        *---             Monsieur LEWIS PRESTON
President de la Banque Mondiale
1818 H STREET, N.W.
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20433
ETATS-UNIS D'AMERIQUE
OBJET.    Transmission de 1 fl lrnlaration de Politique Economique
et Sociale du Tchad.
Monsieur le Pr6sident,
Au nom  du Gouvernement du Tchad, j'8i 1'honneur de vous adresser
ci-joint une O6claration de Politique Economique et Sociale qui
dAcrit les objectifs economiques et sociaux du Gouvernement pour
le moyen terme, ainsi que les politiques d'ajustement macro-eco-
nomiques et structurelles destinees 6 permettre la r6alisation
de ces objectifs. Ces politiques traduisent la volonte du Gouver-
nement du Tchad de renforcer le processus de redressement et de
rdtablir le competitivite de l'economie nationale.
A l'appui de ces objectifs et politiques renforcees, le Gouverne-
ment du Tchad sollicite l'obtention d'un cr6dit d'appui & le re-
lance 6conomique d'un montant de quatorze millions quatre cent
mille  Droi.ts de Tirages Speciaux (  14.400.000 DTS).
Veuillez agreer, Monsieur le Prdside         u     rance de ma haute con-
sideration.
U,    MAHAMAT  SALEH



Annex IV
Page 2 of 19
ENGLISH TRANSLATION
CHAD
STATEMENT OF ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL POLICY
March 7, 1994
1.    Following a consultation with the Heads of State and Government of African
member countries of the Franc Area, the Government of Chad decided to implement a
comprehensive adjustment of its economy by way of a change in the par value of the CFA
franc, which was fixed at CFAF 100 to F 1 effective January 12, 1994, accompanied by a
series of measures aimed at restoring a policy of austerity in budgetary and monetary
matters.
2.    This decision to adjust the parity of the CFA franc should contribute significantly
to economic recovery and poverty reduction. With the set of accompanying measures
related to it, the devaluation should make it possible to give the economy greater
competitiveness and to establish solid, lasting bases of growth. The objective sought, with
1996 as the horizon, is annual growth of 5%.
3.    The success of the new adjustment program is crucially dependent on the
accompanying measures that were introduced immediately following the par value
adjustment. In the medium term, the Government will pursue: (i) the reconstruction of a
viable and efficient institutional base; (ii) the structural reforms needed for the stabilization
of government finance followed by economic growth, the development of human
resources, and the fight against poverty; (iii) active support for the private sector,
particularly exports; and (iv) the improvement of the economic and financial management
institutions. This letter has two purposes:
*      To describe the accompanying measures that will be introduced by the
Government in 1994, which is a crucial year for the success of the monetary adjustment;
and
*      To present the major challenges that must be met by the Government's
medium-term economic and social policy, within the framework of which the cooperation
between Chad and the World Bank will take place.
I.   Recent Economic Developments
4.    The history of Chad until 1984 has been marked by civil war, the destruction of
significant infrastructure, the unraveling of the administrative and productive apparatus,
and an unprecedented drought in 1983.  Chad subsequently rallied in an effort to
reconstruct its economy. The first structural reforms started from 1987, with the support
of the community of creditors and donors and the establishment of a Structural



Annex IV
Page 3 of 19
ENGLISH TRANSLATION
Adjustment Facility (SAF) in 1987, followed by a Financial Rehabilitation Credit (FRC) in
1988 financed by the World Bank. The two main elements of the program supported by
this credit were: (a) the consolidation of public expenditure; and (b) reforms in the cotton
sector. Various steps were taken to improve government finance management, especially
with respect to the expenditure structure, investment budget programming, and the rate of
revenue collect;on. The restructuring of the cotton sector began with the introduction of a
first performanec contract, a system of guaranteed prices, and a framework for profit
distribution. In 1989, an adjustment credit in the transportation sector was also concluded
with the Bank. The implementation of this program permitted the liberalization of the
sector, and considerable progress was made in promoting the private sector in activities
related to transportation. In other sectors such as public enterprises and the civil service,
studies were carried out with a view to defining a program of reforms.
5.    Between 1987 and 1990, the economy showed positive developments, and major
overall progress was recorded in the implementation of the sectoral reforms. GDP grew
by 3.8% on average over the period, the current deficit (excluding grants) fell from 32.2%
of GDP in 1987 to 25.2% in 1990. Inflation was held at 1.5% on average over the period.
However, there were substantial slippages in government finance management. Revenue
made good progress, but the growth in expenditure, especially wage and military
expenditure, entirely absorbed the increase in revenue. In 1990, the current fiscal deficit
without grants reached 5% of GDP compared with 3.3% in 1987.
6.    Following the events that led to the change in regime in December 1990, the
deterioration of government finance management worsened, until the FRC was suspended
in 1991 and then canceled in December 1992. The holding of the National Conference
represented the major event of 1993, with the creation of transitional organs including a
President of the Republic, a Prime Minister, and the Conseil Superieur de Transition
[Higher Transition Council] as the provisional legislative body.  The problems of
coordination between these organs, which led to a change in government, made it difficult
to implement the reforms and measures that were vital to economic and financial recovery.
7.    Since 1991, government finance management has been increasingly characterized
by: (i) a growing weakening of tax collection, particularly owing to the re-emergence of
fraud. In 1993, tax receipts reached 6% of GDP compared with 7.5% in 1990; (ii) an
uncontrolled development of commitments, including off-budget expenditure. Current
expenditure rose to 16.8% of GDP in 1993 compared with 10.5% in 1990, reflecting
particularly the 11% rise in the wage bill; and (iii) a lack of viability and efficiency in an
administrative staff that was irregularly paid and no longer motivated. Because of the
gradual diminishing of tax receipts, domestic and external arrears grew, respectively, to
10% and 2.4% of GDP at end-1993. Activities were therefore paralyzed in the formal
sector of the economy, to the advantage of the informal sector. In addition, the lack of
counterpart funds, the institutional weaknesses, and the unsafe environment led to poor



Annex IV
Page 4 of 19
ENGLISH TRANSLATION
implementation of the public investment budget and a partial withdrawal of creditors and
donors and a number of non governmental organizations (NGOs).
8.   In this context, there was negative GDP growth (-3.7%) in 1993. The gradual
increase in arrears and the marked slowdown in economic activity generated a downward
trend in consumer prices as of 1992 (-5.6%). In addition to the deterioration in domestic
conditions, activity in the formal sector was increasingly hampered by: (i) the rapid
appreciation in the real effective exchange rate since 1985 (in 1993, the overvaluation of
the real exchange rate was estimated at 32% in foreign exchange currency terms; (ii) the
deterioration in the terms of trade; and (iii) the rapid development of fraud since 1991. In
cotton, world prices had declined by 38% since 1990; there were also serious management
difficulties in the enterprise, and exports declined by 45% between 1990 and 1993. With
the conclusion in September 1993 of a new agreement between the major shareholders of
COTONTCHAD, i.e., the Government of Chad and the Compagnie Fran9aise de
D6veloppement des Textiles [French Textile Development Company], the improvement in
the management of COTONTCHAD made it possible for the suspension to be lifted from
the Netherlands grant managed by the World Bank.
9.    Regarding the structural reforms, progress was made in the privatization of public
enterprises. At end-1993, four enterprises had begun the privatization process. Four
enterprises were liquidated, and the Government has taken legal steps to liquidate six
others.
10.   Moreover, the reduction in size of the army that began in November 1992
continues at a satisfactory rate. As of February 1, 1994, approximately 13,000 men were
demobilized in a first phase, and some 5,400 more should be demobilized in a second
phase.  This should make it possible to meet the target of reducing the army to
25,000 men by end-1994.
11.   As a corollary to the economic and financial crisis and the growing
underemployment, the vast majority of the population has been unable to gain access to a
better standard of living. In 1992-93, primary schools experienced an incomplete year,
because of delays of up to 10 months in the payment of wages in some provinces. In
1993-94, major disruptions were also recorded. Public expenditure (wages and materials)
on education and health increased slightly as a share of total expenditure, from 17.9% in
1990 to 21.5% in 1993. With an attendance rate of 59% at primary schools (36% for
girls) and one nurse per 3,400 inhabitants, Chad is below the average for sub-Saharan
Africa. With a population growth rate estimated at 2.5%, per capita income in real terms
has fallen by more than 4% since 1990.



Annex IV
Page 5 of 19
ENGLISH TRANSLATION
II-  Program for 1994
12.   The main macroeconomic objectives for 1994 are to:
(i)   Achieve a real GDP growth rate of 1.5%/o;
(ii) Contain the inflationary impact of the devaluation, as far as possible, at less than
43%, with an appropriate price and wage policy;
(iii) Revive investments in such a way as to reach the level required for sustained GDP
growth in the years to come and for per capita consumption to increase;
(iv) Ensure that the changes in relative prices are fully reflected in the economy, so as to
encourage a response from the productive sector, which should be reflected notably in real
growth in export of 6.4% in 1994; and
(v)  Limit the deterioration in the current balance below 30%  of GDP (excluding
grants).
13.    The level of investment required for positive GDP growth in 1994 would be close
to 15% of GDP; compared with 1993, this would mean an increase of about 19% in the
volume of public investment. This would lead to an overall government deficit (excluding
grants) of the order of 19% of GDP compared with 17% in 1993. The increase in the
volume of public investment will result in more capital imports. Consequently, the volume
of imports will decline by only about 6%, in spite of the expected contraction in the
demand for imports of other goods. Increases in the costs of capital imports and debt
service would worsen the deficit in the goods and services balance. However, the
corresponding increase in official transfers would stabilize the current deficit at its 1993
level.
14.   The Government is aware of the need to accompany the change in the par value of
the CFA franc with a set of appropriate measures. These measures are aimed at ensuring:
(i) that the effects of the devaluation are not eroded by an inflationary fiscal policy;
(ii) that the benefits are passed on, as far as possible, to the producers, particularly in rural
areas, so as to raise real incomes and provide inc;entives to produce more; and (iii) that the
negative impact of the devaluation on the poorest social classes is kept to a minimum,
through restrictions on increases in the prices of essential goods during the transition
period needed to reorganize production and distribution channels.



Annex IV
Page 6 of 19
ENGLISH TRANSLATION
A.   Government finance
15.   The primary objective of the program is to restore the normal operations of
government administration. Indeed, it is indispensable and urgent for the state apparatus,
following years of continuous deterioration, to once again be in a position to carry out
adequately the functions for which it is responsible, thus recovering the confidence of
those administered and of Chad's external partners. For this purpose, the Government has
conmmitted itself to taking the following measures:
(i)   Ensure the regular payment of the wages of civil servants and soldiers in 1994, on
the basis a wage scale established by the National Conference. The use of this wage-scale
corresponded to a de facto increase of about 10% in the nominal wages of civil servants.
Given the need to restrict the growth of the wage bill so as to ensure the availability of
resources required for services to function, the Government is also conmmitted to freezing
recruitment in the civil service, except in the education and health sectors, and to applying
the regulations with respect to the retirement age. The implementation of these measures
should lead to the restoration of morale and the re-establishment of order in the operations
of the administration;
(ii) Pursue the program of demobilization from the army (para. 10) at the expected rate,
so that the fiscal advantages of the operation can be perceptible as of end- 1994;
(iii) Ensure a marked improvement in tax collection through adequate arrangements with
respect to the collection departments, especially customs. These arrangements include
inter alia a contract with a private company to audit and collect a portion of import taxes,
for which the Government has requested the IDA's assistance. The expected increase in
tax receipts should be some 80%, in spite of a revision of the rates of taxation on
petroleum  products (para. 17).  Together, these measures aimed at changing the
composition and the level of current expenditure and tax receipts will contribute to the
elimination of the primary deficit and to a decrease in the current fiscal deficit in 1996 to
the sustainable level of 2.1% of GDP; and
(iv) Ensure the settlement in 1994 of all external arrears and a significant portion of the
domestic arrears. The payment of arrears will contribute to an increase in the overall
deficit (excluding grants) from 17% of GDP in 1993 to 19% on a cash basis. This
measure will also contribute to restoring the confidence of creditors and donors and of
local suppliers.
16.   With respect to taxation, the decision was made to implement the following
measures: (i) adjustments in the taxation of petroleum products (para. 17); and (ii) the
total integration of the Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement with the Treasury, in
observance of the principle of budgetary orthodoxy and transparency in government
finance management. Certain imported products of a social nature, such as sugar, flour,



Annex IV
Page 7of19
ENGLISH TRANSLATION
and rice, will be taxed at the rates provided for in the refonn of the Central African
Customs and Economic Union (UDEAC).
B.   Price and Wage policy
17.   Prices have already been liberalized to a great extent, except for oil, soap, bread,
water, electricity, fuels, beer, and cigarettes, and it is essential for the devaluation to
generate sustainable changes in relative prices. The Government is committed to not
introducing any new price controls or approvals. With respect to administered prices, the
Government has dealt with several concerns at once: (i) preserving the increase in
competitiveness; (ii) encouraging agricultural production; and (iii) ensuring the temporary
alleviation of the negative effect of the devaluation on the most vulnerable classes,
especially in urban areas. Thus:
(a)    With respect to hydrocarbons, the rise in the price of diesel oil was limited
to 20%, in order to contain the impact of the devaluation on transportation and
production costs. The tax on kerosene was entirely removed for social and
ecological reasons.'/ The increase in the price of gas is limited to 34% so as to
contain inflation;
(b)     The producer price of cotton was retroactively raised to CFAF 90 per kilo
for the crop year 1993/94 and will be further increased by 33% (to CFAF 120 per
kilo) for the crop year 1994/95. In addition, the mechanism for distributing profits
among producers, COTONTCHAD, the Government, and the Fonds de Soutien
de la Filiere Coton [Cotton Support Fund] (FSFC) was reactivated;
(c)     Soap and oil prices were frozen for 12 months to the extent that the Board
of Directors of COTONTCHAD agrees to finance this subsidy, it being
understood that in 1994 cotton profits will be paid entirely to the FSFC;
(d) The prices of flour and rice were frozen for one month. The rise in the prices of
medicines will be limited, thanks to a subsidy of CFAF 2.5 billion from the government
budget in favor of the Centrale Pharmaceutique du Tchad (PHARMAT).   The
Government will use this opportunity to encourage private pharmacies to sell generic
medicines;
Because numerous small importers in the informal sector are responsible for approximately
90 percent of kerosene imports, it is extremely difficult to implement a subsidy on kerosene. It
was therefore decided to remove all taxation on imports of this product, in order to revive
competitiveness on the informal market and contain the price increase to a maximum of
40 percent.



Annex IV
Page 8 of 19
ENGLISH TRANSLA4TION
(e)    The increase in the price of sugar will be limited to 10% for six months,
after which it will be adjusted on the basis of the new structure of production costs
of the Societe Nationale Sucriere du Tchad (SONASUT) and market conditions;
and
(f)    Electricity prices will be frozen until the Board of Directors oI the Soci6t6
Tchadienne d'Eau et d'Electricite (STEE) decides on a new price structure, failing
which, prices will be increased by at least 20% effective April 1, 1994. The price
of water will remain the same for 12 months.
As noted in paragraph 15, civil service wage increase will be limited to 10%. In the public
enterprise sector, no wage increase will be granted before the submission of orderly
enterprise accounts and a business plan for the new fiscal year. Moreover, any increase
granted will not exceed that applicable to government wages
C.  Monetary policy
18.   Monetary policy will be aimed at ensuring a balance between the objective of
reducing the balance of payments and reconstituting the exchange reserves, on the one
hand, and that of facilitating the recovery of economic activity in the private sector, on the
other hand. Thus, credit to the private sector will be increased by 29%. However, net
banking credit to the Government (excluding IMF drawings) will decrease by
CFAF 1.4 billion, owing especially to the Government's repayment of the advances
granted by the Central Bank in excess of the statutory limits. The Bank of Central Afiican
States (BEAC) has already raised major rates; the refinancing rate went from 11.5% to
14%. The BEAC will continue to manage the monetary policy instruments in accordance
with the prescriptions of regional monetary cooperation.
D.   Social acconmpanying measures
19.   One of the major effects of the devaluation will be to raise the standard of living of
rural populations, especially in the export sectors (livestock and cotton, but also gum
arabic, onions, sesame, groundnuts, and algae). It is estimated that a substantial portion of
the rural population depends on these sectors for its livelihood. However, the standard of
living of other population thresholds will be directly affected by the changes in relative
prices. This is so for the urban populations, particularly women and children, for whom a
number of social protection measures are required, given their level of need. Accordingly,
within the framework of the social measures accompanying the devaluation, the
Government has decided on the following:



Annex IV
Page 9 of 19
ENGLISH TRANSLATION
(a)    Price measures
(i)   Raise the producer price of cotton from CFAF 80 per kilo to CFAF 90 per kilo in
1993/94, and to CFAF 120 per kilo in 1994/95 (para. 17);
(ii) Freeze certain socially sensitive prices temporarily (para. 17): rice, flour, oil, and
soap; remove the taxation on kerosene; subsidize the prices of water and medicines
temporarily; and contain the rise in sugar prices for a while. At the same time, the
Government will continue to intervene on the markets in order to contain any increases in
grain prices. The cost of these measures is CFAF 7.6 billion;
(b)    Budget appropriations in the social sectors
(i) The budget appropriation for equipment and supplies for the Ministry of Health will
total a minimum of CFAF 1.2 billion, representing an increase of CFAF 0.7 billion
compared with the 1993 budget, so as to maintain the level of expenditure in real terms.
The Ministry of Health will hire 90 additional officials. The cost of these measures is
CFAF 0.77 billion.
(ii) The budget appropriation for equipment and supplies for the Ministry of Education
will be raised to CFAF 1.2 billion, representing an increase of CFAF 0.7 billion compared
with the 1993 budget, so as to maintain the level of expenditure in real terms. This
amount should necessarily include CFAF 0.1 billion for expenditure on materials for
primary education, in accordance with the loan agreement related to the Education V
project financed by the IDA. A net increase of 280 primary school teachers will be
planned in 1994, as provided for in the Education V project financed by the IDA,
representing an additional cost of CFAF 0.163 billion.
(c)    Job creating projects
(i)    For the purposes of intensifying job creation, the Government approached
the IDA with respect to speeding up the implementation of the public works and
employment project (ATETIP).   The Government also requested from  the IDA
supplementary financing for the sectoral project, Transportation II, to finance the
construction of rural roads, designed to open up areas with strong agricultural potential,
and the Social Development Action Project (PADS) for: (i) job-creating infrastructure
works; (ii) the distribution of medicines; and (iii) the development of the activities of the
NGO, VITA (Volunteers Technical Assistance) with respect to credit to small and micro-
enterprises. This supplement will contribute to the enhancement of the very encouraging
results obtained by this project to date. Supplemental disbursements to the IDA projects
will amount to CFAF 12.5 billion. The Government feels that these measures could create
13,000 jobs.



Annex IV
Page 10 of 19
ENGLISH TRANSLATION
(ii)    The total cost of the measures taken following the devaluation is
CFAF 20.7 billion.    Their budgetary  impact will represent CFAF 17.2 billion,
approximately 75% of which will be financed by external partners.
m.  Medium-term objectives
20.   The Government's basic objectives are to restore macroeconomic equilibrium in a
sustained manner and introduce all the measures required to place the Chadian economy
once again on the path to sustained growth. In seeking to achieve these objectives, the
Government is aware of the challenges to be faced and is determined to: (i) adopt the
most appropriate strategies with respect to structural reforms--in particular, strengthening
government administraiion, consolidating the cotton sector, and improving incentives for
the private sector; and (ii) introduce concerted policies to ensure natural resource
development and reduce poverty.
A.  Macroeconomic objectives
21.   For the period 1994-96, the Government has set itself the following objectives:
(a)    To increase the rate of GDP growth to a higher real level than the rate of
population growth, which is estimated at 2.5% annually. In 1994, growth would
be only about 1.5% owing to a poor crop year, in 1993/96 particularly in cotton
where production fell by nearly 45%. Growth in GDP is expected to be gradually
revived, with increased production in the agricultural sectors (including cotton and
nontraditional agricultural exports), livestock, and import substitution activities.
Similarly, the recovery of public investment and the reforms of the private sector
environment should contribute to a rise in the rate of GDP growth to a 1995-96
average of 7.2%;
(b)    To ensure a return of the inflation rate to its level of previous years, around
3%, as of 1996; and
(c)    To reduce the current balance-of-payments deficit (excluding grants) to a
sustainable level of the order of 21.6% of GDP in 1996 compared with 29.5% in
1994. The improvement should come from the expected growth of exports
(especially cotton) in 1994-96 by an annual average of nearly 20%, although a
portion of the positive effects of the latter should be absorbed by the increase in
the volume of imports in 1995-96, related especially to the recovery of investment.
22.   Gross fixed capital formation, at 9.4% of GDP in 1993, should be stabilized at
around 14% of GDP on average over the three subsequent years, this rapid growth being
attributable essentially to a recovery in public investment in infrastructure. Also, private
investment should experience rapid growth, reflecting a healthier social and economic



Annex IV
Page 11 of 19
ENGLISH TRANSLATION
environment. A small, but growing portion of the increase in investment will be firlanced
by domestic savings. This is a result of the improvement in the budgetary position, with
the current deficit reduced from 5.1% of GDP in 1994 to 2.1% in 1996.
23.   The sustainable consolidation of government finiance, with an improvement in the
structure of expenditure, represents one of the basic objectives of the medium-term
strategy. Indeed, the restoration of sustainable levels of revenue and expenditure is
indispensable to the operatijns arid credibility of the state apparatus and the pursuit of
economic activities. A stable envi-onment is also crucial if the devaluation is to be able to
generate a sustainable recovery of investment and, therefore, growth. For this reason, the
Government will give priority to productive expenditure, especially the regular payment of
counterpart funds for investment and the regular servicing of foreign and domestic debt.
24.   Ir addition, the Government is aware that priority must be given to the social
sectors such as education and health, the rebuilding of the country's infrastructures, and
support lor the country's productive capabilities, especially in agriculture, in order to
facil.tate a sustainable improvement in the people's standard of living and a decline in
poverty. The Government will make every effort, with the assistanc.e of donors, to reflect
these priorities in sectoral budget appropriations, through strengthened programming and
management of the investment budget. At the same time, the pursuit of the effort to
reduce the number of soldiers and reorganize the army should lead to a decline in defense
expenditure.
25.   Thus, the cbjective in termns of expenditure will be for a gradual reduction in the
share of wage and military expenditure in the total expenditure. While such expenditure
was still equivalent, in 1993, to 100% of revenue (excluding grants), the objective is to
increase this ratio to about 67% in 1996, continuing subsequently to reduce it. This
gradual decline in wage expenditure will be the result, in particular, of a civii service
reform that would involve redeploying personnel to the priority sectors and greater
selectivity with respect to entry into the civil service. Measures will also be adopted for
strengthening the productivity of the civil service.
26.   The increase in tax receipts from the formal sector of the economy will reflect:
(i) the recovery of growth in the modern sector of the economy, encouraged by the
settlement of domestic arrears and the regular payment of wages by the administration;
(ii) the continuous improvement of tax collection rates, particularly as a result of an
efficient fight against fraud; and (iii) the gradual elimination of exemptions on imports,
inicluding through the renegotiation of the Special Conventions within the framework of
the UDEAC reforms. Tax receipts should thus increase from 6% of GDP in 1993 to 7.2%
in 1996.



Annex IV
Page 12 of 19
ENGLISH TRANSL4 TION
B.   Sectoral policies
27.   Public enterprises sector. In 1992, the Government firmly launched a program of
state withdrawal from productive activities and the consolidation of public enterprises.
The Government therefore created an organ specifically responsible for this task, the
Secretariat Permanent au Desengagement de l'Etat (SPDE), under the authority of the
Ministry of Economy and appointed to it officials of recognized competence. The SPDE
drew up a multi-year work program concerning a set of more than 30 public enterprises,
for which implementation was programmed in detail. The SPDE continues to have
evaluation studies carried out, enterprise by enterprise, each leading to specific
recommendations. Next, wide consultations on these recommendations generate decisions
to proceed with liquidation, consolidation, or privatization. The program has gone a long
way,2/ and the Government's medium-term objective is to complete the task fully of
dealing with the 30 enterprises identified.
28.   Private sector promotion and industrial development. Since the late 1980s, the
Government adopted a policy of state withdrawal from productive activities. Over the last
two years, the Government has confirmed that orientation 3/ by: (a) holding a Round
Table on Private Sector Development in close consultation with the creditors and donors;
and (b) continuing the work on regional harmonization in the area of business law.
29.   For the medium-term  future, the Government intends resolutely to pursue the
efforts initiated these past few years. However, it plans to orient these efforts more
markedly toward: (i) the promotion of the private sector, which is the best guarantor of
the continued search for competitiveness and better resource appropriation; and (ii) job
creation. It also plans to strengthen and diversify the tools and instruments to be
mrobilized in order to achieve these objectives.
30.   The Government is aware of the numerous opportunities from which the private
sector (especially the SMEs and the SMIs) could draw excellent benefits, with respect
both to export growth and diversification and to import-substitution productions. The
2      Thus, as at mid-November 1993: (a) 10 liquidation decisions had been made, including six
whose implementation has already been initiated and four practically completed-the Caisse de
Soutien du Prix du Coton (CSPC), the Cooperative des Transporteurs Tchadiens (CMT), the
Office de Mise en Valeur de Sategul-Deressia (OMVSD) and the Socidte Tchadienne
d'Exploitation des Ressources Animales (SOTERA); (b) four consolidation decision had been
made, including two already being implemented--the Societe de Developpement du Lac
(SODELAC) and the Farcha Abattoirs--prior to consideration of the privatization of the two
latter companies); and (c) six privatization decisions had been made, including four already
being implemented--the Manufacturiere de Cigarettes du Tchad (MCT), PHARMAT, the Socidte
Industrielle de Materiel Agricole du Tchad (SIMAT), and the Societe Nationale de Production
Animale (SONAPA).
3      In addition to its public enterprise reform program (para. 27).



Annex IV
Page 13 of 19
ENGLISH TRANSLATION
Government is also aware that the most serious constraints to private sector development
lie in the absence of a stable, encouraging macroeconomic framework, in the general
conditions prevailing with respect to safety, and in the functioning of the administration
and institutions. These obstacles have a bearing on: (a) the efficiency and relevance of the
assistance provided by public organs (departments of the Ministries of Finance, Economy,
and Justice); and (b) beyond the government's control, the conditions and operating
methods of services (particularly banks and insurance companies).
31.   Consequently, the Government intends to formulate and implement a number of
improvements in the institutional and juridical environment. These improvements should
concern, among other things, the following:
(i)    Tariffframework: Within the regional cooperation framework, Chad has
committed itself to implementing the UDEAC reforms aimed at correcting the distortions
in domestic taxation, particularly by reducing the tariffs on international trade and
rationalizing domestic taxation. The speeding up of implementation of the UDEAC
reforms will be among the measures to promote the private sector in the context of the
adjustment program;
(ii)    Legalframework: Participation in the regional harmonization with respect
to business law and the revision of the Labor Code;
(iii)   Judiciary apparatus: Creation of emergency interim authorities to deal
with disputes and litigation likely to affect economic transactors; and
(iv)    Regulatory apparatus: Reform of the rules applicable to the creation and
close-down of enterprises and details of the legal requirements with respect to the
submission of tax returns (including annual audits).
32.   At the same time, the Government will attempt to encourage a number of
developments in the private sector, such as the creation of special services (consulting
firms and audit companies), the adaptation of marketing networks, the reduction of
constraints on access to credit, and the diversification of financial internediation
mechanisms.
33.   Agricultural policy. The agricultural sector is the most important in terms of
employment. The major objective sought by the Government is to improve the economic,
regulatory, and tariff environment for all grain products, especially those with high export
potential. The domestic market will be liberalized for all agricultural production. The
Government also plans to maintain a food security stock of 20,000 metric tons.
34.   In cotton, the major objective is to improve the production's competitiveness and
increase export earnings. This will lead to efforts in favor of.



Annex IV
Page 14 of 19
ENGLISH TRANSLATION
(a)   Equitable distribution of profits among the producers, the Government, and
COTONTCHAD. The Government will therefore continue to apply the policy
reiterated in the 1994 program with respect to producer prices;
(b)   Greater profitability of cotton production by way of more appropriate
cultivation practices and the more rational use of inputs. The Office National de
Developpement Rural (ONDR) and the Institut de Recherche Cotonniere du Tchad
(IRCT) will expand their activities in the areas of research and extension seriAces,
so as to respond more approoriately to the specific needs of producers. The use of
locally produced inputs will also be widely encouraged; and
(c)   Improvement in the management of COTONTCHAD. To this end, the
Government intends to have a detailed technical audit of the company performed
during 1994. The recommendations resulting from the audit will be the subject of
an action plan for the cotton sector, to be agreed upon with the cotton sectores
creditors and donors and the World Bank.
35.   Livestock policy. With respect to livestock, the Government has set itself the
priority of increasing exports of meat and other animal productions by the private sector.
This will lead to efforts to:
(a)   Improve the productivity of the sector through a more efficient
redistribution of responsibilities between the Government and the private sector,
including associations of livestock breeders. The private sector will, in particular,
be responsible for veterinary care services and the management of pastures and
water supplies, while the public sector will concentrate on activities such as
extension services, research, and professional training for associations of livestock
breeders; and
(b)   Enhance the economic and regulatory environment, in order to facilitate
exports of animal products. The Government has therefore conunitted itself,
within the framework of the UDEAC reforms, to the removal of all export taxes.
A timetable for the implementation of these reforms will be established when the
next adjustment program is being formulated. In addition, export activities will be
carried out by the private sector with assistance Lrom the Government, which will
be limited to the provision of information on business opportunities through the
organization of Round Tables for animal production operations.
36.   Human resources and the fight against poverty.  One of the most serious
challenges that Chad faces, which limits its economic and social growth outlook, concerns
the situation with respect to human resource development, especially the low literacy rate
and the decline in the quality of education. The situation is such, that a new approach is



Annex IV
Page 15 of 19
ENGLISH TRANSLATION
required to the problems of managing the educational system. The Government gives
special priority to resolving these problems, within the framework of both its Education-
Training-Employment sectoral strategy and its general development strategy. Primary
education represents the priority in the Government's education policy, so that the
foundations required for the country's economic take-off can be available and manpower
productivity can be improved. With this in mind, an increase in the rate of enrollment at
the primary level to 65% by 1998 was deemed desirable and feasible. Specific actions will
also be taken with a view to raising the rate of enrollment of girls. In addition, in order to
contain expenditure on higher education, the Government has put an end to the automatic
access to university by high school diploma-holders, introducing tests and organizing
recruitment on the basis of the number of places available. Finally, in order to tailor
enrollment numbers to sectoral requirements, a policy for orienting students toward
scientific and technical studies was also established.
37.   In order to develop and improve the quality of primary education, the Government
plans, under the basic Education Project, to carry out the following actions:
a)     A program to construct 1,700 classrooms, to be implemented between
1994 and 1998. In the context of this program, there will be much recourse to
partnerships with NGOs, the ATETIP, and parent associations, with a view to
increasing implementation capability and quality at the least cost;
b)     The "educational equipment and supplies" budget for primary education
will be gradually increased until it reaches CFAF 200 million in 1988;
c)     On average, at least 380 teachers will be trained annually at the teacher
training colleges, and 280 will be assigned to primary schools; and
d)     A special mechanism was established to ensure the regular payment of
primary school teachers' wages.
38.   With respect to the health sector, the Government's strategy is based on the
"primary health care" concept adopted in 1972 by the World Conference at Almai-Ata and
confirmed by the sectoral Round Table held in January 1993 in N'Djamena.  Its
implementation will hinge upon five actions, as follows:
(a)    Developing the three-tiered health system proposed by the World Health
Organization (WHO), adopted by Chad in 1988. This strategy corresponds to a
functional design that distinguishes between the operational, support, and
orientation levels;



Annex IV
Page 16 of 19
ENGLISH TRANSLATION
(b)    Executing a social-health coverage plan that is aimed at covering the entire
country, in keeping with a number of standards in terms of medicines and
financing, based on the selected model that takes account of available resources;
(c)    Improving access to essential and generic medicines through a series of
measures, including the reform of the system of supplying medicines, the
rationalization of distribution, and cost recovery;
(d)    Strengthening community participation in the management of the system,
with individuals, households, and communities ensuring their own health. In order
to guarantee access to care and to the information needed to improve health,
beneficiaries will be associated with the operational management of the services;
and
(e)    Adopting a method for operating the national health system, characterized
by planning, decentralization, accountability, integration, and participation.
39.   Regarding financing, the strategy adopted is aimed essentially at rationalization
with a view to maximizing savings. It provides for an annual increase of 10% in the share
of health in the government budget.
40.   In additior., the Government intends to promote the private sector in health,
considering that the integration of private interests in the sector will make it possible to
increase health care coverage and the efficiency and quality of the services and intensify
the integration of family planning and women's welfare services.
41.   Policy with respect to population and to the fight against AIDS. Chad's population
has doubled since 1960, and this demographic growth is expected to increase even further,
given the improvement in general health conditions that should result in a decline in infant
and maternal mortality and a rise in fecundity (6.6 expected in the year 2000 compared
with 5.9 currently). Added to this is the structure of the population pyramid, with a
preponderance of young children and women of child-bearing age.
42.   To deal with this issue, the Government has adopted a population policy that will
soon be implemented and will base its action on new legislation with respect to marriage
and on a Family Code. To counter the low rate of contraceptive use (1%, which is the
lowest in the Sahel), the Government recently passed legislation in favor of contraception
and the importation of related products.
43.   AIDS is spreading rapidly in Chad. The number of cases doubled every year
between 1986 and 1992. However, until recently, this trend was, to a very large extent,
underestimated by both the population and some of the relevant authorities.  The
efficiency of the AIDS program that was started in 1992 is hampered by the low level of



Annex IV
Page 17 of 19
ENGLISH TRANSLATION
awareness in the communities, the inadequate training of health care personnel, and the
poor resources available at health centers.  In order to prevent AIDS from rapidly
becoming a major problem, the Government intends to initiate a prevention program in the
near future; its design and preparations for its implementation are under way.
44.   The actions that the Government intends to take with respect to both population
and the fight against AIDS should soon benefit from the assistance of the World Bank
under the "Population and AIDS Control" project.
45.   Transportation and infrastructures. In 1989, the Government adopted a letter of
general policy, reaffirmed in 1993, with respect to the transportation sector, in which it
defined a medium-term strategy for the sector. This strategy is based on three basic
principles, as  follows:   (i) cost reduction; (ii) institutional  strengthening; and
(iii) liberalization of the sector. The major options can basically be summarized as
follows:
(a)    Give priority to the maintenance of existing infrastructures;
(b)    Promote private sector involvement;
(c)    Develop administrative competence in the areas of design, planning, and
monitoring; and
(d)    Continue to restructure public enterprises in the sector, in cooperation with
the private partners, so as to consolidate their management and make them
financially viable.
46.   These orientations meet the concern to create the conditions required for the
transportation sector's participation in the national economic recovery, particularly by
ilnaking the various areas of the country more accessible and creating jobs through the
repair and maintenance program.
47.   Broadly supported by the donor community  under the Transportation Sector
Structural Adjustment Program and Sectoral Project II, this policy has been implemented
to a large extent, with satisfactory results. The major sectoral policy reforms introduced
concern the liberalization of road transportation, the elimination of monopolies, and the
establishment of mandatory tariffs. At the same time, the Government has provided itself
with the institutional resources needed for the strict management of the sector. The public
and parapublic administration of the sector was restructured with a view to increasing its
efficiency. The modernization of the administrative and legal framework of public
contracts made it possible to achieve significant progress in the management of public
investment programs. The Government has also firmly instituted new arrangements
concerning all the factors contributing to the liberalization of the ector, with a view to



Annex IV
Page 18 of 19
ENGLISH TR4NSLATION
improving conditions in the transportation of goods and individuals, thus facilitating cost
reductions, trade intensification, and an improvement in the country's economic
performances.
48.   Conscious of the magnitude of the tasks remaining to be accomplished in spite of
the substantial efforts already made, the Government intends to continue:
(a)    Institutional strengthening  of the Ministry of Public Works and
Transportation by increasing the efficiency of government departments, whose role
will be limited to design, planning, regulation, and monitorir.g;
(b)    Developing human capabilities, through  improved  human resource
management;
(c)    Supporting the agricultural development policy by repairing a network of
roads serving agricultural areas;
(d)    Consistently and increasingly mobilizing national resources related to the
sector;
(e)    Earmarking sufficient domestic financial resources for road maintenance;
(f)    Promoting a national private sector in public works;
(g)    Opening up the capital of the parapublic enterprises in the sector to private
interests; and
(h)    Revising the procedures for contract procurement, approval. and
management, in order to increase the transparency of the choices made and the
proper execution of works.
49.   Energy. The energy sector, especially petroleum, is probably the most promising
sector in the medium-term for the country's sustainable growth. The possibilities of
exploiting the reserves in the North for local consumption could lead to a significant
reduction in energy costs, and exporting the reserves in the South could contribute to a
perceptible growth in government revenue. However, the Government is aware that, first,
government finance must be consolidated, resource management should be stricter, and a
more encouraging framework for private sector development must be established.
C.   Development of institutional capabilities
50.   One of Chad's characteristics is the weakness of its institutions, especially the
government administration, which paid a heavy price as a result of the wars of the 1980s.



Annex IV
Page 19 of 19
ENGLISH TRANSLATION
In spite of the efforts made in certain sectors and a number of successes in education and
transportation, the Government is aware that it must acquire more efficient institutional
resources and, in particular, it must achieve a major reform of the administrative and legal
frameworks, which are crucial for strict management.  This restoration of the
administration and of the legal and judiciary frameworks, moreover, goes hand in hand
with the ongoing democratization process.
51.   The Government has therefore decided to carry out a number of priority actions,
mainly:
(a)    Rehabilitating and reorganizing the civil service with the technical and
financial support of the World Bank and other partners. This will involve
measures to improve and maintain the efficiency of the administration (para. 25).
The Government recognizes the urgent need to strengthen the capabilities of the
administration, and is preparing to approach a number of external partners,
especially the IDA through the Project in Support of Economic and Financial
Management, for the funding of a program to enhance the capabilities of the
Ministry of Finance and Planning.   Similarly, the riles governing career
development will be reformed. At the same time, substantial efforts will continue
with a view to increasing the efficiency of public enterprises and thus reduce their
needs for subsidies.  The privatization of public enterprises will be sought each
time this proves to be economically warranted and politically feasible;
(b)    Actively participating in regional efforts to harmonize tax and customs
regimes (para. 31). These efforts are also aimed at simplifying the systems in
question, expanding the tax bases especially through the elimination of exemptions,
and reducing tax rates and customs duties while eliminating operating taxes; and
(c)    Rationalizing and computerizing the operations of the departments
responsible for revenue collection, while adopting measures to fight against fraud
(para. 26).
52.   The parity adjustment and the Government's adoption of a set of measures for
1994 have once again placed economic and financial management and the challenges it
implies at the center of the concerns of the Government and its social partners. Chad is
aware of the challenges to the recovery of its economic prospects and is determined, as
soon as possible and in agreement with the World Bank and the International Monetary
Fund, to adopt a medium-term policy framework for 1994-96 that will provide further
details on the components of economic and social policy presented in this letter.



ANNEX V
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
ERC ACTION MATRIX
1. MACROECONOMIC POLICIES
Trade and Payments System
Realignment of the exchange rate, fixed at 100 CFAF for 1 FF       January 12, 1994
Preparations for an accelerated implementation of the UDEAC trade
reforms, originally scheduled for 1995                                    1994
Preparation of detailed schedule for the removal of all export taxes      1994
Elimination of all external arrears                                       1994
Elimination of all ad-hoc exemptions on external tariffs                  1994
Public Finaneas
Issuance of Budget incorporating targets of IMF Stand-By progrm    March 31, 1994
Limiting the increase in wages and salaries to 10% in 1994: the
wage and salary bill would not exceed CFAF 25 billion in 1994      March 31,1994
Keeping current with wage and salary payments                      January 31, 1994
Retaining 60 as the retirement age, generating 1000 retirees in 1994:
no additional hiring in 1994 beyond 280 teachers and 90 health workers    199*
No wage increases in public enterprises before presentation of orderly
enterprise accounts, and a limit of a 109% increase thereafter            1994
Integrating the operations of the Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement
into the Ministry of Finance                                       before March 31, 1994
Strengthening the staffing of the Customs Administration and of the
Petroleum Tax collection system                                    March 31, 1994
Elimination of CFAF 10.4 billion of domestic suppliers' arrears, being
one third of the total outstanding                                        1994
Increase revenues collected on the Petroleum Tax to CFAF 4.7 billion      1994
Measures to achieve a comprehensive integration of extrabudgetary operations
into the budgetary process                                                1994
Collection of tax arrears from the 20 largest companies                   1994
Monetary Policies
Increase in the cenitral bank discount rate from 11.5 % to 14 %    January 14, 1994
Increasing minimum deposit rates from 7.759% to 9 % and maximum lending
rates from 17.5% to 19%                                            January 14, 1994



ANNEX V
Page 2 of 2
Limiting broad money growth to 26 percent                                1994
Limiting bank credit to the govermnent (excl. IMF credit) to CFAF 1.4 billion  1994
2. STRUCTURAL POLICIES
Agricultural Policies
An increase in producer prices of cotton to CFAF 90/kg for remaining
1993/94 cotton and to CFAF 120/kg for 1994/95                      January 31, 1994
Reinstatement of the previous cotton profit-sharing system via the
Cotton Industry Support Fund (FSFC)                                January 31, 1994
Price Policies
If no agreement is rea-hb by the Electricity Company on a price increase,
then limit the increase in electricity and water, to 20% and zero,
respectively, for the next twelve months                           April 1, 1994
Reduced taxation of diesel oil and kerosene, thereby limiting price
increase for these commodities to 20% and 40% respectively, but
compensating with increased tax receipts from gasoline;            March 31, 1994
Selective interventions in other commodity markets, as outlined in detail
in the Government's Statement of Economic and Social Policies', to be slowly
eliminated over the course of the year. These would price increases for
rice, flour, soap, edible oil and sugar.                           January 31, 1994
elimination of al above such interventions by the end of 1994.     December 31, 1994
Industry and Private Sector
Development of new programs of support for the development of small and
medium-sized enterprises                                                 1994
Development of programs of action for the main public enterprises, notably
in power and sugar, to eliminate all operating losses and prepare, where
appropriate, for privatization                                           1994
Social Policies
Allocation in the 1994 budget of CFAF 7.6 billion to cover the subsidy costs
of the above measures on prices and address the short term adverse impacts
of the parity change                                               March 31, 1994
An assurance of increase in the budgets for basic education and primary health
to CFAF 1.2 billion and CFAF 1.5 billion respectively, including raising
employment by 280 teachers and 90 health workers                   March 31, 1994
Accelerated implementation of the ATETIP program, the rural roads
construction program and the Social Development Action Program, raising
expenditures to CFAF 12.5 billion                                        1994



