Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15665
IMfLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT
(CREDIT 2589-CD)
May 31, 1996
Country Operations I
Central Africa and Indian Ocean Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit            =           CFA FRANC (CFAF)
Average Exchange Rate
Fiscal Year                             US$1=CFAF
1994                                    555.20
1995                                    506.50
The CFA franc is pegged to the French Franc at the rate of FFI=CFAFI00
SYSTEM OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURE: METRIC
Metric                                              U.S. Equivalent
I meter (m)                    =         3.2 feet (ft)
I kilometer (km)               =         0.62 miles (mi)
1 square kilometer (km2)       =         0.39 square mile (sq mi)
I hectare (ha)                 =         2.47 acres (a)
I metric ton (t)               =         2,205 pounds (lb)
1 kilogram (kg)                =         2.2046 pounds (lb)
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ATETIP        :   Public Works and Employment Program
BEAC               Bank of Central African States
ERC           :   Economic Recovery Credit
ESAF               Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
IDA               International Development Association
IMIF              International Monetary Fund
SAC           :   Structural Adjustment Credit
UDEAC              Customs Unions of Central African States
UNDP               United Nations Development Program



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT
Credit 2589-CD
Table of Contents
Pafe
Evaluation Summary .......................................................i
PART I.   IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Background .......................................................1
I. EVALUATION  OF OBJECTIVES .......................................................2
Objectives of the Credit .......................................................2
Assessment of Objectives .......................................................3
II. ACHIEVEMENT  OF THE  OBJECTIVES ...................................................3
1. Improvement in the Economy's Competitiveness and Correction of
Macroeconomic Imbalances .......................................................3
2. Improvement of Producer Incentives .......................................................4
3. Poverty Alleviation and Human Resource Development ..........................5
III. MAJOR  FACTORS AFFECTING  THE PROJECT ...................................6
A. Factors Under the Control of the Authorities ..........................................6
B. Factors Beyond the Control of the Authorities ........................................7
IV. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME AND SUSTAINABILITY ...................... 7
V. PERFORMANCE OF THE BANK AND THE GOVERNMENT ................ 8
The Bank .......................................................8
The Government .......................................................8
VI. FUTURE OPERATIONS .......................................................9
VII. MAJOR  LESSONS AND  CONCLUSIONS ............................................... 10
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
officiaJ dutes. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed widiout World Bank authorization.                           |



PART H.    BORROWER CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR .............. 12
PART Im.   STATISTICAL INFORMATION ..................................... 13
Table 1:     Summary of Assessments .13
Table 2:   Related Bank Loans .14
Table 3:   Project Timetable .15
Table 4:   Credit Disbursements .16
Table 5:     Key Indicators for Project Implementation        17
Table 6:     Key Indicators for Project Operation .19
Table 7:     Studies Included in Project.                     19
Table 8a:    Project Costs                                   . 20
Table 8b:    Project Financing                                20
Table 9:     Economic Costs and Benefits         ..21
Table 10:    Status of Legal Covenants in Credit Agreement    . 22
Table 11:    Bank Resources - Staff Inputs                    23
Table 12:    Use of Bank Resources - Missions .24
APPENDIXES ...................................................      25
Actions Taken by the Government as Conditions of Negotiations



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT
CREDIT 2589-CD
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Economic Recovery Credit
(ERC) in the Republic of Chad, for which Credit 2589-CD in the amount of SDR 14.4
million was approved on March 29, 1994 and made effective on April 7, 1994. The credit
was released in its entirety upon effectiveness. It was fully disbursed on December 27,
1994.
The ICR was prepared by Mr. Lionel Laurant, Consultant (AF3CO) and reviewed by Mr.
Jer6me Chevallier, Country Operations Division Chief and Mr. Amadou B. Cisse,
Principal Country Officer. The Borrower provided its own assessment of the project
which is included as part 2 of the ICR.
The ICR is based on material in the project file. The Borrower contributed to preparation
of the ICR through extensive discussions during implementation of the program supported
by the credit.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT
CREDIT 2589-CD
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Background
1.    Chad is a vast, landlocked state in Central Africa spanning several climatic zones
and comprising a great number of diverse ethnic groups. It is, with about 6.5 million
inhabitants and a per capita GNP estimated at US$190 in 1994, one of the poorest
countries in the world.
2.    Notwithstanding gains in political stability since 1990, Chad's poor growth
performance has persisted, adversely impacting the country's per capita income. In the
early 1990s, economic expansion and government revenue were increasingly compromised
by the growing overvaluation of the CFA Franc, compounded by a 30 percent fall in the
world market price for cotton (which represents some 50-60 percent of total exports).
Chad's overall financial situation deteriorated, impacting the functioning of the
administration and the delivery of essential public services to the population.
3.    An Economic and Social Policy program was adopted by the Government in the
aftermath of the devaluation of the CFA franc (effective January 12, 1994). It was
supported by an Economic Recovery Credit of US$20 million, as well as a Stand-by
arrangement approved by the IMF in March 1994. The ERC was identified, appraised,
negotiated and brought to the Board in less than three months, following exceptional
procedures. To consolidate the early gains from the devaluation, it was made available for
disbursement in one tranche after effectiveness.
Credit Objectives
4.    The Economic Recovery Credit sought to support the post-devaluation reform
program as outlined in the Government's Statement of Economic and Social Policy. The
program included: (i) macroeconomic policies designed to reduce government absorption,
while restoring the government's payments position (with resumption of wage and salary
payments, but limitation of wage increases); (ii) structural policies, in particular those
designed to pass on the benefits of the devaluation to rural producers; and (iii) specific
actions to preserve social sector expenditures and to dampen price increases on essential
consumption items so as to protect vulnerable groups.



ii
Implementation Experience and Results
5.    Program  implementation was overall satisfactory, although insufficient initial
commitment to reforms and weaknesses in administration caused disappointing results in
the first half of 1994. On the economic side, production in the traded goods sector
responded very favorably, aided in part by an increase in world cotton prices and
satisfactory rainfall. Real GDP growth (5.2 percent) was higher and inflation (41 percent)
lower than projected. In contrast, fiscal performance was below expectations, essentially
due to unsatisfactory revenue collection, hindered by strikes of civil servants during the
first six months of the year; a reduction of the tax base following the initial slow down of
economic activity during the first half of 1994; and the constraints on international trade
caused by transit difficulties in northern Cameroon. Consequently, critical performance
criteria, notably those on revenue collection, were not met at end-June 1994.
6.    Beginning in June 1994, the authorities undertook decisive action to remedy the
shortcomings observed earlier.  In particular, they created a system  of high-level
committees to focus on the implementation and monitoring of the economic program.
They also introduced significant changes in the organization and staffing of key ministries
(with particular attention to revenue departments) and made a determined effort to
improve revenue performance by streamlining procedures, tightening controls, and
enforcing the collection of back taxes. Further, to signal their commitment to reform, and
to establish a credible record of policy implementation, the authorities chose to cancel the
Stand-by and replace it with an IMF staff-monitored program for the period October
1994-June 1995. IDA provided support to the implementation of the staff-monitored
program and the ERC through the restructuring of the Economic and Financial
Management Project (approved in FY88). The stronger commitment on the part of the
authorities and the IDA-financed technical assistance project helped achieve the desired
turnaround in performance under the revised program.
7.    A strong improvement in revenue collection reversed the deterioration in the
primary deficit (which reached 6 percent of GDP, instead of the 9 percent initially
expected on the basis of performance in the first half of 1994), allowed for the resumption
of critical government spending and permitted the partial settlement of payments arrears to
suppliers and civil servants. Five years of economic stagnation gave way to real GDP
growth of some 5.2 percent in 1994. Inflation has declined sharply since mid-1994, and
the external current account deficit (excluding official transfers) has been cut by almost 5
percentage points of GDP.
Sustainability of Results and Future Operations
8.    Sustainability  of program  results hinges on  the  pursuit of appropriate
macroeconomic policies and the implementation of a program of supportive reforms that
will stimulate private sector growth, maintain external competitiveness, and restore critical
public sector capacity. The ERC-supported program has re-established a real effective
exchange rate consistent with economic competitiveness, and laid the basis for the



iii
resumption of export-oriented growth of the economy. Price liberalization and reduced
govemment involvement in the economy have enhanced the attractiveness of the economy
for investment, while improved governance and security and lower domestic payments
arrears have contributed to restoring private sector confidence.
9.    Building upon these achievements, a medium-term  economic program  was
prepared for 1995-98, leading to the approval of an ESAF arrangement by the IMF in
September 1995. In February 1996, the Bank approved a Structural Adjustment Credit
(SAC) and a new capacity building for economic management project.
Lessons and Conclusions
10.   The Economic Recovery Credit aimed at restoring order to public finances, laying
the basis for growth, and alleviating poverty. Program results were overall satisfactory.
The ERC had a pragmatic design, and its specific components were well in line with the
country's development objectives for the period. Program implementation, however, was
delayed by insufficient initial commitment to reform and weaknesses in government
administration.
11.   To the joint credit of the Bank and the Chadian Government, however, actions
were taken in the second part of 1994 to remedy the shortcomnings observed earlier. With
the support from the restructured technical assistance project, the authorities strengthened
administrative capacity and program monitoring (in particular through the introduction of
adequate decision-making structures), leading to the desired turnaround in performance.
The ERC implementation record suggests that successful program implementation hinges
on the existence of: (i) strong commitment from the top; (ii) appropriate institutions and
mechanisms to monitor progress and implement reforms; and (iii) broad support from the
civil society.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT
CREDIT 2589-CD
PART I: PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
Background
1.    Economic development in Chad faces substantial challenges from both natural
conditions and difficult internal circumstances.  On the one hand, Chad is a vast,
landlocked state in Central Africa spanning several climatic zones and comprising a great
number of diverse ethnic groups. Access to its principal markets is arduous and costly,
and much of its territory is subject to the vagaries of rainfall and other natural phenomena.
The economy's relatively restricted structure of production and exports (concentrated in
cotton, livestock and gum arabic) has left the country vulnerable to international demand
cycles and swings in the terms of trade, which have on average deteriorated over much of
the past two decades. On the other hand, recurring civil wars (nourished by long-standing
cultural differences between the north, essentially constituted of nomadic herders, and the
south, made up mostly of settled cultivators) and an armed conflict with a neighboring
country have, for an extended period, diverted resources away from socio-economic
development. Reflecting these conditions, the Republic of Chad is, with about 6.5 million
inhabitants and a per capita GNP estimated at US$190 in 1994 (barely above its level at
independence in 1960), one of the poorest, least developed countries in the world. Chad
ranks 168th out of 173 countries on the UNDP's Human Development Index.
2.    Despite unfavorable conditions, Chad has a good growth potential. It is relatively
well endowed with agricultural and oil resources (likely to attract significant amounts of
private investment), and the economy is not burdened by the existence of regulations and
policies that often spawn vested interests inimical to development. The public sector is
small, the country is not heavily indebted, and the Chadian people have developed a
capacity for self reliance and community organization for the provision of public services.
The Chadian authorities, engaged in the democratization of the institutions, are resolved to
return the country to pluralistic rule. Decision making has been placed under the authority
of an interim Government, and the legislative power is exercised by an interim legislature,
the Higher Council of Transition. Presidential elections are scheduled for mid-1996.
3.   Notwithstanding gains in political stability since 1990, Chad's poor growth
performance has persisted, adversely impacting the country's per capita income -- real
GDP per capita in 1994 was 8 percent below the 1992 level. In the early 1990s, economic
expansion and government revenue were increasingly compromised by the growing
overvaluation of the CFA franc, compounded by a 30 percent fall in the world market
price for cotton (which represents some 50-60 percent of total exports). Chad's overall
financial situation deteriorated, impacting the functioning of the administration and the
delivery of essential public services to the population.



2
4.    An Economic and Social Policy program was adopted by the Government in the
aftermath of the devaluation of the CFA franc (effective January 12, 1994).  The
program's objectives were to stabilize public finance, reconstruct an efficient institutional
base and promote private sector-led growth. It included measures to achieve a lasting
improvement in competitiveness and growth, and was supported by an Economic
Recovery Credit of US$20 million, as well as a Stand-by arrangement approved by the
IMF in March 1994.
5.    The decision to submit the Economic Recovery Credit to the Executive Directors
was motivated by: (i) the necessity to support the post-devaluation reform program as
outlined in the Government's Statement of Economic and Social Policy; (ii) the need for a
rapid intervention to ensure that the price and incentive effects of the exchange rate action
would be accompanied by appropriate measures to achieve a lasting improvement in
competitiveness and growth; (iii) the opportunity to support the Government's
determination to break out of the vicious circle of disintegrating public administration and
declining private sector activity that had gripped the country in recent years; and (iv) the
opportunity to break with a period of several years during which the dialogue with Chad
had been constrained by domestic political and economic instability.
6.    The Economic Recovery Credit was identified, appraised, negotiated and brought
to the Board in less than three months, following exceptional procedures. Given the
necessity to consolidate the early gains from the devaluation, it was made available for
disbursement in one tranche after effectiveness.
I. EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
Objectives of the Credit
7.    The objective of the credit was to support the Government's post-devaluation
program, whose goals were to: (i) re-establish order in public finance through elimination
of payments arrears, resumption of regular salary payments and restoration of tax
collection systems; (ii) correct macroeconomic imbalances, notably on the fiscal accounts,
through improved revenue collection and reduced expenditures associated with military
demobilization and through monetary restraint; (iii) improve economic incentives for the
key agricultural sector, especially cotton and livestock; (iv) restore public investment and
an environment conducive to private investment, which, together with the agricultural
incentives, should re-start growth; and (v) accompany these adjustment measures with
expanded poverty alleviation and human resource development programs.
8.    Reflecting these objectives, the major measures under the ERC included: (i)
reduction of government absorption, while restoring the government's payments position
(with resumption of wage and salary payments, but limitation of wage increases) through
appropriate macroeconomic policies; (ii) transmission of the benefits of the devaluation to
rural producers through structural policies designed to alter the internal terms of trade in



3
favor of agriculture; and (iii) preservation of social sector expenditures and action to
dampen price increases on essential consumption items to protect vulnerable groups. As
conditions of negotiations, the Government took a number of actions (see Annex 1).
Assessment of the Objectives
9.    The scope of the ERC's objectives was commensurate with the extent of the
economic and financial crisis confronting the country. The deflationary process in the
recent years, triggered by adverse external shocks (deterioration in the external terms of
trade, appreciation of the real exchange rate) compounded by poor economic management
and reduced external assistance, had left Chad with legacies incompatible with sustainable
development: a deficit-ridden and inefficient public sector; a deteriorating physical and
human capital base and declining productivity; and deepening poverty. The ERC was also
well in line with the Country Assistance Strategy, and provided a consistent response to
the parity change of the CFA franc.
10.   The need to incorporate the risks of program failure, patent in view of Chad's poor
performance record prior to the devaluation, was reflected in the modest amount of the
operation. Within a much improved macroeconomic framework, the program entailed
substantial price and trade liberalization that would encourage private sector growth and
improve producer incentives. Price controls on key commodities were to be established to
limit the adverse impact of the parity change on the poorest segments of the population.
Further, reflecting the need to promote human resource development in Chad, budget
allocations for the social sectors (education and health) were to be increased in real terms.
H. ACHIEVEMENT OF THE OBJECTIVES
11.   Program implementation results were overall satisfactory. The authorities were
successful in meeting most of the requirements that were established under the ERC,
although with some delay, as insufficient initial commitment to reform, compounded by
weaknesses in administration, caused unsatisfactory performance in revenue collection and
regularity of payments (wage and external arrears) during the first half of 1994.
1. Improvement in the Economy's Competitiveness and Correction of
Macroeconomic Imbalances
12.   Macroeconomic objectives set out as targets under the Government's Statement of
Economic and Social Policy were as follows: (i) achieve real GDP growth of 1.5 percent
in 1994 (following an estimated decline of 3.7 percent in 1993), rising to 6-7 percent in
1995-96; (ii) limit inflation to 43 percent in 1994, falling back to around 6 percent the
following year; and (iii) contain the current account deficit (excluding grants) at 29.5
percent of GDP in 1994, falling to about 22 percent within 2 years. On the basis of
expected inflation rates, a real depreciation of about 40 percent would be achieved.



4
13.   The economy responded positively to the improvement in competitiveness that
followed the devaluation. Indeed, supported by an increase in world cotton prices and
satisfactory rainfalls, as well as a substantially higher investment rate in the economy (total
investment rose to 15.1 percent of GDP from 11 percent in 1993), real GDP growth
reached 5.2 percent in 1994 (against the 1.5 percent forecast), and a similar outcome is
expected for 1995. Credit to the economy was limited to a growth of 14.8 percent (well
below the target of 23 percent), dampening aggregate demand (including demand for
imports, as reflected in a lower current account deficit than targeted) and limiting the
inflationary impact of the devaluation. The inflation rate was indeed contained at 41
percent (a shade below the target of 43 percent), thus limiting the erosion in exchange rate
adjustment.
14.   Macroeconomic imbalances, notably on the fiscal accounts, were markedly
corrected through reduced expenditures (partly associated with the demobilization of
about 16,500 soldiers by the end of 1994) and improved revenue collection in the second
half of 1994 (the authorities notably strengthened the staffing of the Customs
Administration and of the Petroleum Tax collection system). The wage and salary bill was
contained at CFAF 25 billion as targeted. Due to delayed implementation of the fiscal
measures under the program, however, the primary deficit reached 6 percent of GDP,
instead of the 3.5 percent initially expected. Much improved revenue performance in the
second part of 1994 allowed for the resumption of critical government spending and the
partial settlement of payments arrears to domestic suppliers and civil servants.
15.   In recognition of progress made since mid-1994, Chad was granted by its Paris
Club creditors the rescheduling of its eligible stock of payments arrears and debt service
payments in February 1995. Despite a debt to GDP ratio of 93 percent of GDP in 1995,
Chad is not considered a heavily indebted country. Debt is on highly concessional terms
(maturity averages 40 years and interest rate 1 percent) and the debt-service ratio amounts
to 14 percent in 1995. However, owing to low revenue mobilization, the debt service
burden is equivalent to 44 percent of government revenues.
2. Improvement of Producer Incentives
16.   The reform program supported by the Economic Recovery Credit contributed to
the improvement of producer incentives in three particular respects:
(i) private initiative has been encouraged: supported by appropriate fiscal and trade
reforms (notably the removal of taxes on agricultural goods and livestock -on which
a 10 percent export tax, a 3 percent export turnover tax and a 1 percent "statistical"
tax had been imposed- and the elimination of export and import licensing), the parity
change has enhanced profit prospects for local producers (notably with regard to the
cotton and livestock sectors, which together make up over 70 percent of total
exports); further, new programs of support to small and medium-sized enterprises
(in particular for the development of export of animal-based products) have, along



5
with a new impetus given to the divestiture of public enterprises, stimulated
economic activity and private sector growth;
(ii) operating difficulties have been reduced: the liberalization of most prices and the
increase in the producer price for first grade cotton from CFAF 80 to CFAF 120 per
kilo for the 1994/95 season have enhanced producer incentives (as reflected in
increased cotton plantings), while reduced inflation in 1995 (estimated at 2.5
percent) has fostered the emergence of a sounder economic environment; more
effective customs operations have been established, and the program has brought
down the government's accumulation of payments arrears and absorption of
available credit, allowing to improve the liquidity of the private sector; and
(iii) a more supportive enabling environment has emerged: improved governance and
security have restored confidence and, combined with the devaluation of the CFA
franc, generated a propitious environment to economic activity and investment
(including foreign investors interested in Chad's oil reserves).
17.   Partly reflecting these changes, the performance of domestic production has been
strengthened considerably (with a swift expansion of gum arabic and livestock exports and
a marked increase in food and cotton production), and the devaluation has allowed for the
resumption of positive real growth (5.2 percent in 1994, following five years of economic
stagnation).
3. Poverty Alleviation and Human Resource Development
18.   The measures envisaged under the Economic Recovery Credit included protection
for the most vulnerable groups and increased allocations to the social sectors.  The
negative impact of the devaluation on the poorest segments of the population was limited
in three distinct respects:
(i) income growth: as pointed out above, the parity change itself contributed to the
improvement of the welfare of the rural population (90 percent of total population); cotton
and livestock export incentives were restored, export taxes on agricultural goods and
livestock were removed, and export licensing eliminated;
(ii) real income protection for the poor: restrictions were established on increases in the
price of key commodities (including cereals, rice, flour, oilseeds, soap, sugar, water, diesel
oil and kerosene, and basic drugs) during the transition period needed to reorganize
production and distribution channels. These interventions were abolished by the end of
1994.  Measures included subsidies, reduced taxes, release of food stocks, and
intervention on the cereals market (CFAF 7.6 billion was allocated in the 1994 budget to
cover the costs associated with these measures);
(iii) shift of resources towards human resource development: on the one hand, the budget
provision for basic health and education was increased in real terms, reaching CFAF 1,2



6
billion and CFAF 1,6 billion respectively, allowing for additional hiring (90 and 280
additional staff by end-1994) and increased expenditure on materials; on the other hand,
investment operations designed to create employment were developed: the labor-intensive
public works project (ATETIP) was accelerated, and supplementary financing was granted
for the transport program to finance rural roads, and for the social action program. The
total cost of these measures, which aimed at creating 13,000 jobs in 1994, reached CFAF
20,7 billion, about two thirds of which were financed by external sources.
19.   Despite their significant contribution to the improvement of the country's human
resource base, however, the measures undertaken could not possibly fully eliminate the
negative impact of the devaluation on the poorest segments of the population.
Notwithstanding the emergence of new opportunities to all social groups as a result of
revived growth and competitiveness, the devaluation and the ensuing adjustment process
have affected the various social groups differently and unevenly. Inflation has eroded real
incomes in the nontradeable sectors (notably that part of the primarily urban population
whose livelihood depends on spending by public sector employees), and the limited share
of the budget devoted to education, health and social affairs (22 percent) has remained
below that granted to defense and internal security (average of 30 percent during 1992-
94).
HI. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
A. Factors under the Control of the Authorities
20.   Program implementation in the first half of 1994 was seriously compromised by
insufficient conmmitment to reform and weaknesses in administration, reflecting a failure to
internalize the program and create an effective mechanism for forceful and timely
government action. Program implementation was consequently affected in three different
respects:
(i) revenues in June 1994 were only 7.4 percent of GDP as against 9.5 percent in the
program, hampered by delays in adopting the 1994 budget, a weak performance of
revenue assessment and collection departments (tax revenues for the first quarter
stood at two thirds of the benchmark established under the program), lengthy strikes
in the civil service (in January and April) and fraud;
(ii) due to weak collection of petroleum taxes and a delayed introduction of the
tumover and excise taxes on domestic production, compounded by a reduction in
external financial assistance, the objective for the elimination of all external arrears
was not met. The authorities were also unable to meet the requirements pertaining
to regularity of wage payments (55 percent of due salaries had been paid by the end
of September 1994);



7
(iii) owing to the integration of rebel forces (Southern forces in the Doba area) into
the army, as well as the Government's failure to obtain Parliament support for a
reduction of retirement age and maximum years of service, the Government
objective of reducing the army to 25,000 men by end-1994 was not met.
B. Factors Beyond the Control of the Authorities
21.   Program implementation was also affected by social instability and unfavorable
external developments:
(i) fiscal performance was hindered by a reduction of the tax base following the
initial slow down of economic activity during the first half of 1994, as well as the
constraints to international trade caused by transit difficulties in northern Cameroon.
Revenue mobilization was also hampered, shortly after inception of the program, by
strikes of civil servants calling for the resumption of salary payments and settlement
of salary arrears; similarly, activity in the formal sector was hampered by strikes
(notably banks and transporters) and a wait-and-see attitude in the face of uncertain
economic perspectives due in part to the absence of clear post-devaluation economic
policies;
(ii) poor rainfall in 1993 led to a food deficit which, combined with transit problems,
caused inflation to soar in the first half of 1994 (50 percent for the first six months of
program  implementation, well above the level initially envisaged).  Inflation,
however, was brought under control in the second half of the year;
(iii) finally, lower-than-expected external assistance contributed to the accumulation
of new external arrears.
IV. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME AND SUSTAINABILITY
22.   The ERC-supported program has re-established a real effective exchange rate
consistent with economic competitiveness and laid the basis for the resumption of export-
oriented growth of the economy by improving export incentives, notably in the two key
sectors of cotton and livestock. Supported by improved governance and security, price
liberalization and the reduction of government involvement in the economy have generated
a more propitious environment for private initiative and enhanced the attractiveness of the
economy for investment.
23.   Sustainability of results remains heavily dependent on the pursuit of appropriate
macroeconomic policies and the implementation of a program of supportive reforms that
will stimulate private sector growth, maintain external competitiveness, and restore critical
public sector capacity. Program sustainability also hinges on political stabilization and, to
a certain extent, on the evolution of Chad's external economic environment (essentially the
evolution of the highly volatile world market prices of cotton and the development of



8
economic ties with neighboring countries). Areas for future reform include: reforming the
civil service and rehabilitating public finances; improving expenditure management;
increasing resources allocated to priority sectors; improving the judicial and regulatory
environment, accelerating the divestiture process; restructuring the financial system; and
reforming the cotton sector.  Continued donor support is required to assist Chad
implement these reforms and reach over time a more viable fiscal situation.
V. PERFORMANCE OF THE BANK AND THE GOVERNMENT
The Bank
24.   Bank's performance in the design and monitoring of the Economic Recovery
Credit was overall satisfactory:
(i) Design: the Economic Recovery Credit had a pragmatic design, and its specific
components were well in line with the country's immediate needs for reform. The
Bank, however, did not fully appreciate the administration's capacity limitations in
the early stages of program implementation. It also underestimated the challenge
posed by program targets in terms of revenue collection and mobilization of external
assistance.
(ii) Monitoring: close monitoring by the Bank and the Fund, along with stronger
government commitment to reform as of mid-1994, contributed to the satisfactory
implementation of the program. In addition to three supervision missions, program
implementation was monitored in the context of preparatory missions for a Policy
Framework Paper. These missions, along with the restructured Economic and
Financial Management Project, were instrumental in focusing assistance on key
activities for the success of the program.
25.   The exceptional procedures under which the ERC was appraised, negotiated and
brought to the Board did not allow for program internalization. The authorities' initial lack
of coordination and understanding of the program resulted in delayed implementation of
the agreed measures.
The Government
26.   Government performance was overall satisfactory, although insufficient initial
commitment to reform and weaknesses in administration (including lack of appropriate
administrative structure, weaknesses in the definition and allocation of administrative
responsibilities, and lack of awareness of the content of the program) seriously thwarted
program implementation in the first half of 1994, reflecting an initial failure to sufficiently
internalize the program and create an effective mechanism for forceful and timely
government action. Consequently, critical performance targets, in particular the objectives
for revenue collection, were not met at end-June 1994.



9
27.   In the second part of the year, however, the Chadian authorities took remedial
actions to address the shortcomings observed earlier.  First, to improve program
ownership and remedy administrative weaknesses, the authorities created a system of
high-level committees to focus on the implementation and monitoring of the economic
program. The authorities also introduced significant changes in the organization and
staffing of key ministries (including the Ministry of Finance and its revenue departments),
and strengthened revenue performance by streamlining procedures, tightening controls,
and enforcing the collection of back taxes. Significant institutional changes included the
establishment of a committee placed under the authority of the Head of State to monitor
progress in program implementation.
28.   Further, to signal their commitment to reform, and to establish a credible record of
policy implementation, the authorities adopted a program monitored by the staff of the
IMF for the period October 1994-June 1995, which strove for the achievement of
macroeconomic stability and a widening and deepening of structural adjustment. IDA
provided support to the implementation of the staff-monitored program and the ERC
through the restructuring of the Economic and Financial Management Project. The
stronger commitment on the part of the authorities and the IDA-financed technical
assistance project helped achieve the desired turnaround in performance under the revised
program.
VI. FUTURE OPERATIONS
29.   The authorities intend to give clear and unmistakable signals to economic agents
and donors alike regarding their economic strategy for the future.  The Chadian
authorities' vision is to implement policy reforms that would kindle and sustain rapid
growth in the economy; ensure the equitable distribution of the benefits of growth; and
improve the provision of public services.
30.   Recognizing that the achievements brought about by the post-devaluation
measures provide a necessary base on which a deeper program could be built, a Policy
Framework Paper issued in August 1995 outlines the Government's objectives for the
medium-term and underlines the Government's commitment to a deeper range of reforms.
It expresses the authorities' determination to pursue macroeconomic stability (higher
growth, low inflation, reduction of public and private dissaving) and structural reform
(broadening and revitalization of the private sector, strengthening of government
administration). The Bank approved in February 1996 a Capacity Building for Economic
Management Project, as well as a Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC). The SAC's major
objectives are (i) to restore the Government's capacity to provide essential public goods
and services, and to improve its finances; (ii) to focus public expenditure on development
activities and poverty alleviation; and (iii) to create a favorable environment for private
sector growth.



10
VII. MAJOR LESSONS AND CONCLUSIONS
31.   The Economic Recovery Credit aimed at restoring order to public finances, laying
the basis for growth, and alleviating poverty. Program implementation results were
overall satisfactory. Most of the requirements established under the ERC were met, laying
the basis for deeper reforms:
(i) the Economic Recovery Credit had a pragmatic design and its specific components
were well in line with the country's development objectives. The Bank, however, did
not fully appreciate the administration's capacity limitations in the early stages of
program implementation, and underestimated the challenge posed by program targets
in terms of revenue collection and mobilization of external assistance. Despite close
monitoring by the Bank of program implementation, weaknesses in administration and
insufficient program understanding on the part of the authorities delayed
implementation of the agreed measures, causing a weak performance at inception of
the credit in terms of revenue collection and payments regularity;
(ii) the slippages in fiscal performance were compounded by adverse external factors,
mainly an initial reduction of the tax base, transit difficulties in northern Cameroon,
poor rainfall and lower-than-expected external assistance.  On the other hand,
economic performance was helped by favorable climatic conditions in 1994/95 and
higher world market cotton prices, contributing to the significant GDP growth that
was recorded in 1994 (5.2 percent, as against the 1.4 percent forecast).
32.   The assessment provided above suggests that successful program implementation
hinges closely on three elements:
(i) need for strong commitment from the top: early investment in building strong
commitment to reform is instrumental in strengthening the authorities' willingness to
overcome conflicting political interests and forestall weaknesses in administration (lack
of appropriate administrative structure, lack of institutional coordination and
organization, lack of awareness of the content of the program);
(ii) needfor appropriate institutions and mechanisms to monitor progress and implement
reforms; and
(iii) need to build consensus on reform by involving civil society.
33.   Chad's encouraging performance from mid-1994 was clearly linked to both the
authorities' strengthened resolve to take charge of program implementation and, with the
support of Bank technical assistance, the introduction of adequate decision-making
structures: creation of high-level committees (crucial in mobilizing support from the
private sector and trade unions), reorganization of key ministries, adoption of a staff-
monitored program. These permitted the reduction of opposition to the reforms and
contributed to broaden the support of socio-economic groups critical to program



11
implementation. Above all, they provided an active base for the implementation and
monitoring of the economic program, allowing for a clear improvement in revenue
collection and the resumption of critical government spending.



12
PART H: BORROWER CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR
The credit implemented in the context of the first structural adjustment program allowed
our enterprises to revitalize their economic and financial activities. Owing to the country's
needs at the time, this credit was disbursed prior to the expected closing date. The credit
allowed the Government to reduce its internal debt (domestic suppliers and workers),
which had a favorable effect on domestic output and Government revenue. The credit
also prepared economic agents to counteract the adverse impact caused by the monetary
adjustment of January 12, 1994.



PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION                                                                   13
Table 1
Summary of Assessments
(A) Achievement of Obiectives          Substantial         Partial         NegliRible     Not applicable
Macroeconomic Policies            |      X      |  ||
Sector Policies                          W       X  | 
Financial Objectives              |             |  |      XI|I]
Institutional Development         |         X   |  |I
Physical Objectives               |                                                  L IIIX 
Poverty Reduction                        X          |                                    I      I
Gender Issues                                                 ]         I            LIZ X I|
Other Social Objectives                                                                      X
Environmental Objectives             1 1 ]             I                 I           L      uX     ]
Public Sector Management                                  x           [   jjX  1   |
Private Sector Development                                x                       ] X |
Other (specify)                   |
(B) Proiect Sustainability               Likely           Unlikely         Uncertain
Highly
(C) Bank PerforTnance                  Satisfactorv     Satisfactorv       Deficient
Identification                    [                 [ i  X
Preparation Assistance                1             LIZ X         |   |
Appraisal                         |                                      IX
Supervision
Highly
(D) Borrower Perfornance               Satisfactory     Satisfactory       Deficient
Preparation                       |                                    [I|l
Implementation                           w                W                 W
Covenant Compliance                                       X
Operation (if applicable)                m                m                 m
Highly                                              Highly
(E) Assessment of Outcome              Satisfactory     Satisfactory     Unsatisfactory    Unsatisfactory
w                     w                 w X  IlEl                 I



14
Table 2
Related Bank Loans
Credit                                     Credit                                        Purpose                                       Year of         Status
Title                                   Number                                                                                       Approval
Preceding operations
1. Population and AIDS Control Project                                2692 CD    Advance the onsetoffertility decline by increasing the use                             95         ongoing
of modem methods of contraception, and slow the sprcad of
HIV infection by promoting behavioral change
2. Health and Safe Motherhood Project                                  2626 CD    Increase the access ofthe population to quality basic health,                          94         ongoing
nutritional, and Family Planning services
3. Supplement to the PADS Project                                    2156-1 CD   (a) Stimulate employment gencration by increasing access to training                    94         ongoing
facilities and productive activities for the poor and unemployed;
(b) improve the health and living conditions of vulnerable groups; and
(c) reinforce the Govemment's institutional capacity to design and
monitor programs to improve social conditions
4. Supplement to the Transport Sector 11 Project                     2520-1 CD   Develop the rural roads network to ease the access of rural production                  95         ongoing
to the centers of consumption
5. Public Works and Capacity Building Project                          2614 CD    (a) Build local capacity; (b) assist the Government in maintaining                     94         ongoing
infrastructure assets; (c) reduce unemployment by creating temporary
jobs in the public works and construction sector; and (d) improve
public procurement and contract managemnent practices



15
Table 3
Proiect Timetable
Date                  Date actual/
Steps in Project Cycle                Planned \2              latest estimate
Identification (Initiating Memorandum)    _    _            = _January 10-14, 1994
Preparation                                              1_        2 months
Appraisal                                Jan 19 to Feb 3, 1994     Jan 19 to Feb 3, 1994
Negotiations                              March9, 1994             March 9, 1994
Letter of Development Policy             March 7, 1994   __        March 7, 1994
Board                                    March 31, 1994            March 29, 1994
Signing                                  March 30, 1994            March 30, 1994
Effectiveness                            April 30, 1994            April 7, 1994
Project completion                        ____-
Credit closimg                           June 30, 1995             Decembe 27, 199
\2 As provided in the President's Report.



16
Table 4
Credit Disbursements
Estimated and Actual
FY
1995
(US$ millions, unless indicated otherwise)
Appraisal estimate                            20.0
Actual disbursement                           20.0
Actual as % of estimate                       100%
Date of final disbursement              27 December, 1994



17
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Estimated Date Actual Date
I. MACROECONOMIC POLICIES
Trade and Payments System
Realignment of the exchange rate, fixed at CFAF 100 for FF 1      January 12, 1994    January 12, 1994
Preparations for an accelerated implementation of the UDEAC trade  1994               1995
reforms, originally scheduled for 1995
Preparation of detailed schedule for the removal of all export taxes  1994            1995
Elimination of all external arrears                               1994                not completed
Elimination of all ad-hoc exemptions on external tariffs          1994                1995
Public Finances
Issuance of Budget incorporating targets of IMF Stand-by program  March 31, 1994      May, 1994
Limiting the increase in wages and salaries to 10 % in 1994: the wage  March 31, 1994  May, 1994
and salary bill would not exceed CFAF 25 billion in 1994
Keeping current with wage and salary payments                     January 31, 1994    May, 1994
Retaining 60 as the retirement age, generating 1000 retirees in 1994: no
additional hiring in 1994 beyond 280 teachers and 90 health workers
No wage increases in public enterprises before presentation of orderly  1994          1994
enterprise accounts, and a limit of a 10% increase thereafter
Integrating the operations of the Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement into   before March 31,   end-February
the Ministry of Finance                                           1994
Strengthening the staffing of the Customs Administration and of the  March 31, 1994   1994-95
Petroleum Tax collection system
Elimination of CFAF 10.4 billion of domestic suppliers' arrears, being  1994          1994
one third of the total outstanding
Increase revenues collected on the Petroleum Tax to CFAF 4.7 billion  1994           fell short of
target
Measures to achieve a comprehensive integration of extrabudgetary  1994               1995
operations into the budgetary process
Collection of tax arrears from the 20 largest companies           1994               ongoing
Monetary Policies
Increase in the central bank discount rate from 11.5% to 14%      January 14, 1994    January 14, 1994
Increasing minimum deposit rates from 7.75% to 9% and maximum     January 14, 1994    January 14, 1994
lending rates from 17.5% to 19%
Limiting broad money growth to 26 percent                         1994                1994
Limiting bank credit to the government (excl. IMF credit) to CFAF 1.4    1994         1994
billion



18
II. STRUCTURAL POLICIES
Agricultural Policies
An increase in producer prices of cotton to CFAF 90/kg for remaining  January 31, 1994    January 31, 1994
1993/94 season and to CFAF 120/kg for 1994/95
Reinstatement of the previous cotton profit-sharing system via the Cotton   January 31, 1994    January 31, 1994
Industry Support Fund (FSFC)
Price Policies
If no agreement is reached by the Electricity Company on a price  April 1, 1994    April 1, 1994
increase, then limit the increase in electricity and water to 20% and zero,
respectively, for the next twelve months
Reduced taxation of diesel oil and kerosene, thereby limiting price  March 31, 1994  March 31, 1994
increase for these commodities to 20% and 40% respectively, but
compensating with increased tax receipts from gasoline
Selective interventions in other commodity markets, as outlined in detail  January 31, 1994    January 31, 1994
in the Government's "Statement of Economic and Social Policies", to be
slowly eliminated over the course of the year.
Elimination of all above such interventions by the end of 1994  December 31, 1994  December 31,
1994
Industry and Private Sector
Development of new programs of support for the development of small    1994        ongoing
and medium-sized enterprises
Development of action programs for the main public enterprises, notably   1994     Program of
in power and sugar, to eliminate all operating losses and prepare, where           divestiture
appropriate., for privatization                                                    progressing well
Social Policies
Allocation in the 1994 budget of CFAF 7.6 billion to cover the subsidy  March 31, 1994  March 31, 1994
costs of the above measures on prices and address the short term adverse
impacts of the parity change
An assurance of increase in the budgets for basic education and primary    March 31, 1994  March 31, 1994
health to CFAF 1.2 billion and CFAF 1.5 billion respectively, including
raising employment by 280 teachers and 90 health workers
Accelerated implementation of the ATETIP program, the rural roads  1994            1994
construction program and the Social Development Action Program,
raising expcnditures to CFAF 12.5 billion



19
Table 6
Key Indicators for Project Operation
Not applicable
Table 7
Proiect Studies
Not applicable



20
Table 8a
Proiect Costs
Not applicable
Table 8b
Project Financing
Appraisal estimate      Actual/Latest estimate
Item                      (US$ mil)                  (USS mil)       l
1. IDA                  l l           20.0           L          20.0
2. Other                |              0.0                       0.0
TOTAL                20.0                       20.0



21
Table 9
Economic Costs and Benefits
COSTS ($ million)                          BENEFITS
20        Improvement in the economy's competitiveness and correction of
macroeconomic imbalances. Substantial price, fiscal and trade reforms
to enhance producer incentives and liberalize the economy. Poorest
segments of the population protected from the negative impact of the
devaluation through price controls, increased budget allocations for
health and education, and employment-creating operations.



22
Table 10
Status of Legal Covenants in Credit Aereement
Section  Covenant  Present          Fulfillment Date       Description of Covenant                                             Comments
Type      Status      Original       Actual
3.01          9          C       continuous    continuous  Borrower to submit project progress report periodically and
exchange views with the Bank on the basis of this report
3.02          3          C       continuous    continuous  Procurement guidelines
3.03 (a)      I          C       continuous    continuous  Maintain records and proper accounts of expenditures
under credit
3.03 (b,c)    I          C       continuous    continuous  Have records and accounts audited, furnish audit/other
information to IDA
Covenants types:                                                                                                       Present Status:
I= Accounts/audits                                          10= Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9   C  = Covenant complied with
2= Financial performance/revenue generation from beneficiaries    11 = Sector or cross-sector budgetary or other resource allocation    CD= Complied with after delay
3= Flow and utilization of project funds                    12= Sector or cross-sector policy/regulatory/institutional action  CP= Complied with partially
4= Counterpart funding                                      13= Other                                                  NC= Not complied with
5= Management aspects of the project or executing agency
6= Environmental covenants
7= Involuntary resettlement
8= Indigenous people
9= Monitoring, review and reporting



23
Table 11
Bank Resources - Staff Inputs
Stage of              Planned                Actual
Project Cycle           Weeks   US$ (OOOs)   Weeks   US$ (OOOs)
Preparation to
Appraisal                      _   ____          0.8        2.1
Appraisal                     1_          _      4.5        33.3
Negotiations through
Board Approval                                   3.7        9.9
Supervision              23.8        40.7       28.2        68.2
Completion                1 8         4 1        1.6        1.2
Total                                           48.8        114.7



24
Table 12
Use of Bank Resources: Missions
Stage of                         Month/    Number of   Days in               Specialized            Performance Rating
Project Cycle                        Year         Persons        Field           staff skills      Implementation   Development          Types of
.__________ _  _represented         status        objectives          Problems
Through Appraisal                               Jan/Feb-94          3            13                EC
Appraisal through Board Approval
Board Approval through Effectiveness
Supervision                                       Apr-94            3            15           EC, CONS                  3               2
May/June-94         1            9                 EC
Oct-94           3            32            EC, CONS                 2               2
Jul-94           1           12                 EC
Completion
Key to specialized staff skills
EC = Economist                              LEG = Legal                                   Key to Performance Rating         Key to Problems
IE = Infrastructure Engineer                CONS = Consultant                             I = IProblem Free                 AF= Availability of ftnds
FA = Financial Analyst                      S1TE = Senior Transport Engineer              2 = Moderate Problems             CLC = Compliance with legal covenants
CC = Computer Consultant                    MFA = Municipal Financial Analyst             3 = Major Problems                FP = Financial Performance
UP = Urban Planner                          UFS = Urban Financial Specialist              4 = Major Problems -              PMP = Project management performance
TRE = Traffic Engineer                      YP = Young Professional                          Corrective Action to be taken  PP = Procurement progress
TEC = Transport Economist                                                                                                   SP = Studies progress



25
APPENDIXES
ACTIONS TAKEN BY THE GOVERNMENT AS CONDITIONS OF
NEGOTIATIONS
(a) Realignment of the exchange rate, fixed at 100 CFAF for I FF effective January 12,
1994;
(b) Increase in producer prices of cotton by 50 percent for the 1994-95 crop season, and a
reinstatement of the previous cotton-sharing system;
(c) Allocation in the 1994 budget of CFAF 4.1 billion to address the short-term adverse
impact of the parity change;
(d) Guaranteed budgets for education and health to CFAF 1.2 billion and CFAF 1.6 billion
respectively, to raise employment in primary education by 280 and in health by 90, and to
cover minimum materials and supplies;
(e) Seeking to limit the increase in electricity and water prices, to 20 percent and zero,
respectively, for the next twelve months;
(f) Reduced taxation of diesel oil and kerosene, thereby limiting price increase for these
commodities to 20 percent and 40 percent respectively, but compensating with increased
tax receipts from gasoline;
(g) Selective interventions in other commodity markets, through a combination of price
controls, sale of stocks, and subsidies, as outlined in detail in the Government's
"Statement of Economic and Social Policies", to be gradually eliminated over the course
of the year. These would limit price increases for rice, flour, soap, edible oil, and sugar.
The Government is committed to eliminating all such interventions by the end of 1994;
(h) Limiting the increase in wages and salaries to 10 percent in 1994, restoring the rates of
1992, while committing to keeping current with wage and salary payments.  The
Government's wage and salary bill would not exceed CFAF 25 billion in 1994;
(i) Integrating the operations of the Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement into the Ministry
of Finance;
(j) Reinforcement of the Customs Office through training programs and the provision of
equipment and materials; and
(k) Increasing the central bank discount rate from 11.5 percent to 14 percent, with parallel
adjustments in minimum and maximum commercial bank deposit and lending rates.






BIRD 27577
6                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~20~                          24
T  C    H    A    D                                            o CITES ET VILLES
24                                                                                    3   CAPITALES DES PREFECTURES
0        100      200        300 KILOMETRES                                                               24
*    CAPITALE D'ETAT
ROUTES PRINCIPALES
\  " A -..9                           ---ROUTES SECONDAIRES
'                            N..                           - 'm' RIVIERES
Le, fornt,6res les c-uleurs.,  I2VIEE_
les d6omnaitans et tout    I                                   - $                        LIMITES DES PREFECTURES
autre informaoin contenues              Ao  ou
s.r cette corte n'impliquent                                                              FRONTIERES INTERNATIONALES
aucone prise deposition -            Bsrd   J                                             F
du Groope de lo Bonque    \                                                    N,
sur le stotut legal d'on erritoire,  .  V
ni oucone rat,ficat,on ou        \          .- /                                                /
acceptatoan de ces 1-nites.           .           ZoOar'
20,                              /          VQ
/    *1  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  fl~~~~~~~201
IOunionga-K6bir
N    I G        E  R       j                                 joTigui
i   Amn GalakkoAt aFaya-Largeou
/1 6' 
/.      ' - t'/IIriba
Aradao4  At7'  N          /'
g      q__,Nokou                                                     rBdtmo  GcradyA
0oRig-RigK\ $Moo       tt'                          4 A       i
.. -          j   \ I
A    SQTao                                                   Di-  Dedaa_J\ Tsrtrwr
0    -         l )< /                           L.*0'20-
6Bol    Ngouiri /'-0                     7-'                 1                         B~ irikat Saira
Mike.               /~~~~~~oe              H\djh -- 
w_ Lac              C ' Haar;   V                       7         SU DA N
/  Di~~aya   Maskaguet   \~~~tBkoro        *              ,A c         UAJA 
12 i Ta j<>*    , -     DJasENA         -                     %\Mo k go               bGoz Beida '
12'         duur .        'DJAMEA~W i\9  'J! 12,
/ /   i;   r  r f \                          * * ~~~44,  -,t /t  _,
Madogori                                  ~~~~~~~_~ itkine\Y 
>4O556flYO    Melfi AGo Aba   Sa   '                              5.
? I,           .          ; - a Sc, KyAr
-~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~'                         '1 /5 enmr>  b di o+ ;y \(r
/ . oBngor                   -               -     /
T.Garoa                  0                        M          Mar   .        AHarRze-- G  Haraze
"-~~'   ~ 2  -      Mongueigne/
PC,    L. .,j;3eDonnJS
9                                                                                4AF
V)  Beeinamor~    BebdI       D  a      a
2              Iu O'                                         20 o\L I BYA                         Z ARABIREP
Moissola   M             -.      ALGERIA                        GECEGYPT9
NIGERI
8             B~~~~aib               To8ssaga                         ,                           C4A  
CAMEROONdTCHADr
/  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NDjscsAk - SUDAN
..' CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC                                      NIGERIA/r
CENTRAL
(CAMER~ON(   AFRICAN REPU~BUIC
16                      20'      ---'-"~~~~~~~~~~~.  ~ ~ ~     ZAIRE ' '
DECEMBRE 1 995









qnTT    : NU dAJ
q99g-3 T        :  t'NT la,- d1
t)M T '-VW I



