CIRCULATING COPY                 ('-1
m BE RETURNED TO REPORTS DESK
Report No. 1137-MA
Appraisal of the North Kelantan                                                FILE COPY
Rural Development Project Malaysia
June 10, 1976
East Asia and Pacific Projects Department                                     RETURN   TO
Irrigation and Area Development Division
REPORTS DiS
WITHIN
ONE WEI}K
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY                                                                                J
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their off i(ial duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disc losed witlhout World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00           =  M$2.57
M$1.00            =  US$0.39
M$1 million       =  US$389,000
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES - METRIC SYSTEM
1 millimeter (mm)              =  0.039 inches
1 meter (m)                    =  39.37 inches
1 kilometer (km)               =  0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (km )       =  0.386 square miles
1 hectare (ha)                 =  2.47 acres
1 cubic meter (m )             =  35.31 cubic feet
1 liter (1)                    =  0.264 gallons (USA)
1 liter/second (1/sec)         =  0.035 cubic feet per second
1 kilogram (kg)                =  2.2 pounds
1 metric ton (ton)             =  2,205 pounds
ABBREVIATIONS
AA     =  Agricultural Assistant
BPM    =  Bank Pertanian Malaysia
CCL    =  Critical Consumption Level
DID    =  Drainage and Irrigation Department
DOA    =  Department of Agriculture
FDC    =  Farmers Development Center
FO     =  Farmers Organization
FOA    =  Farmers Organization Authority
GRP    =  Glass-Reinforced Polyester
JAA    =  Junior Agricultural Assistant
KADA   =  Kemubu Agricultural Development Authority
MOA    =  Ministry of Agriculture
MARDI  =  Malaysian Agriculture Research and Development Institute
PWD    =  Public Works Department
RISDA  =  Rubber Industry Smallholders' Development Authority
SAU    =  Small Agricultural Units
MALAYSIA FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MALAYSIA
APPRAISAL OF THE NORTH KELANTAN RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS              ................... i-iii
I. INTRODUCTION                             .....1
II. BACKGROUND                      1. .
General  1..
The Agricultural Sector .                     .                   2
The State of Kelantan. ....                                       2
III. TTHE NORTH KELANTAN REGION.                                                 3
Climate ... .                                                     3
Soils .......                                                     4
Farm  Population, Farm Size, and Land Tenure.                     4
Agricultural Production.                                          5
Agricultural Support Services.                                    6
Irrigation Facilities.                                            8
Transport Facilities.                                             9
State Land Development Schemes .10
Project Formulation .10
IV. THE PROJECT                                . . .   11
Project Components  ...........................   12
Status of Design ............................   15
Implementation Schedule               ...16
Cost Estimates                  . ........... 16
Financing    ...17
Procurement                   .....18
Disbursements ............                      ................  18
Accounts and Audits                 ...19
Environmental Effects               ...19
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT                    . . .19
Project Coordination            ...........                       19
Agency Responsibilities .                  .                     21
Agricultural Manpower Availability   ...                         23
Cost Recovery                ...23
VI.    PRODUCTION, MARKETING, PRICES, AND FARM INCOME  ...                     24
Production    ...25
Marketing and Prices                . ..25
Farm Incomes. . . . 26
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by focipihnts only in the performance
of theif offcial duties. Its contentb may rot otherwise be disclosed without World bank authorization.^



-2-
Page No.
VII.   BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION      ............................   27
VIII.   RECOMMENDATIONS .......................................   29
ANNEXES
1.  Agricultural Production in Kelantan
2.   Lemal Irrigation Component - Water Supply, Demand, and Quality
3.  Lemal Irrigation Component - Project Works
4.   Small-Scale Irrigation Component
5.   Rural Road Component
6.   Agricultural Extension Component
7.   Farmers Development Center Component
8.   Cost Summary
9.   Expenditure, Disbursement and Implementation Schedules
10. Allocation of the Proceeds of the Loan
11. Lemal Irrigation Component - Economic Analysis
12. Economic Analysis of Alternative Tertiary Canal Systems
13. Lemal Irrigation Component - Incomes, Taxes, and Cost Recovery
14. Rural Road Component - Economic Analysis
15. Small-Scale Irrigation Component - Economic Analysis
16. Studies
MAPS
Project Components                                  Map 12003
Lemal Irrigation Area                                Map 12004



MALAYSIA
APPRAISAL OF THE NORTH KELANTAN RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        The Government of Malaysia has requested Bank assistance in financ-
ing the North Kelantan Rural Development Project. Several studies have shown
that while large investments in basic infrastructure, particularly highways
and large-scale land settlement, are necessary to open up and begin develop-
ment in South Kelantan, the North Kelantan Region would require agricultural
intensification aimed at achieving higher yields, to enable incomes to rise
while long-run land settlement and industrialization programs could be for-
mulated. Major constraints on agricultural productivity in North Kelantan
are: inadequate extension services; supply of agriculture inputs and credit;
storage facilities; basic road access to agriculture areas; and inadequate
irrigation facilities. The proposed project is designed to overcome these
constraints in an integrated manner.
ii.       The largest project component involves the construction of flood
control dikes, major drainage works, and access roads to serve 30,000 gross ha
in and around the existing Lemal irrigation area, and tertiary and quaternary
distribution and drainage systems to serve 12,000 net' ha of padi within the
Lemal area. Other infrastructure components involve the construction of a
number of small irrigation systems to serve about 1,300 ha of padi outside the
large irrigation areas, and construction of about 190 km of rural roads of
various standards throughout the North Kelantan region. In addition to
infrastructure, the project has two agricultural components: provision of
facilities, equipment, agricultural credit and staff for a network of 13
existing Farmers Development Centers, and construction of 12 new Centers, to
serve the farm input, crop marketing, and credit needs of the region's farmers;
and an agricultural extension component, which would include the staff and
equipment necessary to provide frequent, regular, and effective extension
service to the majority of the region's farmers. Two studies are included in
the project, one of the feasibility of rehabilitating a number of State land
development schemes, and a second study to confirm the long-term properties
of glassreinforced polyester (GRP) flumes, which would involve an accelerated
testing program. Subject to review by the Bank of the results of the testing
program, GRP flumes would be installed in Lemal as the tertiary distribution
system.
iii.      The project is in line with several basic Government objectives,
including improving the productivity and incomes of small farmers; reducing
urban-rural, racial (Malay-non-Malay), and regional (East Coast - West Coast)
income disparities; and reducing the national dependence on imported food
grains. The East Coast State of Kelantan is the poorest in Malaysia, with a



- ii -
per capita income 46% of the national average. The Malay padi farmers of
the heavily populated flood plain in the North Kelantan region are the most
impoverished group in the State, despite the benefits of several major
irrigation systems, including the Bank-financed Kemubu Project (Loan 500-MA).
The Lemal irrigation component of the proposed project would provide
16,000 farm families with the degree of water control necessary to expand
cropped areas, particularly in the dry season, and to raise padi yields in
both seasons.  The small-scale irrigation systems would ensure good wet
season crops to small padi areas now dependent on rainfall, and provide
for some double-cropping in addition. Several types of rural roads would
be constructed under the project, including an asphalt paved link serving
a high volume of existing international and domestic through-traffic,
high-standard laterite roads providing improved access to established
intensively-cropped agricultural areas, and lower standard roads which
would open up sparsely settled areas. The agricultural extension and
Farmers Development Center components would complement each other in an
integrated effort to teach simple but effective cultural practices necessary
to increase yields of padi, groundnuts, and other crops to 100,000 farm fami-
lies; to supply the inputs, services, and credit required to improve yields;
and to collect, store, and market the produce efficiently.
iv.       Total project cost is estimated at US$48 million (M$123 million),
of which the foreign exchange component would be US$21 million, or 44% of the
total cost. The proposed Bank loan of US$21 million would finance the
foreign exchange component. The Lemal irrigation component would be divided
into three packages, one each for flood protection dikes (US$1.6 million),
major drainage works (US$0.8 million), and access roads (US$1.6 million),
which would be carried out under contracts awarded after competitive bidding
advertised locally in accordance with government procedures satisfactory to
the Bank. Subject to review of the results of the accelerated testing pro-
gram, the GRP flume tertiary system (US$4.0 million) would be installed under
a central national contract awarded in August 1975 after the same locally
advertised competitive bidding procedures. The Farmers Development Centers
and facilities, as well as the offices, facilities, and quarters included
in the agricultural extension component (US$3.0 million) would also be sub-
ject to local competitive bidding. Local tender is justified in all these
cases, as the works are dispersed and labor-intensive, and the contracts
relatively small. The rural road component would be divided into two con-
tract packages (of between US$2 and US$4 million) for international competi-
tive bidding in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines. Construction of
quaternary canals and on-farm drains (US$0.8 million) and small-scale
irrigation systems (US$1.7 million) would require close adjustment to crop-
ping seasons and prior negotiation with farmers, and would be constructed on
force account. All vehicles and equipment (US$2.8 million) would be tendered
internationally, with the exception of small off-the-shelf items costing
less than US$10,000 each and limited to a total of US$400,000.



- iii -
v.        The project would be implemented over a period of five years.  With
the exception of the Public Works Department, which would implement the rural
roads component, all Federal agencies involved in the project are under the
jurisdiction of the Ministry of Agricultural and Rural Development (MOA).
The Drainage and Irrigation Department would be responsible for the Lemal
and small-scale irrigation components, the Department of Agriculture for
agricultural extension, and the Farmers Organization Authority for the Far-
mers Development Centers component. A Project Manager would be appointed
in MOA to coordinate the activities of all Federal agencies, and their State-
level counterparts, involved in project implementation. The Project Manager
would be guided on policy matters, and assisted in coordinating Federal and
State level agencies, by a Steering Committee chaired by the Secretary
General of MOA and the State Secretary of Kelantan.
vi.       The Lemal irrigation component would permit 16,000 farm families
to produce an increment of 37,000 tons of padi by 1985, increasing farm
family incomes by about 40%. The small-scale schemes would result in in-
cremental padi output of about 2,500 tons and increases in income for 1,500
farm families. The rural road component would provide improved access to
about 50,000 farm families, while the agricultural extension and Farmers
Development Center components would bring modern agricultural techniques,
inputs, credit, storage facilities, and marketing services to over 100,000
smallholder families throughout the North Kelantan region. The project
would provide substantial proportional increases in income to a large
number of extremely poor people throughout the region, giving Kelantan a
sufficient period of time to plan and initiate long-term land settlement
and industrialization strategies to alleviate poverty.
vii.      The Lemal irrigation component would provide an economic rate
of return of 42% on an investment of about US$800 per padi farming family.
Individual small-scale irrigation schemes would provide returns of between
12% and 22%, depending on local natural features. The rate of return for
the asphalt paved road link would be 41%, while the weighted average of
the rates of return for the various lower standard access roads is expected
to be 30%. While the benefits of the agricultural components are more
difficult to quantify, they are expected to result in an independent increase
in production of at least 18,000 tons of padi per annum on a State-wide basis,
as well as ensuring the economic viability of the infrastructure components.
The composite rate of return of all project components is 27%.
viii.     Subject to appropriate assurances, the proposed project is suitable
for a Bank loan of US$21 million, with a 23-year maturity and a grace period
of five years. The borrower would be the Federation of Malaysia.






MALAYSIA
APPRAISAL OF THE NORTH KELANTAN RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I.   INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of MSalaysia has requested Bank assistance in financ-
ing the North Kelantan Rural Development Project. The objective of the proj-
ect is to raise agricultural productivity and farm incomes in the poorest
region of Peninsular Malaysia, a goal which is in close agreement with the
income distribution and the regional and rural development objectives of the
Government. The project involves the construction of major irrigation, flood
control, and drainage facilities as well as a number of separate small-scale
irrigation systems and rural roads. In addition to infrastructure, the
project has two agricultural components: provision of facilities, equipment,
working capital, and staff for a network of Farmers Development Centers to
serve the farm input, crop marketing, and credit needs of the region's far-
mers; and an agricultural extension component which would include the staff
and equipment necessary to provide frequent, regular, and effective extension
service to the majority of the region's farmers. Two studies are also included
in the project, one of the feasibility of rehabilitating a number of State
land development schemes, and a second study of the long-term properties of
glass-reinforced polyester flumes, which would involve an accelerated testing
program.
1.02      The project was identified by the Kelantan State Planning Unit
with the assistance of Messrs. D.G. Reese and A.S. Cheema of the Bangkok
Regional Mission. The project was prepared by several Federal agencies with
the assistance of a Bank preparation mission which visited Malaysia in June
1975. This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which
visited Malaysia in November 1975 composed of Mr. J. Goldberg and Miss I.
Girardot (Bank), and Messrs. P. Judd, G. Thorsky, W.H. Cooke, and J. Dublin
(consultants).
II. BACKGROUND
General
2
2.01      Malaysia covers an area of 333,000 km , of which 60% is in Sabah
and Sarawak. Nearly 85% of the population, estimated at 12 million in 1974,
lives in the 11 States of Peninsular Malaysia. The ethnic composition of
the population is approximately 47% Malay, 34% Chinese, and 9% Indian, with
the remainder chiefly consisting of groups indigenous to Sabah and Sarawak
and a small Eurasian community.
2.02      With a per capita income of US$660 in 1974, Malaysia is one of
the most prosperous developing countries in Asia. The economy has maintained
fairly high rates of growth, averaging 6% per annum during the last decade.



This trend reached a peak of 17% growth in 1973, largely as a result of in-
ternational commodity price movements, but by 1975 real GNP growth had de-
clined to less than 1%, again as a result of international price developments.
The balance of payments were still in surplus, however, and Malaysia's ex-
ternal reserves (US$1.5 billion in September, 1975) were equal to about 5
months of net imports at present levels.
2.03      In addition to Malaysia's traditional strategy of export-led growth,
policies and programs to reduce the income differentials between ethnic groups,
collectively known as the New Economic Policy, have recently assumed import-
ance.  This topic was covered in detail by a recent FAO/IBRD mission to
Malaysia (Problems of Rural Poverty in Malaysia).  Recent economic develop-
ments are covered in the accompanying President's Report on this project.
The Agricultural Sector
2.04      Malaysia's agricultural sector is largely oriented to world ex-
port markets, and occupies a predominant position in international trade
in natural rubber, palm oil, hardwoods and pepper. With most of the culti-
vated land under rubber (61%) and oil palm (10%), rice production is largely
confined to irrigated areas situated in coastal plains, among which are the
Muda (Loan 434-MA) and Kemubu (Loan 500-MA) Project areas, accounting for
about 37% and 4% respectively of national rice production. Despite the
fact that 58% of Peninsular Malaysia's padi land is now double-cropped, over
10% of the Peninsula's rice requirements, and over 15% of national require-
ments, must be imported. Further intensification of irrigation facilities
is thus seen by the Government of Malaysia (GOM) as a vital step toward
achieving two important goals -- reducing dependence on rice imports and
alleviating the poverty of padi farmers, the majority of whom subsist on
incomes below the national poverty line.
The State of Kelantan
2.05      The State of Kelantan is situated in the north-east sector of
Peninsular Malaysia, bounded by Thailand to the north-west, the South China
Sea to the north-east, and the States of Perak, Pahang, and Trengganu to the
west, south, and e2st, respectively (Map 12003). Kelantan covers an area
of about 15,000 km , of which about 80% is still under forest. The topogra-
phy is dominated by mountain ranges along the western and eastern boundaries
of the State, which roughly delineate the catchment area of the Kelantan
River, the major river of the State. The only large, relatively flat areas
well-suited for field crops occur in the northern part of the State, and
comprise the riverine plains of the Kelantan and Golok Rivers, the latter
stream serving as the international border with Thailand between the foot-
hills and the sea.
2.06      The population of Kelantan is about 770,000, and is largely rural
and overwhelmingly Malay, unlike the West Coast States. The Chinese minority
is concentrated in towns, particularly in Kota Bharu, the State capital. The
population is very unevenly distributed, with 91% of the people living in



the seven northern districts of the State which comprise but 21% (2,940 km2)
of the total area. The heavily forested and mountainous eighth district,
Ulu Kelantan, is largely unpopulated, aside from a number of State land
development schemes based on rubber production, small towns along the major
rivers, and isolated subsistence communities.
2.07      Kelantan is the least developed Malaysian State in terms of per
capita income 1/, in part because of its history of political and geographic
isolation from the rest of Peninsular Malaysia. The State has recently been
politically integrated in the Federal system with the formation of the Na-
tional Front Government, while its geographic integration will be accelerated
with the completion of the East-West Highway now under construction. Geo-
graphic integration alone can stimulate only a limited amount of development,
particularly in the northern districts o° the State, which are characterized
by a population density exceeding 200/km , average landholdings of 2 ha or
less, 70% of the population living below the critical consumption level of
income, and perennial net emigration. Despite these problems, considerable
scope exists for improving productivity and incomes in North Kelantan through
intensified agricultural services and investment in irrigation and other
public infrastructure.
III. THE NORTH KELANTAN REGION
3.01      The North Kelantan region, which consists of the Districts of Kota
Bharu, Bachok, Pasir Puteh, Tumpat, Pasir Mas, Machang, and Tanah Merah, is
a densely populated region largely dependent on smallholder farming. Although
the region is served by public services and infrastructure on a much more
intensive level than Ulu Kelantan, average incomes are lower in North Kelan-
tan than in the sparsely populated Ulu Kelantan region, largely due to popu-
lation pressure on available land. Within the North Kelantan region lies
the Kemubu Agricultural Development Authority (KADA), whose boundaries in-
clude portions of Kota Bharu, Bachok, and Pasir Puteh Districts on the right
bank of the Kelantan River, known collectively as the Kemubu Irrigation Scheme 2/,
and portions of Pasir Mas and Tumpat Districts on the left bank, constituting
the Lemal irrigation component area in the present project.
Climate
3.02      The climate of North Kelantan is tropical and is dominated by the
northeast monsoon, which brings about 50% of the total annual rainfall of
1/   The State GDP per capita was estimated at US$137 in 1970, which was 46%
of the national average, and 78% of the figure for Trengganu, the next
poorest State.
2/   Constructed under the Kemubu Irrigation Project (Loan 500-MA).



- 4 -
3,000 mm in the November-January period. There is no true dry season, with
an average rainfall of 80 mm in April, the driest month. Considerable flood-
ing occurs throughout the region during the northeast monsoon, due to intense
localized precipitation 1/ and to overtopping of the banks of the Kelantan
and Golok Rivers. The northeast monsoon may start late or finish prema-
turely. In the former case, planting of the main season rice crop is delayed
and is vulnerable to damage from wet season floods. An early finish to the
season exposes the rice crop to moisture stess during grain development. Rain-
fall in the period February-October is too variable to sustain an off-season
rice crop without supplementary irrigation. Upland crops, such as tobacco
and groundnuts, are grown in the drier months without irrigation, but yield
reductions occur quite frequently due to drought.
3.03      There are only slight variations in daylength and temperature
regime throughout the year.  Daily temperatures range from about 21 0C to 310C
and relative humidity is high throughout the year. Given adequate water con-
trol and crop scheduling most of the agricultural area is well suited to year
round crop production.
Soils
3.04      The soils of Kelantan fall generally into four main categories.
Lithosols cover 76% of the State's area, mainly in the mountainous forested
areas of Ulu Kelantan, and offer little scope for agricultural development.
Sedentary soils constitute about 12% of the total area, including substan-
tial areas of North Kelantan, and are sometimes suitable for perennial tree
crops such as rubber and oil palm where slopes are moderate. The remaining
land area of North Kelantan can be divided into river alluvia, covering ter-
race levees and flood plains, and marine deposits occurring along the coast.
The levee soils are occupied chiefly by villages, fruit trees and annual
crops in house compounds, and tobacco and groundnuts. The basin soils form
the main rice growing areas of Kelantan. The marine deposits along the
coast include saline nipah palm swamps and sandy ridges which, aside from
coconut cultivation and some livestock raising, have limited agricultural
potential.
Farm Population, Farm Size, and Land Tenure
3.05      Of approximately 120,000 farm families in Kelantan, about 108,000
are located in North Kelantan, 38,000 living within the bounaries of KADA.
Average farm size on the river plains varies from 0.8 to 1.2 ha with about
60% of the farm under rice, 20% under rubber, and 20% for houselots, fruit
trees, and other field crops. In upland areas average farm size is about
1.8 ha with greater emphasis on rubber, tobacco, and groundnuts, rice being
grown on a subsistence basis in small basins and stream valleys.
1/   Rainfall of 162 mm in one hour has been recorded in Kota Bharu.



-5-
3.06      The Lemal irrigation area is similar in many respects to the larger
Kemubu area, except that with 16,000 farm families on a gross area of 20,000
ha population density is greater and average farm size smaller. Average farm
size in Lemal is 1.1 ha, with about 0.7 ha of rice dispersed over 3 parcels
of land. Padi land is rather evenly distributed in the area, with only 3% of
the farmers cultivating over 2 ha of padi. About 32% of farmers own all the
land they operate, and a further 50% own some land but rent additional area.
Thus about 60% of the total padi area is owner-operated and 40% is rented,
with owner-operators generally cultivating slightly larger holdings than ten-
ants. The predominant padi land rental arrangement is a share-cropping sys-
tem in which the tenant provides all labor and inputs and shares the crop on
a 50:50 basis with the landlord.
Agricultural Production
3.07      The major crops of Kelantan are rubber (102,000 ha), padi (63,000
ha), coconuts (17,000 ha), tobacco (7,000 ha), and groundnut (3,500 ha). 1/
Except for rubber, cropping activity is heavily concentrated in the North
Kelantan region. Rubber and padi are the basic sources of income and employ-
ment, with tobacco and groundnut providing vital supplementary cash incomes
during the dry season. Livestock, particularly cattle, are raised for con-
sumption and sale throughout North Kelantan, and coastal fishing is another
important source of protein and cash in Tumpat, Kota Bharu, and Bachok Dis-
tricts. Despite considerable diversification of agricultural activities, the
small size of holdings and comparatively low agricultural yields and incomes
force a sizeable proportion of North Kelantan farmers to seek seasonal off-
farm employment as manual laborers or trishaw operators in the towns, or as
migratory agricultural laborers in other States.
3.08      In the 1974-75 wet season, about 147,000 tons of padi were pro-
duced on 70,000 harvested ha in North Kelantan, representing a substantial
increase over 1973-74 because of less severe flood conditions, but below
totals achieved in earlier years. The dry season harvest, mainly confined
to the KADA area, reached 67,000 tons on 27,000 ha in 1975, a record crop
largely due to the continuing adoption of double-cropping in Kemubu and im-
proved pumping operation in Lemal. About 25% of the region's padi output is
now exported, mainly to the rice-deficit areas of Trengganu. The key sources
of variation in annual production are the yield and harvested area of main
season padi, which are strongly affected by annual flooding in the lowlands.
3.09      Tobacco and groundnuts are planted on the lighter, well-drained
soils in the region, and are particularly important as sources of cash in-
come for farmers outside irrigation areas whose main season padi crop pro-
vides little more than their bare subsistence requirements. The production
of both crops is geared to local and Singapore markets, and growth of demand
by local cigarette manufacturers and confection groundnut processors is ex-
pected to be modest. Nevertheless, improvements in quality of output could
1/   Estimates for 1973-74.



- 6 -
produce immediate benefits to growers in terms of farmgate prices received,
as well as longer term benefits through access to new local and overseas
markets.
3.10      While rubber is the primary source of farm income in Kelantan, it
is secondary to padi in the North Kelantan region. Smallholder yields are
low, due to the high proportion of overaged trees, inefficient tapping and
cultivation practices, and adverse climatic conditions, particularly the
frequent occurrence of heavy rainfall and flooding.
Agricultural Support Services
3.11      Agricultural research is the responsibility of the Malaysian Agri-
cultural Research and Development Institute (MARDI), which has operated in
Kelantan since 1971. Although a small research station was opened in late
1975, MARDI operations are still constrained by lack of land for experimental
purposes.  Nevertheless, local staff have performed valuable work on leased
land and in farmers' fields, including padi variety trials and a small breed-
ing program, padi fertilizer response and agronomic studies, and some develop-
ment work on alternative intercrops with coconut on the sandy Bris soils
characteristic of the coastal areas. Unfortunately, until recently the re-
lationship between applied research and field extension work has been weak
in Kelantan, with adverse effect on both farmers' productivity and the rele-
vance of the applied research undertaken. The recent Agricultural Research
and Extension Project (Loan 1115-MA) will improve liaison between these
vital activities at the policy making level, while the State Government has
recently instituted a State Agricultural Research Development and Extension
Committee to coordinate the research and extension efforts of MARDI, KADA,
and the State and Federal Departments of Agriculture in Kelantan.
3.12      Several agencies are involved in extension, with responsibilities
generally allocated on a crop basis. The Rubber Industry Smallholders' De-
velopment Authority (RISDA) supervises rubber replanting and rehabilitation
programs and associated extension services. Responsibility for tobacco has
recently shifted from the private Malaysian Tobacco Company, which ran a
highly successful extension program through sub-contractors' curing barn
centers, to the National Tobacco Board. The State Department of Agriculture
(SDOA) is responsible for providing extension for padi and other field crops,
horticultural crops, and coconuts. This service is organized on a district
basis, with eight district Agricultural Assistants (AA's) supervising a total
of 60 Junior Agricultural Assistants (JAA's) who serve as the points of
contact with the nearly 120,000 farm families in the State. The effective-
ness of this service is severely constrained by lack of manpower, as the
inadequate 1:2,000 ratio of field agents to farm families is further eroded
by the practice of using the JAA's to administer Federal and State crop and
input subsidy schemes and licensing and regulation programs.  In addition
to an increase in manpower, the State extension service requires an experi-
enced senior officer to direct extension activities on a full-time basis,
in-service training facilities, closer liaison with research staff, and
transport and other equipment to extend the range and effectiveness of the
field staff.



- 7 -
3.13      The SDOA extension effort is supported by Federal Agricultural De-
partment technical units in the fields of seed production, demonstration
plots, plant protection, soil fertility, mechanization, and farmer training,
all located at the Lundang Agricultural Station. These units require addi-
tional equipment and facilities to support an expanded extension program.
3.14      Farmers in Kelantan belong to a wide variety of organizations which
deal with input and credit supply and processing and marketing of produce.
These organizations fall into two broad categories, private cooperatives and
Government-sponsored Farmers' Organizations 1/ (FO's). The cooperatives are
typically small and single-purpose, concentrating on credit supply or the
operation of small rice mills. The FO's come under the formal jurisdiction
of the Farmers' Organization Authority (FOA), a Federal body established in
1973 to refurbish the Farmers Associations which had been managed by the
Federal Department of Agriculture, to amalgamate existing overlapping coopera-
tives and Farmers Associations into unified organizations serving identifi-
able areas, and to expand the physical network of Farmers' Development Cen-
ters (FDC's) to serve these new organizations. FDC's generally have office,
storage, and meeting room facilities, managerial staff, and some equipment.
Through the FDC's, FO's supply their members with equipment rental, input
supply, produce marketing, and credit services, although performance to date
has been limited by manpower, working capital, and general budgetary con-
straints. The FO organizational structure in Kelantan is slightly compli-
cated by the regional authority powers of KADA, which has been granted
operational control of the nine FDC's within the KADA area in order to ensure
close integration of agricultural support services and irrigation development.
The KADA FDC's are thus staffed and managed by KADA personnel. FOA is res-
ponsible for supervising the activities of these FDC's, as well as for direct
management of all FO activity outside KADA. In this regard, FOA has con-
structed four new FDC's in North Kelantan in the past two years, and has
organized twelve additional FO's in the region which are currently served
from leased facilities. About 9,000 farmers in KADA, or 25% of those
eligible, are members of FO's, while outside KADA 8,000 farmers representing
12% of those eligible are on FO rolls.
3.15      Smallholders obtain credit from non-institutional, commercial, and
Governmental sources, depending on the purpose of the credit, the urgency of
the requirement, the credit-worthiness and location of the individual borrow-
er, and his awareness of alternative sources. Non-institutional sources,
chiefly moneylenders, storekeepers, landlords, and rubber and tobacco pro-
cessors and dealers, provide most of the consumption credit available, as
well as a considerable amount of agricultural production credit, at annual
interest rates of between 30% and 80%. Some additional consumption credit
is provided at low interest rates by rural credit cooperatives and FO's.
Commercial credit is available to the more affluent farmers through banks,
finance companies, and suppliers for the purchase of tractors, trucks, and
other equipment. The major source of short-term padi production credit is
1/   Formerly called Farmers' Associations (FA's).



- 8 -
the Bank Pertanian Malaysia (BPM), which runs a supervised input supply
credit scheme through the KADA FDC's.  The credit is supplied in kind, in
the form of approved quantities of fertilizers, insecticides and pesticides,
and contract tractoring, with a six-month term at 4.25% per term. The FDC's
screen applications, issue inputs or credit vouchers for inputs and services,
and are responsible to BPM for loan recovery, in exchange for a commission
of 1.25% per season. Although well designed, the program has never reached
more than 15% of the farmers in the KADA area, and has not assisted farmers
living outside the area. FO's outside KADA have provided on a limited scale
both short-term production credit and longer term credit for such items as
bicycles and pumps both from their own funds and through a special Federal
revolving-fund.
Irrigation Facilities
3.16      Substantial investments in irrigation facilities have been made
over the past two decades in the North Kelantan region, with the primary
objective of promoting the double-cropping of padi to reduce national de-
pendence on imported rice. The major single investment has been the Kemubu
Irrigation Project (Loan 500-MA), which serves 19,000 ha of padi on the right
bank of the Kelantan River in the Districts of Kota Bharu, Pasir Puteh, and
Bachok. The project works included a pumping station on the Kelantan River;
small diversion headworks; a complete network of primary, secondary, and
tertiary canals and a partial network of quaternaries; a drainage system;
a flood protection levee along the Kelantan River; and ancillary works.
Implementation of this project began in 1967, and all works financed under
the Bank Loan were completed in 1973. Cropping intensity in the area has
now reached 185%, which appears to be the limit without additional on-
farm development works. In 1973, KADA was created as a semi-autonomous re-
gional irrigation authority to manage the Kemubu Irrigation Project, along
with the small contiguous Salor area and three contiguous areas on the op-
posite bank of the Kelantan River. These three areas, known as the Pasir
Mas, Sungei Lemal, and Alor Pasir Schemes, collectively form the project
area for the Lemal irrigation component of the present project.
3.17      Double-cropping of padi in Kelantan commenced in 1962 with the
completion of the Pasir Mas Scheme (2,100 ha), which includes a pumping
station on the Kelantan River downstream from the town of Pasir Mas and
about 43 km of main and distributary canals. The Sungei Lemal Scheme (9,300
ha), which was completed in 1968, is supplied from a headworks on the Lemal
River, supplemented by a pumping station on the Kelantan River upstream of
Pasir Mas, and includes 113 km of main canals and distributaries. In 1970,
the Alor Pasir Scheme (600 ha) was completed as an extension to the Sungei
Lemal Scheme, with a 10 km distributary system drawing water from the Sungei
Lemal main canal. Operation of the SungeL Lemal and Alor Pasir Schemes has
been hampered by frequent breakdowns of the electric pumps at Lemal, but
major overhauls have been completed and full pumping capacity should be
achieved in 1976. All three schemes will still provide only rudimentary



- 9 -
water control, however, because of lack of flood control, adequate drain-
age, and an articulated distribution system. Since these problems affect
all three systems and are closely interrelated, the three schemes have been
treated as a unified area in designing the Lemal irrigation component.
3.18      The Lemal irrigation area (Map 12004) covers 20,000 ha within the
boundaries of KADA, of which about 12,000 ha are suitable for padi, 5,500 ha
are under horticulture and mixed field crops, 2,000 ha are under pure stands
of rubber and other tree crops, and the remainder is devoted to non-agricul-
tural uses or is swampland. At present, padi production in the wet season
is limited to 10,800 ha by poor drainage conditions, and dry season production
to 5,800 ha by the lack of an adequate water distribution system below the
secondary canals. Padi yields average 1.75 and 2.6 ton/ha for the wet and
dry seasons respectively, the yield difference largely due to flooding and
the consequent higher use of native varieties and lower use of cash inputs
in the wet season. Total annual padi production in the Lemal area is cur-
rently about 34,000 tons, about 16% of aggregate State production.
3.19      In addition to the large-scale irrigation facilities in the KADA
areas, numerous small irrigation schemes have been built throughout the
North Kelantan region, by farmers groups or by the Drainage and Irrigation
Department (DID). These schemes, most of which are located in Tanah Merah
and Machang Districts, usually involve pumping or diversion of water from
the numerous small streams flowing out of the interior foothills, and s[m-
ple canal systems. The major purpose of this type of investment is to
assure a reasonably good main season crop, although well-designed schemes
on streams with adequate dry-season flows also provide considerable scope
for double-cropping. During the Second Malaysia Plan period (1971-75), DID
constructed or improved 187 of these schemes in Kelantan, covering a total
of 9,700 ha.
Transport Facilities
3.20      Lack of adequate transport facilities, including both inter-State
links and the intra-State network, has limited the opportunities for rapid
agricultural development in North Kelantan. Access to both the West Coast
and Thailand has historically been provided by railroad lines, but as the
railroad does not provide rapid direct access to Kuala Lumpur, Penang, or
other large towns, its development impact has been limited. The only road
link to the West Coast is south via the East Coast road to Kuantan, and
thence across the Central Mountain Range to Kuala Lumpur, a distance of
about 600 km. Under construction, with completion expected by 1978-79, is
a new East-West Highway which will complete a 180 km link to Penang, a ma-
jor port city and market center, as well as providing more direct access
to all the large cities of the West Coast, including Kuala Lumpur.
3.21      The intra-State road network is rudimentary by Peninsular Malay-
sian standards (Map 12003). The total length of Federal and State roads
meeting minimum Federal Public Works Department (PWD) geometr cal standards
is 795 km, giving Kelantan a density of .05 km of road per km of area, the



- 10 -
lowest in Peninsular Malaysia and 42% of the national average. The state
ratio of 1.03 km of roadway per 1,000 population is also lower than that
of the other States with the exception of Selangor, whose population is
concentrated in the municipality of Kuala Lumpur. The density of the net-
work is greater in the densely populated areas of North Kelantan, but still
fails to provide adequate access to the agricultural areas. In addition to
the high-standard network, the State PWD maintains 345 km of lower standard
road, 90% of which are located in North Kelantan. Access to the improved
road network is provided by over 2,000 km of village roads and tracks, which
are typically passable only by 4-wheel drive vehicles, light vans, and motor-
cycles in the drier months. The condition of these roads, only occasionally
upgraded or maintained out of the limited budgets of the District Officers,
restricts contact between the majority of Kelantan's rural population and the
markets and Government services available in the towns.
State Land Development Schemes
3.22      Over the past two decades the State Government has implemented a
program to settle impoverished laborers and farmers from North Kelantan in
sparsely populated areas in Ulu Kelantan and southern Tanah Merah Districts.
Twenty-seven such schemes have been initiated since 1957, covering a gross
area of 31,000 ha, of which 12,000 have been planted to rubber and 4,000 ha
are currently being tapped. The 5,000 families settled so far have typ-
ically been provided 2.4 ha on which to plant rubber, 0.8 ha for orchard,
0.8 ha for padi where feasible, and a 0.1 ha house lot. In contrast to the
"turnkey" approach of the Federal Land Development Authority to land settle-
ment, the Kelantan Land Development Board has relied heavily on the settlers'
own efforts to plant rubber, construct houses, and provide subsistence through
production of food crops. The Board has provided land, housing and planting
materials, some schools and rubber processing facilities, as well as supervi-
sory staff and basic access. The schemes vary widely in the degree of success
achieved, with lack of sufficient competent supervisory staff, inadequate
access, poor land, and lack of social amenities jointly responsible for fail-
ure in several cases. Nevertheless, families have been settled and have at-
tained increased incomes at a cost of about US$1,500 per family, which is
substantially below the settlement cost under Federal Land Development proj-
ects. Although difficulties in acquiring new land, budgetary and staff con-
straints, and the expectation of Federal projects in Kelantan have led the
State Government to suspend new land development by the Board, high priority
has been placed on rehabilitation and improvement of the existing schemes.
Project Formulation
3.23      The basic project concept originated in the Kelantan Regional Plan-
ning Study, executed for the GOM by consultants in 1973. The Study divided
Kelantan into northern and southern regions for analytical purposes, and pro-
posed that markedly different development strategies be followed in each
region. IWhile large investments in basic infrastructure, particularly high-
ways and large-scale land settlement areas, were necessary to open up and



- 11 -
begin development in South Kelantan, the North Kelantan Region would require
agricultural intensification aimed at achieving higher yields, to enable in-
comes to rise while long-run land settlement and industrialization programs
could be formulated. This emphasis on raising agricultural productivity in
North Kelantan was reinforced by the findings of the FAO/CP rural poverty
sector mission which visited Malaysia in 1974 (para 2.03). The principal
policy recommendation of this mission was for a shift in emphasis in agri-
cultural development from land settlement to rapidly improving the produc-
tivity of the masses of smallholders in situ. At the same time, analysis
by the Economic Planning Unit of recent census data emphasized the prevalence
and severity of poverty in Kelantan, particularly in relation to other
Malaysian States.
3.24      Analysis of the major constraints on agricultural productivity in
North Kelantan has indicated that a substantially improved extension effort
is required to encourage farmers to adopt better cultivation practices and
to increase their application of agricultural inputs. To complement this
effort, expanding the supply of inputs, credit, and storage facilities would
also be necessary, and basic access to agricultural areas would have to be
improved. Finally, provision of improved water control facilities to assure
reasonable wet-season padi yields and to extend dry-season cropping is the
single most effective means of raising the productivity of Kelantan's experi-
enced padi farmers. The proposed project is designed to meet these various
needs in an integrated manner.
IV. THE PROJECT
4.01      The project would improve the productivity and incomes of small-
holder farmers throughout the North Kelantan region through provision of im-
proved irrigation and road facilities and intensified agricultural support-
ing services. The main components of the project are as follows:
(a)  construction of major flood control and drainage works to
serve 30,000 ha in and around the Lemal irrigation areas;
construction of tertiary and quaternary irrigation and
drainage networks and access roads to serve 12,000 net ha
of padi within Lemal; and provision of required maintenance
equipment;
(b)  construction of about 15 small irrigation schemes to serve
approximately 1,300 ha of padi;
(c)  construction of about 190 km of roads of various standards
outside the Lemal area, and provision of equipment and
facilities for maintenance of State and village roads;



- 12 -
(d) provision of facilities, equipment, and technical services
to complement a phased build-up of agricultural extension
field staff;
(e) construction of 12 new Farmers Development Centers (FDC's),
expansion of 13 existing FDC's, and provision of required
agricultural credit, equipment, and additional storage
facilities; and
(f) studies of the feasibility of rehabilitating and expanding
existing State land development schemes, and of the long-
term properties of glass-reinforced polyester (GRP) flume
irrigation conduits.
The components of the project are summarized below, and further details are
given in Annexes 3 through 7.
Project Components
4.02      Lemal Irrigation Improvement:  This component would consist of two
parts. The first part would provide protection from river flooding and drain-
age of localized monsoon flooding for an area of 30,000 ha including the Lemal
irrigation area, the town of Pasir Mas (population 13,000) and its environs,
and Kubang Gadong, an agricultural area (including 1,600 ha of padi land)
situated between the Golok River and the boundaries of KADA. Works under this
component include three river dikes totalling 28 km in length designed to
protect the area from Kelantan and Golok River floods of 50-year frequency,
and 39 km of major drains designed to evacuate local flood water due to storms
of 5-year frequency within a period of 72 hours. These works would permit
rapid increases in wet-season yields for about 13,600 net ha of padi, as well
as materially reducing annual flood damage to tree crops, herds, personal
property, and structures. Under the second part of the component, tertiary
and quaternary irrigation and drainage systems designed to provide indepen-
dent water control to 10-ha units would be constructed in the Lemal irriga-
tion area (para 3.18). These works would include a tertiary distribution
system of 187 km of glass-reinforced polyster (GRP) flumes, 500 km of quater-
nary earth field channels, improvement of main canal structures to permit
operation of the tertiaries, and 600 km of on-farm drains. These works, in
conjunction with the major drainage works, would increase the net irrigable
area by about 1,000 ha (to nearly 12,000 ha), increase the maximum potential
cropping intensity of this land from about 160% to 195%, and increase yields
by allowing timely cultivation-practices and good water control. Equipment
required to maintain the Lemal system, including draglines and excavators,
would also be provided. In addition, a total of about 90 km of access roads
and 10 km of maintenance roads on canal banks would be constructed within
the area.
4.03      As the proposed GRP flume system incorporates innovative design
elements, an accelerated testing program is included in the project to con-
firm the long-term structural and chemical properties of the system. The



- 13 -
terms of reference of the program have been agreed upon with DID, and are
briefly summarized in Annex 16. The program is expected to require the
services of at least one consultant chemical engineer expert in the manu-
facture of reinforced plastics, and assurance has been obtained that the
qualifications, experience, and terms and conditions of employment of
consultants employed for this purpose would be satisfactory to the Bank.
The testing program would commence in July 1976, with final results ex-
pected by June 15, 1977. Assurances have been obtained that installation
of GRP flumes would be conditional on approval by the Bank, following re-
view of the results of the testing program, and that should the results
of the program be negative, an alternative tertiary system acceptable to
the Bank would be installed.
4.04      Small-Scale Irrigation:  This component would include the con-
struction or rehabilitation of about 15 small irrigation systems located
outside the major irrigation areas, each system serving between 20 and 200
ha of padi. Reinforced concrete gated headworks would be constructed on
small streams, while pumphouses would be used to supply water from larger
streams. As detailed design work and economic analysis of the individual
schemes must await the synthesis of hydrological data, final selection of
individual schemes for inclusion in the project would depend on meeting
certain criteria including the presence of a reliable source of water supply
to permit the irrigation of at least one crop of padi annually and a minimum
economic rate of return of 10%. Assurances have been obtained at negotia-
tions that DID would prepare a feasibility report analyzing water demand
and supply and the economic rate of return for each proposed scheme in the
course of executing final engineering and design. The feasibility reports
for the first three schemes would be forwarded to the Bank for review prior
to implementation under the project. Reports for subsequent schemes would
be kept by DID for review by supervision missions.
4.05      Rural Roads:  The roads included in this component are fairly
evenly distributed over the North Kelantan region, and considered in conjunc-
tion with the roads to be built in Lemal, they will complete a basic access
grid for the agricultural areas of the region as well as directly connecting
several important towns. This component includes a new high-standard (6.7 m
surface width) asphalt paved link, 21 km in length, between Pasir Mas and
Rantau Panjang on the Thailand border, replacing an existing State road 24
km in length which is subject to severe annual flood damage. The new align-
ment, which is above flood levels, would serve a high volume of international
and local traffic at reduced transport and maintenance cost, as well as pro-
viding access to a large area of intensively cultivated agricultural land.
Eight links, totalling 55 km in length, would be built to minimum Federal
PWD standards (4.3 m width compacted laterite pavement). Nineteen addition-
al links, with a total length of 112 km, would be built with a 4.9 m forma-
tion width and a 3 m wide laterite pavement of 20 cm thickness, embanked
at least I m above high-water level. Although below Federal PWD standards,
these roads would provide all-weather access. As is typical in flood plain
and deltaic regions, a considerable amount of bridging (30% of total con-
struction cost) is required to link the coastal areas with market towns.



- 14 -
Road maintenance equipment and workshop facilities would be provided to the
State PWD to improve the level of maintenance of State and village roads
throughout North Kelantan.
4.06      Agricultural Extension:  This component is designed to provide well-
informed and well-equipped extension service, concentrated on the achievement
of higher padi, groundnut, coconut, and horticultural crop yields and grades,
to the 100,000 families in Kelantan who substantially depend on those crops
to meet their cash and subsistence needs. The number of SDOA extension field
agents (JAA's) would be increased from 45 to 160, which would permit contact
between agents and farmer groups on a fortnightly basis. Quarters would be
constructed for agents posted to the more remote areas, and all agents would
be supplied with pest control and fertilizer application equipment. The num-
ber of district extension officers (AA's) would be increased from eight to
16, and these officers would be provided field offices in the agricultural
areas and vehicles to permit more intensive supervision of field staff.
Eight subject matter specialists would be recruited and equipped to develop
simple packages of technical recommendations, geared to the cropping seasons,
which would be transmitted through the field agents to the farmers. A State
Extension Officer would be appointed to provide full-time administration for
the extension service. In addition, facilities and equipment would be pro-
vided to upgrade the State extension headquarters, Federal technical support
units, and a farmer training center, all located in Lundang.
4.07      Farmers Development Centers:  Twelve new FDC's would be constructed
throughout the non-irrigated areas of North Kelantan to serve FO's which
have already been formed. Each new FDC, as well as each of the 13 existing
FDC's in North Kelantan, would be provided with storage facilities and
vehicles adequate to handle estimated seasonal crop marketing and fertilizer
distribution requirements, as well as padi drying floors and staff housing
where required.. Tractors of various sizes, motorized sprayers, and irriga-
tion pumps would be supplied to the FDC's to enable them to provide rental
or contract services to their expanding membership. Small storage facili-
ties would be provided at the village level to permit marketing, input
supply, and production credit services to reach the smallholders more effi-
ciently. A buildup of FDC staff to levels sufficient to provide these
services to a majority of the region's target population is also included
in the component.
4.08      The expansion of the network of FDC's serving North Kelantan and
improvements in the staffing and facilities of existing FDC's would present
an opportunity to provide more comprehensive institutional agricultural
credit to larger numbers of farmers in the region (para 3.15). In con-
junction with the rehabilitation program for the KADA FDC's, the Bank
Pertanian Malaysia (BPM) has agreed to expand its existing short-term credit
programs for padi and tobacco production in the irrigation areas, and to
initiate similar programs in the rainfed areas through the new FDC's to be
constructed under the project. In addition, BPM has agreed to initiate a
new short-term credit program to finance the production of groundnuts,
vegetables and other annual crops through both the KADA and non-KADA FDC's.



- 15 -
Under this program, BPM would advance seasonal block loans to the FO's on
the basis of their individual requirements. Prior to each cropping season,
the FO's would submit their estimated requirements to KADA or the Kelantan
State FOA, which would screen the requests and assess the loan-processing
capabilities of the FO's. The requests and recommendations would then be
forwarded to BPM, which would decide on the maximum amount of credit to be
made available to each FO for the season. Disbursement and repayments
would be made through BPM's branch office in Kota Bharu, with copies of
loan records sent to KADA and the Kelantan State FOA. Processing of indi-
vidual loans to farmers would be the responsibility of the local FO's.
Loans to farmers would finance input purchases and the contracting of trac-
tor services, and would normally be extended for a six-month period. Inte-
rest rates to farmers would range from an 8.5% annual rate for padi produc-
tion loans, to 10% for tobacco and 12% proposed for the new annual crop
program. The incremental volume of agricultural credit oustanding associated
with the buildup of the FDC network is projected to reach US$1.9 million by
completion of the project in 1981, and this amount has been included in the
costing of the Farmers' Development Center component (Annex 7, Table 2),
although no disbursements would be made against credit operations. Assurances
have been obtained that:
(a) the Project Manager would prepare, in consultation with KADA
and Kelantan State FOA, a statement of annual agricultural
credit requirements, to be submitted to BPM and the Bank not
later than three months prior to the beginning of each fiscal
year; and
(b) GOM would thereafter, following consultation with the Bank,
ensure that an adequate amount of credit would be made
available to project area farmers through BPM.
4.09      Study of State Land Development Schemes:  This component would
finance a study by consultants of existing State land development schemes
(para 3.22), with a view to identifying a low-cost package of investments
which would enable those schemes to approach their potential in terms of
numbers of families settled and levels of agricultural productivity and farm
incomes attained. The study would require three experts, for a total of
about 21 man-months, with completion scheduled for mid-1977. The Kelantan
State Planning Unit would be responsible for directing the study, which is
described in Annex 16. Assurances have been obtained that the qualifications,
experience, and terms and conditions of employment of consultants employed
for this study would be satisfactory to the Bank.
Status of Design
4.10      The Federal DID has completed detailed designs for 10% of the on-
farm irrigation and drainage system included in the Lemal component, and
final engineering of the remainder of the works is included in the project.
The design and alignment of the flood control works are in line with the pre-
liminary recommendations of the Kelantan River Basin Study, which in addition



- 16 -
include substantial upstream diking and a multi-purpose dam as a long-term
solution to the basin's flood problems. Final design of the flood control
works would be rechecked with the mathematical model being developed for the
Basin Study, currently in an advanced stage of preparation. Final engineer-
ing of the small-scale irrigation, rural roads, and Farmers Development
Center works is also included in project costs. All proposed project roads
have been surveyed for quantity estimation purposes by Kelantan PWD, and final
engineering of the roads would also be under the control of the State Director
of PWD, whose staff would be suitably augmented to cover the additional work-
load. If in the opinion of the Bank there is unreasonable delay in carrying
out the final engineering of the roads, PWD would engage engineering consul-
tants to assist with the design and construction supervision of the roads.
In addition, a firm of local surveyors would be employed to carry out basic
engineering surveys. Assurances to that effect have been obtained from
Government. Bridge structures would be designed by the Federal Design and
Research Division of PWD using standard designs as far as possible; this
division would also be responsible for soil investigations and foundation
engineering. Farmers Development Center buildings would be designed by the
Buildings Section of the State PWD, following standard designs.
Implementation Schedule
4.11      The project would be implemented over a period of five years.  The
agricultural support components provide for a buildup of staff and facilities
phased over the implementation period. Construction of the small irrigation
schemes would begin in mid-1977 and proceed through 1980, while survey and
design work for the schemes would begin in 1976. For the rural road compo-
nent, engineering and land acquisition would proceed through mid-1978, with
construction spread over the remaining three years. Engineering and tender-
ing of the major civil works in Lemal, and the execution of the GRP flume
accelerated testing program (para 4.03) would proceed through mid-1977. Con-
struction would begin in the latter half of 1977 and continue through 1980,
except for the access road element, for which construction would begin in
1978. Further details are presented in Annexes 3-7 and summarized in Annex 9.
Cost Estimates
4.12      Total project costs are estimated at US$48 million, of which US$21
million (44%) would be foreign exchange. Costs for the rural road component
are based on survey estimates of earthwork, surfacing, and land acquisition
quantities and numbers of structures needed for each road, and unit prices
based on recent local construction contracts. Cost estimates for Lemal are
based on detailed layout and design of 10% of the area, recent contract unit
costs for earthwork, and recent tenders for the supply of flumes valid
through mid-1977. Estimates for small-scale irrigation are based on con-
struction experience gained from a number of similar schemes in Kelantan,
and updated unit costs. For the agricultural support components, all incre-
mental operating costs for the project period, including salaries, have
been included. Recent suppliers' quotations are the basis for estimated
costs of vehicles, equipment, and materials included in the various com-
ponents. Physical contingencies of between 15% and 20% have been allowed



- 17 -
on all civil works items. All cost estimates have been adjusted to mid-
1976 levels based on recent Malaysian and international inflationary trends.
Expected price increases due to inflation of 9% in 1976, 8% in 1977-79, and
7% thereafter have been included for all equipment items and personal serv-
ices. For civil works and related physical contingencies, price increases
of 13% in 1976, 12% in 1977-79, and 10% thereafter have been allowed.  Ex-
pected price increases amount to 26% of total project costs.
4.13      Detailed project costs are given in Annexes 3-8 and are sum-
marized below:
Foreign
Exchange   % of
Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total  Component  Total
-----(M$ Million)----  ----(US$ Million)----  ---
Lemal Irrigation
Improvement    18.9      13.7   32.6   7.4        5.3    12.7        42      40
Small-Scale
Irrigation       3.0       2.0    5.0   1.1       0.8      1.9       40       6
Rural Roads        8.1       9.6   17.7   3.2        3.8     7.0       54       22
Agricultural
Extension        6.1       3.5    9.6   2.4       1.4      3.8       35       12
Farmers Develop-
ment Centers    9.8        5.8   15.6   3.8       2.3      6.1       37       19
Studies            -         0.4    0.4   -         0.2      0.2       90        1
Base Cost
Estimate    45.9      35.0   80.9  17.9       13.8    31.7        43     100
Physical Con-
tingencies       5.4       4.6   10.0   2.1        1.8     3.9       46
Expected Price
Increases       18.0      13.9   31.9   7.0       5.4    12.4        44
Total Project
Cost        69.3      53.5  122.8  27.0       21.0    48.0       44
Financing
4.14      The proposed Bank Loan of US$21 million would finance the foreign
exchange requirement of the project. As this is a Federal project, all local
costs would be borne by GOM throughout the implementation period of the pro-
ject. Activities falling under constitutional State jurisdiction, such as
agricultural extension, would be financed through normal GOM grant procedures.
An assurance to this effect has been obtained.



- 18 -
Procurement
4.15      The Lemal component would be divided into three packages, one each
for flood protection dikes (US$1.6 million), major drainage works (US$0.8 mil-
lion), and access roads (US$1.6 million), which would be carried out under
contracts awarded after competitive bidding advertised locally in accordance
with Government procedures satisfactory to the Bank. In August 1975 DID
invited bids to construct and install 600 km of irrigation conduits through-
out Malaysia during a three-year period (1976-78).  Six bids were received
from local and foreign contractors in September 1975. The systems offered
included pre-cast concrete, corrugated steel, ferro-cement and GRP. The
lowest bid was for GRP, which had the added advantage of requiring a sub-
stantially shorter period of time than the other offers to manufacture and
install the conduits. In view of the advantages of the GRP system (Annex 12),
the fact that the manufacturer has a patent application pending, and his will-
ingness to install the 187 km of GRP in Lemal for the same unit rate quoted
in his bid, the Bank agreed to finance the installation of GRP conduits in
the Lemal project (US$4.0 million) under the terms of DID's existing contract.
The installation would, however, be subject to review of the results of the
accelerated testing program (para. 4.03).
4.16      The Farmers Development Centers and facilities, as well as the
offices, facilities, and quarters included in the agricultural extension
component (US$3.0 million) would also be subject to local competitive bid-
ding. Local tender is justified in all these cases, as the works are dis-
persed and labor-intensive, and the contracts relatively small. The rural
road component would be divided into two contract packages (of between
US$2 and US$4 million) for international competitive bidding in accordance
with Bank Group Guidelines. Construction of quaternary canals and on-farm
drains (US$0.8 million) and small-scale irrigation systems (US$1.7 million)
would require close adjustment to cropping seasons and prior negotiation
with farmers, and would be constructed on force account.
4.17      Vehicles and equipment (US$2.8 million) would be procured under
international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines.
A 15% preference margin, or the prevailing customs duty if lower, would be
extended to local manufacturers of these items. Small off-the-shelf items,
costing less than US$10,000 each and limited to a total of US$400,000, re-
quired to implement agricultural extension, Farmers Development Center,
and road and irrigation maintenance programs, would be procured through
normal Government procedures.
Disbursements
4.18      Disbursements would be made at the rate of 100% against the foreign
exchange expenditures on all directly imported equipment and vehicles, 95% of
the ex-factory cost of such items manufactured locally, and 65% of the actual
cost of locally procured imported items. Disbursements for all civil works
executed by contract would equal 50% of actual costs. Disbursements for works
executed on force account, including the small-scale irrigation schemes and



- 19 -
on-farm canals and drains to be executed by DID and workshops to be construct-
ed by PWD, would equal 50% of total costs, and would be made against a cer-
tificate of expenditures, the documentation for which would be retained by
the borrower and be available for inspection by the Bank during the course
of project supervision. For the two studies, disbursements would equal 100%
of total expenditures. Estimated expenditure and disbursement schedules for
the project, and a proposed allocation of the proceeds of the loan, are
given in Annexes 9-10. It is expected that disbursements would be completed
by December 31, 1981.
Accounts and Audits
4.19      The agencies involved in the project are all subject to normal
Government control and audit procedures. Assurances have been obtained that:
(a) all agencies involved in project implementation would
maintain separate accounts for the project;
(b) all project accounts would be collated by the Project
Manager (para 5.02);
(c) the Government's Auditor General or other auditors
satisfactory to the Bank would audit these accounts; and
(d) the Project Manager would send the audited project
accounts, together with the auditors comments, to the
Bank within nine months of the close of each financial
year.
Environmental Effects
4.20      The major environmental impact of the project would derive from
the dikes to be constructed on the Kelantan River. In addition to increas-
ing crop yields in Lemal, the proposed dike and drainage system would prevent
the extensive annual flood damage to homes, shops, vehicles, and herds, and
occasional loss of life suffered in that area and in the town of Pasir Mas.
These works would also reduce the local mosquito habitat, and tend to alle-
viate malaria and dengue fever outbreaks in the area.
V.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Project Coordination
5.01      Aside from the Public Works Department (PWD), all the Federal
agencies which would be involved with the implementation of the project
--the Drainage and Irrigation Department (DID), the Department of Agricul-
ture (DOA), the Farmers Organization Authority (FOA), and the Kemubu Agri-
cultural Development Authority (KADA)--are under the jurisdiction of the



- 20 -
Ministry of Agriculture (MOA). While each agency would be responsible for
implementing specific activities within its jurisdiction, responsibility for
coordinating all project activities would rest with a Project Manager in MOA.
The Project Manager would have a small staff to assist in budgeting, procure-
ment and disbursement matters. Experience in Malaysia indicates that techni-
cal officers, with agricultural or engineering background and experience, are
able to perform this managerial function most effectively. The appointment of
a suitably qualified and experienced Project Manager, in consultation with the
Bank, would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed Loan.
5.02      The major responsibility of the Project Manager would be to ensure
the integration of agricultural extension and FDC activities at the field or
farmers' group level, and to ensure that both agencies provide proper agricul-
tural support to encourage maximum benefit by farmers from the irrigation
facilities to be constructed. For this purpose, the Project Manager would
function as a member of the State Agricultural Research Development and
Extension Committee (Annex 6), composed of senior State-level officers in
all agriculture-related agencies. He would concentrate in the project start-
up period on ensuring the organization of common Small Agricultural Units
for FDC, extension, water management and irrigation maintenance purposes
(Annex 7). In addition, the Project Manager would be responsible for coor-
dinating detailed annual budgets, work programs, and staffing plans for
project activities prepared by the participating agencies. Assurances
have been obtained that each agency would prepare annual budgets and work
programs for its part of the project and submit them to the Project Manager
for review at least three months in advance of each fiscal year. The Project
Manager would forward a copy of the annual budgets and work programs to the
Bank for information.
5.03      The Project Manager would be guided on policy matters by a
Steering Committee composed of the Secretary General of the Ministry of
Agriculture, the State Secretary of Kelantan, and other officials they may
nominate. Involvement of the State Secretary would ensure the participation
of both State-level agencies and officers and the District Officers, who are
in charge of local governmental functions, and should facilitate coordination
of project activities at the ground level. Establishment of the Steering
Committee would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed Loan.
5.04      Several mechanisms exist at the Federal and Kelantan State levels
to facilitate the coordination of ongoing agricultural support programs. With-
in the past two years both FOA and BPM, originally established as semi-autono-
mous bodies, have been brought under the direct administration of MOA to en-
sure greater integration of agricultural support services and credit programs
at the Federal level. At the State level, the coordination of research and
extension efforts on a State-wide basis has been institutionalized in the
State Agricultural Research Development and Extension Committee while
engineering and agricultural activities in the irrigation scheme areas are
coordinated by KADA (paras 3.16-3.18). In addition, development projects at



- 21 -
the State level are identified, screened, and monitored by the State Planning
Unit. Thus a reasonable structure exists for the coordination of project-
initiated programs after the implementation phase is completed.
Agency Responsibilities
5.05      Drainage and Irrigation Department:  DID would be responsible for
implementing the Lemal irrigation improvement and the small-scale irrigation
components of the proposed project. Design work and supervision of the
force account elements of the works would require the full-time services of
two senior and five junior level engineers, as well as a number of tech-
nicians, of which one senior and two junior engineers would be required at
the commencement of the project. The latter positions have been approved
by the Public Services Department conditional on loan signing. Supervision
of this staff would be provided by the DID Kelantan State Engineer, who cur-
rently has a staff of nine engineers in Kota Bharu, while engineering, design,
and hydrological studies would be supported by Federal DID units in Kuala
Lumpur.
5.06      KADA would assume responsibility for operation and maintenance of
the Lemal works upon their completion. As the engineering capability of
KADA is provided by the Kelantan DID staff, however, continuity of O&M opera-
tions is assured. DID field staff would operate and maintain the conveyance
systems down to the quaternary canals, the drainage system down to the on-
farm tertiary drains, dikes, roads, and the existing pumping plants. About
21 km of village roads to be opened to heavy public through-traffic would be
transferred to the State PWD for maintenance. Farmers would be organized
into small cooperative groups, based on the Small Agricultural Units (SAU's)
organized for extension and FDC activities (para 5.02), to maintain quaternary
canals and tertiary drains, under KADA supervision, as soon as the rehabi-
litated delivery and drainage system becomes operational. DID would operate
and maintain the small-scale irrigation schemes to be constructed outside
KADA boundaries down to the level of on-farm canals and drains, which would
also be maintained by SAU's under Departmental supervision. In order to
facilitate maintenance of project works, additional O&M equipment would be
purchased under the project. DID would provide O&M training to its field
staff and selected farmers at a Water Management Training Center to be built
in the Kemubu Project area with Japanese assistance.
5.07      Public Works Department:  The rural roads component would be im-
plemented by the PWD. A senior project engineer would be seconded to the
staff of the State Director of PWD to administer the component, assisted by
two engineers to handle planning and design, three engineers for construction
supervision, and a number of technicians and subprofessional staff. The
positions of project engineer and an additional engineer, required for
commencement of the project, have been approved conditional on loan signing.
Bridge structures would be designed by the Federal Design and Research
Division in Kuala Lumpur.
5.08      The Kelantan State PWD would assume responsibility for the main-
tenance of all roads constructed under this component, as well as about 21 km



- 22 -
of roads to be built by DID in the Lemal area (para. 5.06). GOM would
finance the maintenance of all project roads meeting minimum Federal design
standards at the rate of M$3,100/km per annum while maintenance of lower
standard roads would be financed by a special grant fund as required.
Four sets of road maintenance equipment have already been provided by the
Federal Government to Kelantan PWD for the maintenance and general improve-
ment of existing unclassified roads. In order to ensure adequate maintenance
of the roads constructed under the project, as well as to improve the general
level of maintenance and up-grading of rural roads throughout the region, the
project would provide two sets of normal maintenance equipment and one set of
heavier equipment for repairs of embankments and culverts, as well as ancil-
lary equipment and vehicles. Extensions to existing PWD workshops in Machang
and Tanah Merah, equipment and tools for those workshops, and a mobile servic-
ing unit would also be included to facilitate maintenance of the road equipment.
Assurances would be obtained that GOM would take the necessary steps to ensure
that all roads constructed or improved under the project would be properly
maintained.
5.09      Department of Agriculture:  The agricultural extension component
would be implemented by the Federal and Kelantan State DOA. Although the
SDOA is formally responsible for extension activities, the necessity for sub-
stantial Federal funding of the staff buildup and improved technical support
units required to create an effective extension service in Kelantan would
directly involve FDOA in supervising the implementation of this component.
Active Federal involvement is also expected because this component is re-
garded as a model for a proposed national extension project, currently being
prepared by FAO/CP for possible Bank funding, which would provide for a simi-
lar intensification of extension activities in the other Malaysian States.
The pivotal figure in the implementation of the component would be the State
Director of Agriculture, who is also the General Manager of KADA. Under the
project a Chief Extension Officer, who would devote full time to administering
the extension service, would be appointed to the Director's staff. Additional
staff, including district extension workers, field agents, and subject matter
specialists, would be appointed to provide sufficient qualified manpower at
various levels to reach the majority of the State's smallholders on a regular
and sustained basis (para 4.06). Details of the organization and methodology
of the extension program are presented in Annex 6. Positions for the Chief
Extension Officer and two subject matter specialists, whose services would be
required at the commencement of the project, have been approved conditional on
loan signing. Assurances have been obtained that all extension staff required
to implement the project would be appointed, that GOM would make arrangements
to finance the required staff build-up on an ongoing basis, and that two sub-
ject matter specialists would be appointed within three months of loan signing.
Appointment of a qualified Chief Extension Officer for the State of Kelantan
in consultation with the Bank would be a condition of effectiveness of the
proposed Loan.
5.10      Farmers Organization Authority:  FOA would be responsible for
supervising the execution of the Farmers Development Center component, in
keeping with its general supervisory jurisdiction over the FO's (para 3.14).
FOA is administered by a Director General, assisted by well-staffed credit,



- 23 -
agro-business, and administrative divisions at headquarters level, and no
additional staff would be required at headquarters to administer this com-
ponent. The major tasks involved in implementing the component, including
organizing the farmers, estimating detailed storage and padi drying require-
ments for individual FO's, estimating the farmers' credit requirements,
assisting farmers in applying for credit, screening the applications, arrang-
ing the procurement and delivery of inputs to the farmers, collecting repay-
ments, storing and marketing produce and record keeping, would te executed
by the Kelantan State FOA and KADA in their respective geographical areas
(para 3.14). Both State-level agencies would be guided and assisted by the
Director General of FOA and his staff in the implementation of these func-
tions. To perform these functions adequately some increase in staff would
be required, although proportionally much smaller than that required for
the extension component. The State FOA in particular has already received
approval and is now appointing sufficient field staff to man the proposed
network of new FDC's. To manage the Farmers Development Center component
on a full-time basis, the following staff would be required at the commence-
ment of the project: two new managerial officers; a Senior Development
Officer in FOA who would serve under the present Deputy State Director; and
a Deputy Head of the Agriculture Section in KADA, who would serve under the
KADA General Manager. In addition, senior Credit Officers would be added to
the staffs of FOA and KADA during the initial implementation period. These
four positions have been approved conditional on loan signing.
Agricultural Manpower Availability
5.11      Implementation of the agricultural support services components would
require the appointment of approximately 180 new staff to the DOA, FOA, and
KADA establishments in Kelantan over the five-year project period. Of this
total, 10 would require a University degree in agriculture-related fields, 20
a Diploma of Agriculture or equivalent, and 150 a Certificate of Agriculture
or equivalent. Currently, about 200 degrees are awarded annually in agricul-
tural subjects by the University of Malaya and the Agricultural University
at Serdang, 325 Diplomas in Agriculture are awarded at Serdang, and 280 Cer-
tificates of Agriculture are awarded at six Agriculture Institutes including
one in Besut, Trengganu recently established to facilitate access by students
from Kelantan and Trengganu. All of these programs are expected to expand
rapidly, with the output of Certificate holders to reach 480 within the next
few years. In addition, many Malaysians are trained overseas or in local
institutions such as the MARA Institute of Technology, which specializes in
commercial subjects applicable to project activities. Many students from
Kelantan attend these institutions, in part because of a Government policy
to give preference to students from rural areas. Thus recruitment of suf-
ficient numbers of officers to effectively implement the project should pre-
sent no major problems.
Cost Recovery
5.12      At present, O&M costs of the irrigation systems in the Lemal area
average US$27/ha, while irrigation and land charges levied by the State



- 24 -
Government average US$10/ha. The State Legislature of Kelantan has
approved an increase in rates to a maximum of US$18/ha (M$47/ha) for irri-
gation and land charges combined, and it is expected that these rates would
be charged by full project development. In addition to these charges, pro-
ject area farmers pay an Islamic padi production tithe (zakat) to the Kelantan
Department of Religious Affairs, which uses the receipts to finance the reli-
gious school system, teachers salaries, welfare expenses, and maintenance of
mosques. This tithe is compulsory for Moslem farmers 1/ under State law,
and non-payment is punishable by imprisonment or fine. Zakat payments in
Kelantan equal 7% of gross padi production, with actual 1975 payments in
Lemal averaging 210 kg/ha of padi, equivalent to US$33/ha in domestic market
prices and US$42/ha in world prices. Payments by project area farmers are
thus equivalent to the full costs of operating the existing systems plus a
substantial payment towards recovery of original capital costs.
5.13      The capital costs of the Lemal component amount to US$670/ha, ex-
cluding those elements (flood control and access roads) which benefit large
populations not dependent on padi production. The incremental O&M costs
would amount to US$12/ha per annum at full development. Assuming a 10%
discount rate and a repayment period of 25 years, full cost recovery from
project beneficaries would require incremental annual payments of US$86/ha
for the period. Actual incremental irrigation charges would range between
US$5.2/ha and US$10.4/ha for various sizes of model farms. This represents a
cost recovery index of 6% for a 0.3 ha farm and 12% for a 1.5 ha farm. The
corresponding rent recovery index is 8% and 53%. However, if the zakat tax
is considered as a project charge, the cost recovery index would increase to
52%. Considering the fact that even after completion of the project nearly
90% of project beneficiaries would still only receive a net income at or below
the Critical Consumption Level (para 6.08), and the absolute tax level on the
farmers, the present level of water charges are considered acceptable. No
increases in the level of water charges beyond those recently introduced by
the State Government are proposed under the project although assurances have
been obtained that the State Government would continue to collect O&M charges
whose level would be determined taking into account incentives to the farmers,
the farmers' capacity to pay, and other taxes and charges imposed upon them.
Annex 13 presents a detailed analysis of income, taxes, and cost recovery in
the Lemal area.
VI. PRODUCTION, MARKETING, PRICES AND FARM INCOME
6.01      The project would increase agricultural production in two ways.
Construction of the proposed works in Lemal and in the small irrigation scheme
areas would provide farmers with the water control they require to increase
padi yields on presently cropped land, with the techniques and varieties pres-
ently known to them and with small proportional increases in input usage which
1/   Virtually all project area farmers are Malay and hence legally liable
Moslems.



- 25 -
would not be economical unless present risks of flooding and late and insuf-
ficient delivery and drainage of water are reduced. These works would also
extend the effective cultivable land within the irrigated areas by supplying
water to fields which have never received dry season irrigation, and by drain-
ing permanently ponded areas. Besides these effects directly attributable
to irrigation, the package of agricultural support services included in the
agricultural extension and Farmers Development Center components would raise
yields of padi, groundnuts, and other crops by providing farmers instruction
in new techniques, many of which require higher cash input levels than are
now applied, and by providing the storage and distribution system (including
rural roads where necessary) to supply inputs and credit to the farmers and
to market the incremental output. While the latter effect would apply to
padi yields in Lemal and Kemubu, its maximum impact would be felt in the rain-
fed areas of North Kelantan, which until now have received a minimum of
agricultural supporting services.
Production
6.02      Average padi yields in Lemal due to improved water control facili-
ties are expected to rise from 1.75 ton/ha at present to 3.0 ton/ha for the
wet season crop, and from 2.6 ton/ha to 3.65 ton/ha in the dry season, by
1985 (Annex 11). Yields in the small scheme areas are expected to reach 2.4
ton/ha and 2.9 ton/ha in the wet and dry seasons, respectively, in 1985 (An-
nex 15). Infrastructure improvements would thus result in incremental padi
output of 37,000 tons in Lemal and 2,500 tons in the small schemes by 1985.
The effect of the agricultural support components on padi production is more
difficult to gauge, but it should be possible to raise average padi yields
by a net increment of 0.2 ton/ha in the Kemubu area and in the large rainfed
padi areas by 1985 through the agricultural extension and FDC project com-
ponents. Achieving this 9% increase in average yields would result in an
incremental output of about 18,000 tons of padi.
6.03      The agricultural support components would make positive contribu-
tions to yield improvements and increases in cropping area for several crops
besides padi, since the mixed agriculture characteristics of the region en-
sures that agents specializing in padi and groundnuts would also be regularly
meeting growers of the other crops, and few rubber, tobacco, and coconut
growers now follow the accepted cultivation practices known to even junior
level extension staff. Furthermore, the input supply and credit services
provided by FDC's would be available to support a wide range of crops. As
rubber and tobacco are primarily served by other agencies and programs, how-
ever, the major thrust of the project aside from padi would be the improve-
ment of groundnut yields and grades. Incremental production of groundnuts
due to the project is expected to amount to 2,000 tons in 1985.
Marketing and Prices
6.04      Most of the incremental padi production due to the project would
be marketed in Malaysia, particularly in the neighboring State of Trengganu,
with the remainder kept for subsistence. In either case, the project output



- 26 -
would substitute for imported high grades of Chinese and Thai rice. For pur-
poses of economic analysis, it is assumed that the mixture of grades to be
produced under the project would equal in value the standard 15% broken Thai
grade, typically traded internationally at prices 10% below those of the
Thai 5% broken grade for which the Bank's Economic Analysis and Projections
Department makes long-term projections. Except for the period 1971-72, farm-
gate padi prices in Malaysia have in recent years been below equivalent world
market prices, and there is no indication that this situation will reverse.
Padi is now generally marketed at published rates, currently US$183 per ton
for long-grained varieties and US$157 per ton for short-grained. Expansion
of the network of FDC's helps to maintain these rates through increased com-
petition for the marketed surplus, and it is increasingly common for private
dealers to offer a premium on the official rates in order to assure them-
selves sufficient turnover. In addition, provision of even small amounts
of institutional credit through FDC's and cooperatives reduces the obliga-
tion of smallholders to market their crop through private dealers.
6.05      Most of the incremental output marketed through FDC's would be
milled and distributed by the National Padi and Rice Authority, which op-
erates a large milling and drying complex located in the Kemubu project area
(15,000 ton annual capacity) and is completing a similar complex (10,000
ton annual capacity) in the Lemal area. The remainder would be milled by
the hundreds of smaller private and cooperative mills distributed throughout
the area. Milling rates for the Government and private mills are 65% and 63%
respectively . The Government mills discount the prices paid for padi with
high germination or moisture content, but these factors should be reduced by
the improved storage facilities, drying floors, and transport equipment to
be provided through FDC's under the project.
6.06      The groundnuts grown in Kelantan are generally sold to factories
in Perak for the production of Menglembu peanuts, which are sold in Malaysia
and Singapore as a confection. Prices for these nuts have fluctuated widely
in the past, both seasonally and from year to year. 1/ A processing plant of
3,500 ton annual capacity is currently under construction in Pasir Mas, with
financial participation of the Kelantan State FOA, and a second plant of
2,200 ton annual capacity is being planned by the local Farmers' Organization
in Tiga Daerah. The establishment of these facilities should stabilize local
demand for the raw products to some extent. In addition, FDC's in the pro-
ject area have recently begun to assist in the distribution, marketing and
storage of this product, though capacity has been limited by insufficient
storage facilities.
Farm Incomes
6.07      The Lemal area is statistically the most impoverished irrigation
project area in Peninsular Malaysia. Average total family income is cur-
rently about US$480 (US$90 per capita), while the median income level is
US$350 (US$65 per capita) (Annex 13). Per capita income is less than 15%
1/   Farmgate prices in 1975 ranged from a low of US$125/ton in June to a
high of US$295/ton in November.



- 27 -
of the national level, and only about half the estimated Critical Consumption
Level (CCL) for Malaysia. 1/ The distribution of income within the area is
fairly even, with 90% of the farm families earning less than the CCL. While
padi farming is the single largest source of family income, providing 48% of
the total, income from other sources, including off-farm work (30%), crops
other than padi (18%), and remittances (4%), are required to maintain bare
subsistence living standards.
6.08      The project would increase real net padi farm incomes by an average
of 82% by 1985, raising average total family income 39% to about US$667
(US$124 per capita), using present farmgate prices. Expected increases in
farmgate padi prices by the Government to levels 2/ more closely approaching
world rice price levels and stricter enforcement of existing rent control
laws would raise average family incomes to about US$785 (US$145 per capita)
in 1985. At full project development, no more than 20% of the beneficiaries
would receive incomes above the critical consumption level, as the more
affluent residents of the area are generally primarily dependent on non-farm
occupations and would receive proportionally smaller incremental incomes due
to the project. Given the overpopulation and natural conditions of the area,
this represents the most cost-effective means of dealing with the hard-core
poverty problem in Kelantan as well as the maximum impact attainable through
agricultural intensification consonant with the achievement of reasonable
economic rates of return. The project would raise few Lemal area farmers
above poverty income levels, but it would provide large proportional increases
in income to one of the poorest groups in MIalaysian society, and provide a
sufficient period of time for the planning and initiation of land settlement,
industrialization, and other development programs in Kelantan.
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
7.01      The project would provide the infrastructure facilities and sup-
porting services required to raise smallholder agricultural yields, produc-
tion, and farm incomes throughout the North Kelantan region. It is thus
closely in line with the following major objectives of Malaysian Government
policy:
(a) to improve the productivity of and incomes of small farmers;
(b) to reduce urban-rural, racial (Malay-non-Malay), and
regional (East Coast-West Coast) income disparities; and
(c) to reduce the national dependence on imported food grains.
1/   The CCL for Malaysia is estimated at M$465 (US$180) per capita in 1975,
while the country's average per capita income is M$1,700 (US$660).
2/   US$196/ton for long-grained and US$176/ton for short-grained varieties.



- 28 -
7.02      Aside from furthering basic national policies, the project would
yield high economic returns. Individual rates of return have been calculated
for the Lemal irrigation, small-scale irrigation, and rural road components.
While these calculations have not been performed for the agricultural exten-
sion and Farmers Development Center components, those components are antici-
pated to make important independent contributions to the agricultural develop-
ment of North Kelantan, as well as to ensure the economic viability of the
infrastructure components. The capital cost of the FDC's and agricultural
extension services amount to about US$55 per benefiting family (US$35/ha),
while incremental annual operating costs would amount to US$10 per family
(US$7/ha). In the calculation of a composite rate of return for the entire
project (para 7.07), an increment in annual padi production of 18,000 tons
(para 6.02), phased over the period 1977-85, has been included along with
the above costs as an estimate of the minimum independent production effect
of the two agricultural components.
7.03      In carrying out the analysis, all agricultural prices were derived
from the Bank's world market price projections. Input prices used reflect the
elimination of all known tariffs and subsidies. All farm labor was valued at
a shadow wage rate of M$1.50/day. An exchange rate of M$2.57 to US$1.00,
equivalent to the freely fluctuating market value of the Malaysian currency
from June 1975 to April 1976, was used to equate domestic and international
values. This value is considered to represent a relatively undistorted rate
and was adopted for the purposes of economic analysis.
7.04      Lemal Irrigation Component:  The rate of return of this component,
calculated solely on the basis of projected increass in padi production,
would be 42% (Annex 11). The component would also materially reduce annual
flood damages to homes, shops, vehicles, tree crops, and herds over an area
of 30,000 ha, including the town of Pasir Mas. However, as only rough
estimates of flood damages are available, these benefits were excluded from
the present analysis even though the full costs of the flood protection works
were included.  The rate of return is high for several reasons, including in
particular the anticipated speed of development of the component, the low
opportunity cost of farmers' labor in the region, and the large sunk cost of
existing facilities. The rate of development would be relatively rapid for
several reasons, including the large existing investment in pumping plant
and main and secondary canals, the long experience of Lemal area farmers
with padi double-cropping, and the relative ease of installation of GRP
flume tertiaries, as opposed to excavating channels under extremely difficult
weather and cropping constraints. A separate incremental analysis indicates
that the equalizing discount rate of the GRP flume tertiary system, as opposed
to the earth canal alternative, would be 45% (Annex 12).
7.05      Small-Scale Irrigation:  Indicative rates of return have been cal-
culated for this component (Annex 15) under two extreme assumptions regarding
the potential for padi double cropping in the scheme areas:
(a) that no double-cropping would ever be possible given the
hydrology and topography of the area, and that benefits
would consist solely of ensuring a good wet-season crop;
and



- 29 -
(b) that 50% of the net padi area of the schemes would be
double-cropped at full development.
The rate of return for case (a) would be 12%, and for case (b) 22%. All in-
dividual schemes to be constructed are expected to fall within this range.
Areas where double cropping is feasible would be given preference in deter-
mining the construction program.
7.06      Rural Roads:  The Pasir Mas - Rantau Panjang road (21 km) would
serve a high volume of existing international and local through-traffic,
amounting to about 1,400 vehicles per day at present and growing at 6% per
annum. Benefits would derive from reduced average vehicle operating costs
on the new road, shortened route length, and reduced maintenance costs on
the new alignment, which is outside the path of the annual floods. The eco-
nomic rate of return of constructing this high-standard road is 41% (Annex 14).
To evaluate the 190 km of lower-standard access roads to be constructed
under the component, model road influence areas have been developed for the
coastal, floodplain, and foothill sub-regions of North Kelantan. The models
were based on field economic surveys of eight links totalling 52 km in length
and analysis of land use maps. From these models, estimates were derived of
normal and generated passenger and goods traffic which would utilize an im-
proved access road. Benefits were calculated on the basis of reduced trans-
port costs, largely in terms of the marginal opportunity cost of farmers'
and laborers' productive time. The estimated rates of return for the various
model roads are as follows:
Sub-Region          Rate of Return
Coastal                  27%
Floodplain               32%
Foothill                 29%
Composite Rate of Return
7.07      The composite rate of return of the project, estimated by amal-
gamating the cost and benefit streams of the infrastructure components, the
cost streams of the FDC and extension components, and the net value of pro-
duction due to the agricultural components (para 7.02), is 27%.
VIII. RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government
on the following major points:



- 30 -
(a) installation of GRP flume tertiaries would be conditional
on approval by the Bank, following review of the results
of a testing program, and that should the result of the
program be negative, an alternative tertiary system
acceptable to the Bank would be installed (para 4.03);
(b) the Government would employ consultants to assist in the
implementation of the GRP flume testing program (para 4.03)
and the study of State Land Development Schemes (para 4.09)
whose qualifications, experience, and terms and con-
ditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Bank;
(c) DID would prepare feasibility reports analyzing water
demand and supply and economic returns for each small-
scale irrigation scheme to be constructed under the
project, and would forward the first three reports to
the Bank for review prior to implementation (para 4.04);
(d) a statement of annual agricultural credit requirements
would be prepared and submitted to BPM and the Bank not
later than three months prior to the beginning of each
fiscal year, and the Government would thereafter, follow-
ing consultation with the Bank, ensure that an adequate
amount of credit would be made available to project
area farmers through BPM (para 4.08);
(e) PWD would engage a firm of local surveyors and, should
delays be experienced in final engineering of the pro-
ject roads, a firm of engineering consultants to assist
in the design and construction supervision of the roads
(para 4.10);
(f) all local project costs would be borne by GOM through-
out the implementation period of the project (para 4.14);
(g) separate project accounts would be kept by the various
implementing agencies; and such accounts would be
collated by the Project Manager, audited by auditors
satisfactory to the Bank, and forwarded to the Bank
within nine months of the close of each fiscal year
(para 4.19);
(h) the various implementing agencies would prepare annual
budgets and work programs for their parts of the project,
and submit them to the Project Manager for his review
at least three months in advance of each fiscal year,
copies to be forwarded to the Bank (para 5.02);
(i) GOM would properly maintain the roads constructed or
improved under the project (para 5.08);



- 31 -
(j) all extension staff required to implement the project
would be appointed, that arrangements would be made
to finance the required staff build-up on an ongoing
basis, and that two subject matter specialists would
be appointed within four momths of loan signing
(para 5.09); and
(k) the Kelantan State Government would continue to collect
O&M charges whose level would be determined taking into
account incentives to farmers, the farmers' capacity
to pay, and other charges and taxes paid by them
(para 5.13).
8.02      Conditions of effectiveness of the Loan would be:
(a) the appointment of a suitably qualified and experienced
Project Manager in consultation with the Bank (para 5.01);
(b) establishment of a project Steering Committee (para 5.03); and
(c) the appointment of a qualified Chief Extension Officer
for the State of Kelantan in consultation with the Bank
(para 5.09).
8.03      With the above assurances, the project would be suitable for a
Bank loan of US$21 million, with a 23-year maturity and a grace period of
five years. The borrower would be the Federation of Malaysia.






ANNEX 1
Page 1
MALAYSIA
NORTH KELANTAN RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agricultural Production in Kelantan
General
1.        Estimates of present land use by district in Kelantan are presented
in Table 1. Except for rubber, agricultural activity is concentrated in the
seven northern districts. Rubber and rice are the key crops, but groundnut
and tobacco grown on relatively small plots in the off-season provide an
important source of farm income to many farm families. About 65% of the rub-
ber is grown by smallholders, 22% on estates, and the balance is under State
Land Development Schemes. The sale of rubber and rubber tapping have long
been the major sources of cash income in Kelantan.
Padi Production
2.        According to official statistics, about 80,000 ha of padi were
harvested in 1973-74. About 23,000 ha were irrigated and double-cropped
(46,000 ha harvested) and 34,000 ha were rainfed, wet padi or dry padi grown
during the main season. Preliminary reports for 1974-75 indicate that the
padi area harvested increased 25% to 100,000 ha in that year, of which
27,000 ha were irrigated and double-cropped and 46,000 ha rainfed. Table 2
details production trends over the past seven years.
3.        Total production increased by 23% in the period 1969-73, largely
due to an expansion in the irrigated and dry-season rice area. The area of
main-season wet padi land has remained fairly constant, indicating that the
bulk of land suitable for padi is already utilized. The area of dry padi
has decreased appreciably, due to low yields and areas brought under irri-
gation schemes. The key source of variation in annual padi production is
the yield and harvested area of main-season wet padi. Regular flooding of
the lowlands leads to crop loss and yield reduction, which was particularly
severe in 1973-74, when only 80% of the padi land was harvested in the wet
season. Current estimated State-wide yields for harvested land, assuming
normal weather conditions, are 1.9 and 2.3 ton/ha for wet padi in the wet
and dry seasons, respectively, and 1.3 ton/ha for dry padi. Even allowing
for the rather low fertility of East Coast soils, these yields are poor and
reflect low standards of management and lack of cash inputs.
4.        Padi is the main smallholder crop in the North Kelantan region
and the key source of rural employment and farm income. In rainfed areas
the main season crop is planted in the August - October period and harvested
in February - March. In irrigated areas the water supply schedule is set
to allow the main season crop to be planted in October and harvested in



ANNEX 1
Page 2
February-March, and the off-season crop to be planted in April and harvested
in September. However, under both rainfed and irrigated conditions many
farmers do not plant at the optimum times. About 60 percent of the land is
prepared by four-wheeled and two-wheeled tractors, with the remainder pre-
pared by buffalo plough and hand. Lack of tractors or availability at the
right time is a constraint in some areas. About 60 percent of farmers plant
long-strawed long-duration (160 - 210 days) native varieties in the wet sea-
son as a precaution against flood damage. The majority plant the improved
varieties Mahsuri and Bahagia (135 - 140 days) in the dry season, but it
appears that many farmers retain their own seed rather than take new seed
from the Department of Agriculture.
5.        Most farmers use some fertilizer, and crude estimates suggest an
average application rate equivalent to about 20 kg N/ha which is less than
half of the optimal application for improved varieties. Limited nitrogen
response data indicates relatively low ratios of grain produced per unit
of nitrogen applied, which would discourage fertilizer use. This is pro-
bably related to the use of non-responsive varieties, incorrect methods
and timing of application, poor water management and lack of adequate weed
and pest control. Currently, few farmers weed their crops adequately, since
without reasonable inputs of fertiliser, weed growth is not vigorous and
readily apparent. Stemborer, leafhoppers, rice bugs and rats probably re-
gularly reduce yields by 15 - 20 percent, but only about 20 percent of far-
mers practise pest control. Pest control is largely restricted to serious
outbreaks when levels of damage are much higher and the Department of Agri-
culture Pest Control Unit is called in.
6.        Since all operations with the exception of ploughing are carried
out by hand, the rice crop absorbs a lot of labor. At current yield
levels, returns to labor and investment in irrigation are rather low.
Introduction of measures to improve cultural technique is the lowest cost
and most rapid method of improving the income of the majority of farm fami-
lies. It is clear that timely planting, use of good seed, intelligent use
of fertilizer, and effective weed and pest control could increase yields
appreciably. Key constraints to implementing such a program at present are:
lack of an effective extension service in regular contact with the farmer;
recommendations which may not always have a sound technical and economic
basis; lack of operating capital on the smaller farms; and the failure of
institutional credit systems to reach the masses of poor farmers.
Groundnut
7.        Groundnut is a relatively new crop which has developed rapidly
over the past five years to an area of about 3,500 ha. Production is cen-
tered on the lighter well drained soils of the Kelantan valley, the Pergau
valley and Machang and Tanah Merah districts. However, it is often grown
on padi land in rotation with main season rice. Yields are highly variable,
depending on soil type and cultural technique, and range from 1,500 kg to



ANNEX I
Page 3
3,700 kg of fresh wet nut in shell per ha. The Department of Agriculture
estimates current average yield at 2.4 ton per ha and total State production
at about 8,000 tons per year.
8.        Almost all growers plant 0.2 - 0.4 ha of groundnut as a supple-
mentary crop to some other major enterprise, e.g. rubber or rice. Maturing
in about 100 days, it can be successfully planted from January to July. Most
growers plant in June and harvest in September - October, to avoid clashes
with rice operations. The land is ploughed by tractor and the seeds are
planted by hand at about 20 x 20 or 30 x 30 cm spacing. Varieties in use
are not clearly identified and are classed locally as "Two seeded Indonesian"
or "Three seeded Siamese" cultivars. Although the Department of Agriculture
recommends the application of compound fertiliser and lime and careful hand-
weeding, few farmers follow recommendations or attempt to control pests. The
crop is harvested by hand and sold in gunny bags to a kampong dealer or the
Farmers' Organization who act as agents for a local factory or groundnut pro-
cessors located in Ipoh. The bulk of nuts are processed and sold in the
shell, using the local Menglembu process. This involves washing and then
sun drying, roasting and packaging. The Malaysian market is seasonal, but
exports have been effected through Singapore traders. As with rice, substan-
tial gains in yields are possible given an effective extension service and
regular supply of good seed of improved varieties.
Tobacco Production
9.        Kelantan produces the bulk of Malaysia's Virginia Tobacco which
constitutes about 50 percent of local consumption. Initiated as a commercial
crop in 1959 by the Malaysian Tobacco Company, the area has expanded to more
than 7,000 ha by virtue of its high potential returns relative to other crops.
As the average family can only adequately manage 1 - 3,000 plants (0.06 -
0.18 ha), the crop is an important source of cash income to a large number of
families. The crop is currently organized around Independent Tobacco Producers
(TP's) who are registered with the National Tobacco Board to operate curing
barns and supply a quota of flue-cured leaf. The TP's distribute their quota
to registered growers within reasonable proximity to their curing barns and
are responsible for providing credit and advisory services. To provide con-
tinuity of supply, growers are organized to stagger planting over the period
January to June. The average crop spends 4 weeks in the seedbed, 3 weeks in
pots, 6 weeks as a developing field crop, and 6 - 8 weeks for harvest. Total
crop duration is thus about 4 1/2 - 5 months, of which only 3 months is spent
in the field. Since the crop requires only small areas of land and seedbeds
can be started on kampong land before another field crop is harvested, it
can readily be fitted in with other farm operations. Most tobacco land
is ploughed and ridged by tractor, but all other operations are done by
hand.
10.       The agronomy of the rainfed crop is fairly well known, and specific
cultural recommendations are available to ensure the production of a good
quality crop. Further, there is an assured reasonably well organized market
for good quality leaf. Unfortunately, the crop has spread on to marginal



ANNEX 1
Page 4
soils, too many curing barns have been established, and the standard of
credit and extension services operated through some of the TP's leaves a lot
to be desired. As a result, average yields and quality have dropped below
the levels achieved in the late 60's when the lIalaysian Tobacco Company
largely controlled production. The National Tobacco Board is now working
on these problems.  If this industry, which is so important to many small-
holders, is to be maintained and expanded, measures must be taken to pro-
vide adequate extension and credit services to all growers, restrict the
production of tobacco on marginal soils, and organize the grading, pricing
and marketing of the crop to encourage production of high quality leaf.



AN4EX 1
Table 1
MALAYSIA
NORTH KELANTAN RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimates of Present Land Use in Kelantan
(Planted Areas)
Main Season   Off-Season
District        Padi           Padi        Tobacco    Groundnut    Rubber       Coconuts
(ha '000)    (ha '000)    (ha 'OOO)   (ha '000)   (ha '000)   (ha '000)
Khota Bharu       14>.2          11.2          0.8         0.4           8.7         3.7
Bachok             7.8            2.9          1.8         0.3           1.1         4.6
Pasir Puteh        12.1           2.3          1.3          0.1          5.7         4.3
Thmpat             6.7            1.4          0.6         0.1           0.5         2.6
Pasir Mas         15.7            4.3          1.7         0.4          10.9         1.1
Machang             4.9           0.1          0.6          0.5         11.2         0.1
Tanah Merah         1.9           0.4          0.1         0.6          18.7         0.3
Ulu Kelantan         -             -           0.1          1.1         455 
Total        63.3           22.6          7.0         3.5         102.3        16.7
3ource:  Kelantan State Department of Agriculture, 1974.



ANNEX 1
Table 2
MALAYSIA
NORTH KELANTAN RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Trends in Padi Production - Kelantan
Wet Season                              Dry Season
Wet Padil                 Dry PadilY                 Wet Padi
Total
Season      AreaV.    Production       Area      Production       Area     Production   Production
('000 ha)   ('000 ton)   ('000 ha)   ('000 ton)   ('000 ha)   ('000 ton)   ('000 ton)
1068-69     69.4          132.5        6.6           9.1          7.8         22.1          163.8
1Q69-70     66.5          142.4        6.7           9.7         10.4         27.2          179.5
1970-71     67.1          157.8        6.7          10.4          7.1          20.0         188.2
iQ71-72     66.6          ijo.6         5.9          8.0         17.1         48.7          187.5
1972-73     68.0          151.6        2.1           2.6         19.9         47.9          202.3
1973-7h     54.)4         118.6        2.6           3.6         22.6         56.3          178.6
1974-75     70.3          146.9         2.7          3.3         27.3         67.0          217.2
1/ Wet padi refers to padi grown in bunded fields which retain water. Dry padi refers to
padi which is seeded on upland areas with no provision for water control.
2/ Estimated harvested area.
Source:  Padi and Ricg Statistics, Peninsular Malaysia  Ministry of Agriculture, various
years.



ANNEX 2
Page 1
MALAYSIA
NORTH KELANTAN RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LEMAL IRRIGATION COMPONENT
Water Supply, Demand and Quality
Climate
1.        The Kelantan climate is tropical and is dominated by the Northeast
monsoon in the October-February period and to a lesser extent by the South-
west monsoon in the May-September period. Average monthly rainfall at five
stations encompassing the Lemal irrigation component area is shown in Table 1
for the period 1960 - 1974. As can be seen, the rainfall is quite uniform
over the project area but varies considerably throughout the year.  Also, the
rainfall intensity is highly variable. During the November-January period an
intensity of 162 mm per hour and a monthly rainfall of the order of 1,000 mm
have been recorded.  The very high rainfall in the project area and in the
surrounding hills coupled with topographic features causes flooding (in the
November-January period) almost every year, while rainfall in the period
February-October is too variable to sustain an off-season rice crop without
supplementary irrigation.
Water Supply
2.        The sources of supply for the irrigation project are the Lemal and
Kelantan rivers. A diversion structure at Tok Uban on the Lemal River di-
verts flow into the main canal serving the Lemal and Alor Pasir sub-areas.
The gravity water supply is augmented by pumping from the Kelantan River, at
Lemal, about 6 km downstream from the diversion works. The pumping plant,
built in 1968, has 4 electric driven pumps, each having a capacity of
6.09 m /sec. The Pasir Mas sub-area is serviced by a pumping plant, built
in 1958, located on the Kelantan River 3at Kampong Kasar. It has 3 electric
driven pumps with a capacity of 1.42 m /sec each. Gravity diversion is
used to the extent of water available in the Lemal River. However, the
dependable flow of the Lemal River is limited. Thi 10-year average, two-
week low flow is estimated to be approximately 1 m /sec. Water supply for
the project therefore depends largely on the Kelantan River.
3.        About 20 years of reliable streamflow records of the Kelantan
River are available from the station at Guillemard Bridge. The station
is situated about 30 km upstream of the pumps serving the KImubu Project.
At the gauging point the river has a catchment of 11,900 km . A 10-year



ANNEX 2
Page 2
low 1/ flow is estimated to be 102 m /sec (see Figure 1). An examination
of the annual low flow characteristics of the river shows that the low flow
occurs during the months of March through August (see Figure 2). These are
also the months of highest irrigation demands.
4.        There are two projects, in addition to Lemal, which have as their
source of water the Kelantan Ri 3er. These are the Salor and Kemubu Projects.
Their maximum dsmands are 2.3 m /sec and 28.3 m /sec respectively, for a
total of 30.6 m /sec. This total subtracted from the 10 year flow leaves
over 70 m /sec for the Lemal Project.
Demand
5.        For purposes of computing demand, it is assumed that two crops of
padi will be grown annually throughout the Lemal area. To take advantage of
the relatively dry months of March and September for harvest, fields should
be prepared for planting (presaturated) during the months of April and
October. The irrigation schedule is as follows:
Dry               Wet
Activity                         Days      Season            Season
Presaturation & Nursery                30   April 1 - 30        Oct 1 - 30
Normal irrigation                      120   May 1 - Aug 30    Nov 1 - Jan 30
Draining                                15   Sept 1 - 15        Feb 1 - 15
Harvesting                              15   Sept 15 - 30       March 15 - 30
6.        In practice, the irrigation efficiency is much higher during the
presaturation period than during the normal irrigation period. The seepage
losses would be nearly constant throughout the year but generally very low
(less than 10%) in the clayey soils. The primary contributors to ineffi-
ciency are operational waste and farm waste. Both of these are signif-
icantly lower during the presaturation period than during the normal seasons.
The following systems/irrigations efficiencies were therefore assumed:
45% during normal 120-day season; and
65% during 30-day presaturation season.
1/   The low flow that has a recurrence interval of 10 years.  In 9 out
of 10 years, this flow would be exceeded.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
7.        The following table develops the water demand:
Dry Season            Wet Season
30 days  120 days    30 days   120 days  Total
------(mm) -------    -------(mm)-------  -(mm)
Saturation                          110      -              100       -        210
Evaporation                         125      -              115       -        240
Percolation                          25      100             25      100       250
Flooding                             75       50             75       50       250
Evapotranspiration                   -       650             -       600    1,250
Sub-Total                      335     800            315       750    2,200
Effective Rainfall                   25      400             80      500    1,005
Total Water Needed             310     400            235       250    1,195
Diversion Required                  477      889            362      556    2,284
System/Irrigation Efficiency (%)   65         45             65       45        52
The evaporation, evapotranspiration and percolation rates are based
on field tests.  Total flooding of 125 mm per crop is based on agricultural
practice. Effective rainfall was derived from observed daily rainfall, allow-
ing the pondage in the padi field to fluctuate with the growth of crops to a
maximum depth of 50 mm in the first month and 150 mm in succeeding months.
On this basis, effective rainfall was calculated to be 425 mm in the dry sea-
son and 580 mm in the wet season. Some 2,284 mm of water have to be diverted
by gravity and pumping to meet the annual crop water requirement of 1,195 mm,
resulting in an overall annual irrigation efficiency of 52%.
8.        The largest demand is during the 30-day presaturation period start-
ing April 1 when 477 mm of water must be supplied.  This is equivalent to
4,770 m /ha or about 47 Mm for the 9,990 ha Sungei Lemal - Alor Pasir serv-
ice area.  A 30-day diversion of 18.2 m /sec would 3be needed to meet Shis re-
quirement. Subtracting a gravity diversion of I m /sec leaves 17.2 m /sec
that must be supplied by pumping. This is considerably below the designed
capacity of the Lemal pumping plant. Three pumps could meet the demand,
permitting one pump to 3be on reserve. Similarly, the pumps at the Pasir Mas
area must supply 3.9 m /sec, which is fithin the capacity of the pumping
plant. The total demand of about 22 m /seS during the month of April is
easily met by the available supply of 70 m /sec in the Kelantan River
(para 4).



ANNEX 2
Page 4
9.        Although the Kelantan River is quite turbid, its suitability for
irrigation is excellent. Water from the Kelantan River has been used for
irrigation in this area for many years with no ill effects. From three
samples taken in October 1974, the mean value for pH was found to be 7.1
and dissolved solids 82 ppm.



ANNEX 2
Table 1
KALAYSIA
NORTH KELANTAN RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LEMAL IRRIGATION COMPONEMT
Average MonthlY Rainfall (1960-1974)
(mm)
Kg. Machang    Pengkalan      Tumpat      Bachok
Kembang     Police       Kubor Salor    Railway      Railway
Month       Bahru       Station      Pumphouse      Station     Station
(001) V     (0057) Y       (0060) V     (0067) j/   (0074) V
January         223          244           177           195         175
February        104          100           125            52           70
March            76           82             77           82           96
April            76           79            77            70          121
May             147          169            143          119          117
June            141          146           214           139          119
July            155          140           204           189          157
August          199          212            202          148          200
September       238          203           280           245          195
October         252          309           264           290          295
November        388          384            417          562          613
December        495          646            547          584          605
Total    2,494        2,714         2,727         2,675       2,763
j/ See Map 12003 for location of the stations identified by number.
Source: Rainfall records based on DID rain gauge stations.



ANNEX 2
Table 2
MALAYSIA
NORTH KELANTAN RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LEMhL IRRIGATION CCHPONENT
Effective Rainfall Analysis (Pasir Ibas Pump~house)
(Daily rainfall between 5 and 50 mu
considered effective)
Year               April                 October
(n m)           ~~~(mm)
1960                51.05                 212.09
1961               134.11                 309.37
1962                11.94                 176.78
1963                35-56                 185.17
1964                24.38                 218.44
1965                64.77                 329.69
1966               42.67                  471.68
1967                26.92                 189.74
1968                49.78                 263.91
1969                33.53                 223.01
1970               145.80                 2o6.25
1971                0.00                  284.99
1972               156.46                 219.46
1973                26.42                 334.26
1974                76.20                 203.96
Mean                58.67                 255.27
Ptandard            149.02                 79.140
Deviation            -                      -
Coefficient
of Variation        84%                    31%



MALAYSIA
NORTH KELANTAN RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Lemal Irrigation Component
Analysis of low flows (lowest average for 14 consecutive days) of Kelantan River
566                               -     -         _ _          _ _ _
227                                                                           ___ _
198                                                                          ______B
~? 170                                                                           _ _  __                                  _ _  _  _   _ _
z 142                         _ _
Z
(D   113                                                                                                                                                                  _  _ _  _  _ _  _
Co 85
1.01              1.1     1.2  1.3      1.5           2               3         4       5    6    7   8  9  10                     20          30      40    50                   100
RECURRENCE INTERVAL IN YEARS
World Bank-15798






MALAYSIA
NORTH KELANTAN RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Lemal Irrigation Component
Kelantan River - fortnightly average of low flow discharges at Guillemard Bridge
700
600       H
2IJ                                                                      I    I    I    I     I    I
|0                                                                frqunc  of 26       20 1year    9 1  1 1  3 141  6 1  8 19 2  1 2       3 24 2          6L ]a
CD
400
LU
uJ
m~~
2 00
100
0
0   24   25   26   1    2    3    4    5    6    7   8    9   10   11   12   13   14  15   16   17  18   19   20   21   22   23   24   25   26[jj
PERIOD OF THE YEAR (fortnight)                                                                                            r>
World Bank -15799






ANNEX 3
Page 1
MALAYSIA
NORTH KELANTAN RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LEMAL IRRIGATION COMPONENT
Project Works
The Lemal Irrigation Area
1.        The Lemal Irrigation Area is bounded by the Kelantan River on the
east and extends in some places to the Golok River (the Thai border) on the
west. The northern boundary is the lowland along the South China Sea. The
gross area of 20,000 ha is divided into three sub-areas--Pasir Mas, Sungei
Lemal, and Alor Pasir--all of which are included within the boundaries of the
Kemubu Agricultural Development Authority (KADA), a regional authority which
also manages the Kemubu Irrigation Project (Loan 500-MA) on the eastern side
of the Kelantan River. In addition to the Lemal area, the town of Pasir Mas
and an area known as Kubang Gadong 1/, outside the boundaries of KADA, would
benefit from flood control works included in the component. The Lemal area
is farmed by approximately 16,000 families.
2.        The higher ground in the Lemal project area is occupied by kampongs
(settlements), roads, rubber and coconut trees, orchards, and tobacco fields,
leaving 12,000 ha of padi fields in the total gross area of 20,000 ha. The
sub-areas are as follows:
(a) The Sungei Lemal irrigation sub-area (9,300 ha of potential
padi land) receives its water supply from the Lemal and
Kelantan Rivers. A diversion structure at Tok Uban on the
Lemal River diverts flow into the main canal serving the
irrigated area. The gravity water supply is augmented by
pumping from the Kelantan River, at Lemal, about 6 km down-
stream of the headworks. The pumping plant hai 4 electric
driven pumps, each having a capacity of 6.09 m   per second.
The system includes 113 km of main canal and laterals, water
level control structures (checks), offtakes (turnouts) and
drainage crossings. The scheme was completed in 1968 but
the area has not been fully irrigated. In 1969 4,000 ha
were double-cropped for the first time. The double-cropped
area increased to about 5,700 ha in 1974. Frequent break-
downs of the electric pump motors caused by faulty design
has restricted irrigation, but rectification work is in
progress and should be completed in 1976;
1/   The area includes 4,100 ha of agricultural land, of which 1,600 are
suitable for padi.



ANNEX 3
Page 2
(b) The Alor Pasir irrigation scheme (600 ha of potential
padi land) was completed in 1970 as an extension to the
Sungei Lemal scheme. Since its completion in 1970, about
280 ha have been double-cropped; and
(c) The Pasir Mas irrigation scheme (2,100 ha of padi land)
is the oldest scheme in the area, having been completed
in 1958. It is served by a pumping plant on the Kelantan
River at Kampong Kasar. The plint has three electric
pumps with a capacity of 1.42 m  per second each.  They
have performed satisfactorily, and 65% of the project
area has been doubled-cropped since 1962.
Existing Irrigation Facilities
3.        There are 156 km of main and secondary canals in the Lemal area,
and only about 10 km of tertiary canals. Farmers were encouraged to con-
struct field channels from turnout structures in the past, but without much
success. The existing field channels, totalling 80 km, are poorly made, in-
efficient, and costly to maintain.
4.        Very few turnouts are equipped with water measuring devices.  Irri-
gation water is discharged directly from canal to field or from field channel
to field, flowing from field to field until it reaches the lowest and far-
thest fields from the point of initial diversion. This system causes many
difficulties:
(a) There is an unduly long lag in time between service of the
first irrigated plot to service of the plot farthest from the
canal. Often the most distant plots are 3 km from the turnout,
and the time lapse for service may exceed 30 days. In a
double-cropping system, lag time of 30 days places affected
farms out-of-phase with the cropping seasons;
(b) In its movement from plot to plot, the water must often cross
and fill depressions before its flow continues. As these
depressions may range from 10 cm to more than 30 cm below the
next lowest field, the water either continues to inundate
the higher field until sufficient head is built up for its
advance, or it flows into a drainage channel connected to
the depression and fails to advance further. Thus, the area
beyond is deprived of its service. Deep water conditions
in depression areas hamper planting activities;
(c)  Because water released from the turnouts is unmeasured, there
is wastage through over-supply or deprivation through under-
supply. This condition aggravates the situations described
in (a) and (b) above.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
Existing Drainage Facilities
5.        The present drainage is composed of natural streams, improved in
some places, and a few gulleys (alors). On-farm and collector drains
complementary to the irrigation system are almost nonexistent. The north-
western and southwestern parts of the Lemal sub-area are drained by several
small streams while the Selehong River drains the northeastern part. The
streams have flat to moderately flat gradients and most have been improved
to some extent by DID. There are two "alors" in the Pasir Mas subarea;
otherwise, natural drainage channels in that area are conspicuously absent.
6.        Because of inadequate drainage facilities, low-lying areas are
perpetually inundated and about 10% of the project area, much of which was
used for padi before the schemes were constructed, cannot be cultivated.
Poor drainage also hampers machine movement and mechanized farming, while
proper drainage of fields prior to harvesting is seldom possible.
Flooding
7.        During the monsoonal months (October-February) the project area
is usually at least partially flooded by both the Kelantan and Golok Rivers.
A 20 year frequency flood subjects over half the area to inundation. Floods
occuring in the monsoon season are preceded by severe rainstorms and rivers
often reach bankful stage within 48 to 72 hours.  The Kelantan River overtops
its banks in the vicinity of Pasir Mas.  From there the flood waters spread
in a northwesterly direction, following the general direction of slope of the
area. Further downstream the Kelantan also overflows its bank at Pasir Pekan
and spreads its flow northwesterly over project lands. The Golok River
overtops at Kampong Guntong spreading overland into the western part of the
area. Further downstream (north of Meranti) the entry of flood waters into
the project area is prevented by a levee (the Golok River bund).
8.        The duration of flooding, following the overtopping of river banks,
varies from a few days in some parts to as long as one month in other parts,
and the inundation depth varies from 1 to 3 m. Flood water entering the
area from the upstream side is typically trapped behind the existing Golok
River bund, and evacuation in this area is particularly slow. In addition
to flooding from river overflows, the project also suffers from flooding by
local rain storms. This occurs where there is insufficient drainage, par-
ticularly in the Pasir Mas sub-area.
Roads and Access
9.        The area is served by several classes of roads including unsurfaced
roads on the banks of main canals. The area is served by about 90 km of
asphalt surfaced roads built to PWD standards and maintained by that agency.
It also has about 120 km of laterite roads under the jurisdiction of District
Officers. The operation and maintenance roads on the main canal banks have
no surfacing and are only usable in dry weather. Many parts of the area are
still more than 2 km from a usable access road.



ANNEX 3
Page 4
The Project Works
10.       The works included in the Lemal irrigation component would improve
a gross area of about 30,000 ha. They would include:
(a) Rehabilitation of existing canal systems and construction of
tertiary and quaternary distribution and drainage systems to
serve 12,000 net irrigable ha of padi in Lemal;
(b) Flood protection and major drainage works to serve the 20,000
gross ha in Lemal, 4,000 gross ha in Kubang Gadong, and about
6,000 ha in and around the town of Pasir Mas; and
(c) Construction and improvement of about 100 km of access roads
in Lemal.
11.       Irrigation and On-Farm Drainage:  The major element in the compo-
nent would be the installation of a tertiary distribution system, consisting
of 187 km of glass-reinforced polyester (GRP) flumes, 768 control and pro-
tective structures on the tertiary system, and 200 flume crossings. In addi-
tion, existing main and secondary systems would be improved by constructing
measuring devices at secondary canal offtakes, modifying existing check
structures, and constructing new ones to permit water delivery to the ter-
tiary system at discharges greater than the present rate. Below the tertiary
level, 500 km of unlined quaternary canals would be constructed to deliver
water to 10 ha units, while an average of about 100 ha would be served by
each tertiary. A total of 600 km of tertiary and quaternary drains is also
included in the component, with quaternary drains evacuating excess water
from 10 ha units. Tertiary drains would convey water to new (para 16) or
existing collector drains. Table 1 summarizes the works, while Table 2 pre-
sents the estimated cost of the works on a per/ha basis.
12.       The design of the GRP flumes 1/ is an innovative concept integrally
utilizing two materials, GRP and hardwood. GRP is a light, impact-resistant,
non-brittle construction material widely used in piping, boat hull and build-
ing construction, and many other applications. It is composed of resilient
durable polyester resin reinforced with fibreglass. Used alone, GRP would be
too expensive a material for flume construction, while wood alone would not
be sufficiently durable. Structurally combined, the GRP furnishes water-
tightness, durability 2/, and high-tensile strength. The wood also furnishes
tensile strength, but its main function is to provide compressive strength,
1/   See Figure 1.
2/   The resin is pigmented with carbon black to resist the weathering
effects of sunlight.



ANNEX 3
Page 5
stiffness, and lateral support. The wood is a very dense, straight, knot-
free local product. It is completely encased by the GRP in the flume
structure and fully protected from the elements. While the polyester resin
and fibreglass materials are imported, the manufacture of the product in
Malaysia is highly labor-intensive. The materials are applied by hand in
successive layers on a steel mold and cured at ambient outdoor temperatures.
On-site construction is also labor-intensive, with pile-driving done manually
by four men, and field-welding of the 6 m (20 ft) sections by hand placement
of resin and fibreglass to provide a continuous water-tight section.
13.       ENEX, a consortium of New Zealand engineering firms currently
engaged in the Kelantan River Basin Study, would prepare topographic maps for
the Lemal project area on a scale of 1:5,000. To make the maps suitable for
laying out on-farm works, ENEX would obtain sufficient topographic details
to permit drawing of 0.25 m-interval contours.
14.       The Drainage and Irrigation Department (DID) would lay out the
on-farm works to suit the topography, existing irrigation, road and drainage
networks and village and ownership boundaries. They would also design and
construct the various works to the following standards:
(a) GRP Flumes
Material--Resilient polyester reinforced with fibrous glass
(Manning's n = 0.013).
Thickness--2.0 - 3.0 mm.
Gross-Section--Trapezoidal with 1:3 side slopes.
Stiffeners--Hardwood ribs, struts and beams (Figure 1).
Supports--Hardwood piles spaced 6.0 m apart and driven 0.60 -
0.90 m into the ground.
Joints--10 cm end laps welded with resin or butted ends welded
with resin to 15 cm backing strips.
Capacity--130 1/sec (average)
Longitudinal Slope--0.0006 which corresponds roughly to
average slope of irrigated land.
Invert Elevation--To be set such that water surface in flume
would be about 30 cm above field level.
Crossings--Spaced 0.8 - 1.0 km apart to facilitate crossing
of equipment and farm animals.



ANNEX 3
Page 6
(b) Quarternary Canals
Material--Partly excavated and partly compacted earthfill.
Cross-Section--Trapezoidal with 1.5:1 side slopes.
Capacity--To be based on peak delivery of 1.35 1/sec/ha.
Longitudinal Slope--0.0006 to correspond roughly with slope
of irrigated land.
Invert Elevation--To be set such that water surface in canal
would be about 15 cm above field level.
Maximum Length--0.5 km.
(c) Tertiary and Quarternary Drains
Material--Partly excavated and partly compacted earthfill.
Cross-Section--Trapezoidal with 1.5:1 side slopes.
Capacity--To be based on draining within 72 hours excess iater
resulting from a five-year storm (1.2 m /sec/km ).
Invert Elevation--To be set to enable collection of excess water
from lowest portion of field and emptying of collected
water into the secondary or main drains.
15.       Flood Control and Major Drainage Works:  The flood control works
would include two dikes along the Kelantan River at Pasir Mas (7.3 km) and
Pasir Pekan (4.5 km) and a dike along the Golok River upstream of Kuala
Lamba (16.6 km).  The locations of these works (Map 12004) have been selected
on the basis of flood maps prepared by ENEX for the Kelantan River Basin
Study. DID, with assistance from ENEX, would design the dikes for the
50-year flood which would also preclude overbank flow at the above reaches
during passage of a flood equivalent to the 1967 flood, the maximum flood of
record. DID would design the dikes to the following standards:
Construction Material--Earth, except 4.9 km of the Pasir Mas
dike, which would be a reinforced concrete retaining wall
to minimize right-of-way acquisition in the town area.
Top Width--4.5 m.
Side Slopes--2:1.
Freeboard--0.6 m above the 1967 flood level and more than one meter
for the 50-year design flood.



ANNEX 3
Page 7
16.       In addition to the above flood control works, DID would improve
72 km of existing primary and secondary drains and construct 39 km of new
drains to speed up the evacuation of local flood waters to the sea (Table 3).
DID would design the drains for a capacity of 1.2 m3/sec/km2 to ensure that
excess water resulting from a storm of five-year frequency would be dis-
charged to the sea within 72 hours. About 75% of the gross area to be
served is above the 1.5 m contour, and is feasible for free gravity drain-
age. The remainder of the area would require bunding, and gravity drainage
would take place during low tide. Supplementary pumped drainage would be
provided, where necessary, to prevent damage to crops.
Access Roads
17.       The component would include the widening and surfacing of about
10 km of canal bank to facilitate operation and maintenance of the irrigation
system, as well as serving light local farm traffic. Heavier traffic would
be served by 90 km of access roads to be newly constructed or upgraded from
existing tracks. The layout of these roads is based on the criterion of
providing good access within no more than 1.2 km distance from any padi
field. The sub-base of these roads would be compacted hauled fill, 5 m wide,
raised 0.6 m above the highest level of irrigation water in neighboring padi
fields. The surfacing would be compacted laterite, 3 m wide and 0.2 m thick.
Both the layout and the standards of the access roads are integrated with
the rural roads to be constructed under the project outside of Lemal, by PWD.
Implementation
18.       The proposed implementation schedule is shown in Figure 2.  Contour
mapping and planning began in December 1975, and would proceed into 1977.
The component would be divided into three packages, one each for flood pro-
tection dikes (US$1.6 million), major drainage works (US$0.8 million), and
access roads (US$1.6 million), which would be carried out under contracts
awarded after competitive bidding advertised locally in accordance with
Government procedures satisfactory to the Bank. Subject to review of the
results of an accelerated testing program, the GRP flume tertiary system
(US$4.0 million) would be installed under a central national contract awarded
in August 1975 after the same locally advertised competitive bidding procedures.
The dispersed, labor-intensive construction of quaternary canals and on-farm
drains would be constructed by DID on force account. Construction of the
tertiary canal system would begin in mid-1977.
Organization and Management
19.       DID would be responsible for maintaining the works during construc-
tion. Upon completion of the works, KADA would assume responsibility for
operating and maintaining the systems and all DID-constructed roads, except
some 21 km of access roads which would be extensively used by through-traffic
and which would be maintained by PWD. Since DID provides the engineering



ANNEX 3
Page 8
capability for KADA, continuity in the 0 & M function is assured. The
Ministry of Agriculture would provide KADA with an annual allocation of
M$2,170/km for maintenance of roads under its jurisdiction. Quarternary
canals and on-farm drainage works would be maintained by farmers under
the direction of DID staff. For this purpose, DID would organize farmers
into water-user groups based on the Small Agricultural Units to be
established under the agricultural extension and FDC components. Table 6
presents the staffing needs of the system for 0 & M, while Table 5 details
estimated recurrent 0 & M costs.
20.       To ensure adequate maintenance of project works, a complete set
of maintenance equipment would be provided to DID under the project. This
equipment, listed in Table 4, would formally become the property of KADA
when that Authority assumes responsibility for maintaining the completed
project works.



A KM EX 3
Table 1
MALAYSIA
NCRTH KELAITmAN RURAL DEVELOPWENT PROJECT
LEMAL IRBIGATION COMONENT
On-Farm Wvlorks
For 1.0 ha                 For 12,000 ha
,.uantity      Length       Quantity       Length
GRP Flumes (Tertiaries)                  -          15.6 m           -          187 km
Q^uaternar7 Canals                       -          1 .7 rm          -          500 km
Canal Structures                     0.06              -          768
Tertiary & "uaternarv Drains             - 40.0 m                    -          600 km
Right-of-}ay                         150 m2            -          180 ha           -
Access Roeds                             -           7.5 m           -            90 km



ANNEX 3
Table 2
MIALAYSIA
NORTH KEIANITAN RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LEKAL IRK'-TATION CONIPOYENT
Estimated Cost of On-Farm Wsorks
US$/ha
GRP Flumes (Tertiaries)                    340)
Quaternary Canals                           46
Canal Structures                            40
Tertiary & Quaternary Dra-ins               80
Access Roads                                50
Totall/                          556t
1/ Not including contingencies (1i55) and
engineering, supervision and administration
(10%).



ANTT EX 3
T bi c c
MIALAYSIA
NORTH KELANTAN RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LEMAL IRRIGATION COMPONENT
Flood Control and Primary Drainage Works
Quantity      Length
Reha.bilitation
Existing Drains                          -         72.0 km
Earthwork                          0.5 Mn
Existing Drainege Structures          2               -
New Works
Flood Control Dikes                      -         23.5 kr.
Earthwork                           0.7 Mm3         _
Reinforced Concrete Flood Wall           -          4.9 km
Primary Drains                           -         39.0 km
Earthwork                           1.4 Mm          -
Drainage Structures                   6
Right-of- Jav                         230 ha



ANNEX 3
Table 
MALAYSIA
NORTH KEIANTAN RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
'-i.  I'--r' Iul r'ru'Kljuji l
Eoquipmen4j List
Item                  Number       Unit Cost      Total Cost
--(-)-
Dragline, 3/4 c.y.                    2         100,000          200,000
Hydraulic Excavator                   4          120,000         480,000
Danp Truck                            1          25,000           25,000
Tractor, 60 Hp with blade             1          20,000           20,000
Grader, 120 Hp, 6-wheel               1          70,000           70,000
Road Roller, 5 tons                   1           40,000          40,000
Field Vehicle, 4-wheel drive          3           17,000          51,000
Mobile PLmps, 5 cusec.                5           15,000          75.000
Sub-Total                                              961,000
Spares                                                           219,000
Total                                                1,180,000
1/ For estimating purposes only. The implementation agencies may make
adjustments as necessary during project implementation.



AX8N EX 3
Ta-b'e 5
MALLYSIA
NORTH KELANT'AN RURAL 3DEVrOPM3EN r PRCJECT
Estimated Annual Operation and Maintenance ,osts
M~~~N,3t/ku ir^}:^e        MWh a
Main & Secondary Canals                      1,142             -              16
Main & Secondary Canal Structures              -                  25 
GR'LP Flurmes (Tertiaries)                     267
Lertiary Structures                           -                  20           ',
I%uaternary Canals                             120             -
Main and Secondary Drains                      -              1,081           10
Drainage Strue'ures                                           1,250            1
Tertiary & Quaternary Drains                   120             -
Pumping Stations                               -            360,000'
Farm Roads                                     928
Flood Protection 'Dykes & TW4alls           1,576
no'.a1                                                           118



ANNEX 3
Table 6
MALAYSIA
NORTH KELANTAN RURAL DEVELOPMENT PPOJECT
LEMAL IRRIGATION SCHEME
Operation and Maintenance Staff
a/
Engineer - Time Scale                                           1
Technical Assistant - Special Grade                             1
Technical Assistant - Time Scale                                1
Technician - Time Scale                                         3
Irrigation Inspector - Special Grade                            1
Irrigation Inspector - Time Scale                               h
Irrigation Overseer - Special Grade                             2
Irrigation Overseer - Time Scale                               14
Chargeman                                                       3
Industrial & Mannual Groups Workers                          140
Clerk - Special Grade                                           1
Clerks                                                          2
Typist                                                          1
Storekeeper                                                     1
Office Boy                                                      1
Total                                              176
1,2  Responsible to Senior Engineer in charge of operr:;i n arid
maintenance of Kermubu Irrigation Project.



AlCEK 3
Table 7
NOPRTH KTJkINT.;d iiI.AI.  )ET+L 0X2 P PThOJECT
LS1LAL IRIGATION COci,T'f::
--    k .:,s -.r   Ites  
- ~e
Cost
Ite-m              Unit   Quantity      Rate    Local   Foegm   To+al
-TiT-  -(MI$ Mtillion)-
1. Canals & On-Fasr Drains
(a.) Land Accuisition      ha            T?J   12,500    2.38        -        2.38
(b) Tertiary Canals        "         1a7,000    53.4      5.00      5.00    10.00
(c) Quaternary Can; s      m         59O,000      1.2       .60      -         .60
(d) Structures             LIS.        -           -        .65      .75      1.4O
(e) Drains                 m         600,000      2.7       .60     1.02      1.62
Sub-Total                                        9.23     6.77    16.00
2. Flood Protection
(a) Land Acquisition       ha             95   10,000       .95      -         .95
(b) Clearing               ha             94    1,300      .05       .07       .12
(c) Earthwork - Dikes    in3         650,000      1.1      .25       .47       .72
(d) Concrete Flood 'dall   L.S.        -           -        .99     1.26      2.25
(e) Strctures             L.S.        -                 _3-         .42       .76
Sub-Totil                                        2.58      2.22     4.80
3. MIajor Drainage
(a) Land Ac-uisition       ha            136   12,500    1.70        -        1.70
(b) Clearin-               ha            136    1,250       .07      .10       .17
(c) Earthwork              i3      1,800,000      .85       .54      .99      1.53
(d) Structures             L.S.        -           -        .18      .22       .40
Su;-t~~ -                                 2.49      1.31      3.80
Fl. i,eess ±-o5                L.S.       -           -       2.30     1.88      4.18
5.  d.-inten-nce ,a  <e-,L.S.          -           -        -       1.18      1.18
*. B.r..neern~2. -30.S.                  -           -      2.30       .30      2.60
lb.p0    13.66    32.56






S-i-.re
MALAYSIA
NORTH KELANTAN RURAL DEVELOPMENzT PROJECT
Typical Tertiary Flume Cross-Section
GRP Encased Hardwood Struts at
approx. 5 ft. centers located
midway between ribs
*-D13- -              r                                         -B   D/3 -
GRP Encased |
Hardwood Beams                         D/
\  \   i   <   GRP  >/ /  GRP Encased
Hardwood Ribs @
approx. 5 ft. centers
Tertiary Flume Data
Discharge-/
EB2      Di       Cusecs       i /sec
12"      10"      1.6          45
18"      15"      4.7          133
24"      20"      1 2          340
30"      26"       19          538
36"      32"      37           1,048
1 Manning's n = .013 and
S   .0006
-/WB = D
World Bank-16129






MALAYSIA
NORTH KELANTAN RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LEMAL IRRIGATION COMPONENT
Implementation Schedule
197'            1976                       1977                        1978                        1979                        1980
DESCRIPTION OF WORK   N    IIM  AjE   3[  0 ND  ]I  A]                             i      E ]A [   i         0 ND         i AJ[            i AS  09           ii    i
1, IRRIGATION WORKS
Contour mapping
Planning
Survey & verification
of alignment
Detailed design, working
drawings & specification
Land acquisition 
Tender
Construction
2. FLOOD PROTECTION DIKES
Contour mapping &
supplementary survey
Planning
Soil investigation &
verification of alignment
Detailed design, working
drawings & specification
Land acquisition 
Tender
Construction                                                              U 
3.ACCESS ROADS
Survey
Detailed design, working
drawings & specification
Land acquisition-
Tender
Construction                                                                                                _
4. MAJOR DRAINAGE WORKS
Contour mapping
Planning                  *
Survey & verification
of alignment
Detailed design, working
drawings & specification
Land acquisition                                                 -      -      -
Tender
Construction
World Bank 15999






ANNEX 4
Page 1
MALAYSIA
NORTH KELANTAN RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION COMPONENT
Small-Scale Irrigation in Malaysia
1.        Malaysia's policy of reducing the national dependence on imported
rice has emphasized the construction of major irrigation facilities in
"rice-bowl areas", flood plain regions where large blocks of good padi land
could be brought under command of reliable water sources economically and
quickly. Under this program, double-cropping in Peninsular Malaysia has
expanded from 6% of total padi area in 1963 to 58% in 1974. Further pro-
gress in increasing rice production in this manner will be more difficult
to achieve, however, as most of the large areas with potential for irri-
gated double-cropping have already been brought under command. Improvements
in yields in the rice-bowl areas can be achieved through intensification of
irrigation facilities and strong extension efforts, but additional potential
exists in terms of providing small-scale irrigation systems in the smaller
isolated padi areas distributed throughout Peninsular Malaysia. Aside from
increasing padi production, these small systems provide increased incomes
to very poor farmers who have generally received little benefit from infra-
structure development programs.
2.        DID units in the various States undertake continuing programs of
construction of new small systems and rehabilitation of existing works con-
structed by farmers as well as by the agency. During the Second Malaysia
Plan period (1971-75) a total of 1,210 such operations were implemented in
Peninsular Malaysia, affecting about 59,000 ha (Table 1). As many of these
operations involved only minor improvements or repairs to existing structures,
the average cost of these operations (M$295/ha) understates the costs of con-
structing new systems.
3.        Over half of the padi land in Kelantan lies outside the boundaries
of KADA, and thus would not benefit from the intensification of major irri-
gation facilities. Of this area, about 38,000 ha are purely rainfed, and un-
less groundwater sources can be developed inexpensively these areas will
never be irrigated due to distance from surface sources, small size of areas,
and topographic factors. Wet season rainfall is quite variable in Kelantan
in terms of timing and amount, and rainfed padi yields are depressed directly
through flooding and moisture stress, and indirectly through reduced cash
input usage in a situation where returns are uncertain.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
4.        The remaining area, about 33,000 ha, is served by some form of irri-
gation facilities, including several small schemes built by DID, but more
typically works built and maintained by groups of farmers attempting to
assure themselves an adequate supply of water during the wet season and if
possible some dry season cropping as well. Existing DID facilities are quite
similar to those to be constructed under the project, which are described
below. The facilities built by farmers generally consist of diversion dams
made of earth or brush and simple earth canal systems. Damage i8 frequent, and
the dams usually must be rebuilt after each flood season. The canal systems
usually irrigate only a small proportion of the potential command area. Be-
cause of the unreliability of flow and system failures, partial or total crop
failure often occurs.
The Small-Scale Irrigation Component
5.        The component would include construction of about 15 small-scale
irrigation systems covering about 1,300 ha of padi land, each system serving
between 20 and 200 ha of padi. A list of proposed schemes is presented in
Table 2. As detailed design work and economic analysis of the individual
schemes must await the synthesis of more complete hydrological data (para 6),
final selection of individual schemes for inclusion in the project would
depend on meeting certain criteria, including the presence of a reliable
source of water supply to permit the irrigation of at least one crop of padi
annually and a minimum economic rate of return of 10.
6.        Fairly good stream flow records exist for the larger streams in the
State, and they have been kept up to date as part of Kelantan's flood warning
system. In cases where records are not available, DID's computer modelling
procedures would be used to simulate flood and low flow patterns which would
be used as the basis for estimating designed flows.
7.        Most of the proposed schemes identified thus far are located in the
foothill regions of Machang and Tanah Merah Districts,  end4are s±ted near
major highways. DID is continuing to identify additional potential areas to
replace those schemes listed in Table 1 which may prove technically or econo-
mically unfeasible.
Description of Works
8.        For areas to be served by small streams, a headworks would be con-
structed to divert the flow for irrigation purposes. In the case of large
streams, where the cost of headworks becomes prohibitive, a pumping station
would be provided. A comparative cost study would be carried out where the
choice between gravity diversion and pumping is not readily apparent. Head-
works would be gated, reinforced concrete structures designed to pass a dis-
charge at bank-full stage of approximately 1.5 times the discharge capacity
of the stream channel. Flood flows exceeding this would be allowed to by-
pass the structure. The effects of 50-year floods would be checked.



ANNEX 4
Page 3
9.        The substructure of pumping plants would be reinforced concrete
and the building would be of concrete or wood. Buildings would be set to
elevations above the 25-year flood level, or otherwise protected from damage
from this frequency flood.
10.       The irrigation systems would be small and of simple design.  The
alignment of irrigation canals would be determined from contour maps and
checked by field survey. The canals would be unlined, lined, or of other
appropriate construction dependent on local conditions and economics. Canal
structures such as checks, turnouts, road crossings, etc., would be p5ovided
as needed. The diversion design capacity would be based on about 1 m /sec
per 500 ha. This water demand is slightly higher than for the Lemal irriga-
tion component (Annex 3) because the overall systems/irrigation efficiency
is expected to be somewhat lower on small projects.
II.       Earth drains would be constructed to remove stagnant water from
depressions and to prevent water logging. Ancillary structures would be of
concrete construction.
Organization and Management
12.       DID would plan, design, and construct the works included in the
component. DID would operate and maintain the works down to the level of
on-farm canals and drains. To maintain the latter, farmers would be
organized into small cooperative groups, based on the Small Agricultural
Units to be organized for extension and FDC activities (Annex 7). The
groups would provide free labor under DID staff supervision at agreed
times when agricultural labor requirements are low. 0 & M costs
for existing DID small schemes currently average about US$50/ha with pumping
and about US$30/ha for gravity diversion, and similar costs are anticipated
on the new systems. As all project farmers would be liable to pay the zakat
tax, cost recovery experience on the small schemes is anticipated to closely
parallel that on the Lemal irrigation component, which is analyzed in
Annex 13.



MAIAYSIA
NORTH KEIANTAN RUIRA L DWVELOFNT PROJKET
SMA,LL-SCALE IRPIGATIN CO1MONENT
9aull Drainage & Irrigation Works Implemented During the Second Malaysia Plan 1971-1975
Total Nmber of Works       Total Area Benef$tted (ha)              Total Ependiture (ME)
State          Fed    State    Total      Fed       State     Total       Fed           State        Total
Johore          49       3        52       7,227        45     7,692         734,196      188,000       922,196
Kedah         111       48       159       3,932     2,223     6,155       1,153,458      389,424     1,542,882
Kelantan       127      60       187       7,836     1,902     9,738         879,795      261,925     1,141,720
NS/Melaka      138      29       167       1,764       303     2,067       2,879,381      557,446     3,436,827
Pahang          66     21         87       1,937       886    2,823        1,301,177      707,349     2,008,526
P. Pinang       15       -        15         520                 520         212,715            -       212,715
Perak          232      24       256       4,582     3,676     8,258       1,403,888    1,580,777     2,984,665
Perlis          12       -        12       1,062         -     1,062         265,119            -       265,119
Selangor       68       37       105      11,688     2,956    14,644       1,456,000      892,000     2,348,000
Trengganu       73       7        80       2,269       443     2,712         710,600      353,900     1,o64,500
Melaka          90       -        90       3,330         -     3,330       1,461,886            -     1,461,886
Total       981     229    1,210       46,147    12,854    59,001      12,458,215    4,930,821    17,389,036



ANNEX 4
Table 2
MALAYSIA
NORTH KELANTAN RURAL DEVELOPM4ET PROJECT
SMALL-SCALE IRRuATION COMPONENT
Proposed Scheme Areas
Identification
No.          NIame of Padi Areas                District          Aproximate Area
(ha)
1            Bendang Cherang Hangus and        Machang                   80
Bendang Sega
2            Bendang Becah Pauh                                         120
3            Bendang Tualang Kelikir                                     4o
4            Bendang 9g. Suda                                            80
Benclang Gaung                                             4L
6            Sg. Che Wa                                                 100
7            Bandang Kg. Batu                      "                    100
8            Bendang Batu Dara                 Pergau Valley            120
9            Belok Ulu Kusial                  Tanah Merah              120
10            Sg. Glugor                                it                40
11            Bendang Anak Muring                       it "40
12            Bendang Buyong, Gertak Serong        "                      70
13            Bendang Kg. Panjang                  "                      70
14            Bendang Kg. Rambai                         i " t            80
15            Bendang Senor Meranti             Pasir Mas                200
Total                 1,300



ANNEX 5
Page 1
MALAYSIA
NORTH KELANTAN RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
RURAL ROAD COMPONENT
Background
1.        The West Malaysian highway network consists of about 10,000 km of
Federal and State roads of which about 1,000 km are situated in Kelantan. In
addition there are about 2,100 km of unclassified (penggawa) roads or tracks
in Kelantan. There is no functional classification of roads but the Federal
roads are generally the interstate and international routes. While the State
roads connect administrative district headquarters and the capital at Kota
Bharu, the unclassified roads serve the more populated and cultivated agri-
cultural areas connecting them with motor roads and market centers.
Few of these local and village roads have been engineered or built to any
recognized standard. Many of them are mere tracks which have established
themselves through long usage along individual property boundaries, at best
constructed by District Offices with communal assistance. These roads re-
ceive little or no maintenance and are passable only by four wheel drive
vehicles and light trucks in the dryest season of the year; during the
monsoon most of them are impassable. The Department of Irrigation and
Drainage (DID) has constructed a basic grid of low class road in connection
with the Kemubu Irrigation Project. These roads are surfaced with laterite,
and are often located on the tops of dykes or canal banks.
2.        The rural roads proposed for construction and improvement under
the project, totalling about 190 km, are distributed over the seven most
northerly administrative districts of Kelantan (Map 12003) and in con-
junction with the access roads to be constructed under the Lemal irrigation
component of the project (100 km in the Lemal area) would provide a basic
grid of low-standard farm to market roads.
Description
3.        The rural roads under the project fall into three categories, sub-
PWD, PWD-01 and PWD-04 standards, and this component comprises:
(a) construction and improvement of the following;
(i)  Sub-PWD                    110 km
(ii)  PWD-01                      57 "
(iii)  PWD-04                      21 "
Total               188 km



ANNEX 5
Page 2
(b) detailed engineering and construction supervision
of roads in (a);
(c) procurement of road maintenance equipment; and
(d) improvement of two existing workshops.
4.        The length of sub-PWD and PWD-01 roads generally vary from 5 to
10 km as shown in Table 1. The one PWD-04 road would be about 21 km
in length. The sub-PWD standard roads would connect individual villages to
motorable roads of higher standard where traffic is not expected to exceed
20 vehicles per day (vpd). PWD-01 standard roads, the lowest standard
qualifying for national maintenance grants, would serve as feeder roads for
several lower standard roads, and traffic on these roads is expected to be
up to 100 vpd. With few exceptions these roads would follow the routes of
existing tracks or roads. Except in Machang and Tanah Merah districts, where
some of the terrain is hilly, all of the above roads traverse flat areas of
paddy fields where groundwater level is permanently high and flooding is a
regular occurrence. During the monsoon season existing roads are generally
impassable.
5.        The proposed PWD-04 standard road between Pasir Mas and Rantau
Panjang would replace an existing State road, which for half of its length
closely follows the bank of the Golok River and in consequence suffers severe
flood damages yearly. It is also the only road on the east coast of Malaysia
which connects with Thailand, via a road bridge on the Golok River completed
in 1972; it therefore has international significance. 60% of the traffic
on the existing road would be diverted to the new road, which would be on an
entirely new alignment above the flood levels. It would follow existing
roads for half its length, while the remaining half would open up for devel-
opment a new area which is at present largely inaccessible. In addition
the route mileage would be reduced from 24 to 21 km. It is expected that
diverted traffic, together with generated traffic would amount to about
2,000 vpd in 1980. In all cases where additional land is required to widen
an existing right-of-way or construct a new alignment, appropriate legal
steps would be taken to acquire right-of-way.
6.        The proposed design standards for PWD-01 and PWD-04 roads are pre-
sented in Table 2. Sub-PWD standard roads would have a formation width of
4.86m, a laterite surfaced width of 3.05m and would be designed for a wheel
loading of 3.6 tons. Road surfaces would be about one meter above groundwater
level. Roadway surfacing would be 20 cm of laterite except for the PWD-04
standard road which would be asphalt pavement over a crushed stone base.
7.        Because of the shortage of maintenance equipment available in the
State, particularly in view of the expansion of the road network, the road
maintenance equipment shown in Table 3 would be provided under the project.
For the same reason two existing mechanical workshops (at Machang and Pasir
Mas) would be improved and additLonal workshop equipment and tools would be
provided under the project (Table 4).



ANNEX 5
Page 3
Implementation and Maintenance
8.        The PWD would be responsible for the execution of the works and
for their maintenance thereafter. These functions can be properly carried
out under the existing organizational structure but the existing staff would
have to be augmented by hiring of additional engineers and technicians.
9.        Detailed engineering and land acquisition would be carried out by
the PWD through mid-1978 and construction over the following three-year
period. The rural roads would be grouped into two contracts for tender
and international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group guide-
lines.
10.       Maintenance of the roads to be constructed or improved under the
component, as well as 21 km of roads to be built by DID in the Lemal area,
would be the responsibility of Kelantan State PWD. Existing equipment and
workshops together with those to be supplied under the project (para 7) would
be adequate for this purpose. Federal grants of M$3,100/km per annum for
roads constructed to federal standards and special grants of M$2,170/km for
lower standard roads are expected to be adequate to ensure proper maintenance
and general improvement of the rural road system.
Costs
11.       The total cost of the rural road component including physical con-
tingencies and right-of-way is estimated to be US$7.0 million of which
US$3.8 million would be foreign exchange. Details of the cost estimates are
presented in Table 5.



MALAYSIA                                ANNU  5
Table 1
NORTH KELANTAN RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
RURAL ROAD COMPONENT
List of Project Roads
No. -'                 Route                         t        District
Sub-PWD Standard
1       Banggol Setol-Banggol Kong                4.8       Pasir Mas
2       Kubang Kual-Baroh Kala                    3.6       Pasir Mas
3       Batu Hampar-Bukit Tuku                    9.7       Pasir Mas
4       Paloh-Bujok                               6.4       Pasir Mas
5       Lati-Chicha Tinggi                        3.7       Pasir Mas
6       Kubang Batu-Kangkong                      4.5       Pasir Mas
7       Chetok-Sungei Keladi                      3.7       Pasir Mas
8       Kampong Paloh-Bukit Mas                   5.6       Tanah Merah
9       Chabang Tiga-Bukit Mas                   14.2       Tanah Merah
10       Kelewek-Kampong Tirok                     8.1       Tanah Merah
11       Kampong Pauh-Baumg                        5.2       Kota Bharu
12       Beris Kubor Besar-Pintu Gerbang           5.2       Bachok
13       Smigei Mati-Kerawang                      3.6       Machang
14       Simpul Belubang-Kubang Simpul             9.7       Machang
15       Pangkal Maleret-Liman Hantu               3.6       Machang
16       Sungei Kelong-Pak Amat                    4.8       Pasir Puteh
17       Cherang Tuli-Jeram                        3.2       Pasir Pateh
18       Telipot-Jeram Linang                      5.2       Pasir Puteh
19       Chabang Tiga-Gual                         5.2       Pasir Puteh
Sub-Total                    110.0
PWD 01 Standard
20       Kampong Terbok-Belukar                    7.3       Tumpat
21       Bakat-Kubang Kual                         5.6       Pasir Mas
22       Gual Ipoh-Kuala Tiga                      4.5       Tanah Merah
23       Bukit Pauh-Kampong Baru                   2.5       Tanah Merah
24       Tawang-Pulau Belanga                      4.8       Bachok
25       Kg. Tok Bali-Pasir Puteh                 11.3       Pasir Puteh
26       Labok-Benggol Judah                      11.3       Machang
27       Selesing-Kok Lanas                        9.7       Machang
Sub-Total                      57.0
PWD 04 Standard
28       Pasir Mas-Rantau Panjang                 21.0       Pasir Mas
Total                         188.0
1/  Serial nunbers refer to 11ap No. 12003



ANNEX 5
Table 2
MALAYSIA
NORTH KELANTAN RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
RURkL Rau.fl C010NENT
Selected Highway Design Standards
(for Roads in Raral AreRs)
(IN FIAT TERRADN)
Traffic                                             Light        Medium
Group                                                01            04
Design Speed              km/hr                      30            5°
Surface Width               m                         4.27          6.71
Shoulder Width              m                         1.22          2.44
Formation Width             m                         7.93         12.81
Maxirnwu  Gradient          %                          7%           4%
Minimum Curve Radius        m                        70.00        213.50
Bridges: Width              m
between Parapets                             5.18           8.23
Bridge Loading: BS 153 HA loading (checked for
45 units HB loading)
Source: "Minimum Geometric Design Criteria for New Roads in Rural Areas
-PWD Malaysia May 1971



MALAYSIA
WORTH KELANTAN RURAL DEVELOPMENT PRWECT
RURAL ROAD CCKP0NENT
Road Maintenance Equirment
Item            Description                  No.         Rate           Total
1        Self-Propelled Motor Grader,
135 hp                            3          100,000        300,000
2        Three-Wheeled Roller, 5-7 tons      3          40,000         120,000
3        Tipping Trucks,6 Yd3                6          36,ooo         216,000
4        FWD Wheeled Front-End Loader,                   <
2 Yd3                              1          75,000         75,000
5        Back Hoe/Exchange Hp                1          60,000          60,000
6        FWD Utility Vehicles
(Land Rover Type)                 4           25,0o0        100,000
7        Grass-Catting Machines              -          L.S.             8,000
8        Miscellaneous lbols                 -          L.S.            21,000
Total                                                  900,000



ANNEiX 5
Table II
Ms.ALL STA
NOC.TH KELANTA2' RURAL DE VELOPMENT PROJECT
RURAL ROAD COMPONENT
Estimated Cost of Ilechanical Wdorkshops,
Tools and Equipment
Item                  Details                          Estimated Cost
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M  -------
Workshop "A"
1                Survey expenses                   500
2                Clearing site                     500
3                Plant and vehicle shop
401x50                      50,000
4                Servicing bay and tyre
shop (including pits)
35'x30'                      25,000
5                Vehicles washing ramp           7,000
6                Toilets                         2,200
7                Fencing                         4,600
8                Paving                          3,700
9                Water supply                    1,000
10                Drainage                        2,000           96,500
Workehop B
11                Survey expenses                   500
12                Clearing site                     500
13                Plant and vehicles shop
40'x40'                     40,000
14                Servicing bay and tyre
shop (including pits)
35?x3ot                      25,000
15                Vehicle washing ramp            7,000
16                Toilets                         2,200
17                Fencing                         4,600
18                Paving                          3,700
19                Water supply                    1,000
20                Drainage                        2,000           86,500
21                Workshop equipment & tools
Two shops   @     58,500           117,000
Total                                300,000



ANNEX 5
Table 5
MALAYSIA
NORTH KEIANTAN RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
RURAL ROAD COMPINENT
Cost Summary
PROJECT ELEMENT                                   (M$ Million)               FEC
Local     Foreign     Total         %
1. Construction & Improvement of Roads 1/
(a) Sub-PWD Standard                     2.4        2.8         5.2
(b) 01 - PWD Standard                    2.2        2.6         4.8
(c) 04 - PWD Standard                    2.4        2.9         5.3
v--o       T-7       17.7          54%
2.  Detailed engineering & supervision         1.0         0.2        1.2          20%
3.  Maintenance Equipment                      0.0         0.9        0.9         100%
4. Mechanical workshops & Tools                0.1         0.2        0.3          60%
Sub-total 1-4 (Base 5bsts)               8.1        9.6        17.7
5. Physical Contingencies 2/
(a) 20% of items 1 + 2                   1.5        1.8         3.3         52%
(b) 10% of items 3 + 4                   0.0        0.1         0.1         88%
Total                             9.6       11.5        21.1         54%
1/ Includes rights-of-way costs.
2/ Price contingencies are dealt with in Annex 9.



ANNEX 5
Table 6
MALAYSIA
NORTH KELANTAN RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
RURAL ROAD CCKPONENT
Breakdown of Road Construction Costs
Cost per km- (M$ '000)
Standard                Compensation   Earthwork   Structures   Surfacing   Total
Sub-FWD
Cost:                       9.9           15.0         16.6        5.7         47.2
% of Total Cost:           21%            32%          35%        12%         100%
NWD - 01
cost:                      14.6           25.0         38.6        6.8         85.0
% of Total Cost:           17%            30%          45%          8%        100%
PWD - 04
Cost:                      28.6           85.7         65.9       71.4        251.6
% of Total Cost:           11%            34%          26%        29%         100%



ANNEX 6
Page 1
MALAYSIA
NORTH KELANTAN RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION COMPONENT
Background
1.        Agricultural incomes in Kelantan are limited in part by the very
low yields attained, averaging between 50% and 60% of field potential for a
wide range of crops. Incomes are further depressed below potential levels
by a lack of intercropping of field crops with the rubber, coconut, bananas,
and other tree crops common in the region. Low yields and income can be
attributed to widespread ignorance of improved varieties and techniques, low
standards of management, failure to weed crops and control pests, and lack
of cash to purchase inputs.
2.        The opportunities for increasing yields, production, and income
from existing crops are substantial. Adequate pest control on padi could
increase annual State production of padi by at least 30,000 tons, which is
almost equivalent to the anticipated incremental production due to the Lemal
component. The use of improved varieties, good seed, timely planting, and
intelligent use of fertilizer would increase yields similarly. The major
requirements for achieving these goals are a sound practical approach, good
organization and management, and additional personnel and facilities.
3.        Emphasis must be placed initially on the extension service to gain
the confidence of farmers and establish a reliable communications pipeline
which reaches every farmer, on a regular basis. Once well established, the
pipeline can be used for several key purposes. Information on technical
matters, input supply, credit supply, water management, prices, marketing
situation, etc. can be readily transmitted to the grower. Conversely, the
pipeline can be used to convey farmers' field problems back to Government
and research agencies, and to assess input requirements. It can thus be an
effective monitoring system and assist planning. Once extension is function-
ing well, it becomes easier to solve problems associated with credit, input
supply, marketing and research which are the other basic components neces-
sary to initiate and sustain a dynamic agricultural system.
The Agricultural Extension Service
4.        Agricultural extension within the State is traditionally a State
responsibility and comes under the direction of the State Director of Agri-
culture and the State Department of Agriculture. The State employs the
staff and provides basic infrastructure facilities and operating costs.
The Federal Government provides a Federal Agricultural Unit at the Lundang
Experiment Station comprising Soils, Farm Mechanisation, Farmer Training,



ANNEX 6
Page 2
Plant Protection and Crop Production Divisions. These have professional
and administrative links with their Federal units but are responsible to
the State Director of Agriculture. In Kelantan, the Kemubu Agricultural
Development Authority (KADA) coordinates agricultural activities over some
31,000 ha of padi land in the Kemubu and Lemal irrigation areas.
5.        The State Director of Agriculture directs extension activities
with the assistance of an Agricultural Officer. Presently there is no senior
officer who can devote full time to this task, which is a major weakness.
Extension activities are organized on a District basis. An Agricultural
Assistant (AA) is assigned to each district of the State (8) and supervises
the work of 5-8 Junior Agricultural Assistants (JAA's). In addition to
extension work, the JAA's are responsible for crop cutting and other time-
consuming data collection and regulating work. In the KADA area most avail-
able JAA's are involved in running the Farmers' Organizations and have
little time available to go to the field to assist farmers. There are cur-
rently only 45 JAA's in the field who can spend a reasonable amount of time
on extension. Since KADA will retain responsibility for operating the FO's
in the KADA area, staff employed there will not be released for extension
work. Currently, the JA : Farmer Ratio is about 1:2,000. This rather
high ratio, coupled with regulatory duties and lack of close supervision,
makes effective extension difficult. Most of the staff have reasonable
basic training and a general appreciation of agricultural problems in their
district, but require regular in-service training to upgrade them. Currently
these facilities are not available.
6.        The support units at Lundang have several functions.  The Crop
Production Division is responsible for seed production, demonstration plots
and also adaptive testing. The unit has about 45 ha available for seed pro-
duction but is unable to cope with the potential demand for rice and ground-
nut seed. Key constraints are lack of adequate drying, cleaning and storage
facilities. Cold storage is required to carry groundnut and soybean seed
through the monsoon season. Transport and field staff constraints limit the
demonstration plot program.
7.        The Plant Protection unit is concerned with weed and pest control.
It is responsible for controlling major pest and disease outbreaks in addi-
tion to providing general support to extension in terms of pest identification
and demonstration plots. The main constraints to operation at present are
lack of staff, basic field equipment and State finance for chemicals. The
main functions of the Farm Mechanization unit are running short-duration
tractor-operator schools, selecting the better students for training in minor
repair work and providing advisory support to FO's on tractor operation and
repair. The unit has buildings but is understaffed and lacks tools and work-
shop equipment. The Farmer Training unit runs short courses for farmers.
Its main constraint is shortage of dormitory and teaching facilities.



ANNEX 6
Page 3
8.        The Development Division of the State Department of Agriculture
administers a number of crop subsidy schemes. These cover the rehabilitation
and replanting of fruit, citrus and coconut, and first year planting subsidies
for crops such as groundnut, corn, vegetables and new crops such as ginger, to
encourage farmers to try new crops and diversify. About 3,700 ha came under
the subsidy schemes in 1975. If well planned and managed, the subsidy schemes
are a useful aid to extension.
The Project
9.        The extension component would develop a State "grass roots"
extension service to service all farmers in the State, whether they be in
areas currently served by KADA, the FOA, or outside. Initially, emphasis
would be placed on the Kota Bharu, Bachok, Pasir Puteh, Tumpat, Pasir Mas,
Mlachang and Tanah Merah Districts, but ultimately the system would extend to
Ulu Kelantan. In the first phase, effort would be largely concentrated on
padi and groundnut. Once good results are being achieved, the scope would be
widened to include other crops, e.g. coconut, fruit crops, vegetables, soybean,
corn and rubber. The component would be developed over a 5-year period.
10.       The main components are as follows:
(a) Recruitment and training of an additional 115 field extension
workers (JAA's) to bring the average JAA:Farmer ratio to
about 1:600;
(b) Recruitment and training of an additional eight Agricultural
Assistants (AA's) to bring the AA:JAA ratio to about 1:10;
(c) Recruitment and training of eight subject-matter specialists
to provide regular in-service training to the AA's and JAA's
one day every two weeks, to assist them to review progress and
plan the next two weeks' work and to provide specialist
support in the field as required;
(d) The recruitment of an experienced Chief State Extension
Officer to devote full time to running the Extension Service;
(e) The formation of farmer groups of 25-40 based on Small Agri-
cultural Units (SAU's) or irrigation outlets, with one farmer
leader per ten farmers. Each group would receive visits from
the JAA once every two weeks on a systematic basis;
(f) Seed Production, Plant Protection and Demonstration Plot
Units would be strengthened to meet the requirements of the
improved extension service. Supplementary facilities would
be provided to the Farm Mechanization and Farmer Training
Centers at Lundang, to boost tractor-operator training and
to provide basic facilities for training farmer leaders;



ANNEX 6
Page 4
(g) Five district extension offices and eight sub-district
offices would be constructed to provide basic facilities
for the AA's. Where practical, sub-district offices
would be constructed adjacent to Farmer Development
Centers; and
(h) Basic extension and field equipment would be provided
for all additional staff.
Organization and Staff Functions
11.       One field extension worker (JAA) would service about 600 farmers and
would live and work full time in his area. The farmers would be formed into
groups of 25-40 on the basis of Small Agricultural Units (SAU's) or irrigation
outlets, as appropriate. Three or four progressive farmers would be selected
per group on the basis of one progressive farmer taking responsibility to
ensure that new information and ideas reach 9-10 neighbors. The progressive
farmers would be the main contact with the JAA but would encourage members of
their group to make personal contact with the JAA during his visits. The
JAA would handle 18 farmers' groups. He would visit each group on a fixed day
at a fixed time at a fixed location, which would remain constant throughout the
year. Whenever practical, he would meet the group in their fields, to visit
crops and inspect field problems first hand. He would handle two groups per
day, one in the morning and one in the afternoon, and take nine days per
fortnight to visit the 18 groups. The tenth working day would be set aside
to attend a meeting with his supervising MA and subject matter specialists,
to discuss progress and problems and plan the next two weeks' work.
12.       The District Extension Officer (AA) would supervise the work of 10
JAA's. There would be 1-5 AA's per district, depending on farmer density.
The AA's would be responsible for arranging the fortnightly meetings for their
10 JAA's, and inviting other agencies, e.g. FOA staff and irrigation personnel
working in the area, to attend. Meetings would be rotated between the Farmers
Development Centers and Extension offices, as appropriate, and would be held
at fixed times on fixed days at fixed locations, throughout the year. Between
the regular fortnightly meetings the AA would visit every JAA under his control
at least once on a random basis, to meet farmers, check progress and see field
problems on the ground.
13.       Subject matter specialists (SMS) would be assigned to the project
from the Federal Department of Agriculture service units. A total of eight
are required over the life of the project, as follows:  two in rice produc-
tion, two in upland crops, one in plant protection, one in horticultural
crops, one in soil and water management, and one in farm mechanization. The
specialists in rice and upland crops would service 8 AA's and 80 JAA's each.
The other specialists would service the whole State in areas where their
services were required. An SMS would spend four days per fortnight attending
the one-day training and program planning meetings, with   A-A's and 20 JAA's
attending a session.  The other six days would be spent back-stopping the AA's



ANNEX 6
Page 5
and JAAIs on specific field problems and keeping up-to-date on research, the
availability and price of inputs, market prospects and all topics of interest
to the JAA's and farmers. The SMS has an important task, since once the ex-
tension system is fully developed, 8 M's, 80 JAA's and 48,000 farmers will
know the key points raised by the SMS within two weeks of his attending the
fortnightly meetings.
14.       A Chief Extension Officer reporting to the State Director of Agri-
culture, but with professional links with the Federal Extension Department,
would devote full time to running the extension service with the assistance
of the subject matter specialists. Demonstration plot, seed production, and
farmer training programs would be jointly planned by the Chief State Extension
Officer, the SMS, and the heads of the Federal Service Units. The units would
implement the agreed program.
15.       The demonstration plots would be designed to clearly demonstrate
cultural practices currently emphasized by the field extension workers. The
initial target would be at least one set of demonstration plots for each JAA.
The JAA's would select progressive farmers from their farmers' groups to
provide land and manage the plots under the direction of the demonstration
plot personnel. Two AA's and 10 JAA's working under the Crop Production Unit
would execute this program.  In addition, two AA's and 9 JMA's working with
the Plant Protection Unit would carry out plant protecttion demonstrations and
assist field extension workers to initiate regular effective rat control
campaigns in their areas.
16.       The Federal Crop Production Division would continue to be responsible
for seed production. Breeders' seed would be supplied from the Bumbong Lima
Rice Experiment Station operated by MARDI. Pure lines would be maintained
and multiplication carried out on about 45 ha of land under control of the
Department of Agriculture. The seed would be dried and cleaned at Lundang
and packaged for distribution to selected seed growers strategically grouped
in major rice growing areas. Crops would be regularly inspected and checked
for freedom from weeds and off-types and sub-standard crops rejected. Growers
producing good clean crops of seed would be recommended as approved seed sup-
pliers through the extension service. Growers not conforming to standards
would be dropped from the program. The initial aim is to improve the avail-
ability and purity of seed of the improved varieties and not to attempt seed
certification until the growers have gained experience and the farmers are
variety and quality seed-conscious. The possibility of selecting and mul-
tiplying one or two of the better local long-strawed varieties would be in-
vestigated, as many farmers prefer these for the monsoon season. Currently,
no good quality seed of these varieties is available.
17.       A similar approach would be taken to groundnut production.  Seed
of superior varieties would be obtained for early planting in January, to
produce seed for one main planting in May-June. Sufficient seed would be
carried through the monsoon season in airtight bins and cool storage for the
early Janaury planting. The Crop Production Division expects to have cool
storage facilities soon.



ANNEX 6
Page 6
Workshop Facilities
18.       The Farm Mechanization Training Center at Lundang would be respon-
sible for training tractor operators and farm mechanics to service the FDC
farm mechanization program. The Center currently lacks adequate staff, class-
room and dormitory accommodation, basic tools, and teaching equipment. Pro-
vision is made under the project for extensions to existing buildings and
procurement of equipment required to improve the effectiveness of this unit.
19.       The Central Workshop at Lundang also requires additional facilities,
equipment and staff to effectively service the vehicles and equipment of the
State and Federal Agriculture Units and KADA. Under the project, the work-
shop would be expanded and equipped, and an additional five mechanics ap-
pointed.
20.       The Central Workshop and Farm Mechanization Training Center would
be brought under the control of one graduate mechanical engineer. He would
have three deputies in charge of the Training Center, the Central Workshop
and Field Service Units. The Central Workshop and Field Service Units would
service all vehicles and tractors belonging to Federal and State DOA, KADA,
and State FOA. The Field Service Units would concentrate efforts on regularly
visiting FDC's throughout the region to ensure proper maintenance of vehicles
and tractors. They would also provide services to private tractor operators
through the FDC's in areas where no local workshop facilities are available.
The agency or client would pay for spare parts, but workshop facilities and
skilled labor would be provided free of charge.
Coordination, Planning and Evaluation
21.       The State Government has established a permanent State Agricultural
Research Development and Extension Committee (STARDEC), composed of the senior
officers of Federal and State agricultural agencies in Kelantan, to coordinate
the planning and implementation of research, extension, and agricultural
support programs throughout the State. Most of the work of this body would
be devoted to the coordination of field level agricultural activities included
in the project. For purposes of coordinating project activities, the committee
would include the following permanent members:
State Director of Agriculture
State Director of Drainage and Irrigation
Deputy State Director, Farmers Organization Authority
State Manager, Bank Pertanian Malaysia
Director, State Research Station, MARDI
Representatives, Federal Department of Agriculture
Farmer Representatives (from each District)
Chief Extension Officer
Project Director, Ministry of Agriculture (Committee Secretary)



ANNEX 6
Page 7
22.       The committee would receive brief progress reports on the past sea-
son's activities and performance with regard to extension, applied research,
credit, Farmers' Organizations, input supplies and marketing. Key problems
in each area of activity would be clearly identified. Proposals for the next
season's program would be presented, along with priority requirements for
implementation. The committee would review progress, finalize and approve
extension program proposals, resolve policy issues and initiate action to
remove bottlenecks holding back progress.
23.       The committee would appoint several technical working groups, each
chaired by a subject matter specialist, to regularly review technical recommen-
dations for each major crop in the light of new information and changing eco-
nomic conditions. Working groups would be established for rice, groundnut,
smallholder rubber, corn and soybean, horticultural crops and livestock. The
working groups would comprise research workers, extension workers and progres-
sive farmers, and would call on the services of specialists throughout the
country. They would concentrate on developing recommendations that could be
used with confidence by extension workers and which would result in higher
returns to the farmer. Recommendations would be ratified by STARDEC for the
coming season, prior to publication and distribution to extension workers and
farmers.
24.       Extension workers at all levels would participate in program plan-
ning and evaluation. The JAA would meet with his progressive farmers a few
weeks before the end of the season. With their help he would evaluate pro-
gress and problems and draw up a plan for the coming season. His end-of-
season evaluation report and plan of operations would be prepared on simple
standardized report forms. It would show acreage of major crops, varieties
used, fertilizer used, agrochemicals used, estimated yields and production.
It would list the problems encountered and targets for the coming season,
along with estimates for seed, fertilizer, agro-chemical and farmer training
requirements. Extension topics would be identified and a plan of extension
activities prepared. The subject matter specialists and AA would review the
JAA's reports and recommendations and the AA would use their data to prepare
an evaluation report, set targets and outline the work program and require-
ments for his area for the coming season. This report would also be
standardized on prepared forms and forwarded to the Chief Extension Officer.
25.       The Chief Extension Officer, with the assistance of his subject
matter specialists, would prepare an evaluation report and program plan for
the State, showing targets and requirements. He would consult with the plant
protection, demonstration plot, seed production and farmer training units to
prepare appropriate programs. The plan would be presented to the State Direc-
tor of Agriculture and the semi-annual meeting of STARDEC for ratification and
for resolution of policy issues and problems. The Chief Extension Officer and
SMS would then prepare targets and a detailed work schedule for each of the
JAA's.



ANNEX 6
Page 8
26.       The two weekly meetings between the SMS, AA and JA's would allow
continuous monitoring of the program and allow program changes to be made
as required, to meet local circumstances. Provided appropriate FOA, DID
and other agency staff working at the district level attend these meetings,
good coordination at the district level should be possible. The AA's with
the assistance of visiting SMS should prepare a brief monthly report for
the Chief Extension Officer, summarizing activities, progress and problems
in each extension area.
Consulting Services
27.       Provision is made for a series of brief visits (totalling 4 man-
months)by specialist consultants to assist with resolution of technical and
management problems as they arise, and to make a positive contribution to
program planning. Visits would preferably be timed to coincide with the
half-yearly program reviews.
Training
28.       Several types of training would be required to meet the require-
ments of progressive farmers, JAA's, M's, SM1S and the technical support
units. For the AA's, JAA's and progressive farmers, emphasis would be placed
on continuous training built into the system via the SMS and the two weekly
meetings. This offers the advantage of training personnel in topics which
they will encounter in the field almost immediately. This would boost con-
fidence and the learning process would be reinforced by practical use of
the principles taught under field conditions. The same principles would
apply to longer training. Efforts would be concentrated on a few key topics
which are expected to arise in the coming year or season and would focus on
problems and their practical solution. Facilities would be made available
for participants to immediately practice what they were taught in the lecture
room. The proposeA National Extension and Seeds Project would provide dormi-
tory, classroom and field facilities for regular longer term in-service
training programs for all grades of personnel.
29.       Progressive Farmers - Ultimately each JAA would be responsible for
18 farmer groups each including 3 progressive farmers, or about 54 pro-
gressive farmers. In turn, each AA would have 540 progressive farmers in his
area. With 16 AA's in the State, the target is about 8,600 progressive
farmers. As it would be impossible to bring all these farmers to a central
point for formalized training, emphasis would be placed on field training.
Once progressive farmers have been selected on the basis of farming success,
local leadership, and ability to communicate, the JAA would divide them into
groups of 8-10. With the assistance of the AA each group would be given a
clear description of how the improved extension system will operate and what
is expected of them. The principles to be emphasized in the coming season
would be carefully explained and demonstrated. Each progressive farmer
would be asked to adopt these principles in the production of his crops and



ANNEX 6
Page 9
to convey the information to his 10-12 neighbors or followers, so that in
effect his crop becomes a farmer demonstration. The JAA would assist the
progressive farmers with management advice throughout the season during his
two-weekly visit to their group, which would constitute regular field train-
ing. Official department demonstration plots would be rotated among the
progressive farmers. The in-field group training would be conducted at the
beginning of each cropping season, i.e., twice a year, and would be supple-
mented by slide evenings and film shows arranged by the JAA and AA during the
season. Leading farmers would progressively be selected to attend a one-week
intensive course on the major crop in their area at the Lundang training
center.
30.       Field Extension Workers - The AA's and JAA's would receive one day
training and program evaluation sessions run by the SMS every two weeks. The
sessions would deal with two main topics:
(a) discussion and resolution of extension problems which
emerged during the past two weeks; and
(b) planning activities for the next two weeks with thorough
training in the theory and practice of those activities.
A training group would comprise 2 AA's and the 20 JAA's under their control.
The meeting would be held on a fixed day at an AA extension office or an
FDC office, as appropriate.
31.       The 16 AA's and 160 JAA's (i.e. 176 personnel) would be brought
to Kota Bharu for a 10 day training session, just prior to each cropping
season. The session will comprise: review of extension activities during
the previous season, summary of STARDEC's deliberations, discussions of
objectives of the next season's program, workshops to deal with specific
problems, and a series of specialized training courses accommodating 20-30
extension personnel per course, in such subjects as rice production, ground-
nut production, horticultural crops, smallholder rubber production, extension
methods, plant protection, water management, and fertilizers. The course
would be field-problem oriented and would include practical field work.
Under the proposed National Extension and Seeds Project, experts from the
Federal Department of Agriculture, MARDI, the University of Malaya and the
Agricultural University, the Rubber Research Institute, and the Federal
Drainage and Irrigation Department would be recruited to give lectures and
assist in planning the semi-annual courses.



ANNEX 6
Table 1
MALAYSIA
NORTH KELANTAN RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSICN COMPFDENT
Summary Cost Estimates
1976 Mt           % Foreign
'000             Exchange
I.    Construction (see Table 2)
District Extension Offices                      375
Sub-District Extension Offices                  360
Fencing, Utilities, etc.                        169
Land Acquisition                                 72
Seed Storage/Drying Facilities                   90
Plant Protection/Storage                         20
Farmer Training Center (extensions)             105
Central Workshop (extensions)                    35
Field Agent Housing (30 units)                  480
1,706             20%
Engineering & Supervision (d5%)           7L
1,760
II.   Equipment and Vehicles (see Table 3)
Field Extension Officers (JAA's)                622
District Extension Officers (Ak's)              595
Subject Matter Specialists                      216
Chief Extension Officer                          28
State Extension Headquarters                     98
Seed Production Unit                             40
Demonstration Plot Unit                          93
Plant Protection Unit                           139
Central Workshop                                113
Farm Mechanization Training Center              211
Farmer Training Center                           L0
2,197             90%
III. Incremental Operating Costs (Five Years)
Salaries (see Table 4)                        3s,140
Buildings, O&M Costs                            308              20%
Equipment and Vehicles, O&M Costs               798              75%
General Supplies and Administration           1,252              30%
Travel and Subsistence                           56
Consultant Services                              62
516                19%
Total Base Costs                              9,593              35%



ANNEX 6
Table 2
MALAYSIA                              Page 1
NORTH KELATAN ThIRAL DEVEOPvEHT PROJECT
AGRICULTURAIL EETINSICI COMPONENT
Construction Cost Estimates
Item                             No.            Unit Cost      Total Cost
State Extension Service
Grade 1 District Extension Office        5           75,000         375,000
and basic storage and garage
facilities
Grade 2 Sub-District Extension           8           455,000        360,000
Office and basic storage and
garage facilities
Site Development, Fencing &             13            13,000        169,000
Services
Land Acquisition for 3 Grade 1
offices and 7 Grade 2 offices          8 acs         9,000         72,000
Sub-total     976,000
Seed Production Unit Lundang
Seed Drying Floors                  10,000 ft2             3         30,000
Seed Storage                         3,000 ft2            20         60,000
Plant Protection Unit Lundang
Chemical & Equipment Storage         1,000 ft2            20         20,000
Sub-total     110,000
Farmer Training Center Lundang
Hostel block for 30 trainees         3,000 ft2            25         75,000
Rehabilitation & atension kitchens                                   20,000
and dining hall, etc.
Extensions to classrooms to
accommodate 30 trainees                                            10,000
Sub-total     105,000



ANNEX 6
Table 2
Page 2
Item                             No.             Unit Cost     Total Cost
Central sorkshop Facilities
Extensions to existing Wbrkshop                                       25 ,000
~)ie1 and "il Storage                                                 10,000
Sub-total      35,000
Housing
Field Extension Officer houses          30            16,000         48o,ooo
Total       1.706,000



ANNEX 6
MALAYSIA                             Page 1
NORTH KELANTAN RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSICN COMPONENT
Cost Estimates - Equipment and Vehicles
Item                                      No.       Unit Cost        Total Cost
160 Field Extension Officers (JAA's)
Motorised Sprayer                           160         1,000            160,000
Knapsack Sprayers                           320           250             80,000
Gas pumps (rat control)                     320           200             64,ooo
Extension Materials                         160         2,000            320,000
Sub-total        624,000
16 District Extension Officers (AA's)
Vehicles and trailer                         16        26,500            424,000
Overhead Projectors                           8         3,000             24,000
Slide ProJectors                              8           775              6,200
Cameras                                       8           600              4,80p
Teaching Aids                                 8         5,000             40,000
office Equipment                             16         6,000             96,000
Sub-total        595,000
8 Subject Matter Specialists
Vehicles                                      8        22,000            176,000
Office/Teaching Equipment                     8         5,000             40,000
Sub-total        216000
1 Chief State Extension Officer
Vehicles                                      1        22,000             22,000
Office Equipment                              1         6,000              6,000
Sub-total         28,00
State Extension Headquarters
Duplicating Equipment                         1         4,500              4,500
Electronic Stencil Cutter                     1         2,500              2,500
Xerox Photocopier                             1         4,500              4,500
Composer                                      1        12,000             12,000
Miscellaneous: e.g. Stapling, Punching
machines, etc.                                                       4,500
Mobile Public Address/Film Units              2        35,000             70,000
Sub-total        97,00-



AN-'-EX 6
Table 3
Page 2
Item                                      No.       Unit Cost       Total Cost
---M ~~ -- M$--
Basic Equipment: Seed Production Unit
Seed Cleaning, Processing Equipment          _           _               10,000
Scales, Moisture Testers, etc.                                            3,000
Vehicles and trailer                          1        26,500            26,500
Sub-total        39700
Supplementary Equipment Demonstration Plot Unit
Office Furniture, Equipment for Additional                                5,000
Staff
7ehicles and trailer                          2        26,500           53,000
Tractor plus equipment                        1        32,000            32,000
Miscellaneous, tapes, labelling equipment,  -             -               3,000
scales, etc.
Sub-total        93,000
Supplementary Equipment Plant Protection Uni_  &-Staff
Basic Laboratory Equipment                                               16, 150
Knapsack pover mist dusters, HQ               2         1,000             2,000
Districts       7          1,000            7,000
Thermal Fogging Machines, HQ                  2         1,500             3,000
Districts          7          1,500           10,500
Knapsack sprayers                            16           250             4,000
Cyanogas pumps                               16           200             3,200
Hi Pressure Tree Sprayers                    10          1,000           10,000
Soil Fumigant Injectors                      10          3,000           30,000
Vehicles and trailer                          2        26,500            53,000
Sub-total       13b,650
Supplementary Equipment - Central Workshop
Complete tool sets                            4         2,500            10,000
Pressure Lubricating Eauipment                1        15,000            15,000
Electrical Systems testing eouipment          1         5,200             5,200
Hydrauli.c Lifting equipment                  1         30,000           30,000
Diesel Injector Tester                        1           600               600
Plug Cleaner and Tester                       1         1,500             1n Con
Gauging Instruments                         1 set       1,000             1,000
wheel drive Mobile Service 'Jnit with        1        35,000      3X,000
winch and eauipment
Field Service Van                             1         15,000           11,000
_IlC- - 7 wa'113,300



A NTk' 6
Ta.ble 3
Page 3
Item                                      No.       Unit. Cost      Total Cost
--- M$_--_     ----Ml; --
Supplementary Equipment, Farm Mechanization Training Center,
Lundang
Basic tool sets                              20            700            14,000
Arc Welding sets                              2            500             1,000
Oa s '.'ding sets                             2            250               500
Fuel pump/injection test lnit                 1         30,000            30,000
Hydraulic testing equipment                   1          1,200             1,230
Battery Charging/Test equipment               1          1,500             1,500
Dynamom"eter                                  1          3,000             3,000
Wheel Alignment Unit                          1            600                600
Tyre Changing Unit                            1          3,000              3,000
Wheel 3alancing Unit                          1          2,000             2,000
-wscellaneous items                           -            -              15,000
Sub-total         71,500
Teaching Aids
Cutout model L strok;e petrol engine          1          1,000             1 ,000
Cutout model 4 stroke diesel engine           1          2,000             2,000
2 inch water pump                             1          2,000              2,000
2 stroke petrol engine                        1          1,200             1,200
2 stroke, hand-operated model                 1            400                400
Hydraulic svstems model                       1          2,000              2,000
Overhead Projector                            1          3,000             3,000
oub-total
Training Tractors & Implements
Four-Wheeled Tractors                          4        25,000            100,000
Disc Plough                                   1                             3,000
Mouldboard Plough                              1                            4,000
Disc Harrow                                    1                            4,000
Scraper                                       1                             5',000
Ditcher                                       1                            12,000
Sub-Total        128,000



AMFLTZ 6
Table 3
Item                                     No.       Unrit Cost      Total Cost
Farmer Training Center Lundag
Basic Furnishing of classrooms and hostel                                 20,000
Field Spraring Equipment                                                   8,000
Field Custodian Equipment and tools                                        2,000
Sub-total         30,000
Overhead Projector                            1         3,000              3,000
Slide Projector                               1           800                800
Other Teaching Aids                                                        1,000
Sub-total          4,800
Food Handling and Nutrition Equipment                                      2,000
H-omecraft Equipment                                                         500
Sewing Machines                               2           500              1,000
Sewing Machines                               2         1,000              2,000
Sub-total          5,500
Total          2,197,350



ANNEX 6
Table b
MALAYSIA                            Page 1
NORTH KELANTAN RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSlION COKPCNENT
Salary Expenses for Incremental Staff
Year
1      - 2          3                    5
Field Extension Officers (JAAtB)         23         23        23         23         23
Cumulative Total                       23        46         69         92       115
Annual Cost (M$3,600)             82,800   165,600   24W,400   331,200   41 4,0o0
District Extension Officers (AA's)        4          4         -          -          -
Cumulative Total                        4         8          8          8         8
Annual Cost (M,$9,000)             36,000    72,000    72,000    72,000    72,000
Subject Matter Specialists                4          4         -          -          -
Cumulative Total                        4          8         8          8          8
Annual Cost        A,, JX%))       43,200    86,400    86,400    86,400    86,400
Chief Extension Officer                   1          -         -          -          _
Cumulative Total                        1          1         1          1          1
Annual Cost (M$124,000)            24,000    24,000    24,000    21,000    24,000
Demonstration Plots Supervisors           1          1         -          -          -
(AAA's7v
CtiulatEve Total.                       1         2          2          2         2
Annual Cost (M$9,00()              9,000    18,000    18,000    18,000    18,000
Junior Demonstration Plot                 3          3         4          -         -
Workers (JAA's)
Cumrlative Total                        3         6         10         10        10
Annual Cost  (MP3,600)             10,800    21,600    36,000    36,000    36,000
Plant Protection (.AAA's)                 1          1         -          -         -
Cumulative Total                        1          2         2          2         2
Cost (M$9,0oo)                      9,000    18,000    18,000    18,000    18,000
Plant Protection (JAA's)                  2          2         2          2          1
Cumulative Total                       2         L          6         8          9
Cost  (M$3,600)                   7,200    14,400    21,600    28,800    32,400
Senior Mechanics                          1         1          -          _         _
Cumulatlve Total                        1         2          2          2         2
Cost  (M$6,OO0)                     6,000    12,000    12,000    12,000    12,000
Junior Mechanics                          1          1         1          -         -
Cumulative Total                        1          2         3          3         3
Cost ($3,600)                       3 ,600    7,20O    10,800    10,800    10,800



ANNEX 6
Table 4
Page 2
Year
1        2          3          4         5
Clerical Staff                           12          4          4         -
bmulLative Total                       12        16         20         20         20
o'St.. 43, 200    57,600    72,000    72,000    72,000
D-iv vers                                 7          7          7         7          1
!Oumulative Total                       7         l         21         28         32
Cost ( ?,42.                       16,800    33,600    50,4oo    67,200    76,800
Total (X$)            291,600   530,400   669,600   776,4oo   872,400
Grand Total ($)                          3,140,400



ANNEX 7
Page 1
MALAYSIA
NORTH KELANTAN RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FARMERS DEVELOPMENT CENTER COMIPONENT
1.        The administration and organization of Government-assisted rural
agricultural institutions in Malaysia has evolved rapidly over the past
decade, in response to major poltcy reorientations within the GOM and to
dissatisfaction with the overall rate of progress in improving the pro-
ductivity of small farmers. At present, Farmers Organizations (FO's) are
under the jurisdiction of the Farmer's Organization Authority (FOA), a
statutory body established in 1973 to amalgamate Farmers Associations, which
had been managed by the Department of Agriculture, and local cooperatives,
into units which could effectively organize marketing, input supply, storage
and processing activities for large numbers of smallholders. While organi-
zational changes have had important effects in terms of motivating field
staff and farmer-members alike, it should be emphasized that the physical
infrastructure facilities provided under the Farmers Organization program
are justifiable long-term investments which would be well-utilized for pro-
ductive purposes independently of any particular organizational structure.
2.        The basic facility or Farmers Development Center (FDC), includes:
(a) an office block to house staff and provide space for
agricultural extension and other meetings, and com-
mercial transactions;
(b) a warehouse or storage block to provide dry storage for
crops and fertilizer and other inputs;
(c) a garage or shed to house FDC equipment used on own
account, such as trucks and other vehicles, and for
equipment hired or contracted by the FO to area farmers,
such as tractors, power sprayers, pumps, winnowers, etc.;
and
(d) simple processing facilities, including padi drying floors,
cassava drying yards and chipping machines, groundnut
shelling machines, and chicken houses.
3.        At present there are 169 FDC's throughout Peninsular Malaysia.  FOA
plans to increase the size of this network to 210 by the end of the Third
Malaysia Plan (1981). In Kelantan, the KADA area is well served by 9 FDC's
established in the late 1960's and early 1970's as part of the Government's



ANNEX 7
Page 2
policy of concentrating agricultural support efforts on the double-cropping
of padi in irrigated areas. No FDC's were built outside KADA until 1974,
when the newly established FOA constructed the first in Machang District,
and three more were completed in 1975. The neglect of the more remote aeas
has been unfortunate, in the sense that while smallholders in the KADA area
are generally within a 30-km radius of Kota Bharu, and have at least minimal
access to Government and commercial credit sources, input suppliers, market-
ing agents and transport and storage facilities, farmers outside the KADA
area are often totally isolated from the modern economy except for occasional
long trips to the few large towns to sell rubber and purchase consumer goods.
4.        The standard FDC is expected to eventually serve the needs of
about 3,000 farm families, operating about 5,000 ha of agricultural land
within the delineated area of the FDC. At present in Kelantan the average
FDC is serving about 1,000 members and 1,200 ha of agricultural land. The
major constraints on the operations of existing FDC's are:
(a) lack of operating funds;
(b) lack of adequate office, storage and drying facilities;
(c) lack of vehicles and equipment;
(d) lack of sufficient field staff, particularly in the
credit operations; and
(e) lack of an effective extension service to ensure
efficient use of cash inputs.
Sufficient funds, facilities, equipment and staff for the 13 existing FDC's
in Kelantan, as well as for the 12 new FDC's to be constructed under the
component, would be provided under the project. The agricultural extension
effort in the State would be substantially intensified under the agricultural
extension component. These improvements would permit Kelantan FDC's to
effectively service an average of 1,800 members by 1981 and a minimum of
2,700 members by 1986.
5.        Even when the FDC network is completed, individual FDC's will be
more than 5 km distant from the majority of small farmers, too great a dis-
tance for the effective administration of credit, marketing and input supply
programs directly from the FDC building. FO's have thus been sub-divided
into between 8 and 12 Small Agricultural Units (SAU's), consisting of be-
tween 60 and 300 FO members. At least one farmer in each SAU, typically the
SAU "unit chief" (para 7), is registered as a sub-stockist, and is provided
assistance in constructing a small wooden barn to store fertilizer and other
inputs to be sold on commission from the FDC. The sub-stockist is also
expected to collect produce and store it for pickup by FDC vans, as well as
to assist FDC staff in agricultural credit operations. Although the concept



ANNEX 7
Page  3
of a sub-station at the SAU level is sound, the facilities provided to exer-
cise this function have been extremely inadequate, both in terms of size and
standard of construction, which offer little more protection from rain than
do the farmer's ricks or cribs beside or beneath the typical kampong house.
Watertight stores, with concrete floors and zinc roofs would be provided at
the SAU level under the project.
Management of the FDC's
6.        FOA regulations prescribe basic management staff for each FDC,
including a General Manager with qualifications 1/ and seniority equiva-
lent to an Agriculture Assistant, and five subordinate staff at levels
equivalent to Junior Agriculture Assistants 2/. The five assistants are
assigned responsibility for credit, organization, agribusiness, accounting,
and agricultural production, although in practice this degree of specializa-
tion have rarely been achieved. Few FDC's have yet received a full com-
plement of staff, and in many FDC's Managers have found that assigning
Assistants to specific geographical areas and SAU's permits a closer
relationship between the staff members and the farmers than do functional
assignments.
7.        The tManager and Assistants are assigned and paid by FOA, with the
exception of FDC's in the Muda and Kemubu areas, where the staff are provided
by the regional authorities (MADA and KADA). Additional staff, such as clerks,
drivers, laborers, mechanics, and tractor operators are hired by the indivi-
dual FO as needed if its finances permit. Additional assistance to the FO's
in such matters as procurement, logistics, and project planning is provided
by the State FOA staff. While commercial self-sufficiency of the FO's is a
long-term Government objective, GOM also views the FO as the single most
important public service institution in the rural areas and is accordingly
committed to providing basic support to the FO's until they may achieve
financial self-reliance.
8.        Each SAU elects a unit chief and one or two deputy chiefs to take
responsibility for input distribution and storage, liaison with FDC staff,
and other matters. The SAU also elects 2 or 3 representatives to the Farmers
Assembly which ideally functions as the policy-making body of the FO. The
typical FO also has a Board of Directors of 11 members, of which 7 are select-
ed by the Farmers Assembly from among themselves, and 4 are nominated by FOA,
which usually requests local District Officers, Members of Parliament, and
civil servants to fill these roles. While the formal procedure quite
naturally exaggerates the actual importance of the farmer's representatives
in the management of the FO, these representatives do fulfill several import-
ant functions, including:
1/   Holding a Diploma from the Agricultural University or MARA Institute
of Technology.
2/   Holding a Certificate from one of the Agricultural Institutes.



ANNEX 7
Page 4
(a)  recruiting new FO members and recontacting inactive
members;
(b)  distributing the bulk of the fertilizer handled by the
FDC's at the village level;
(c)  collecting and screening credit applications at the village
level; and
(d)  providing information to farmers regarding the range of
services available from the FDC, as well as informing FDC
staff of the input, credit, storage and marketing needs
of the farmers.
The Project
9.        The basic objectives of the component are to provide the facilities
and logistical system necessary to supply efficient marketing, credit, farm
mechanization, and input supply servics to the majority of farmers in
Kelantan. Efforts in the first few years would be concentrated on providing
support services for padi and groundnut production, although inputs would be
supplied for other crops where justified.
1J.       The component would include:
(a)  construction of 12 new Farmers Development Centers
(FDC's), including basic office and storage facilities;
(b)  construction of padi drying floors and supplemental storage
facilities required to handle seasonal needs, for the
12 new FDC's, the 13 existing FDC's, and about 100 Small
Agricultural Units;
(c)  provision of required office and field equipment to new and
existing FDC's;
(d)  provision of agricultural credit funds through FDC's to permit
expansion of existing credit programs;
(e)  incremental operation and maintenance costs associated with
increases in the physical and staff establishment over the
next five years;
(f)  consultant services to assist FOA in resolving technical and
logistical problems in marketing, input supply, and storage;
and
(g)  modifications to the FDC method of operation to ensure closer
contact between the FDC and the village, and closer integra-
tion of FDC operations with agricultural extension activities.



ANNEX 7
Page 5
11.       FDC Construction Program:  The locations of the FDC's to be
constructed are presented in Table 1. As all new FDC's would be con-
structed outside the KADA area, this element of the component would be
implemented by FOA. Before any FDC is constructed, FOA would form an FO
in the area, often through the amalgamation of existing Farmers Associations
and cooperatives, to ensure that facilities would be fully utilized imme-
diately upon completion. Several of these FO's have already been formed, and
are currently being served from FDC's occupying rented shophouses in the
towns. The FDC's would be built on standard designs similar to those used
previously, and construction would be tendered locally.
12.       Storage and Drying Capacity:  The volume of storage capacity re-
quired in each FDC area would depend on the production of padi and ground-
nut in the area in excess of home consumption, the proportion of area
farmers utilizing FDC and SAU facilities rather than their own or commercial
facilities, the volume of inputs used (primarily fertilizer), the seasonal
distribution of input usage and production, and the efficiency of the sche-
duling of the overall logistics operation, including procurement, transport,
distribution, and marketing activities. For the five-year project period,
KADA FDC's were assumed to require markedly greater storage capacity (about
650 tons per FDC area) than non-KADA FDC's (about 100 tons per FDC area),
for the following reasons:
(a) KADA FDC's would serve a higher proportion of area
farmers, due to their comparatively longer estab-
lishment and large initial memberships;
(b) while KADA farmers produce two or three times as
much padi on a per capita basis than do non-KADA
farmers, their production in excess of home
requirements is a much larger multiple;
(c) the availability of irrigation, drainage and flood
control facilities in KADA would encourage a much
greater usage of inputs requiring storage than is
anticipated outside of KADA; and
(d) the prevalence of double-cropping of padi in
KADA means that peak seasonal storage requirements
for the harvested crop largely coincide with the
peak requirements for storage of inputs for the
next crop.
13.       Lack of adequate drying facilites at present results in economic
losses due to the necessity of redrying and remilling moist padi to avoid
production of inferior grades of rice. These losses are reflected in dis-
counts in prices paid by Goverment mills due to excessively high moisture
content. Concrete padi drying floors are at present the only technically
and economically feasible method for reducing the moisture content and



ANNEX 7
Page 6
germination rate of padi reaching the mill. The capacity of the drying
floors to be provided under the project is roughly equal to the storage
capacity provided. In each FDC area, storage space and drying floors would
be allocated between the central FDC and the outlying SAU's on the basis
of the geographical distribution of agricultural activity in the locality.
14.       Equipment Rental Operations:  KADA FDC's now own 25 4-wheeled
tractors (between 62 and 77 BHP) which perform contract ploughing on a
hire basis. Trained operators are employed by the FDC's, and are paid
a small salary and a commission on work done. Agents are also paid com-
missions for finding customers and collecting payments. Detailed records
of the operations of individual tractors indicate that the financial rate
of return on investments in tractors is about 25% per annum, varying from
20% to 30%, after all commissions and depreciation are deducted. Consider-
able scope exists for further profitable expansion in tractoring operations
by Kelantan FDC's, as well as for the hiring out of smaller equipment items
under the project. The new FDC's outside KADA would each be provided with
2 4-wheeled tractors, 2 2-wheeled pedestrian tractors, sprayers, and other
equipment to be hired out. In the KADA area, incremental needs are less,
but some heavy tractors, including halftrack tractors for deep soil areas,
would be required. Small trucks and 4-wheel drive vehicles would be supplied
to each FDC primarily to facilitate the Centers' own distribution and market-
ing operations, but in slack seasons the vehicles would be hired out to
private parties also.
15.       Agricultural Credit:  The expansion of the network of FDC's serving
North Kelantan and improvements in the staffing and facilities of existing
FDC's would present an opportunity to provide more comprehensive institutional
agricultural credit to larger numbers of farmers in the region. In conjunc-
tion with the rehabilitation program for the KADA FDC's, the Bank Pertanian
Malaysia (BPM) has agreed to expand its existing short-term credit programs
for padi and tobacco production in the irrigation areas, and to initiate
similar programs in the rainfed areas through the new FDC's to be con-
structed under the project. In addition, BPM has agreed to initiate a new
short-term credit program to finance the production of groundnuts, vegetables
and other annual crops through both the KADA and non-KADA FDC's. Under this
program, BPM would advance seasonal block loans to the FO's on the basis of
their individual requirements. Prior to each cropping season, the FO's would
submit their estimated requirements to KADA or the Kelantan State FOA, which
would screen the requests and assess the loan-processing capabilities of the
FO's. The requests and recommendations would then be forwarded to BPM, which
would decide on the maximum amount of credit to the made available to each FO
for the season. Disbursements and repayments would be made through BPM's
branch office in Kota Bharu, with copies of loan records sent to KADA and the
Kelantan State FOA. Processing of individual loans to farmers would be the
responsibility of the local FO's. Loans to farmers would finance input pur-
chases and the contracting of tractor services, and would normally be extended
for a six-month period. Interest rates to farmers would range from an 8.5%
annual rate for padi production loans, to 10% for tobacco and 12% proposed



ANNEX 7
Page 7
for the new annual crop program. The incremental volume of agricultural
credit outstanding associated with the buildup of the FDC network is projected
to reach M$5.0 million by completion of the project in 1981, and this amount
has been included in the costing of the Farmers' Development Center component
(Table 2), although no disbursements would be made against credit operations.
Assurances have been obtained that:
(a) the Project Manager would prepare, in consultation with KADA
and Kelantan State FOA, a statement of annual agricultural
credit requirements, to be submitted to BPM and the Bank not
later than three months prior to the beginning of each fiscal
year; and
(b) GOM would thereafter, following consultation with the Bank,
ensure that an adequate amount of credit would be made
available to project area farmers through BPM.
Coordination of Extension and FDC Activities
16.       Both KADA and Kelantan State FOA would modify their organization
and management of field personnel to ensure a direct link between agribusi-
ness and extension services at the grass roots. They would also provide
regular backstop visits to field staff by experienced credit and agribusi-
ness personnel from the head offices. In consultation with the Project Man-
ager and the Chief Extension Officer to be apppointed under the agricultural
extension component, KADA, FOA and DOA would determine a mutually agreed basis
for forming small farmer groups of 30-40 members for extension and agribusi-
ness activities. The groups would be formed as sub-divisions of SAU's outside
the KADA area but would be based on irrigation outlets in the KADA area. DOA
would select its progressive farmers for extension purposes and FOA and KADA
would select one progressive farmer in each group as the key credit and agri-
business contact. Within the KADA area one progressive farmer would be selec-
ted as the water users representative. The same farmer groups would thus be
used for extension, agribusiness and water management purposes.
17.       The role of the agribusiness contact would be to ensure that all
farmers in his group were aware of the services offered by the FDC, to put
interested farmers in contact with FO personnel, advise on creditworthiness
and act in a supervisory capacity with regard to the use of services within
his area and repayment of credit. Compensation for these activities is pro-
vided by small commissions on the volume of credit and distribution handled.
The most capable man in each SAU on the basis of the first few weeks perfor-
mance would be recruited and trained as agribusiness supervisor for the area
and be the key direct contact with FDC personnel and farmers.
18.       Each FDC officer would become a multi-purpose field officer and
assume responsibility for 3-4 SAU's in the FDC operating area. He would
visit the SAU agribusiness supervisor on a set day at a set time each week,
follow-up enquiries, check credit applications and records of business



ANNEX 7
Page 8
transactions. Emphasis would be placed on delegating as much responsibility
and authority as practical to the FDC officer and his SAU supervisors to
avoid bringing farmers to the FDC, to identify the service with the local
community, reduce paper work and shorten lines of communications.
19.       Each FDC officer and agricultural extension agent operating in
the same area would make an effort to maintain regular informal contact,
exchange information and coordinate efforts wherever possible. Formal
contact would be effected through bi-weekly meetings arranged by the District
Extension officer for all field extension workers to review and plan working
programs. Local FOA staff would attend these meetings to participate in
program review and planning sessions. The extension officers would provide
information on input and service requirements as reported from their farmer
groups. FOA would provide the extension workers with lists of farmers taking
production credit, so that they may visit these farmers to ensure proper use
of inputs at their next field visit.



ANNEX 7
'lable 1
M LAY SI4
NORrT3H KELANTAN RURAL DEVELOPMENT PiiOJECT
FARMERS DEVELOPMENT CENTER COrTTMENT
List of Proposed flew FDC's
Estimated No. of     Present Members of
Farm Families       Cooperatives and
Location          in FDC Area        Farmers Organizations
1.  Pengkalan Chepa          9,000                   1,450
2.  Chetok                   1,900                     200
3.  Bachok Utara             3,700                   1,050
4. Bukit Panau               4,100                     700
5.  Machang Seletan          6,500                   1,200
6.  Bukit Awang              3,400                     700
7. Tumpat Pantai             6,200                   1,050
8.  Semerak                  1,800                     150
9.  Repek/Telong             3,000                     300
10. Ayer Lanas                2,000                     200
11.  Jeli                     2,300
12. Ulu Kusial                1,900                     300
45,800                   7,300



MALAYSIA
NORTH KELANTAN RUliAL DEVELOPMENT PXOJECT
FARMERS DEVELOPMET CENTER CCMPONENT
Cost Estimates
KADA FDC's       Non-Kada FDC's        Total             d Foreign
---------   (M$ '000) ------------------                 Exchange
I.    Construction
1i:lve   BW .ldings                                           1,680               1,68o
FDC Storage Facdlities                       8bo                 360               1,200
SAIU Storage Facilities                      588                 300                 888
Padi Drying Floors                           870                 500               1,370
Staff Housing                                270                                     270
71-17M             2; 640              TIT50              25
Engineering and Supervision                  180                 199                 379
SLb-total                             T,74 0,77
II.   Eauimnt
Basic Eouipment Package                       70                 166                 236              70
Tractors an.d Vehicles                       78b               1,h82               2,266              90
Sub-total                             -77                 1,67                2,502
III.  Agricultural Credit                           1,800              3,200               5,000              35
IV.  Operating Expenses
Incremental Salaries                          81               1,090               1,171
3uilding Operation and Maintenance           252                 364                 616              15
Vehicle Operation and Maintenance            215                 210                 h25              25
Sub-total                             -T-           g     ,F                  2,212
V.    Consulting Services                                                 62                  62              90
Total Base Cost                   5,950               9,613              15,563              36
rQ --



MALAYSIA                                ANNEX 8
Table 1
NORTH KELANTAN RURAL DEVELOMENT PROJECT
Cost Summary
Foreign
Local   Foreign   Total    Local  Forei£n   Total   Exchange
:=  (IMmillion)------   ----- (US$ Million)---
Lemal Irrigation Improvement
Canals & On-Farm Drains            9.2      6.8      16.0      3.6      2.6       6.2       43
Flood Protection                   2.6      2.2        4.8     1.0      0.9       1.9       !;5
Major Drainage                     2,5      1.3        3.8     1.0      0.5       1.5       34
Access Roads                       2.3      1.9        4.2     0.9      0.7       1.6       45
Maintenance Equipment               -       1.2        1.2      -       0.5       0.5      100
Engineering & Supervision          2.3      0.3        2.6     0.9      0.1       1.0       10
Sub-Total              18.9      13.7      32.6     7.4       5.3     12.7        42
Small-Scale Irrigation
Physical Works                     2.4      2.0        4.4     0.9      0.8       1.7       h5
Engineering & Supervision          o.6       -         o.6     0.2       -        0.2      __
Sub-Total               3.0       2.0       5.0      1.1      0.8      1.9        4°
Rural Roads
Construction                       7.0      8.3       15.3     2.8      3.2       6.0       54
Mechanical liWorkshops             0.1      0.2        0.3      -       0.1       0.1       60
Maintenance Equipment               -       0.9        0.9      -       0.4       0.4      100
Engineering & Supervision          1.0      0.2        1.2     0.4      0.1       0.4       20
Sub-Total               8.1       9.6      17.7      3.2      3.8      7.0        54
Agricultural Extension
Buildings & Facilities             1.4      0.4        1.8     0.5      0.2       0.7       25
Equipment & Vehicles               0.2      2.0        2.2     0.1      0.8       0.9       90
Incremental Operating Costs        4.5      1.1        5.6     1.8      0.4       2.2       19
Sub-Total               6.1       3.5       9.6      2.4.     1.4       3.3       35
Farmers Development Centers
Buildings & Facilities             4.3      1.5        5.8     1.7      0.6       2.3       25
Equipment & Vehicles               0.3      2.2        2.5     0.1      0.9       1.0       88
Agricultural Credit                3.2      1.8        5.0     1.2       0.7      1.9       35
Incremental Operating Costs        2.0      0.3        2.3     0.8      0.1       0.9       11
Sub-Total               9.8       5.8      15.6      3.8      2.3      6.1.       37
Studies
GRP Flume Testing Progratm          -       0.2        0.2      -        0.1      0.1       90
State Land Development Scbemes      -       0.2        0.2              0.1       0.1       90
Sub-Total                -        0.4       0.4       -       0.2      0.2        90
Base Cost Estimate     45.9      35.0      80.9    17.9      13.8      31.7       43
Physical Contingencies               5.4       4.6      10.0     2.1       1.8      3.9       46
Expected Price Increases            18.0     13.9       31.9     7.0        5      12.4        4
PU.Al, PlRCfJECT COST  69.3      53.5     122.8    27.0      21.0    4,8.0        44



ANNEX 9
Table 1
IIALAYSIA
1ORTH KELAITAN RURL DEVELOWFT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Expenditures
Total                 Cplendar Years
Item                Cost 1/   19o76   1°77   197u   1979   190   19
-    -------eUS  Miion)   -
Lenal Irrigation                14.4      0.3    3.7      h.8   3.7    1.3    0.6
Snall-Scale Irrigation           2.2      0.1    0.4      0.7   0.7    0.3     -
Rural Roads                      8.3      0.3    2.1      2.7   2.3    0.5    0.4
Agricultural Extension           3.9      0.2    0.9      0.9   0.8    0.7    0.4
Farmers Development Centers      6.6      0.3    1.7      1.7   1.3    1.3    0.3
Studies                          0.2      0.1    0.1       -     _
Sub-Total            35.6       1.3    8.9    10.8   8.8    4.1    1.7
Expected Price Increases        12.4      0.1    1.6      3.3   3.8    2.3    1.3
TOTAL PROjECT COST   48.o
1/ Includes physical contingencies.
2/ Annual rates of price escalation used were (para 4,12):
Civil WrLorks:                  1976   1977   1978   1979   1980   1981
rf4,If                          13      12     12     12      10     10
Price Escalation Factor Used   .o65   .20   .34    .50    .67    .83
Equipment & Services:
?FqgII                            9      8      8       C      7      7
Prirc  Escqlation Factor Used   .045   .13    .22    .32    .42    .52



Af4]EX 9
Table 2
MAL! SIA
NORTH KEIANTA-J RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TBRD Fiscal Year       Accumulated Disbursements
and Semester          US$ Million Equivalent
1977
1st t
2nd                          0.2
1978
1st                          0.7
2nd                          2.7
1979
1st                          7.2
2nd                         12.4
1980
1st                         15.4
2nd                         17.9
1981
1st                          19.4
2nd                         20.5
1982
1st                         21.0



ANNEX 9
Table 3
MALAYSIA
NORTH KELANTAN RURAL DEVEI0PMENT PROJECT
Schldule of Implementation Early Events
Responsible   Target
Activity                                     Agency       Date
A.  Lomal Irrigation (local competitive bidding)                DID
1. Irrigation Works
(a)  Start detailed engineering design                            May 1976
(b)  Start MP evaluation program for tertiariea                   July 1976
(c)  Interim report on GRP evaluation                              Nov 1976
(d) Complete tender documents & advertise                         Jan 1977
(e)  Complete GRP evaluation                                      June 1977
(f) Award contract & start construction                           July 1977
2. Flood protection dikes and major drainage works
(separate cmt ots)
(a)  Start detailed engineering design                            May 1976
(b)  Complete tender documents & advertise                        May 1977
(c) Award contracts & start construction                          Sept 1977
3. Access Roads
(a)  Start detailed engin ering design                            Sept 1977
(b)  Conplete tender documents & advertise                        May 1978
(c) Award contract & start construction                           Nov 1978
B. Rural Roads (ICB)                                        Kelantan PWD
1   Start detailed engineering design                                  July 1976
2. Complete tender dcoq"mnts & advertise first
contract                                                       March 1977
3. Award contract & start construction under
first oontract                                                  July 1977
C.  Sall-Scale Irrigation (force account)                        DID
1. Start feadibilil xWdg first three schemes                           Dec 1976
2. Complete feasibilityg studtr (3 schemes)                            June 1977
3. Conplete detailed engineering & specifications                      July 1977
4. Start construction first schees                                     July 1977
D. FDC Buildings & Fealities (local competitive bidding  Kelantan P.fD
1. Complete tnder documents & advertise first contract                 May 1977
2. Award contract and start oonstruction                               JulJy 1977
E.  EkjulLnt and Vehicles (ICB)                             Kelantan PWD
& DID
1. Approval tender documents & advertise                               Mar 1977
2. Award first contract                                                July 1977
F.  StuEr of State Iand Develoment Schemes
1.  Selection of consultants                                           June 1976
2.  Complete stuy                                                      June 1977



ANNEX 10
Table 1
MALAYSIA
NORIH XELANTAN RURAL DEVELOPNENT PROJECT
Proposed Allocation of the Proceeds of the Loan
Estimated     Proposed
Category                 Total Cost   Allocation         Disbursement
7Fuss Mul1ion----                  _   
(1) Civil Works
Lemal Irrigation                    12.2
Small-Scale Irrigation               1.9
Rural Roads                          6.6
Agricultural Extension               0.7
Farmers Development Centers          2.3
23.7
Price Contingencies                  9.2
Sub-Total                 32.9         16.5                5°
(2) Equipment & Vehicles
Lemal Irrigation                     0.5                           100 of
Rural Roads                          0.4                    foreign expenditures,
Agricultural Extension               0.9                         95 of local
Farmers Development Centers          1.0                        expenditures
2.8                       ex-factory, or
Price Contingencies                  0.9                       65 of imported
items procured
Sub-Total                  3.7          3.2              locally
(3) Studies                                0.2          0.2                100
(4) Unallocated
Incremental Operating Costs 1/       3.1
Working Capital 2/                   1.9
Remaining Price Contingencies        2.3
Physical Contingencies               3.9
Sub-Total                11.2           1.1
Total                     48.o         21.0               (U4)
1/  Includes US$2.2 million for agricultural extension and US$0.9 million for Farmers
Development Centers. No disbursements would be made against these items.
2/ Included in Farmers Development Centers component. No disbursement would be made
against this item.



ANNEX 11
Page 1
MALAYSIA
NORTH KELANTAN RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LEMAL IRRIGATION COMPONENT
Economic Analysis
General
1.        The major benefit to be derived from the implementation of the
Lemal irrigation component would be an increase in padi production over
the without project situation of about 37,000 tons by 1985. The projected
rates of irrigation development and yields used to estimate incremental
production are given in Table 1, along with projected padi prices and
farm production costs. Table 2 aggregates production, value of production,
and production cost data over the component area. The net value of produc-
tion due to the component is derived in Table 3, while Table 4 presents the
calculation of the rate of return.
2.        The benefits calculated in Tables 1-4 include increases in padi
production in the Lemal area proper (about 12,000 ha of potential padi land)
and in Kubang Gadong, an area 1/ which would not be irrigated under the
project but which would be protected from annual river floods which severely
damage the padi crop. In addition to increases in padi production, the com-
ponent would provide significant additional economic benfits which are more
difficult to quantify. The most important of these benefits derive from
flood protection for the town of Pasir Mas (pop. 13,000), the homes of 20,000
rural families living between the Colok and Kelantan Rivers, and the non-
padi crops (chiefly rubber), herds, and property of those people. A con-
servative estimate of the annual value of damages to buildings 2/, ve-
hicles 3/, rubber trees, and livestock which would be eliminated by the
proposed component would be on the order of M$1.2 million. These benefits
have not been included in the rate-of-return calculations.
1/   Kubang Gadong includes a gross area of 4,100 ha, of which 1,600 ha
are suitable for rainfed padi.
2/   Shophouses, homes, and Government facilities in Pasir Mas; farm houses
elsewhere.
3/   Including bicycles.



ANNEX 11
Page 2
Production Estimates
3.        Yields in Lemal have been projected to increase to 3.0 ton/ha in
the main (wet) sason, and to nearly 3.7 ton/ha in the off (dry) season, by
1985. Although these yields imply increases of over 1 ton/ha in each season,
several factors are present in Lemal which make these yield increases
feasible:
(a) Project area farmers are already experienced in padi
double-cropping, and no learning period is required;
(b) Project area farmers would benefit from an intensive
agricultural extension effort, complemented by expanded
storage, marketing, and credit facilities in the Farmers
Development Centers, all of which would be supported
by the proposed project;
(e) The elimination of major flooding and drainage problems
should provide a quick boost to main season yields early
in the project;
(d) Rapid installation of the GRP flume tertiary system pro-
vides improved water control earlier in the project
than would conventional excavated distribution systems
(Annex 12);
(e) The Lemal system would be the most articulated system
in Malaysia when completed. Yields are thus expected
to exceed those in the nearby Kemubu area, recently
projected to reach 2.6 and 3.2 ton/ha by 1980 in the
wet and dry season. 1/
4.        The area cropped during the wet season is expected to increase by
about 1,000 ha, due primarily to major drainage works. The area cropped
during the dry season is expected to increase by about 5,400 ha during the
project period, but approximately 1,500 ha of this increase would be due
to repairs to pumps in the Lemal pumphouse, and not allocable to the project.
The remaining increase would be due primarily to extension of command through
installation of tertiaries and improvements in the main and secondary canals.
Prices 2/
5.        Padi Prices:  Malaysia still imports substantial amounts of high-
grade Thai and Chinese rice, amounting to between 150,000 and 250,000 tons
1/   IBRD Report No. 796-MA (Completion Report - Kemubu Irrigation
Project), Annex 5, Table 2.
2/   All prices used are in constant 1976 M$.



ANNEX 11
Page  3
per annum, or about 15% of national requirements, in recent years.  The
incremental production due to the project would thus substitute for imports,
and has accordingly been valued in terms of Bank projections of the price
of Thai rice (5% broken, fob Bangkok). As the grades produced in Lemal
are closer in quality to 15% broken Thai rice than to the 5% export grade
for which long-term projections are made, the fob Bangkok prices have been
reduced 10%, maintaining the price ratio between these two grades which has
prevailed in recent years. The output of the Kubong Gadong area is almost
entirely highly prized long-grain native varieties, and has been valued at
levels equivalent to the Thai 5% grade.
6.        It is assumed that all incremental output would be consumed in the
rice deficit areas of Trengganu, the neighboring State to the south. The
development of a large port in Kuantan, Pahang, by 1980 is expected to reduce
the local (Trengganu) costs of imported rice, eliminating the long roundabout
haul via the port of Klang and Kuala Lumpur, and this has been reflected
in the determination of the economic value of padi produced in Lemal. To re-
present the average milling costs of large, medium, and small mills in Lemal,
a padi/rice conversion rate of 64% has been used, with an additional M$10/ton
in milling costs in excess of the value of by-products. The price structure
used in the economic analysis for Lemal is given below for two illustrative
years:
Constant 1976 M$/ton
1976       1980
Export price, fob Bangkok                           879        815
Ocean Freight:  Klang                                24
Kuantan                                         13
Port Handling and transport to
Kuala Trengganu                     66         30
Wholesale price of rice, Kuala Trengganu            969        858
Transport, Lemal-Kuala Trengganu                     15          15
Price of rice, Lemal                                954        843
Padi equivalent price, Lemal                        601        530
7.        Input Prices:  Input prices used reflect the elimination of all
known tariffs and subsidies. In particular, the full unsubsidized price
of urea 1/ (currently about M$600/ton farmgate) has been used. A description
of projected input usage is contained in Annex 13).
1/   There is currently a 17% subsidy on urea in Malaysia.



ANNEX 11
Page 4
8.        Wages and Labor Costs:  For purposes of economic analysis, all
farm labor used in producing padi in Lemal was valued at M$1.50/day. This
figure is based on a detailed analysis of economic labor costs in Kemubu,
which indicated that labor costs throughout the year after full development
of the Kemubu project would average M$.15/hr in 1974 currency values, or
about M$1.50/day in 1976 values. Little seasonal variation in average labor
costs was noted in Kemubu 1/ and there is no major difference in seasonal
patterns of labor supply and demand between Kemubu and Lemal. Despite the
good evidence for using M$1.50/day as a representative shadow wage rate for
economic analysis, a range of values may be placed on farmers' labor for
other purposes. On the one hand, the average money wage earned by Lemal
area farmers for off-farm work was M$.46/hr in 1975, or between M$3 and
M$4 per day. On the other hand, surveys of the area indicate that farmers
are unemployed for 50% (and other family workers for 70%) of their potential
working time, indicating a shadow wage approaching zero in certain seasons.
Project Life
9.        A project evaluation period of 25 years, without terminal salvage
value, was used for the economic analysis. With proper operation and
maintenance which has been accounted for in the calculation of the rate
of return, project works should easily remain in use for this period.
Economic Rate of Return
10.       The calculated economic rate of return is 42%.  The rate of return
is high for several reasons, including in particular the anticipated speed
of development of the component and the low opportunity cost of farmers' labor
in Kelantan. The speed of development is due in part to the rehabilitative
nature of the component, and in part to the choice of conveyance system to
be used at the tertiary distribution level (Annex 12).
1/   While the marginal opportunity cost of labor in Kemubu was estimated
to range from a high of M$.35/hr in November to M$.15/hr in slack
months, the average opportunity cost of labor used only varied from
M$.17/hr to M$.14/hr in those months. Variation in total labor demand
is dampened to some extent by the off-season demands of rubber tapping,
tobacco planting, etc.



MALAYSIA
NORTH KELANTAN RURAL DEVELOPMENF PROJECT
LEMAL IRRIGATION COMPONENT
Economic Analysis - Basic Data
Farm-Gate
Padi Yields                                     Cropped Area                              Paddy Price                    Production Costs
Lemal               Kubang Gadong                  Lemal                   Kubang  Gadong        Lemal         KG              Lemal               Kubang Gadong
_______________---- (ton/Fa) ---------           ------------------ (ha) --------------------          -- (M$/ton) ---          ------------ (M$/ha) ---------------
W           W            W          W            W             W             W            W                                    W           w          w           w
Year
Main Season     1976         1.75         1.75        0.9        0.9         10,800        10,800         1,316         1,316        601        660         274         274        196         196
1977        1.75         1.75        0.91        0.91       10,800         10,800        1,316         1,316        647         712        279         279        197         197
1978        1.77         1.85        0.92        0.92       10,800         10,900        1,316         1,316        604         660        284         290        198         198
1979        1.79         2.05        0.93        0.93       10,800         11,100        1,316         1,316        583         640        289         305        199         199
1980        1.81         2.35        0.94        1.05       10,800         11,300        1,316         1,382        530         583        294         325        200         213
1981        1.82         2.70        0.95        1.20       10,800         11,560        1,316         1,448        530         583        298         345        202         230
1982        1.83         2.85        0.96        1.35       10,800         11,760        1,316         1,514        530         583        302         365        203         248
1983        1.84         2.90        0.97        1.45       10,800         11,760        1,316         1,580        530         583        306         390        204         260
1984        1.85         2.95        0.98        1.5        10,800         11,760        1,316         1,640        530         583        310         420        205         265
1985        1.86         3.00        0.99        1.53       10,800         11,760        1,316         1,640        530         583        314         445        206         268
1986        1.87         3.05        1.00        1.55       10,800         11,760        1,316         i,640        530         583        317         464        208         271
1987        1.87         3.08        1.00        1.56       10,800         11,760        1,316         1,640        530         583        317         472        208         272
1988        1.87         3.11        1.00        1.57       10,800         11,760        1,316         1,640        530         583        317         484        208         273
1989        1.87         3.14        1.00        1.58       10,80S         11,760        1,316         1,640        530         583        317         496        208         274
1990        1.87         3.17        1.00        1.59       10,800         11,760        1,316         1,640        530         583        317         508        208         275
1991-2001   1.87         3.20        1.00        1.60       10,800         11,760        1,316         1,640        530         583        317         520        208         276
Off Season      1976         2.60        2.60                                 5,800         5,800                                                           310         310
1977        2.60         2.60                                6,300          6,300                                                          315         315
1978        2.63         2.70                                6,800          7,600                                                          320         330
1979        2.65         2.90                                7,300          8,400                                                          325         350
1980        2.67         3.20                                7,300         10,200                                                          330         375
1981        2.69         3.40                                7,300         11,000                                                          340         400
1982        2.71         3.50                                7,300         11,160                                                          350         425
1983        2.73         3.55                                7,300         11,160                                                          360         450
1984        2.75         3.60                                7,300         11,160                                                          365         475
1985        2.77         3.65                                7,300         11,160                                                          370         495
1986        2.79         3.70                                7,300         11,160                                                           373        515
1987        2.80         3.73                                7,300         11,160                                                           375        520
1988        2.80         3.76                                7,300         11,160                                                          375         535
1989        2.80         3.79                                7,300         11,160                                                          375         550
1990        2.80         3.82                                7,300         11,160                                                          375         565
1991-2001   2.80         3.85                                7,300         11,160                                                          375         580
W = without project
W = with proiect



MALAYSlA
NORTH KELANTAN RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LEMAL IRRIGATION COMPONENT
Economic Analysis - Production Values
Padi Production                                     Gross Value of Production                                    Producti on Costs
Lemal                   Kubang Gadong                     Lemal                    Kubang Gadong                  Lemal                   Kubang GadonR
------------------ (ton) -------------------------------------- (M$ '000) ------------------ -- -                       --------------- (M$ '000)  -----------
V                             V             V              V               V              V           V                          w              w           w
Year
Main Season       1976              18,900         18,900          1,184          1,184         11,360          11,359         781          781         2,959          2,959         258          258
1977             18,900          18,900         1,197          1,197         12,298          12,298         852          852         3,013          3,013          259         259
1978             19,116          20,165         1,211          1,211         11,546          12,180         799          799         3,067          3,161          260         260
1979             19,332          22,755         1,224          1,224         11,270          13,266         783          783         3,121          3,385          262         242
1980             19,548          26,555         1,237          1,451         10,360          14,074          721         846         3,175          3,672          263         294
1981             19,656          31,212         1,250          1,738         10,417          16,542         729        1,013         3,218          3,988          266         333
1982             19,764          33,516         1,263          2,044         10,475          17,763         736        1,192         3,262          4,292          267         375
1983             19,872          34,104         1,276          2,291         10,532          18,075         744        1,336         3,305          4,586          268         411
1984             19,980          34.692         1,290          2,460         10,589          18,387          752       1,434          3,348         4,939          270         435
1985             20,088          35,280         1,303          2,509         10,647          18,698         760        1,463          3,391         5,233          271         439
1986             20,196          35,868         1,316          2,542         10,704          19,010          767       1,482          3,424         5,456          274         444
1987             20,196          36,221         1,316          2,558         10,704          19,197         767        1,491          3,424         5,550          274         446
1988             20,196          36,574         1,316          2,575         10,704          19,384          767       1,501          3,424         5,692          274         448
1989             20,196          36,926         1,316          2,591         10,704          19,571          767       1,510          3,424         5,833          274         449
1990             20,196          37,279         1,316          2,607         10,704          19,758          767       1,520          3,424         5,974          274         451
1991-2001        20,196          37,632         1,316          2,624         10,704          19,945          767       1,530          3,424         6,115          274         453
Off Season        1976              15,080         15,080                                        9,063           9,063                                  1,798          1,798
1977             16,380          16,380                                      10,598          10,598                                   1,985         1,985
1978             17,884          20,520                                      10,802          12,394                                   2,176         2,508
1979             19,345          24,360                                      11,278          14,202                                   2,372         2,940
1980             19,491          32,640                                      10,330          17,299                                   2,409         3,825
1981             19,637          37,400                                       10,407         19,822                                   2,482         4,4C0
1982             19,783          39.060                                       10,485         20,702                                   2,555         4,743
1983             19,929          39,618                                       10,562         20,997                                   2,628         5,022
1984             20,075          40,176                                       10,640         21,293                                   2,664         5,301
1985             20,221          40,734                                       10,717         21,589                                   2,701         5,524
1986             20,367          41,292                                       10,795         21,885                                   2,723         5,747
19B7             20,440          41,627                                       10,833         22,062                                   2,737         5,803
1988             20,440          41,962                                       10,833         72,240                                   2,737         5,970
1989             20,440          42,296                                       10,833         22,417                                   2,737         6,138                              z 1
1990             20,440          42,631                                       10,833         22,594                                   2,737         6,305
1991-2001        20,440          42,966                                       10,833         22,772                                   2,737         6,473                              a x
W = Without project
W = with proiect



MALAYSIA
NORTH KELANTAN RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LEMAL IRRIGATION COMPONENT
Economic Analysis - Net Value of Production
Lemal                                            Kubang Gadong                          Total                     Incremental
Main Season                         Off Season
__________----__________-- (H$ '000) -------------------                ------- (H$ '000) -----             ----- (M$ '000) ____            ---((M$ 000) _
W               w                           w                                           W                   W              W                  W-W
Year
1976              8,400           8,400                7,265           7,265                 523           523               16,188          16,188                    0
1977              9,285           9,285                8,613           8,613                 593           593               18,491          18,491                    0
1978              8,479           9,019                8,626           9,886                 539           539               17,644          19,444                1,800
1979              8,149           9,881                8,906          11,262                 521           521               17,576          21,664                4,088
1980              7,185          10,402                7,921          13,476                458            552               15,564          24,428                8,864
1981              7,199          12,544                7,925          15,422                463            680               15,587          28,646               13,059
1982              7,213          13,471                7,930          15,959                469            817               15,612          30,247               14,635
1983              7,227          13,489                7,934          15,975                476            925               15,637          30,389               14,752
1984              7,241          13,448                7,976          15,992                482            999               15,699          30,439               14,740
1985              7,256          13,465                8,016          16,065                489          1,024               15,761          30,554               14,793
1986              7,280          13,554                8,072          16,138                 493          1,038              15,845          30,730               14,885
1987              7,280          13,647                8,096          16,259                493           1,045              15,869          30,951               15,082
1988              7,280          13,692                8,096          16,270                 493          1,053              15,869          31,015               15,146
1989              7,280          13,738                8,096          16,279                493           1,061              15,869          31,078               15,209
1990              7,280          13,784                8,096          16,289                 493          1,069              15,869          31,142               15,273
1991-2001         7,280          13,830                8,096          16,299                 493          1,077              l5,89           31,206               15,337
W = without project                                                                                                                                         x
W = with project



MALAYSIA
NORTH KEIANTAN RURAL DEVElOPMET PROJECT
LEMAL IRRIGATION COMPCNMT
Economic Analysis - Rate of Return
Costs
Incremhntal Net Value                      Incremental
Year            of Production          Construction        G0M           Total      Net Benefits
--- - - - - - - -- - - - - - - ----      ONip  000---------------------------__----. ___
1976                      0                    0                0              0              0
1977                      0                3,785                0          3,785         (3,785)
1978                  1,800                7,885               56          7,941         (6,141)
1979                  4,088               10,408              172         10,580         (6,492)
1980                  8,864                7,254              326          7,580          1,284
1981                 13,059                2,208              433          2,641         10,418
1982                 14,635                                   466            466         14,169
1983                 14,752                                   466            466         14,286
1984                 14,740                                   466            466         14,274
1985                 14,793                                   466            466         14,327
1986                 14,885                                   466            466         14,419
1987                 15,082                                   466            466         14,616
1988                 15,146                                   466            466         14,680
1989                 15,209                                   466            466         14,743
1990                 15,273                                   466            466         14,807
1991-2001            15,337                                   466            466         14,871
&conomic Rate of Return: 42%
3iL
4 r



ANNEX 12
Page I
MALAYSIA
NORTH KELANTAN RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LEMAL IRRIGATION COMPONENT
Economic Analysis of Alternative Tertiary Canal Systems
General Benefits of a Tertiary System
1.        The tertiary canal system to be constructed in the Lemal irriga-
tion area would provide various kinds of economic benefits, deriving from
the following improvements on the existing field-to-field delivery system:
(a)  Increased area cropped.   Only 62% of the padi land can
be cropped in the dry season with the present system
of field-to-field delivery, largely because of the
undulating nature of the terrain. The corresponding
figure for the wet season is 92%.   The proposed tertiary
system would permit an additional 960 ha to be cropped
during the wet season and an additional 3,860 ha during
the dry season, with an overall cropping intensity of
197% at full development.
(b) More timely water delivery. At present, fields farthest
from the canals experience a delay of 30 days or longer
in water delivery from the time that irrigation begins
on fields nearest the outlet. Late planting in the wet
season has a serious depressive effect on yields, since
the crop is often at an immature stage when the monsoon
begins (normally in November) and is extremely suscept-
ible to flood damage. The risk of flood damage also
encourages farmers to use taller and hardier traditional
varieties for the wet-season crop, foregoing the
increased yields possible with the new short varieties.
Late planting means that farmers must harvest and dry
the crop during rainy periods, reducing both the yields
and grade of padi produced, and that planting during the
subsequent wet season is delayed. Also, cumulative
phasing problems occasionally lead to the foregoing of an
entire dry-season crop on land which is technically under
command. The proposed tertiary system, combined with



ANNEX 12
Page 2
drainage and flood control elements in the Lemal irrigation
component, would enable the great majority of farmers in the
area to follow optimum planting and harvesting schedules
and practices.
(c) Better water control. The tertiary system would permit a
better regulation of water levels in individual fields, and
would encourage farmers to drain their fields for fertilizer
applications once they realize that sufficient water would
again be available afterwards on a timely basis.
(d) Savings of water. A tertiary delivery system, equipped with
measuring advices at the offtakes to the quaternaries, should
reduce the wastage of water through overwatering by farmers
unsure of future supplies, percolation and seepage, and over-
spilling. Saving of water would permit a reduction in pumping
costs.
2.        The benefits of the proposed tertiary system outlined above are
difficult to quantify in the context of the integrated engineering sub-project
proposed for Lemal, as the increases in overall cropping intensity and yields
anticipated are jointly dependent on improvements in flood protection, major
and minor drainage, access, and maintenance included in the component, not
to mention the agricultural extension and farmers organization activities
included in other components. It is generally assumed that, as an integral
part of an irrigation intensification program, a tertiary system needs no
separate economic justification. In the present case, however, the detailed
analysis which was required to determine the optimum choice of design for
the tertiary system (paras 3-6) provided an opportunity to extend the analysis
one step further to the calculation of a rate of return for the tertiary sys-
tem per se (para 7).
Optimum Choice of Tertiary System
3.        As part of its planning for a proposed national program of on-farm
irrigation development, DID in 1975 invited bids for a large central contract
covering irrigation distribution systems throughout Peninsular Malaysia.
Bids were received on most known forms of conveyance systems, including
earth and various concrete-lined excavated canal systems and several types
of structural systems, including GRP and concrete flumes, and steel and
plastic pipe. Excavated earth canals were the least-cost method quoted,
while among structural systems the lowest bid was for GRP flumes. DID
recognized that certain features of the GRP system would provide important
economic benefits as opposed to the conventional excavated system which could
far outweigh the increased investment cost of the system. These features are:
(a) Ease and speed of installation. The elimination of
excavation and lightness of the material permits rapid
installation with minimum disturbance of existing double-
cropped areas.



ANNEX 12
Page 3
(b)  Reduced maintenance.  Weed control is almost totally
eliminated, while damage to the structure can be repaired
rapidly in the field. In case of severe damage, sections
can be easily replaced.
(c)  Reduced right-of-way acquisition.  GRP flumes occupy less than
20% of the valuable padi land required for excavated canals.
Aside from the economic value of the land, the politial and
legal problems associated with acquiring right-of-way are
reduced, eliminating one of the prime causes of project delay.
(d)  Seepage is almost totally eliminated, reducing pumping costs.
Elimination of seepage also facilitates production of dry foot
crops within the command area during the dry season.
4.        Tables 1-3 quantify some of these factors for excavated earth and
GRP flume systems utilized as the tertiary distribution network within the
Lemal component. The basic parameters, including prices, input usage, yields,
rates of development, and maintenance costs, are derived from the overall
economic analysis of the Lemal component (Annex 11). The analysis allocates
the incremental net benefit (or negative cost) flows of the GRP flume system
against the incremental construction cost flow, as opposed to the earth
canal system (Table 4). The rate of return to this incremental investment,
or equalizing discount rate, is estimated at 45%, easily justifying the
higher initial investment cost of the flumes.
5.        The major assumption required for the analysis was the comparative
rate of irrigation development. While four years would be required to com-
plete the GRP flume system without disturbing existing crops, it was estimated
that six years would be required to complete the earth canal system with the
same restriction. The latter assumption is quite conservative, given con-
struction conditions on the East Coast, and may understate the advantages
of the GRP flumes.
6.        The calculated discount rate is insensitive to a reduction of the
period of analysis to 10 years, as the major benefits occur within the firstx
seven years. A delay of all net benefits (and negative costs) of GRP flumes
by one year, while maintaining projected construction schedules, reduces
the equalizing discount rate to 31%, which still easily justifies utilizing
the flumes.
Rate of Return of Tertiary System
7.        A similar analysis was made of the simple economic rate of return
of investment in the GRP flume tertiary system, representing the optimum
choice of design for water distribution in the Lemal area, given the com-
pletion of the remainder of the component, particularly the flood control
and drainage works. The rate of return on investment in this system, as
opposed to continuing to rely largely on field-to-field flooding, is 40%.



MALAYSIA                               ANNEX 12
Table 1
NORTH KELANTAN RURAL DEVELOP4ENT PROJECT
LEMAL IRRIGATION COMPONENT
Alternative Rates of Irrigation Development
Wet Season
Earth Tertiary System
(1)       (2)         (3)       (4)         (5)           (6)
Padi                  Gross   Production      Net Value
Year    Area      Yield    Production   Value       Costs     of Production
(ha     (ton/ha)   --(tons)F--   ---MS-M   i lion)--
0    10,800     1.75       18,900     11.36       2.96           8.40
1    10,800     1.75       18,900     12.22       3.01           9.21
2    10,900     1.81       19,729     11.92       3.13           8.79
3    11,000     1.86       20,460     11.93       3.29           8.64
4    11,200     1.95       21,840     11.58       3.49           8.09
5    11,400     2.15       24,510     12,99       3.76           9.23
6    11,600     2.40       27,840     14.76       4.o6          10.70
7    11,760     2.60       30,576     16.21       4.59          11.62
8    11,760     2.95       34,692     18.39       4.94          13.45
9    11,760     3.00       35,280     18.70       5.23          13.47
10    11,760     3.05       35,868     19.01       5.46          13.55
GRP Flume Tertiary System
(7)       (8)         (9)      (10)       (11 )          (12)            (13)
Padi                  Gross   Production     Net Value      Net Benefits
Year    Area      Yield    Production   Value       Costs     of Production      to GRP I/
(ha)    (ton/ha)   --(tons)--             ----- (M$ Million)------
0    10,800     1.75       18,900      11.36      2.96           8.40
1    1o,800     1.75       18,900     12.22       3.01           9.21
2    10,900    1.85       20,165     12.18       3.16           9.02           0.23
3    11,ooo     1.95       21,450     12.51       3.39           9.12           0.48
4    11,200     2.15       24,080     12.76       3.67           9.09           1.00
5    11,400     2.40       27,360     14.50       3.99          10.51           1.28
6    11,60o     2.65       30,740     16.29       4.29          12.00           1.30
7    11,760     2.90       34,104     1B.08       4.5o          13.49           1.87
8    11,760     2.95       34.692     16.39       4.94          13.45
9    11,760     3.00       35,200    18.70        5.23          13.47
10    11,760     3.05       35,868     19.01       5.46          13.55
L/  Column 12 minus Column 6.
NOTE: All parameters assume remainder of project, including flood control works and
drainage, is implemented.



MALAYSIA                               AINThJEX 1 2
Table 2
NORTH KELAIITAN RURAL DEVELO?9,WT PROJECT
LE:IAL IRRIGATION CONPONINT
Alternative Rates of Irrigation Development
Dry Season
Earth Tertiary System
(1)       (2)         (3)       (4)        (5)            (6)
Padi                 Gross   Production     Net Value
Year    Area      Yield    Production   Value       Costs     of Production
(ha     (ton/ha)   -- ttons)--   ----------- (M' Yillion -----------
0     5,800     2.60       15,080      9.06      1.80            7.26
1    6,300      2.60       16,380     10.60      1.98            8.62
2     7,000     2.66       18,620     11.25      2.28            8.97
3     7,700     2.75       21,175     12.35      2.61            9.74
4     8,700     2.85       24,795     13.14      3.11           10.03
5     9,500     3.05       28,975     15.36      3.55           11.81
6    10,100     3.30       33,330     17.66      4.14           13.52
7    10,600     3.55       37,630     19.94      4.77           15.17
8    11,160     3.60       40,176     21.29      5.30           15.99
9    11,160     3.65       40,734     21.59      5.52           16.07
10    11,160     3.70       41,292     21.88      5.74           16.14
GRP Flume Tertiary System
(7)       (8)         (9)      (I10)      t11 )          (12)            (13)
Padi                 Gross  Production       Net Value     Net Benefits
Year    Area      Yield    Production   Value       Costs     of Production     to GRP i/
(ha    7ton/aJ   --(tons)--   ------------------ M$ Million)------------------
0     5,800     2.60       15,080      9.06       1.80           7.26
1     6,300     2.60       16,380     10.60      1.98            8.62             -
2     7,600     2.70       20,520     12.39      2.51            9.88           0.91
3     8,400     2.85       23,940     13.96      2.9)l          11.02           1.28
4    10,200     3.05       31,110     16.49       3.83          12.66           2.63
5    11,000     3.30       36,300     19.24       L-.40         14.84           3.03
6    11,160     3.50       39,060     20.70      )i.7h          15.96           2.44
7    11,160     3.55       39,618     21.00      5.02           15.98           0.81
8    11,160     3.60       40,176     21.29      5.30           15.99             -
9    11,160     3.65       40,734     21.59      5.52           16.07
10    11,160     3.70       41,292     21.88      5I7L           16.14
1/  Column 12 minus Column 6.
NJOTE: A11 parameters assume remainder of project, including flood control works and
drainage, is implemented.



MALAYSIA
NORTH KELANTAN RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LEMAL IRRIGATION COMPONENT
Alternative Cost Schedules for GRP Flume and Earth Tertiary Systems
Opportunity Cost of Land
Construction Costs             Taken Out of Production 1/                       Operation & Maintenance Costs 2/
Difference                         Difference             Earth              GRP                         Difference
Year       Earth    GRP    Due to GRP          Earth   GRP    Due to GRP            (Maintained)    (Maintained)    Earth   GRP    Due to GRP
-------(M  Million) -------         -------(M  Million)                 ----(ha)----    ----(ha)----    ------(M$ Million)-------
0O                                                                                                       -            _        _          _
1        -.55    -2.94        -2.39          -.04    -.01          .03                1,620            3,420       -.02     -.01         .01
2        -.74    -2.94        -2.20          -.06    -.02          .04                3,900            6,840       -.04    -.03          .01
3        -.74    -2.94        -2.20          -.08    -.03          .05                5,980           10,260       -.07     -.04         .03
4        -.74    -1.47        - .73          -.11    -.03          .08                8,170           11,970       -.09    -.05          .04
5        -.74       -         + .74          -.14    -.03          .11               10,350           11,970       -.12     -.05         .07
6        -.55       -         + .55          -.15    -.03          .12               11,970           11,970       -.14    -.05          .09
7          -        -           -            -.16    -.04          .12               11,970           11,970       -.14    -.05          .09
8          -        -            -           -.17     -.04         .13               11,970           11,970       -.14    -.05          .09
9          -        -            -           -.19    -.04          .15               11,970           11,970       -.14    -.05          .09
10          -        -            -           -.19    -.04          .15               11,970           11,970       -.14    -.05          .09
etc.         -        -            -           -.19    -.04          .15               11,970           11,970        -.14    -.05         .09
1/  Assumes remainder of project, including flood control works and drainage, is implemented.  Value is based on projected yields,
cropping intensities, input usage, and economic prices.
2 Bs) o-i
2/  Based on estimated 0&M costs of M$4.18/ha for GRP flume tertiaries, and M$11.53/ha for earth tertiaries.                                                                     I



ANNEX 12
Table )z
MALAYSIA
NORTH KELANTAN RURAL DEVELOPMNT PROJECT
LEMAL IRRIGATION COMPONENT
Calculation of Equalizing Discount Rate on Investment
(GRP Flume Vs Earth Tertiary Systems)
Net Benefits of GRP Flumes
Net Production   Net Production
Construction      Land         O&M         Benefits           Benefits       Total Net
Year      Costs j/_    Costs  (   Costs J/   Wet Season IV_   Dry Season 5/_   Benefits
------------------------(M$ Million) ----------------------------
0         -             -            -                                   
1       -2.39          .03         .01              _                 -            -2.35
2       -2.20           .04         .01            .23                .91          -1.01
3       -2.20           .05         .03            .48              1.28           - .36
4u      - .73           .08         .04           1.00              2.63            3.02
5          .74          .11         .07           1.28              3.03            5.23
6          .55          .12        .09            1.30              2.44            4.50
7          -            .12         .09           1.87                .81           2.89
8         -             .13         .09             -                 -               .22
9         -             .15         .09             -                 -               .2h[
10         -             .15        .09              -                 -               .24
11-20          -            .15         .09             -                  -              .24
Equalising Discount Rate:  45%
1/  From Table 3.
2/  Frorm Table 3.
2/  Fror Table 3.
i From Table 1.
5 From Table 2.



ANNEX 13
Page 1
MALAYSIA
NORTH KELANTAN RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LEMAL IRRIGATION COMPONENT
Incomes, Taxes, and Cost Recovery
1.        The purpose of this Annex is to examine:
(a) the economic status of the farm population of the Lemal
area at the present time;
(b) the effects of the Lemal project works on total incomes
of the population for various representative farm holdings;
(c) the levels of production - related taxes paid by the project
beneficiaries in relation to to project costs and benefits;
and
(d) the ability of the beneficiaries to pay additional pro-
duction-related taxes.
2.        The analysis is based on surveys conducted in June, 1975, by the
Economics and Statistics Branch of the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural
Development. The surveys covered the sub-areas of Sungei Lemal and Pasir
Mas, which together represent 97% of the proposed area to be covered by
the water distribution, drainage, and access road systems included in
the component. Further surveys of the Alor Pasir irrigation sub-area and
the Kubang Gadong area (which will benefit only from the flood control
works) were conducted in October/November 1975, and their results have
also been incorporated in the analysis.
Farm Family Income Levels
3.        The distribution of households in various income groups, and the
breakdown of annual incomes by source, are given in Table I for the pre-
project situation. The data indicate that the average pre-tax family income
in the project area is M$1,230 (US$479) per annm, which implies that the per
capita income in the project area is M$228 1/ (US$89). This income is ex-
tremely low by Malaysian standards; the Critical Consumption Level (CCL) for
Malaysia was estimated at M$463 (US$180) per capita in 1975, while current
per capita income for the nation as a whole is about M$1,700 (US$660).
1/   Average family size in the project area is 5.4 persons.



ANNEX 13
Page  2
Furthermore, only about 10% of the project area population receive pre-tax
incomes in excess of the CCL, and the incomes of this small group are chiefly
derLved from non-farm, and particularly from non-padi sources. Median income
in the project area is in the region of M$900 (US$350), or about M$167 (M$65)
per capita.
Sources of Farm Family Income
4.        Average farm family income in the project area is derived largely
from farm enterprises (66%), supplemented by income earned in off-farm acti-
vities (30%) and unearned income (4%), chiefly gifts and remittances. Approx-
imately 73% of farm income, or half of total income, is derived from padi
farming, with the remainder deriving from tobacco, rubber, fruits, vegetables,
livestock and poultry, in order of importance. One effect of the project
will be the increased importance of padi income in total income, as land and
effort currently devoted to tobacco planting and offfarm labor is reallocated
to increased padi production.
Padi Land Distribution
5.        The average padi area operated by a farm family in the project
area is about 0.7 ha. The distribution of farm sizes is as follows:
Padi Area       % of       Average in       % of Total
(ha)         Farms        category          Area
(ha)
Small          0  - 0.5        24             0.3              10
ledium         0.5-1.2         61             0.7              59
Large          1.2+            15             1.5              31
100             0.7             100
It is quite obvious that the project area is characterized by extremely
small padi farms, and that the 1.2 ha padi farms are large only in a
relative sense. Only 3% of household farm an area exceeding 2 ha of padi,
and they account for about 8% of the total area.
Tenure Status
6.        Padi farmers in the project area may be divided into three
categories according to the tenure status of the padi lands they operate.
The three classes are:
(a) Owners, who own all the land they operate. This group
represents 32% of all farmers and 35% of all padi land,
with an average holding of 0.8 ha of padi;



ANNEX 13
Page 3
(b) Tenants, who rent all the land they operate. This group
represents 18% of all farmers and 16% of all padi land,
with an average holding of 0.6 ha of padi; and
(c)  Owner-tenants, who own a portion of the land they
operate and rent the remainder. This group represents
50% of all the farmers and 49% of all padi land, with
an average holding of 0.7 ha of padi.
Overall, 60% of all padi land in the area is owner-operated and 40% is
rented.
Taxation
7.        The major tax burden borne by project area padi farmers is the
Islamic tithe (zakat) paid each season to the Kelantan Department of
Religious Affairs, which uses the receipts to finance Islamic schools
and teachers, welfare expenses, and maintenance of mosques. Zakat is com-
pulsory on all Moslem padi farmers in Malaysia, although the rate actually
paid varies from State to State ranging between 4% and 10% of gross padi
production. Except for a neglible number of ethnic Thais, all project area
farmers are Moslems and are liable to pay zakat, except for those unable
to produce sufficient padi for family subsistence 1/. Zakat payments equal
7% of gross padi production in each of the Lemal sub-areas, as well as in
other irrigated areas in Kelantan, and it is anticipated that this rate
will be maintained in the future.   Current payments in Lemal amount to
210 kg/ha of padi per annum, or M$85/ha (US$33/ha) in current farmgate
prices. The level of zakat payments thus exceeed O&M costs for the existing
irrigation systems in Lemal, which currently average M$69/ha (US$27/ha).
8.        Irrigation and land charges in the Lemal area range between M$10/ha
(US$4/ha) and M$32/ha (US$13/ha), depending on the reliability of irrigation
and drainage service provided in the various sub-areas. The average rate is
about US$10/ha. The State Legislature of Kelantan has approved an increase
in rates to a maximum of M$47/ha (US$18/ha) for irrigation and land charges
combined, and it is expected that these rates will be charged by full project
development.
Farm Models
9.        The diversity of income sources and tenure status in the project
area to some extent complicate the selection of representative farm enter-
prises. In order to simplify presentation while retaining a considerable
degree of realism, it is assumed that off-farm earned income, unearned in-
come, non-padi farm income, and degree of land ownership are all correlated
with area of padi operated. With this assumption, farm income analysis can
be restricted to the following three model cases:
1/   Defined at I ton per family per annum.



ANNEX 13
Page 4
Padi       % of Padi      Non-Padi        Off-Farm
Category       Area        Land Owned    Farm Income       Income
(Ha)                        (M$)            (M$)
Small           0.3             55%         110                170
Medium          0.7             60%          250               340
Large           1.5             65%          350               700
In the construction of the farm models (Tables 2, 3, and 4), it is also
assumed that yields and cropping intensity are inversely correlated with
the area of padi operated. Each of these assumptions is based on the
statistical results of the farm sureys. Nevertheless, each composite model
may reflect only a small number of actual cases.
Effects of Project on Family Incomes
10.       The effects of the project on the various categories of farm enter-
prises at full development are presented in Tables 2-4. For the average-
sized padi farm, net padi income would increase by 82%, total income by 39%
and disposal income (after payment of production-related taxes) by 35%. Total
pre-tax income of the average farm family would still be substantially below
the CCL (para 3). While pre-tax family income of the largest farm model
category would marginally exceed the CCL, disposable income would not. It is
possible that about 15% of the total population will have pre-tax incomes
above the CCL at full development, depending on the non-farm labor market at
that time.
11.       The above analysis is based on the average farmgate price (M$400/
ton) prevailing in 1975, which may rise as high as M$470/ton by the end of
1976 depending on availability of supply to the Government mills. The CCL
is also expressed in 1975 prices, however, and the price of rice is the single
most important determinant of the CCL. Increases in the rice price thus cause
the CCL to rise, and are thus unlikely to lift many Lemal farmers above the
poverty line.
Incremental Taxation and Cost Recovery
12.       The capital costs of the Lemal component amount to M$1,721/ha
(US$670/ha), excluding those elements (flood control and access roads) which
benefit large populations not dependent on padi production. The incremental
O&M costs would amount to M$32/ha per annum at full devlopment. Assuming a
10% discount rate over a period of 25 years, full cost recovery from project
beneficiaries would require incremental annual payments of M$222/ha (US$86/ha)
for the period. Actual incremental irrigation and land charges would range
betweem US$5.2/ha and US$10.4/ha for the three categories of model farms.



ANNEX 13
Page 5
When discounting these costs and charges at 10% discount rate over a
period of 25 years, the cost recovery index would vary between 6% for a
0.3 ha farm and 12% for the 0.7 and 1.5 ha farms. Alternatively, if the
zakat tax is considered as a project charge, the cost recovery index would
be 52%. The rent recovery would vary between 8 and 53% for the three re-
presentative farm models (Table 5). Considering the fact that even after
completion of the project nearly 90% of project beneficiaries would still
receive a net income at or below the CCL, and the absolute tax level on
the farmers, the present levels of water charges are considered acceptable.



'ALAYSI 4
NORTH KELINTAN RJRAL DEVELOP4ENT PROJECT
LEIM4AL IRRIGATION COMPONENT
Farm Iaidly Income Distribution & Composition, 1975
Income Groups
2o-qronen- s o                 114100- .M 00-   M$800-   M$1,000-   M$1,500-   M$2,000-   M3,000-              All
'ot 1 In- one                    199       799      999       11,49?     1,999       2,999       5,999         Farms
____________________-_9------1 975 M --------------------------
If Wrm Houseliolds                 22       22        13         20          10           6           7          100
Hverage Total Familv Income      329       671      891       1 ,20L      1,739      2,371       1,,828        1,230
nf' Whior
Fai                           199       403      535613                1,172        521       1,589           588
Ot,-e- Farm Incwofie            88       1 ol!     123        210         23L      1,122         335           221
J: f-~arrn Tncome               1,2      161,     234         351         322        616       2,320           373
Remittanees and Gifts             -        -         -          -          12         112        58L            L9
SourceE:  (1)  Socio-Economic Survey of Lemal-Pasir Mas irrigation Scheme, July 2, 1975.
(2)  Socio-Economic Survey in Kubang Gadong and Alor Pasir Agricultural Areas, Nov. 5, 1975.
Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, Kuala Lumpur.
% 



ANNEX 13
Table 2
MALAYSIA
NORTH KELANTAN RUIL4L DEVELOPIMNT PROJECT
LEMarL ITR' ATTOW C-O10ONENT
Farr Model - 0.3 ha Padi F2rm
Without ProjectJ              With Projectv
Cropping Intensity              170%                           200%
Yield: tons/ha                  2.2 main season,               3.2 main season,
2.0 dry season.               4.0 dry season.
Production                      1.27 tons                      2.16 tons
Price                         YM$OO/ton                      M$400/ton
Gross Value of Production      N$508                          M$864
Cash Inputs:?J
Seeds                         $ 6                            $2 8
Land Preparation                31                             42
Fertilizer and Chemicals        33                            101
Implements                       8                             11
Rent                            85                            113
Hired Labor                      8                             21
M$t 71                        MT296
Net Padi Income                M$337                           ,$568
(ther Income                      280                           290
Total Income                   M$617                         '%77
Irrigation Charges             iT$ 10                         1$ 14
Zakat Payments                     11                            46
Disposable Income              M$596                          M$7 98
(Per Capita)                   (.N$i'                        (I4t rL)
Unpaid Family Labor             49 days                        70 days
NOTE: It is assumed that 55% of the land is owned, 45% is rented.
j/  Projections refer to 1985, the eighth year of project development.
/ Assumptions regarding input usage are detailed in Table 6.



'Table 3
MALAYSIA
NOPTH KELA:ITTAN RURAL DEVELOPNENT PROJECT
LEMAL IRPIGATION COMPOIE-MT
Farm Model - 0.7 ha Padi Farm
Without Projectik         With Proje cbl
Cropping Intensity                 160%                       190%
Yield: tons/ha                      1.9 main season,          3.0 main season
2.6 dry season            3.7 dry season
Production                          2.42 tons                 4.43 tons
Price                              M$400/ton                 M$400/ton
Gross Value of Production         M¢968                      M$1,772
Cash Inputs:9Y
Seeds                            M$   13                   M$   19
Land Preparation                      76                       104
Fertilizer and Chemicals             64                        208
Implements                            14                        21
Rent                                 138                        166
Hired Labor                           22                         90
M$  327                   M$  6W
Net Padi Income                   .$ 641                     M$1,164
Other Income                           590                        550
Total Income                       MW1                            M
Irrigation charges                 M$  19                    M$   33
Zakat Payments                          57                       124
Disposable Income                 M$1,s155                   M$1,557
(Per Capita)                      (M3214)                     (M$o89)
Unpaid Family Labor                 100 days                  140 days
NOTE: It is assumed that 60% of the land is owned, 40% is rented.
I/ Projections refer to 1985, the eighth year of project development.
2/ Assumptions regarding input usage are detailed in Table 6.



ANNEX 1 3
Table 4
MALAYSIA
NORTH KELANTAN RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LEMAL IRRIGATION COMPONENT
Farm Model - 1.5 ha Padi Farm
Without Project/           With Projecti/
Cropping Intensity                  150%                        180%
Yield: tons/ha                      1.j5 main season,           2.3 main season,
2.2 dry season             2.8 dry season
Production                          3.90 tons                   6.81 tons
Price                              M$400/ton                  M,1400/ton
Gross Value of Production         M $1,560                    M$2,724
Cash Inputs: v
Seeds                            M$   26                    M$   38
Land Preparation                     126                         167
Fertilizer and Chemicals             105                         389
Implements                            24                          32
Rent                                 225                         268
Hired Labor                           48                         157
i3w5F                      MT1,051
Net Padi Income                    N $1,006                   M$1,673
Other Income                         1,050                         950
Total Income                      TN172_056                   M$2,623
Irrigation charges                 M$   36                    M$   76
Zakat Payments                         109                         191
Disposable Income                  N$1,911                     M$2)
(Per Capita)                      (CN$?3514)
Unpaid Family Labor                 160 days                    220 days
NOTE: It is assumed that 65% of the land is owned, 35% rented.
j/ Projections refer to 1985, the eighth year of project development.
/ Assumptions regarding input usage are detailed in Table 6.



MALAYSIA
NORTH KELANTAN RURAL DEVELOPMENT
LENAL IRRIGATION COMPONENT
3enefit and Rent Recovery
(1 )     ~~(2?            (3)            ()(5)                      (6)
Rent
Size of   Incremental   Incremental    Incremental   Management &                Incremental   Recov  vy    Cost
Model    Net Family    Family Labor       Zakat       Urncertainty    Project   Irrigation    Id -x         Recov,ry
Farm     Income)./      Cost2          P              Allowance_/      Ren        Charges       (6  . 5    Index/
(ha)  _______--__-1 976  --------
0.3        2hl              8h             35            72            50            4              8          6
0 7        183             1i0 67                       lh            111           18            16          12
1 .5       567             240            82            170            75          h0             53          12
1/  From tables 2-h.
7/  Valued at an estimated market wage of 9$L/day.
3/ Valuedl at 30% of incremental income (1).
I REquals (1) -/ 2) + (3) + (M)7.
3/  It is assumed that incremental farm incomes, project rent and water charges would build up to full
development levels with similar time streams and would remain at full development levels for the life
of the project so that the ratios at full development would eqal the ratios of discounte(d present values.
6/  Equals column 6   /Mj$222/ha (from para 12) x size of farm (ha
This calculation aTso proceeds from assumption in footnote 5.



ANNEX 1
Table 6
MALAYSIA
NORTH KELANTAN RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LEMAL IRRIGATICN COMPONENT
Assumed Input Usage
Seeds =          without    30 kg/ha (local at M$0.1)/kg)
with       3J kg/ha
every two seasons improved variety at i4f$0.L7/kg
Land Preparation =
without    50% tractor at i1$75/ha
50% buffalo at M$50/ha
with       80% tractor
20% buffalo
AgrochemXicals = without    negligible
with       10-15 kg of BHC granula per ha at 4$1 per kg
1-2 applications of Malathior per ha at M$7.b per
applicati'on per ha
Fertilizer
average cost of N:M$1.88/kg (70%       (45% 1) at 14$05/kg
(30% mix (15,15,7.5) at M$0.55/kg
Without                      With
Urea    May_      E        Urea      Mix        v
kg/ha    kga  kg/ha         ga        7ha       kg/ha
Model I      54       69       34.6     112        1L3       71.8
Mlodel II    )17       60.5    30.3     102        131
Model III    3L       43.5    21.8       79.5      102       51.1
Hired Labor =    valued at M$2.5 per day



ANNEX 14
Page 1
MALAYSIA
NORTH KELANTAN RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
RURAL ROAD COMPONENT
Economic Analysis
1.        For purposes of economic evaluation, the rural road component may
be divided into two elements, the Pasir Mas - Rantau Panjang alignment which
would serve a comparatively high volume of existing international and domestic
through traffc as well as its immediate hinterland, and a large number of
lower standard access roads which would primarily serve the needs of local
farm populations. These different functions, and the differing availability
of data relating to volumes and costs of transport, prescribe different ap-
proaches to the economic analysis of these elements.
The Pasir Mas - Rantau Panjang Road
2.        Recent traffic counts undertaken in conjunction with the Malaysia
Highway Maintenance Study estimated the average traffic on the present link
at 2,321 vehicles per day (v.p.d.), consisting of 926 commercial freight
vehicles and 1,395 passenger vehicles. Approximately 60% of this traffic,
representing most of the present through-traffic, would be diverted to the
shorter proposed new link. Estimates of the detailed composition of this
traffic, based on national surveys adjusted to Kelantan conditions, are as
follows:
Passenger Vehicles                   Freight Vehicles
Motorcycles                     24%        Light Vans                  45%
(incl. 4-wheel drive)
Automobiles                     49%
(incl,. 4-wheel drive)                     Medium Trucks               40%
Taxis                           22%        Heavy Trucks                15%
Buses                           5%
100%                                   100%
3.        The traffic volume on all Kelantan highways has been growing at a
7% annual rate in recent years. A 6% growth rate in normal traffic volume
has been assumed over a 20-year evaluation period for the Pasir Mas - Rantau
Panjang link, representing a closer approximation to the 5.5% projected
national traffic growth rate. As the new road would provide initial access



ANNEX 14
Page 2
to a considerable amount of rice, rubber and tobacco land, some new traffic
would be generated in excess of the minor reduction in local traffic on the
old alignment, which is anticipated to follow the reduction in maintenance
effort on that link (para 6). The incremental generated traffic is
estimated at 200 v.p.d. in the first year of operation, growing at 10% per
year for the first five years and 6% thereafter. The present composition
of traffic is expected to continue throughout the evaluation period.
4.        Detailed estimates of vehicle operating costs on paved roads in
Malaysia were calculated by the Highway Planning Unit in 1972 for the seven
vehicle types mentioned above (para 2). These figures, converted to world
prices and updated to mid-1976 levels, were used to evaluate total vehicle
operating costs on the new alignment. They have been checked with the re-
sults of a survey of taxi, trucking and trading firms in Kelantan, and have
been found to be in substantial agreement with current commercial tariffs
(adjusted for excise taxes and customs duties) for transport on the high-
standard Federal highway routes. Vehicle operating costs on the existing
alignment, which is typically in a poor state of repair despite intensive
maintenance efforts by the State PWD, were estimated to be 1.5 times as high
as those on high-standard Federal highways. This factor represents a weighted
average of cost ratios derived 1/ for running and fixed costs of the four
major vehicle types on three categories of road surface conditions. 2/
These calculations indicate that weighted average vehicle operating costs
on the existing alignment of M$0.59 per vehicle-km for freight vehicles and
M$0.20 per vehicle-km for passenger vehicles will be reduced to M$0.39 and
M$0.14 respectively, on the proposed new alignment.
5.        In addition to operating costs savings due to improved road
surface conditions, through-traffic would benefit from a reduction in distance
travelled from 24 km at present to 21 km, or 12.5%. Total vehicle operating
cost savings would be M$1.86 per trip for passenger vehicles and M$5.97 per
trip for freight vehicles.
6.        Maintenance costs on the existing link are abnormally high.  The
western portion of the alignment runs beside the Golok River and bears the
full force of the annual river floods. The eastern portion passes through a
depression where a high water table and frequent local flooding cause per-
manently saturated sub-bases and consequent pavement deterioration. Con-
struction of the proposed new link to serve the high volume of through-traffic
would permit a reduction in maintenance effort on the old link to average
levels for Federal and State roads in Malaysia (US$3,100 km), which would be
appropriate for a rather heavily travelled State feeder road.
1/   Malaysia Highway Maintenance Study, Vol. II - Supporting Data, Table 9-07,
Kampsax/Berger, 1974.
2/   These ratios were also checked with local transport tariffs on partially-
paved roads, and were found to substantially agree.



ANNEX 14
Page 3
7.        Benefit and cost streams are presented in Table 1.  The economic
rate of return of constructing the new Pasir Mas - Rantau Panjang road is
41%.
Access Roads and Agricultural Development
8.        The road density in the heavily populated agricultural areas of
North Kelantan is low by Malaysian standards, and many of the most densely
populated sub-areas of the region are surprisingly inaccessible even during
the dryer months of the year, and are totally inaccessible on a commercial
basis during the monsoon season. The effects of the lack of easy access are
to some extent hidden by the comparatively dense settlement pattern and high
level of agricultural land use, but these patterns should be viewed as natu-
ral responses to lack of access rather than indications that lack of access
is not a constraint to the economic development of the region. Settlement
in Kelantan has historically been based on subsistence rice culture on the
northern flood-plain and subsistence fishing in the coastal districts,
activities which can support dense populations (at low levels of income)
with a minimum of access. The later introduction of rubber and the process-
ing of copra was readily and widely accepted, as both activities produce
products which are comparatively valuable per unit of weight and hence
relatively less vulnerable to high costs of transport. At the present,
however, incomes from all these sources are extremely low, due chiefly to
the pressure of population on available resources in the established areas,
the relative unsuitability of the Kelantan floodplain for rubber, and the
low levels of technology employed. Programs to raise agricultural incomes
in the region, through increases in yields and double-cropping of rice,
promotion of field crops like tobacco, groundnuts, soybeans, cassava, and
sugar, intercropping of pineapples and bananas with rubber, and the initia-
tion of a modern livestock industry, are typically heavily dependent on the
availability of easy access for extension workers, input supplies, and the
marketing of output. In view of the commitment of the Government to agri-
cultural intensification programs in the region, including the irrigation,
agricultural extension, and Farmers Development Center components of this
project, transport costs on existing village tracks are becoming a serious
and binding constraint on agricultural development.
9.        Selection Procedure.  The access road element was originally
formulated and proposed by the Kelantan State FOA, which had concluded that
lack of access was the single most serious constraint to the expansion of
FOA programs to commercialize agriculture in North Kelantan. The original
proposal included 800 km of roads, selected largely on the basis of the
population density and agricultural productivity of areas served. During
project preparation, agreement was reached with the Ministry of Agriculture
and the Kelantan State Government that:
(a) the roads would be assigned priority rankings on the
basis of potential agricultural production and need
for improved access;



ANNEX 14
Page 4
(b) the Kelantan State PWD would survey the highest priority
roads (totalling about 300 km) and prepare semi-detailed
cost estimates for each of these links; and
(c) the Ministry of Agriculture would undertake socio-economic
surveys of a representative sample of proposed roads in
order to estimate the economic rates of return of roads in
various geographical sub-areas.
10.       The roads were assigned priority rankings by the State Planning
Unit of the Kelantan State Government - in consultation with local officials
of DOA, FOA, DID, PWD, District Officers, and Members of Parliament and of
the State Assembly - utilizing semi-detailed land use maps and census surveys
to estimate potential goods and passenger traffic. After selecting one of
two possible standards of construction for each road on the basis of pro-
jected traffic 1/, PWD surveyed about 40 high-priority links totalling over
300 km in length, and prepared cost estimates for each road. An MOA team
then conducted economic sureys of eight links totalling 52 km in length,
including 16 km in the coastal region primarily serving coconut, tobacco,
and rainfed padi areas; 22 km in the floodplain region primarily serving
irrigated padi areas; and 14 km in the foothill region primarily serving
rubber areas. The surveys covered area, production, and sales of crops,
frequency of travel to the towns, and modes and costs of travel and
transport.
11.       On the basis of the survey results, estimates were made of exist-
ing and future exportable agricultural surplus production and passenger traf-
fic for access road influence areas in coastal, floodplain, and foothill
areas (Tables 2-i). For purposes of comparability, model roads of 10 km
length and 60 km gross influence area were used for each area. 2/ The
projected increases in yields and area planted of the various crops assume
the implementation of the agricultural extension, Farmers Development
Centers, and irrigation components of this project, but in general estimated
yields at full development are below present nationwide average smallholder
yields. The major improvement in agricultural practice expected to follow
road construction is an acceleration of the trend toward intercropping field
crops with rubber and coconut, particularly pineapple in replanted rubber
areas and tobacco in coconut areas. During the process of comparing costs
and benefits of various types of roads, the list of roads proposed for in-
clusion in the project was shortened to the 28 links totalling about 190 km
given in Annex 5, Table 1.
1/   Roads with projected levels of traffic exceeding the equivalent of
about 20 v.p.d. were assigned a PWD 01 standard design. Roads with
lower levels of expected traffic were assigned a sub-PWD standard.
Dimensions corresponding to these standards are given in Annex 5.
2/   The average trip length on a 10-km access road was assumed to be 6 km.



ANNEX 14
Page 5
12.       Transport Cost Savings:  Unit transport costs in the agricultural
areas range from about M$0.80/ton-km for 3-ton trucks, 1-ton vans, and
4-wheel drive vehicles on partially paved State roads and good laterite access
roads, to M$1.50/ton-km for trishaws 1/ on similar roads, to about M$5.00/
ton-km for bicycles and motorcycles on the type of village tracks which would
be replaced by access roads under the project. Most village produce (includ-
ing padi, tobacco leaves, copra, and rubber) now moves by bicycles, which are
loaded to about 80 kg and pushed to the nearest town, highway, or tobacco-
curing center by the farmers themselves or by paid laborers. 2/ Because of
frequent unbridged channels which must be forded, many existing areas can only
be served by bicycles or shoulder-yokes. The new roads would provide access
by various types of motor vehicles and trishaws, as well as increase the pro-
ductivity and ease of bicycle transport. For purposes of economic analysis,
average unit goods transport costs are assumed to decrease from M$4.50/ton-km
to M$1.50/ton-km with the project.
13.       On improved access roads daily passenger traffic typically includes
several bus trips, occasional automobiles, scores of motorcycles, and hundreds
of bicycles. While some of this traffic is purely social or school-related,
much of it involves commuting to work, essential purchasing of consumer items,
tools, or inputs, or marketing of poultry and other small items. Passenger
flows for project roads were estimated by assuming an average of three such
bicycle trips per week per household. The time required for these trips was
evaluated at M$0.25/hr, about half the average wage rate for labor. At
an average speed of 6 km/hr on existing tracks, the unit value of these trips
is M$0.04/passenger-km. For purposes of economic analysis, it was assumed
that this cost would be halved by construction of access roads.
14.       Economic Rate of Return:  Economic rates of return for the various
model roads, based on transport flows presented in Tables 2-4 and cost para-
meters discussed above, are derived in Tables 5-7, and summarized below:
Sub-Region                       Rate of Return
Coastal                                     27%
Floodplain                                  32%
Foothill                                    29%
1/   Bicycle-powered carriages or sidecars.
2/   As this method can produce no more than about 1.5 ton-km per day
on existing tracks, a maximum of M$7.50 per day can be earned
from this exhausting activity.



MALAYSIA
NOitTH KELANTAN RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Analysis of Pasir 14as - Rantau Panjang Aoad
Year         Construction              Reduction in          Transport             Benefits            Net
and Maintenance          Maintenance           Cost Savings           on                 Benefits
Costs of                 Costs of              on Normal              Generated
New Road                 Old Road              Traffic                Traffic            Benefits
-------- (M$ '000) ----------------------------------------
1978             -1,300                                                                                 -1,300
1979             -3,000                     -                                                           -3,000
1980                -984                   225                                                            -759
1981                 -50                   115                  2,524                   79               2,668
1982                -65                    150                  2,675                   87               2,8L7
1983                 -65                   150                  2,835                   95               3,015
1984                 -65                   150                  3,006                  105               3,196
1985                 -65                   150                  3,186                  115               3,386
1986                 -65                   150                  3,377                  121               3,583
1987             -1,500                    225                  3,580                  129               2,0L3i
1988                 -50                   115                  3,795                  136               3,996
1989                -65                    150                  L,022                  145               L,252
1990                -65                    150                  h,26L                  153               4,502
1991                 -65                   150                  L,520                  163               4,768
1992                -65                    150                  4,791                  172               5,048
1993                -65                    150                  5,078                  183               5,346
199L             -1,500                    225                  5,383                  194               4,302
1995                 -50                   115                  5,706                  205               5,976
1996                -65                    150                  6,o48                  218               6,351
1997                 -65                   150                  6,411                  231               6,727
Rate of Return : 1%.a
CD 



MALAYSIA
NORTH KELANTAN RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
RURAL ROAD COMPONENT
Estimated Transport Volumes - Coastal Areas, Model 10 km Road
A. Goods Traffic - Without New Road
Padi                 Coconut                Tobacco         Fruit & Vegetables          Groundnuts         Fish
Output                  Output                Output                 Output                Output    Output                Total
Trans-                  Trans-                Trans-                 Trans-                Trans-    Trans-                Normal
Year    Ha   Yield  ported-/   Ha   Yield  ported    Ha  Yield  ported    Ha  Yield  ported-/  Ha  Yield  ported    ported   Inputs    Tonnage
(tons)
1   1,100   2.0      660      960   0.7      670    420   11.0   4,620   160   6.0        190    100   1.8       180      1,000      370        7,690
10   1,100   2.4      790    1,140   0.7      800    620   11.0   6,820   160   6.0        190    300   2.2       660      1,000      440       10,700
B.  Goods Traffic - With New Road
Padi                 Coconut                Tobacco          Fruit & Vegetables         Groundnuts         Fish
Output                  Output                Output                 Output                Output    Output                  Total
Trans-I!                Trans-                Trans-                 Trans-2/              Trans-    Trans-               Generated
Year    Ha   Yield  ported       Ha   Yield  ported    Ha  Yield  ported    Ha  Yield  ported    Ha  Yield  ported    portee   Inputs            Tonnage
(tons)
5   1,150   2.35    810    1,050   0.7        735    600   11.5   6,900   200   6.0       240    300   2.2        660     1,000      400        1,670
10   1,200   2.50    900    1,200   0.7        840    800   12.0   9,600   250   6.0       300    500   2.5    1,250       1,000      500        3,690
C.  Passenger Traffic -  Without New Road
Population of
Influence Area       Trips/Annum/Household
Year       (Households)             (by adults)               Trips/Annum
1             560                      156                     87,360
10              717                     156                    111,852
D. Passenger Traffic - With New Road
Population of
Influence Area       Trips/Annum/Household          Generated
Year        (households)             (by adults)              Trips/Annum
5             627                      170                       8,778
10              717                     190                      24,378
Note- Yields given are tons/ha; Output transported is tons.                                                                                                                    4 
1/ 30% of production.
2/ 20% of production.



MALAYSIA
NORTH KELANTAN RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
RURAL ROAD COMPONENT
Estimated Transport Volumes - Floodplain Areas, Model lOkm Road
A. Goods Traffic - Without New Road
Padi                  Rubber                 Tobacco              Groundnut               Coconut
Output                  Output                 Output                Output                Output                 Total
Trans-                  Trans-                Trans-                 Trans-                Trans-                 Normal
Year    Ha   Yield  ported1t          Yield  ported    Ha  Yield  ported    Ha  Yield  ported    Ha  Yield  ported           Inputs    Tonnage
(tons)
1   3,360   3.2    4,300   1,000   0.6       600    100   11.0   1,100    50   1.8         90    100   0.7       70          130      6,290
10   3,400   3.6    4,896   1,000   0.6       600    100   11.0   1,100   100   2.0        200    100   0.7       70          200      7,066
B.  Goods Traffic - With New Road
Padi                  Rubber                  Tobacco             Groundnut                Coconut
Output                  Output                 Output                Output                 Output                 Total
Trans-                  Trans-                 Trans-                Trans-                 Trans-                Generated
Year    Ha   Yield  portedI/   Ha   Yield  ported    Ha  Yield  ported    Ha  Yield  ported    Ha  Yield  ported             Inputs      Tonnage
(tons)
5   3,400   3.5    4,760   1,000   0.7       700    150   11.5   1,725   100   2.2        220    100   0.7       700         200        1,565
10   3,500   3.7    5,180   1,000   0.7        700    200   12.0   2,400   200   2.5        500    100   0.7      700         350        2,764
C.  Passenger Traffic  - Without New Road
Population of
Influence Area       Trips/Annum/Household
Year       (Households)              (by Adults)             Trips/Annum
1           2,150                      156                  335,400
10           2,752                      156                 429,312
P. Passenger Traffic - With New Road
Population
Influence Area       Trips/Annum/Household         Generated
Year        (Households)             (by Adults)             Trips/Annum
5            2,408                     170                   33,712
10            2,752                     190                   93,568
Note:  Yields given are tons/ha; Output Transported is tons.
1/ 407. of production.



MALAYSIA
NORTH KELANTAN RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
RURAL ROAD COMPONENT
Estimated Transport Volumes - Foothill Areas, Model lOkm Road
A. Goods Traffic - Without New Road
Padi                          Rubber                Intercropped Pineapple                Tobacco
Output                         Output                        Output                        Output                       Total
Trans-                         Trans-                        Trans-                        Trans-                       Normal
Year     Ha     Yield    ported         Ha     Yield    ported        Ha     Yield    ported        Ha     Yield    ported         Inputs         Tonnage
(tons)
1       660     2.0      1,320       2,700     0.6      1,620        200     5.6      1,120        150    11.0       1,650          73            5,783
10       900     2.4      1,980       3,000     0.7      2,100        350     6.5       2,275       400    11.0       4,400         311           11,066
B.  Goods Traffic - With New Road
Padi                         Rubber                 Intercropped Pineapple                Tobacco
Output                         Output                        Output                        Output                       Total
Trans-                         Trans-                        Trans-                        Trans-                       Generated
Year     Ha     Yield    ported         Ha     Yield    ported        Ha     Yield    ported        Ha     Yield    ported          Inputs        Tonnage
(tons)
5       850    2.35      2,000       3,000     0.7      2,100        350     6.5       2,275       450    11.5       5,175         260            1,697
10     1,100    2.50      2,750       3,300     0.8      2,640        450     6.8       3,060       600    12.0       7,200         400            4,984
C.  Passenger Traffic - Without New Road
Population of
Influence Area         Trips/Annum/Household
Year      (Households)                (by Adults                    Trips/Annum
1             850                       156                         132,600
10           1,090                       156                         170,040
D. Passenger Traffic - With New Road
Population of
Influence Area         Trips/Annum/Household                Generated
Year      (Households)                (by Adults                    Trips/Annum
5             950                       170                         11,660
10           1,090                       190                         37,060
Note:  Yields given are tons/ha;  Output transported is tons.                                                                                                               sm



hli-L5EX1a
Table 5
KAL AY SI,
NORTH KELJTA1N IRURLT DEVELOYPINT FROJECT
RURAL ROAD COPCITENT
Rate of IZeturn - Coastal hreas, P'odel 10 Inm Ro?d
Transport Cost Savings
Normal    Generated   Norraal   Generated        Total    Total
Year    Passenger   Passenger   Goods         Goods      Benefits   Costs
------w----                 (X$- -  O0  ________________________
0       -            -           -          -            -        600
1      20            -          138         -           158        20
2      20            -          142         3           165        20
3      21            -          147         7           175        20
!.I    21            1          152        11           185        20
5      22            1          158        15           196        20
6      23            1          164        19           207        80
7      2h            2          171        22           219        20
8      25            2          178        25           230        20
9      26            2          185        28           21X1       20
10      27            3          193        33           256        20
11-20      27             3          193       33            256       40
Economic Rate of Return:  27?"



ANNlEX 141
LALYSI-ii
iG.TH I   %i'TAiA R    DRAIJ DEVELCPI'EMT PR.OJECT
RURAL RQOA)D CCiTP0NENIT
Ral-_te of R                  Areas. iTode1 10 km Road
Transport Cost Savings
Norrmal    Generated   iqorrial   Generated      Total    Total
Year    Passe lFer   Passenger   Goods         Goods      Benefits   Costs
0       -             -           -          -            -       600
1       90           -          113          -           193       20
2       8) 2         -          116          3           201        20
3                    1          119 S6                  210        20
i!                   2          121        10            219       20
589         1L          123        14           230        20
f,      92            6         125        18           2.41        80
7       95           8          126        21            250        20
98           9          120       23            256        20
100          10          127        24           261        20
103         11           127        25           266        20
11-20       103          11          127        25           266        40
.onro-rio   Rate of Return:  32%



T:ci:e 7
ALAYSTA
-IO2;r-i K3LLg-).UiT URLI DiZVIL0LThI.',i;:.i
iUni?.A ROADO3i Cul1JOT5
Rate of Return - Foothill Areas, Nodel 10 kmi Road
Transport Cost Savings
Normal    Generated   Nomaal   Generated       Total    Total
Year   Passenger   Passenger   Goods       Goods      Benefits   Costs
______________________     _(PI$ F 'oooT)------------- ____________
0      -           -           -         -            -       600
1     32           -          104        -           136       20
2     33           -          122        2           157       20
3     33           -          144        5           182       20
4     34           1          161        9           205       20
5     35           1          182       15           233       20
6     36           1          196       22           255       80
7     37           2          198       29           266       20
8     38           2          198       35           273       20
9     39           3          199       40           281       20
10     41           4          199       45           289       20
11-20     41            4         199       45           289       h0
Economic Rate of Return:  2 9%



ANNEX 15
Page 1
MALAYSIA
NORTH KELANTAN RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROEJCT
SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION COMPONENT
Economic Analysis
1.        About 15 discrete small irrigation systems would be constructed
under the component. The areas identified by DID as suitable for irriga-
tion vary considerably in topography and in water supply available during
the dry season, which implies considerable variation in the degree of
double-cropping attainable at full development. Based on prior experience
constructing similar schemes in Kelantan and other States, DID projects an
upper limit of 50% double-cropping (150% cropping intensity) for any indi-
vidual small irrigation scheme at full development. At the other extreme,
it is possible that some schemes may not have sufficient dry-season water
supply to permit double-cropping, in which case the scheme benefits would
derive entirely from increased yields and elimination of crop failure
during the wet season.
2.        An economic analysis was carried out for each of the two extreme
cases outlined above, to determine the probable range of rates of return
to be expected for individual schemes (Tables 1-3). Although each analysis
was based on data for the entire area to be served under the component, the
conclusions are meant to apply only to extreme individual cases. Case 1
assumes that only one crop would be produced annually, with average yields
increasing from the present 1.2 ton/ha to 2.0 ton/ha when water and drainage
facilities become available, building up to 2.5 ton/ha by 1987. Case 2
assumes that double-cropping would be progressively introduced, covering
50% of the area by 1985, along with wet-season yield increases identical
to those in Case 1. Costs are not varied for the two cases, which may
tend to overstate the rate of return in Case 2 and understate it in
Case 1 but only by negligible amounts.
3.        Incremental padi production of about 1,500 tons for Case I and
3,400 tons for Case 2 would be consumed by the farmers and their families
or sold in the locality of the proposed schemes, which are generally
situated in rice-deficit areas primarily dependent on rubber production.
These areas generally import their rice requirements through Kota Bharu,
between 30 and 60 km distant, and the padi produced in the small schemes
has accordingly been valued M$15/ton higher than similar grades produced
in Lemal to cover the transport cost to the areas. In addition, it is
assumed that farmers in the scheme areas would plant HYV varieties during
the dry season when there is little chance of localized flooding. Prices



ANNEX 15
Page 2
tor the native varieties have been set equal to those for similar varieties
in the Kubang Gadong sub-area of Lemal, 1/ excluding the transport cost
differential, implying a 10% price premium for the traditional long-grained
varieties over HYV rice, as in Lemal. Assumed input usage and costs are
given in Table 4.
4.        The calculated rate of return for Case 1 is 12%, while that for
Case 2 is 22%. All of the systems to be constructed under the component
are expected to fall within this range.
1/   See Annex 11, Table 1.



MAIAYSIA
NORTH KELANTAN RURAL DEVPOR0NT IROJECT
SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION COMPCUENT
Economic Analysis - Basic Data
Year           Cultivated Ar,e/                  Yields             Productci Costs       Price of Padi
-----------  h------------   ------- (ton/ha)------    ----- (M$/ha)--   ---- (M$)---
'et Season   1976        1,300          1,300           1.20         1.20         234        234              676
1977        1,300          1,300          1.20         1.20          234        234             727
1978        1,300   1,170           130   1.23   1.23         2.00   238   238       300         679
1979        1,300     910           390   1.23   1.23         2.10   238   238       320        656
1980        1,300     585           715   1.26   1.26         2.15   241   241       330         598
1981        1,300     260         1,040   1.26   1.26         2.20   241   241       340        598
1982        1,300          1,300          1.29         2.25          245        345             598
1983        1,300          1,300          1.29          2.30         245        350              598
1984        1,300          1,300          1.32         2.35          248        355              598
1985        1,300          1,300          1.32          2.40         248        360              598
1986        1,300          1,300          1.35          2.45         252        360             598
1987-2011   1,300          1,300          1.35          2.50         252        360             598
2j Izigated               Productio
Service Area  Irrigation Iptenit                                   Cost YiLd  _P
----(tha) ----  ---------- UP ---------  -- tha)---  ltav)   --        FTJ   ---- ^--
Dry Seastm   1976                0                 0                   0          -           _              616
1977                0                 0                   0          -           -              662
1978              130                25                  33        2.140        330            619
1979              390                28                 109        2.60         336            598
1980              715                32                 229        2.70         342             545
1981            1,040                35                 364        2.75         354             545
1982            1,300                40                 520        2.80         360             545
1983            1,300                45                 585        2.85         366             545
1984            1,300                48                 624        2.90         372            545
1985            1,300                50                 650        2.90         378            545
1986            1,300                50                 650        2.90         384             545
1987-2011       1,300                50                 650        2.90         390             545
W = without project
W = with projct
The irrigable area is expected to cuwnlate as follows: met season 1978 (October 1977-April 1978) - 10M; 1979 -
30%; 1980 - 55%; 1981 - 80%; 1982 - 100%.
V/ It is assumed that the area brought under command in year n is double cropped at the following rate:  year n -
25%; n+l - 35%; n+2 - 40%; n+3 - 50%.



Table- 2
MALAYSIA
NORTH KELANTAN RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION COMPONENT
Economic Analysis - Production Values
Padi            Production         Production       Net Production       Incremental
Year           Production              Value              Costs              Value               NPV
w                   w               w            W       W
--- (tons) --       -             ---------- (M$ '000) -------------------------
Wet Season - 1976            1,560   1,560       1,054   1,054        304  304          750    750                0
1977          1,560   1,560       1,134   1,134        304  304          830    830                0
1978          1,599   1,699       1,086   1,154        309  317          777    837               60
1979          1,599   1,938       1,049   1,271        309  341          740    930              190
1980          1,638   2,274         980   1,380        314  376          666    984              318
1981          1,638   2,616         980   1,564        314  416          666  1,148              482
1982          1,677   2,925       1,003   1,749        318  448          685  1,301              616
1983          1,677   2,990       1,003   1,788        318  455          685  1,333              648
1984          1,716   3,055       1,026   1,827        323  461          703  1,366              663
1985          1,716   3,120       1,026   1,866        323  468          703  1,398              695
1986          1,755   3,185       1,049   1,905        328  468          721  1,437              716
1987-2011    1,755   3,250        1,049   1,944        328  468          721  1,476              755
Dry Season -1976                 0        0          0        0         0    0            0       0               0
1977              0        0           0       0          0    0            0      0               0
1978              0       79          0       49         0   10            0      38              38
1979              0      283          0      169         0   36            0    133              133
1980              0      618          0      337          0   78           0    259              259
1981              0   1,001            0     545         0  127             0    418             418
1982              0   1,456           0      794         0  187            0    607              607
1983              0   1,667           0      909         0  214            0    695              695
1984              0   1,810            0     986         0  232            0    754              754
1985              0   1,885           0   1,027          0  245            0    782              782
1986              0   1,885           0   1,027          0  249            0    778              778
1987-2011         0   1,885           0   1,027          0  253            0    774              774
W = Without project
W = with project



ANNEX 15
Table 3
XALAYSIA
NORTH KEIANTkU RURAL DEVELORPNT PROJECT
SHALL-SCALE IRRIGATION COMPONENT
Rate of Return
Incremental Net         Net Benefits from
Costs                Production Veale           Investments
Year      Investment   O&M   Total        Case 1    Case 2        Case I      Case 2
--_-------------------------- TM  'OOO) ------------------------------
1976             0        0       0           0          0            0          0
1977         1,440        0   1,440           0          0       (1,440)    (1,440)
1978         1,200        5   1,205         60          98       (1,145)    (1,107)
1979         1,200       15   1,215         190        323       (1,025)    ( 892)
1980           960       28     988        318         577       ( 670)    ( 411)
1981           -        41       41        482         900          441        859
1982           -        52       52         616      1,223          564      1,171
1983           -         52      52         648      1,343          596      1,291
1984           -         52      52         663      1,417          611      1,365
1985           -         52      52        695       1,477          643      1,425
1986           -         52      52         716      1,494          664      1,442
1987-2011      -         52      52         755      1,529          703      1,477
Note:
Case 1: Cropping intensity at full developmnt = 100%; economic rate of return = 12%.
Case 2: Cropping intensity at full development = 150%; econon.c rate of return = 22,f.



ANNEX 1 5
Table a7
MALAYSIA
NCRTH KELANTAN RU.AL DEVELUMT PROJECT
SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION COMPONENT
Assumed Input Usage
Land -reparation   without    buffalo 80% at 20$/ha
tractor 20% at 30$/ha
with       buffalo 50%
tractor 50'
Agrochemicals      without    none
with       15 kg of BHC granula per ha at iH$1 per kg
2 applications of Malathion at 14$7 .  per applicatior
Fertilizers =      without    18 kg N (2 bags of 20 kg oi urea (45% N) at
$10 per bag (economic price))
with       47 kg N (4 bags urea, 2 bags of 36 kg mix
(15,15,7.5) at $20 per bag)
Labor              without    92.5 man days at M$1.5/manday (shadow wage)
131.5 man days at M$1.5/manday
Seeds              without    42 kg/ha at $0.4/kg
with       35 kg/ha at $0.43/kg



kNNEX 16
Page  1
IALAYSIA
NORTH KELANTAN RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Studies
Kelantan State Land Development Schemes
1.        The project would include a study of the rehabilitation require-
ments of the 27 existing land development schemes presently under the juris-
diction of the Kelantan State Land Development Board. Much of the land
area of the schemes remains undeveloped, and an important element of the
study would be the identification of areas within scheme boundaries suitable
for agricultural development. Following a review of existing land use and
soil survey data, field surveys would be undertaken by the study team to
assess land and water resources, appropriate cropping patterns, and input
supply, processing, transport, and marketing possibilities and needs of
the various scheme areas. A serious deficiency of the existing schemes
appears to be lack of access and this aspect would merit considerable
attention.
2.        The study team would produce a project proposal of feasibility
standard including:
(a) an agricultural development plan, including proposals for
target incomes, farm sizes, and cropping patterns, and agri-
cultural supporting services such as marketing, input supply,
processing, and credit. The agricultural plan would also
include yield projections and a schedule of agricultural
development;
(b) an infrastructure development plan, including proposals for
construction of various standards of roads, processing
centers for rubber, low-cost housing and water supply
(possibly on a sites-and-services model), schools, and
rural clinics. Proposals for infrastructure investments
should be based on analyses of projected requirements and
usage;
(c) a management plan, inlcuding proposals for management of the
implementation phase of a possible rehabilitation project as
well as for the subsequent operation of fully-developed schemes.
Preparation of this plan would involve a financial analysis of
the scheme entities in line with the agricultural and infra-
structure development plans. Preparation of the management
plan will require close liaison with the Federal Ministry of



ANNEX 16
Page 2
Agriculture and the State of Kelantan, and with the Federal
Land Development Authority and the Federal Land Rehabilita-
tion and Consolidation Authority for purposes of assessing
comparative experience; and
(d) an economic analysis which would investigate the desirability
of various levels of development of the schemes and provide a
justification for the level of development selected.
3.        The study would implemented by a consulting firm with experience
in agricultural development work and familiarity with Malaysian conditions.
About 21 man-months of experts' services would be required, the principal
participants being an agronomist experienced in tropical (including tree-crop)
agriculture, an engineer, and an economist/financial analyst. For purposes of
costing implementation by an international firm has been assumed (US$ 6,500
per man-month), but qualified local consulting firms would not be excluded.
The study team would report to the project Steering Committee, co-chaired by
the State Secretary of Kelantan and the Secretary-General of the Ministry of
Agriculture. At the working level, counterpart assistance would be provided
by the State Planning Unit of Kelantan and the Economics and Statistics Branch
of the Ministry of Agriculture. Recruitment of consultants is expected to be
completed by December, 1976, with work beginning in February, 1977 and com-
pletion of a final report in August, 1977.
Testing of Glass-Reinforced Polyester Flumes
4.        The project would include an accelerated testing program to con-
firm the long-term structural and chemical properties of the glass-reinforced
polyester (GRP) flume system proposed for use in the Lemal irrigation com-
ponent. The objectives of the program would include:
(a) producing refined estimates of system reliability, safety
factors, and durability under field conditions, of the GRP
flume system as presently engineered, manufactured, and
installed;
(b) devising possible improvements in system design or in
the manufacturing and installation process which would
not increase system cost and which could be incorporated
in the proposed works without alteration of the existing
contract; and
(c) devising economical improvements in the system which would
be justified in terms of increased reliability, and which
would preserve the GRP system's advantages over alterna-
tive tertiary distribution systems, should the present
design prove inadequate. This possibility arises be-
cause of certain properties of the system which permit



ANNEX 16
Page 3
large proportional increases in tensile strength and
chemical and ultraviolet resistance with small propor-
tional increases in the thickness of the fibreglass
laminate. In the unlikely event that major strcutural
changes involving substantial cost increases prove
necessary, the tertiary system would be retendered.
5.        The testing program would involve prototype testing, laboratory
tests on specimens, and field observation and testing of about 800 m of
GRP flumes that have been in service for approximately one year (two padi
cropping seasons) in the Tanjung Karang area. The prototype testing
would include:
(a)  tests of deflection under various loadings for various
periods of time, including tests to destruction within
reasonable load factors;
(b) tests of the water absorption characteristics of the
heavy hardwoods used in flume construction. Struts
and beams would be tested in both exposed and GRP
encased states; and
(c) tensile tests on flume wall sections, in wet and dry
states and after exposure to ultraviolet radiation.
6.        Flume specimens would be sent overseas for accelerated aging
testing in accredited laboratories. The major tests to be performed would
involve ultraviolet radiation testing in accordance with standards equiva-
lent to ASTM Designations D-1499 and D-2565.
7.        Field testing would involve accurate measurement of deflection
of the flumes in service, ponding tests for leakage, and a thorough
inspection of flumes for possible delamination due to immersion, ultra-
violet radiation, impact damage, or deflection.
8.        The study would be implemented under the supervision of DID.  The
services of an individual chemical engineer expert in the manufacture and
use of reinforced plastic and fibreglass equipment would be required for
a period of about three man-months. While some laboratory testing may be
practicable in Malaysia, particularly in the Rubber Research Institute,
the Forest Research Institute, and the University of Malaya, many of the
tests can only be executed at overseas testing laboratories. In addition,
procurement of equipment required to undertake thickness and hardness
testing of flume sections and subsequent quality control of the product
after manufacture and installation would be included in the project. All
tests would be completed by May 15, 1977, with a final report submitted
for Bank review by June 15, 1977. A brief interim report would be com-
pleted and sent to the Bank by November 30, 1977.



IBRD 12003
APRIL 1976
102: IT
i < \ t ) ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Kg S emut 
Kg Awong-~TrngO,
6f  PengPHU 
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M  ..........! 
.E A      C N
i<, ~        ~           A1             - --   Village Roads
0~~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~K  K leow                                                          inpt 20iPii 2sPpin, '1 5L  0   tud
5°30'                   Paniang                                                                                          QOris(Eitig
l~       ~       NOT  KEL al       RIANTION PRURLJ           EELPMNCPOJC
gS ~       ~~~~~ B L                               9      WachokSchn
- -Jrcl  -(;  V Exillinag Stote Roads    (v
I                                                                                                                                        61 00 !    0 Sta ndard
__ __ __ __ __ _ t__ __ __ __ __ __ _'__ __ _                                                      -       04 Sn t aroin   ondarde
L                                                                                      A      PWD Of fice 102° Wors30
5'30'   MLES                                                                                            A       Quorres E....s.........ng) Tok B30
09                                  0~~~~~~~~~IRIAIN   RJC
U  Small Projects ~  ~      ~     K esu
P    eoasIgto   roetAe
G         eteUSain
Rhar~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~Dsrc  Budre
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-Sae~udre
..-.....Itratoa   oudre
..........~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~2'3






IBRD 12004
STHAILAND                                                                                M                                                            APRIL 1976
"REA OF MAPRA AY I
)       .g<XX                                NORTH KELANTAN RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
'.'EAK2'ELA'-.Th"9bRf  g.                                  LEMAL   IRRIGATION   AREA
KL-ANTO '
5' LANGOR.       ,                       -      :
Forl tX G   TTeT.ero _T                          z       ,TUMPAT
P          -Xt K  '{ .
SLUMATERA
N
mpb~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~    Proposedwe                                                    Tida Gatesac  an  Pump,/
IRRIGATION WORKS
-    Existing Mon Rads
0 \t)   X---0       \      g      \CExisting Field Choannels
\+--           ys \                           -/ -j  PropoiseingDrPins and Rovers
2   \          4       5       6       ~       A     Flood ProtectIon Bonds                     Proposed P WD. Roads (Sub           Standard)Drains
KLOMRTRES                                                            Irrigation Scheme Boundares        g       Proposed Form Bunds
= <   _        <      \                                                         @~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Proposed Tidal Gates aznc Pumps
+>   .    \                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~ROAD WORKS
~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~Existing MAain Roads
AO \x2°t                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Existing Earth Roads
RailwNays                          -     - Proposed PWD. Roads (01 Standard)
o~~~~~~~~ 1    23                                  456 * A *A    Flood Protection Bunds                 Proposed P. W D. Roads (Sub PW D. Standard)
KILOhVETERS                                                              Irrigation Scheme Boundaries  -          Proposed Form Roads (Upgrading of
o           I            2            3           4                                                                                    Penggawa Road)
MILES                                                                                                    ........ Proposed Farm Roads ) on Canal Bank)



