Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.P-1870-MA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPEMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO MALAYSIA
FOR THE
NORTH KELANTAN RURAL DEVELOPEMENT PROJECT
JUNE 10, 1976
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00          =  M$2.57
M$1.00           =  US$0.39
M$1 million      =  US$389,000
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 millimeter (mm)                  = 0.039 inches
1 meter (m)                        = 39.37 inches
1 kilometer (km)                   = 0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (km2)           = 0.386 square miles
1 hectare (ha)                     = 2.47 acres
1 cubic meter (m3)                 = 35.31 cubic feet
1 liter (1)                        = 0.264 gallons (USA)
I liter/second (1/sec)             = 0.035 cubic feet per second
1 kilogram (kg)                     = 2.2 pounds
1 metric ton (ton)                 = 2,205 pounds
ABBREVIATIONS
BPM = Bank Pertanian Malaysia
DID = Drainage and Irrigation Department
FDC = Farmers' Development Center
FO   = Farmers' Organization
FOA = Farmers' Organization Authority
GDP = Gross Domestic Product
GNP    Gross National Product
GRP  = Glass-Reinforced Polyester
KADA = Kemubu Agricultural Development Authority
MARDI= Malaysian Agricultuil Research and Development Institute
O&M = Operations and Maintenance
PWD = Public Works Department



FOR OFFICLIL USE ONLY
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO MALAYSIA
FOR THE NORTH KELANTAN RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to Malaysia for the equivalent of US$21.0 million to help finance rural
development in the northern portion of the State of Kelantan. The loan
would have a term of 23 years, including 5 years of grace, with interest
at 8.85% per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The latest economic report, "Recent Economic Developments and Long-
Term Issues" (No. 653-MA) was distributed in March 1975. The next economic
report will be distributed in August 1976, when the Government finalizes the
Third Malaysia Plan. The following discussion is based on information gathered
in Malaysia last fall. Detailed data on Malaysia's economy are shown in Annex
I.
3.        With per capita GNP of US$570 (1973), Malaysia is one of the most
prosperous developing countries in Southeast Asia. The Malaysian economy has
maintained a fairly high rate of growth of GNP in constant market prices,
averaging around 6% during the 1960s, and almost 7% since 1970.
4.        Exports account for about 45% of GNP.   Rubber continues to be the
main pillar of the Malaysian economy, contributing almost 30% of export earn-
ings and about 15% of GDP, but considerable progress has been made toward
reducing the dependence on rubber exports through diversification to palm
oil, the rapid development of timber resources, and the growth of manufac-
tured exports. In the future, the country's petroleum resources will also
help to expand the export base. In 1975, Malaysia's production of crude
petroleum was approaching 100,000 barrels per day, the value of which is a
little greater than Malaysia's consumption of petroleum products. During the
next five years, petroleum production should at least double and possibly
triple providing a significant boost to foreign exchange earnings. Substantial
reserves of natural gas are also available, and it is expected that by the
early 1980s Malaysia will start exporting liquified natural gas, further
strengthening the country's balance of payments position.
5.        Malaysia has few foreign exchange controls, and external reserves
(totaling over US$1.6 billion at the end of 1975 at the current exchange
rate) are equal to over four months' import payments. Malaysia's conservative
fiscal and monetary management has considerably enhanced the country's finan-
cial standing . Public sector revenues have been growing rapidly, mainly as
a result of vigorous taxation efforts. The ratio of total Government revenue
to GNP is now about 24%. Conservative financial policies are also reflected
in the relatively low level of external public debt and the low ratio of debt
service payments to exports (3.9% in 1975).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- 2 -
6.        In the last few years, economic developments in Malaysia have been
generally favorable, generating higher incomes in the rural sector as well
as substantial increases in national income, even though the rate of economic
growth in 1974 and 1975 was much below the record 1973 level. As a result
of the world depression and falling commodity prices, there was a definite
deceleration of the economy, starting in the second half of 1974. Gross
Domestic Product (GDP) in real terms is estimated to have increased by 7% in
1974, and about 1% in 1975, compared to 13% in 1973. As a result of a
drop in demand for agricultural exports, value added in the agricultural
sector did not rise in 1975, after increasing by 14% in 1973 and 5% in 1974.
Shortages of materials and the high costs of construction and industrial
inputs cut into the industrial growth rates. Assuming a worldwide economic
recovery, in 1976 the Government estimates that GDP growth will
recover to about 7%.
7.        The rate of inflation has recently been sharply reduced.     After a
decade of remarkable price stability (with consumer prices rising on an
average of only one percent per annum), domestic prices began to show a
noticeable upward trend in 1973. Average consumer prices increased 10.5% in
1973. In 1974, prices rose another 18%, but the price rise slowed down in
1975 to about 6%. Price pressures have been the result principally of move-
ments in world prices. However, since Malaysia is a net exporter of oil, the
country has not been adversely affected by the higher price of petro'leum and
in the longer run should benefit from high oil prices.
8.        During the last several years, the Government's long-term planning
has concentrated on reducing the economic disparity between the Malays, who
account for a little over half the population, and non-Malays of whom about
70% are Chinese. The Government is pursuing a two-pronged economic policy
objective to eradicate poverty and to restructure society so that the present
identification of race with economic activity will be eliminated. The basic
outlines of the New Economic Policy, announced in June 1971, allow for con-
tinued growth for each of the principal ethnic groups while enlarging economic
opportunities for Malays.
9.        In the past few years the Government has mounted an increasingly
strong development effort. During 1971-75, gross domestic investment, in
real terms, rose at an average rate of 8.5% per annum, faster than real
GNP. During this period, total public sector development expenditures amount-
ed to about US$3.9 billion of which 34% was financed by public savings, 50% by
net domestic borrowing, and the balance by net foreign borrowing. The Bank
has been providing about 22% of foreign loan commitments to the public sector;
project loans from the Asian Development Bank and bilateral aid, mainly from
Japan, and Commonwealth countries, provided about 45% and the rest was obtained
from commercial sources. In view of the country's very favorable resource
position, the Bank has recommended that the Government should continue to
expand its public investment program.
10.       To support this program, substantial new foreign loan commitments
will be required over the next Five Year Plan (1975-80). We expect about
54% of the public sector commitments will come from project loans, with a



- 3 -
slight decrease in the IBRD and ADB shares and a significant contribution
from the OPEC countries. The remaining requirements will be met by a very
substantial increase in market borrowing.
11.       Debt service obligations at present are about 3.9% of exports of
goods and nonfactor services and, in the light of the expanded development
program, are estimated to rise to about 7% by the end of the decade. This
level, however, is still well within Malaysia's debt servicing capacity. The
Bank's share in Malaysia's debt service payments is 20% and is expected to
drop to about 14% by 1980.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MALAYSIA
12.       The Bank has made 30 loans to Malaysia for projects in education,
population, agriculture, forestry, industrial finance, power, water supply,
telecommunications, ports, railways, roads and urban transport. Two addi-
tional loans (for sewerage and urban transport) were signed on March 11, 1976,
but, as of May 31, 1976, they had not become effective yet. Although in a
few cases disbursements were slow, the execution of these projects has gen-
erally been satisfactory. As of April 30, 1976, the loans to Malaysia held by
the Bank amounted to US$578.1 million. In addition, the Bank made a loan in
1965 to the Public Utilities Board, Singapore (Loan 405-MA), guaranteed by
Malaysia, to finance the Johore River Project. The amount held by the Bank
under that loan as of April 30, 1976, was US$4.4 million. Eleven loans are
fully disbursed. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans and IFC
investments, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
13.       Bank assistance to Malaysia is in line with the country's New
Economic Policy, which aims at eliminating imbalances in income distribution.
The Bank will therefore continue to support Malaysia's agricultural programs,
including land development, rehabilitation and settlement, and improvement of
production and employment in existing low income farming areas, which are the
effective means of reducing unemployment and income imbalances. The Bank
also will continue to assist in the financing of infrastructure development,
including urban development and housing for the urban poor. The Bank has
helped the Government to prepare projects in the course of its lending ope-
rations and through its sector work. The Bank has also helped to strengthen
public agencies responsible for carrying out important parts of Malaysia's
investment program.   The Bank will continue this policy, which will be re-
flected in the loans to be presented to the Executive Directors in the next
few years. These loans would be for projects involving agricultural exten-
sion, irrigation, rural development, land settlement, development finance
companies, education, highways, and other infrastructure development.
14.       At present, the Bank is assisting in the preparation of the Third
Malaysia Plan (1976-80), both in the development of sector programs and in
the review of overall economic objectives and policies.



- 4 -
15.       IFC has been active in Malaysia since 1963 and has made six invest-
ments totaling US$8.69 million (Annex II). The total commitments under those
investments held by IFC as of February 29, 1976, amounted to US$1.8 million.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURE SECTOR AND THE STATE OF KELANTAN
Malaysia's Agricultural Sector
16.       Malaysia's agricultural sector is largely oriented to world export
markets and occupies an important position in international trade in natural
rubber, palm oil, hardwoods and pepper. Most of the cultivated land is under
rubber (61%). About 12% is planted in rice. In Peninsular Malaysia, rice
production is largely confined to irrigated areas situated in coastal plains,
among which are the Muda (Loan 434-MA) and Kemubu (Loan 500-MA) project areas.
They account for about 37% and 4% respectively of the country's rice produc-
tion. Despite the fact that 58% of Peninsular Malaysia's padi land is now
double-cropped, over 10% of the Peninsular's rice requirements and over 15%
of national requirements must be imported. Further intensification of irri-
gation facilities is thus seen by the Government of Malaysia as a vital step
toward achieving two national goals: (a) reducing dependence on rice imports;
and (b) alleviating the poverty of padi farmers, the majority of whom subsist
on incomes below the national poverty line.
The State of Kelantan
17.       The State of Kelantan is situated in the northeast region of Penin-
sular Malaysia, bounded by Thailand to the northwest, the South China Sea to
the northeast and the States of Perak, Pahang, and Trengganu to the west,
south and east, respectively (Map 12003). The State covers an area of about
15,000 km2, of which about 90% is still under forest. The only large, rela-
tively flat areas well suited for field crops occur in the northern part of the
State, and comprise the riverine plains of the Kelantan and Golok Rivers.
18.       The population of Kelantan is about 770,000.    The State is largely
rural and overwhelmingly Malay. It is the poorest state in Malaysia, with
65% of the households earning per capita incomes of less than one-quarter
of the country's average per capita income. Most of the population live in
the north on only about 20% of the State's total land area. The rest of the
State is heavily forested and mountainous. The major crops of Kelantan
are rubber (102,000 ha) and padi (63,000 ha), and provide the basic source
of income and employment. However, the small size of holdings (the average
farm size is less than 2 ha) and the comparatively low agricultural yields
force a sizeable proportion of the farmers to seek seasonal off-farm employ
ment -- often as migratory agricultural laborers to other states. Despite
these problems, considerable scope exists for improving productivity and
incomes in North Kelantan through improved agricultural support services
and infrastructure investments.



-5-
Agricultural Support Services
19.       Agricultural research is the responsibility of the Malaysian
Agricultural Research and Development Institute (MARDI), which has operated
in Kelantan since 1971. On leased land and in farmers' fields, MARDI has
conducted padi variety trials and a small breeding program, padi fertilizer
response and agronomic studies, as well as some development work on alterna-
tive intercrops with coconut on the sandy Bris soils characteristic of the
coastal areas. The Bank's recent Agricultural Research and Extension Project
(Loan 1115-MA) is helping to strengthen these research efforts.
20.       Several agencies are involved in agricultural extension, with re-
sponsibilities generally assigned on a crop basis. The Rubber Industry
Smallholders' Development Authority provides support for rubber smallholders.
The National Tobacco Board is responsible for tobacco extension services. The
State Department of Agriculture is responsible for providing extension for
padi, other field and horticulture crops, and coconuts. The Department of
Agriculture service is organized on a district basis, with eight district
Agricultural Assistants supervising a total of 60 Junior Agricultural Assist-
ants who serve as the main point of contact with the nearly 120,000 farm
families in the State. The effectiveness of this service is severely con-
strained by lack of manpower.
21.       Farmers in Kelantan belong to a variety of organizations which
deal with the supply of inputs and credit, and with the processing and market-
ing of produce. These organizations fall into two broad categories, private
cooperatives and Government-sponsored Farmers' Organizations (FOs) 1/. The
cooperatives are typically small and single-purposed, concentrating on credit
supply or the operation of small rice mills. The FOs come under the formal
jurisdiction of the Farmers' Organization Authority (FOA), a federal body
established in 1973 to refurbish the Farmers' Associations (which had been
managed by the Federal Department of Agriculture), to amalgamate existing
overlapping cooperatives and farmers associations into unified organizations
serving identifiable areas, and to expand the physical network of Farmers'
Development Centers (FDCs) to serve these new organizations. The FDCs gener-
ally have office, storage, and meeting room facilities, managerial staff, and
some equipment. Through the FDCs, FOs help meet the needs of their members
with equipment rentals, agricultural inputs, marketing of produce, and credit
services; however, performance to date has been limited by manpower, working
capital, and general budgetary constraints.
22.       The FO organizational structure in Kelantan is complicated by
the geographic overlap with the Kemubu Agricultural Development Authority
(KADA), which was created as a semi autonomous regional irrigation authority
to manage the Kemubu Irrigation Project. KADA has been granted operational
control of the nine FDCs within the KADA area in order to ensure close in-
tegration of agricultural support services and irrigation development. The
1/ Formerly called Farmers' Associations (FAs).



- 6 -
FOA, however, is still responsible for supervising the activities of KADA,
as well as for direct management of all FO activities outside the KADA region.
About 9,000 farmers in the KADA area, or 25% of those eligible, are members of
FOs, while outside KADA 8,000 farmers representing 12% of those eligible are
members of the Farmers' Organizations.
23.       The major source of short-term credit for padi production in the
project area is the Bank Pertanian Malaysia (BPM), which runs an input supply
credit scheme through the KADA FDCs. Credit is supplied in the form of
approved quantities of fertilizers, insecticides and pesticides, and con-
tract tractoring. The FDCs screen applications, issue inputs or credit
vouchers for inputs and services, and are responsible to the BPM for loan
recovery. The credit program, however, has never reached more than 15% of the
farmers in the KADA area and has not assisted farmers living outside the
area.
Irrigation Facilities
24.        Substantial investments in irrigation facilites have been made over
the past two decades in the North Kelantan region, with the primary objective
of promoting the double-cropping of padi to reduce national dependence on im-
ported rice. The major single investment has been the Kemubu Irrigation
Project which serves 19,000 ha of padi. In addition to the Kemubu project
area, KADA includes three contiguous areas on the opposite bank of the
Kelantan River. These three areas, known as the Pasir Mas, Sungei Lamal,
and Alor Pasir Schemes, collectively form the area for the Lemal irrigation
component of the project.
25.       The Lemal irrigation area (Map 12004) covers 20,000 ha, within the
boundaries of KADA, of which about 12,000 ha are suitable for padi. The area
includes 16,000 farm families with an average farm size of 1.1 ha. About 60%
of the total padi area is owner-operated and 40% rented. At present, padi
production in the wet season is limited to 10,800 ha by poor drainage con-
ditions, and dry season production to 5,800 ha by the lack of an adequate
water distribution system below the secondary canals. Padi yields average
1.75 and 2.6 ton/ha for the wet and dry seasons respectively, the yield
difference being largely due to flooding and the consequent higher use of low
yielding native varieties. Total annual padi production in the Lemal area is
currently about 34,000 tons, about 16% of the State's production.
26.        In addition to the large-scale irrigation facilities in the KADA
area, numerous small irrigation schemes have been built throughout the
North Kelantan region, by farmers' groups or by the Drainage and Irrigation
Department (DID). These schemes usually involve pumping or diversion of
water from the numerous small streams flowing out of the interior foothills
and simple canal systems. The major purpose of this type of investment is
to assure a reasonably good main season crop, although well designed schemes
on streams with adequate dry-season flows could also provide considerable
scope for double cropping.



-7-
Transport Facilities
27.       Lack of adequate transport facilities, in terms of inter-State
links and the intra-State network, has limited the opportunities for rapid
agricultural development in North Kelantan. The intra-State road network
is rudimentary by Peninsular Malaysian standards (Map 12003). The density
of roads to land area in Kelantan is 42% of the national average. There
are more roads in the densely populated areas of North Kelantan, but they
still fail to provide adequate access to the agricultural areas and hence
restrict marketing opportunities and access to Government social services
such as health and education.
State Land Development
28.       Over the past two decades, the State Government has implemented a
program to settle impoverished laborers and farmers from North Kelantan
in sparsely populated areas in the southern portion of the State. Twenty-
seven such schemes have been initiated since 1957, covering a gross area of
31,000 ha. The 5,000 families settled so far have attained increased incomes
at a cost of about US$1,500 per family, which is very substantially below the
settlement cost under the Federal Land Development projects. However, the
schemes are not well developed; the infrastructure (particularly roads) in
the project areas is inadequate and the support services are thin. A high
priority has been placed on rehabilitation and improvement of the existing
schemes, where it is believed a relatively small marginal investment could
result in high returns. However, studies are required to determine the com-
ponents in a low-cost package of investments required to help these settle-
ments achieve their planned objectives.
Summary of Development Problems in North Kelantan
29.       Analysis of the major constraints on agricultural productivity in
North Kelantan has indicated that a substantially improved extension effort
is required to encourage farmers to adopt better cultivator practices and
to increase their application of agricultural inputs. To complement this
effort, expanding the supply of inputs, credit, and storage facilities
would also be necessary, and basic access to agricultural areas would have
to be improved. Finally, provision of improved water control facilities
to assure reasonable wet-season padi yields and to extend dry-season
cropping is the single most effective means of raising the productivity
of Kelantan's experienced padi farmers. The project now proposed is de-
signed to meet these various needs in an integrated manner.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
30.       The basis for the proposed project originated in the Kelantan
Regional Planning Study (1973). The Study divided Kelantan into northern
and southern regions and proposed that markedly different development stra-
tegies be followed in each region. While the study recommended that large



- 8 -
investments in basic infrastructure, particularly highways and large-scale
land settlement areas, were necessary to accelerate development in South
Kelantan, the North Kelantan Region mainly required agricultural intensifica-
tion aimed at achieving higher yields complemented by some infrastructure
investment. In addition, analysis by the Government's Economic Planning Unit
of the 1970 census data has emphasized the prevalence and severity of poverty
in Kelantan placing a high priority on assisting the State's poverty groups.
Summary Description
31.       The project would improve the productivy and incomes of low in-
come smallholder farmers throughout the North Kelantan region through intensi-
fied agricultural supporting services and improved irrigation and road facili-
ties. The basic components of the project are:
(a) Construction in the Lemal area of major flood control and
drainage works to serve 30,000 ha; tertiary and quaternary
irrigation and drainage networks and access roads to serve
12,000 net ha; and maintenance equipment.
(b) Construction of about 15 small irrigation schemes to serve
about 1,300 ha.
(c) Construction of about 190 km of roads outside the Lemal
area and provision of maintenance equipment and facilities.
(d) Provision of facilities, equipment, and service for
agricultural extension field staff.
(e) Construction and expansion of 25 new Farmers Development
Centers and provision of equipment and storage facilites.
(f) Studies of the feasibility of improving the existing State land
development schemes and of      glass-reinforced polyester
flume irrigation conduits.
Main Project Components
32.       Lemal Irrigation Improvement.   This component would consist of two
parts. The first would provide protection from river flooding and drainage of
localized monsoon flooding for an area of 30,000 ha, including the Lemal irri-
gation area, the towns of Pasir Mas and the surrounding agricultural area.
The Lemal area is farmed by approximately 16,000 families. Works under this
component include river dikes on the Kelantan River, and major drains de-
signed to protect the area from floods and to evacuate local flood water.
These works would permit rapid increases in wet-season yields for about
13,600 net ha of padi, as well as materially reducing annual flood damage,
to tree crops, herds personal property and structures. Under the second part
of this component, tertiary and quaternary irrigation and drainage systems



- 9 -
designed to provide independent water control to 10-ha units would be con-
structed for the Lemal irrigation area.     Subject to the completion of satis-
factory tests, the tertiary distribution system would include 187 km of
glass-reinforced polyester (GRP) flumes which integrate the use of a light,
impact-resistant construction material with hardwood beams (see also para 48
below).
33.       The tertiary and quaternary irrigation and drainage systems, in
conjunction with the major drainage works, would increase the net irrigable
area by about 1,000 ha (to nearly 12,000 ha), increase the maximum potential
cropping intensity of this land from about 160% to 195%, and increase yields
by allowing timely cultivation practices and good water control.      Equipment
required to maintain the Lemal system would also be provided. In addition,
access and maintenance roads on canal banks would be constructed within the
area.
34.       Small-Scale Irrigation.    This project component would include the
construction or rehabilitation of about 15 small irrigation systems located
outside the State's major irrigation areas, each system serving between 20
and 200 ha of padi. The total system should benefit over 1,000 families.
Reinforced concrete gated headworks would be constructed on small streams,
while pumphouses would be used to supply water from larger streams. DID would
prepare feasibility reports analyzing water demand and supply and economic
returns for each proposed scheme. The feasibility reports for the first three
schemes would be forwarded to the Bank for review prior to implementation
under the project. (See Section 3.07 of the Loan Agreement.)
35.       Roads.   The roads included in the project are fairly evenly
distributed over the North Kelantan region, and considered in conjunction
with the roads to be built in Lemal, they will complete a basic access grid
for the agribultural areas of the region as well as directly connecting sev-
eral important towns. This component includes a new link, 21 km in length,
on the Thailand border, replacing a road subject to severe annual flood
damage. The link will serve a high volume of international and local traf-
fic at reduced transport and maintenance costs, as well as providing access
to a large area of intensively cultivated agricultural land. Nineteen ad-
ditional links, with a total length of 112 km, would also be built, providing
all-weather access to the project area. Road maintenance equipment and work-
shop facilities would be provided to the State Public Works Department (PWD)
to improve the level of maintenance of State and village roads throughout
North Kelantan. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the Government
would properly maintain the roads constructed and improved under the project.
(See Section 4.05 of the Loan Agreement.)
36.       Agricultural Extension:    This project component is designed to
develop a well informed and well equipped extension service in groundnut,
coconut and horticultural crops, as well as padi. The number of extension
field agents would be increased from 45 to 160, which would permit contact
between agents and farmer groups (organized by the extension officers)
on a fortnightly basis and thus provide improved extension services to the
region's target population of about 100,000 farm families. (The training of



- 10 -
extension agents will be greatly improved through the Bank's proposed National
Extension and Seeds project which would provide dormitory, classroom and field
facilities for inservice training programs for all grades of personnel.) Under
this project, quarters would be constructed in Kelantan for agents posted to
the more remote areas, and all agents would be supplied with pest control and
fertilizer application equipment for demonstration purposes. The number of
district extension officers would be increased from 8 to 16, and these officers
would be provided field offices in the agricultural areas and vehicles to per-
mit more intensive supervision of field staff. Eight subject matter special-
ists would be recruited and equipped to develop simple packages of technical
recommendations geared to the cropping seasons, which would be transmitted
through the field agents to the farmers. A State Extension Officer would be
appointed to provide fulltime administration for the extension service. In
addition, facilities and equipment would be provided to upgrade the State
extension headquarters, federal technical support units, and a farmer training
center. It has been agreed that all extension staff required to implement the
project would be appointed, that the Government would make annual budget pro-
visions to finance the required staff, and that two subject matter specialists
would be appointed within four months of the loan signing. (See Section 3.09
of the Loan Agreement.) The appointment of a qualified Chief Extension officer
for the state is a condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement. (See
Section 5.01 of the Loan Agreement.)
37.       Farmers' Development Centers:    Twelve new FDCs would be constructed
throughout the non irrigated areas of North Kelantan to serve FOs which have
already been formed. Each new FDC, as well as each of the 13 existing FDCs
in North Kelantan, would be provided with storage facilities and vehicles
adequate to handle crop marketing and fertilizer distribution requirements, as
well as padi drying floors and staff housing where required. Tractors of
various sizes, motorized sprayers, and irrigation pumps would be supplied to
the FDCs to enable them to provide rental or contract services to their ex-
panding membership. Small storage facilites would be provided at the village
level to permit marketing, input supply, and production credit services to
reach the smallholders more efficiently. A build up of the FDC staff to
levels sufficient to provide these services to a majority of the region's
target population is also included in the project.
38.       The expansion of the network of FDCs serving North Kelantan and
improvements in the staffing anid facilities of existing FDCs would provide
more comprehensive institutional agricultural credit to a larger number of
farmers in the region. The Bank Pertanian Malaysia (BPM) has agreed to expand
its existing short-term credit programs for padi and tobacco production in the
irrigation areas and to initiate similar programs in the rainfed areas through
the new FDCs to be constructed under the project. In addition, BPM has agreed
to initiate a new short-term credit program to finance the production of
groundnuts, vegetables and other annual crops. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that a statement of annual credit requirements of the farmers in
the project area would be prepared and submitted to Bank Pertanian and the
Government would ensure that an adequate amount of credit will be made avail-
able. (See Section 3.08 of the Loan Agreement.)



- 11 -
39.       Land Development Scheme Study.   This project component would in-
clude a sudy of the twenty-seven State Land Development Schemes to identify
how these schemes can be best rehabilitated and improved. The study should
include an accurate assessment of the present condition on the schemes and
potential for further development. It should also include proposals for
target income, farm size, cropping patterns, infrastructure standards, and
development schedules. Finally, the study should include financial and eco-
nomic rate of return analyses of its proposals. The study should be completed
by June 1977.
Organization and Management
40.       Project Coordination:   Aside from the Public Works Department,
all the Federal agencies which would be involved with the implementation of
the project -- the Drainage and Irrigation Department, the Farmers' Organizacnn
Authority, the Department of Agriculture and the Kemubu Agricultural Develop-
ment Authority -- are under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Agriculture
and Rural Development. While each agency would be responsible for implement-
ing specific activities within its jurisdiction, responsibility for coordinat-
ing all project activities would rest with a Project Manager in the Ministry
of Agriculture and Rural Development. The Project Manager would be guided
on policy matters by a Steering Committee composed of the Secretary General
of the Ministry of Agriculture and the State Secretary of Kelantan and
other officials they may nominate. Involvement of the State Secretary would
ensure the participation of both State-level agencies and officers and District
Officers, who are in charge of local governmental functions, and should faci-
litate coordination of project activities at the ground level. A condition
of effectiveness of the loan will be the appointment of a suitably qualified
and experienced Project Manager in consultation with the Bank. (See Section
5.01 of the Loan Agreement.)
41.       Implementation Schedule:   The project would be implemented over a
period of five years. The agricultural support components provide for a
buildup of staff and facilities phased over the implementation period. Con-
struction of the small irrigation schemes would begin in mid-1977 and proceed
through 1980, while survey and design work for the schemes would begin in
1976. For the rural road component, engineering and land acquisition would
proceed through mid-1978, with construction spread over the remaining three
years. Engineering and tendering of the major civil works in Lemal, and the
execution of the GRP flume accelerated testing program would proceed through
mid-1977. Construction would begin in the latter half of 1977 and continue
through 1980, except for the Lemal access road element, for which construction
would begin in 1978.
Project Cost and Financing
42.       Total project costs are estimated at US$48.0 million, of which
US$21.0 million (44%) would be foreign exchange. The estimated costs include
physical contingencies of between 15% and 20% on all civil works items. Ex-
pected price increases due to inflation for all equipment items and personal
services are estimated at 9% in 1976, 8% in 1977-79, and 7% thereafter. For



- 12 -
civil works, price increases of 13% in 1976, 12% in 1977-79, and 10% there-
after have been applied. Expected price increases amount to 26% of the total
project costs.
43.       The proposed Bank loan of US$21.0 million would finance the foreign
exchange requirement of the project. Since this is a Federal project, all
local costs, including salaries of Kelantan State project officers would be
borne by the Government throughout the implementation period of the project.
Activities falling under constitutional State jurisdiction, such as agricul-
tural extension, would be financed through normal Government grant procedures.
With regard to financing, assurances were obtained at negotiations that:
(a) all local project costs would be borne by the Government
throughout the implementation period of the project (see
Section 3.01 of the Loan Agreement);
(b) separate project accounts would be collated by the Project
Manager, audited by the Auditor General and forwarded to
the Bank within nine months of the close of each fiscal
year (see Section 4.03 of the Loan Agreement); and,
(c) the various implementing agencies would prepare annual
budgets and work programs for their parts of the project,
and submit them to the Project Manager for his review at
least three months in advance of each fiscal year, copies
to be forwarded to the Bank (see Section 3.10 of the
Loan Agreement).
Cost Recovery
44.        The project is located in one of the poorest regions in Malaysia
and indeed includes some of the poorest people within that region. The
average annual per capita (pre-tax) income in-the project area is about US$89
equivalent, which is only 36% of the income Malaysia authorities have estab-
lished officially as the poverty line. The poverty line is based on studies
made by the Malaysian Government jointly with Bank economists to determine
the minimum acceptable income in Malaysia, covering basic food, housing, and
clothing requirements. The incomes of the beneficiaries of the project fall
well below this poverty line. While the investment costs per padi farming
family would be only about US$800, net farm income from padi would increase
by an average of 82% by 1985, raising average total family income 39% from
about US$480 to about US$667, using present farm gate prices.
45.       At present the Operations and Maintainance (O&M) costs of the
irrigation systems in the Lemal area average US$27/ha/annum. The incremental
O&M costs of the project would amount to US$12/ha per annum at full development,
raising the total O&M costs to US$39/ha. Currently irrigation and land charges
levied by the State Government average US$10/ha. The State Legislature of
Kelantan has approved an increase in rates to a maximum of US$18/ha for irrig-
ation and land charges combined.



- 13 -
46.       In addition to these charges, project area farmers pay a padi pro-
duction tithe (zakat) to the Kelantan Department of Religious Affairs, which
uses the receipts to finance schools, teacher salaries, welfare expenses, and
maintenance of mosques. This tithe is compulsory for all Moslem farmers 1/
under State law, and non-payment is punishable by imprisonment or fine. Zakat
payments in Kelantan equal 7% of gross padi production. 1975 zakat payments
in the Lemal area averaged US$33/ha in domestic market prices (US$42/ha in
world prices). Since the zakat is levied on production and thus increases
directly with production increases as a result of improved irrigation, farm
practices and market access, the proposed project will result in an additional
US$45/ha, bringing the total zakat to US$78/ha. Therefore, after the full
development of the project, the annual zakat collections plus the land and
water charge collections (US$78/ha plus US$18/ha) will exceed the O&M costs
per annum (US$39/ha) by US$57/ha. If the increment in the zakat tax is
considered as a project charge, the cost recovery index would be 52% for an
average size farm. The rent recovery for the average size farm would be 48%.
(Rent recovery is the percentage of the net benefit of the project to the
farmer which is recovered directly by the Government.) Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that the Kelantan State Government would continue to
collect charges for O&M and the recovery of capital costs, the level of which
would be determined by taking into account the amount of farmers' incentives
and capacity to pay after payment of other charges and taxes. (See Section
4.04 of the Loan Agreement.)
Marketing
47.       Most of the incremental padi production due to the project would
be marketed in Malaysia by the National Padi and Rice Authority, particularly
in the neighboring state of Trengganu, with the remainder consumed by the
producer households.
Procurement
48.       The Lemal component would be divided into three packages, one each
for flood protection dikes (US$1.6 million), major drainage works (US$0.8
million), and access roads (US$1.6 million), which would be carried out under
contracts awarded after competitive bidding advertised locally in accordance
with Government procedures satisfactory to the Bank. Because these packages
are scattered and must be carefully phased over a period of time with the
other development components of the project, international bidders would not
be interested. Subject to a review of the results of the accelerated testing
program, the glass reinforced polyester flumes for tertiaries (US$4.0 million)
would be installed under a central national contract for which bids were
received in September 1975. The manufacturer was selected after competitive
bidding advertised in the main Malaysian newspapers.      Six bids, two of which
were from joint ventures with foreign firms, were received for installation of
some 600 km of irrigation conduits throughout Malaysia offering precast con-
crete, corrugated steel, ferro cement and GRP. The lowest bid was for the
1/   Virtually all farmers in the project area are Moslems and therefore
subject to the zakat.



- 14 -
GRP flume design which is unique to the manufacturer, who has a patent appli-
cation pending. It also has the added advantage of requiring a substantially
shorter installation period than the other offers. The manufacturer of the
GRP flumes has offered to install the 187 km tertiaries in the Lemal project
at the same unit rate under the terms of the national contract. Assurances
were obtained at negotiations that installation of the GRP flume tertiaries
would be conditional on approval of the Bank, following a review of a testing
program, which would include studies of at least one expert in the manufacture
of reinforced plastics. The tests would start in July 1976; final results are
expected by June 1977. In the event the results are not satisfactory an
alternative system would be installed satisfactory to the Bank.      (See Section
3.06 of the Loan Agreement.)
49.       The Farmers' Development Centers and facilities, as well as the
offices, facilities, and quarters included in the agricultural extension
component (US$3.0 million) would be subject to local competitive bid-
ding. Local tender is justified in these cases, as the works are dispersed
and labor-intensive, and the contracts relatively small. The rural road
component would be divided into two contract packages (of between US$2.0
and US$4.0 million) for international competitive bidding in accordance with
Bank Group Guidelines; one contractor may bid on both packages. Construction
of quaternary canals and on-farm drains (US$0.8 million) and small-scale
irrigation systems (US$1.7 million) would require close adjustment to cropping
seasons and prior negotiation with farmers, and would be constructed on force
account. All vehicles and equipment (US$2.8 million) would be procured under
international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines. A
15% preference margin, or the prevailing customs duty if lower, would be
extended to local manufacturers of equipment and supplies. Materials and
small items of equipment necessary to operate and maintain Farmers Development
Centers, extension offices, and road maintenance workshops (US$1.0 million)
would be procured through normal Government procedures.
Disbursements
50.       Disbursements would be made at the rate of 100% against the foreign
exchange expenditures on all directly imported equipment and vehicles, 95%
of the ex-factory cost of such items manufactured locally, and 65% of the
actual cost of locally procured imported items. Disbursements for all civil
works executed by contract would equal 50% of total costs. Disbursements for
works executed on force account, including the small-scale irrigation schemes
and on-farm canals and drains to be executed by DID and workshops to be
constructed by PWD, would also equal 50% of total costs and would be made
against a certificate of expenditures, the detailed documentation for which
would be retained by the borrower and be available for inspection by the
Bank during the course of project supervision. For the two studies, disburse-
ments would equal 100% of total expenditures. It is expected that disburse-
ments would be completed by December 31, 1981.



- 15 -
Justification and Benefits
51.       The project would provide the infrastructure facilities and sup-
porting services required to raise smallholder agricultural yields, produc-
tion, and farm incomes throughout the North Kelantan region. The project
would yield high economic returns. Individual rates of return have been
calculated for the Lemal irrigation, small-scale irrigation, and road
components. While these calculations have not been performed for the agri-
cultural extension and Farmers Development Center components, those compon-
ents are anticipated to make important independent contributions to the
agricultural development of North Kelantan, as well as to ensure the economic
viability of the infrastructure components. The capital cost of the FDCs
and agricultural extension services amount to about US$55 per benefiting
family (US$35/ha), while incremental annual operating costs would amount to
US$10 per family (US$7/ha).
52.       The economic rate of return is estimated to be 42% for the Lemal
irrigation component, the cost of which is US$12.7 million; 12-22% for the
small-scale irrigation schemes, the cost of which is US$1.9 million; and
27-32% for the roads, the cost of which is US$7.0 million. These rates of re-
turn assume that implementation of the agricultural extension component and the
Farmers' Development Centers would result in an increase in annual padi pro-
duction of 18,000 tons,'phased over the period 1977-85. The single weighted
average economic rate of return, based on the summation of the quantified
costs and benefits of all the project components (except the two studies) is
27%. This figure excludes the non-quantifiable benefits from flood control.
Environmental Effects
53.       The major environmental impact of the project would derive from the
dikes to be constructed on the Kelantan River. In addition to increasing crop
yields in Lemal, the proposed dike and drainage system would prevent the ex-
tensive annual flood damage to homes, shops, vehicles, and herds, and occa-
sional loss of life suffered in that area and in the town of Pasir Mas. These
works would also reduce the local mosquito habitat, and tend to alleviate
malaria and dengiie fever outbreaks in the area.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
5b.         The draft Loan Agreement between Malaysia and the Bank, the Report
of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section (iii) of the Articles
of Agreement and the text of a resulution approving the proposed loan are
being distribuited to the Executive Directors separately.
55.       Features of special interest in the Loan Agreement are
described in paragraphs 34-36, 38, 40, 43, 46 and 48 of this report.



- 16 -
56.       It is an additional condition of effectiveness that (a) a suitably
qualified and experienced Project Manager would be employed in the Borrower's
Ministry of Agriculture, (b) a qualified Chief Extension Officer for the State
of Kelantan would be appointed, and (c) a Steering Committee would be estab-
lished to advise the Project Manager.
57.        I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
58.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Washington, D.C.
June 10, 1976



TABL.E 3A
MALAYSIA            - Se IAL TNDICBTYRS DATA SHEET
LADO ARlA (TUOU K..) .......... 4-------                               ---------------------
...............                        MALAYSIA                             REFERENCE COUNTRIES (19F70)
TOTAL       329.r                                       "OST RECENT
AGRIC.         .1960                              1970    ESTINATE          PERU           PORTUGAL       MEXICO --
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                      23O.O      440.0       570.0               510.0      940.0       720.0
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
_____________________._________
POPULATION (MID-TN. MILLION)              6.0       10.4        U1.3               1.5         9.1        50.?
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARIO RN.                        24.0       32.0        34.0                11.0       93.0        26.0
PER SO. 8R. AGRtCULTURAL LAND                                 ..          ..          ..
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE PER THOUSAND          41.0       33.8 a      33.3               42.e        18.7        4S..2
CRUOE OEATH RATE PER THOUSAND          1O.O 0.     7.3 &       6.S9               11.0        10.1         9.9
INFANT MORTALIIT RATE (/THOU)         62.0        40.8 j      38.5 9            65.0        58.0        68.5
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (IYRS)        57.0 &     64.0       64.0                58.e       67.0        6L.0
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                 2.9        2.6!        2.41                2.9        1.5         3.1
POPULATION GROWTH RITE (I)
TITAL                                   2.9        2.7         2.6                2.9          1.1        3.5
URBAN                                    ..         ..          ..                 5.0        4           5.5
URBAN POPULATION (I OF TOTAL)              ..        29.0 &        ..               53.0        56.5       59.0
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TD tA YEARS                         43.8 &   .   .           65.0 ZE                      28.5        4 6.2
IS TO 6R YEARS                         53.41      52.1                            52.0      61.        4*9.9
65 YEARS AND OVER                       2.8 !a    3.2!.        *-                 1.0 9      9.7         3.7
A3E OEPENDENCY RATIO                      0.9 /       0 9                            0.9 La      0.6         1.0
ECONOMIC DERENDENCY RATIO                 I.4         1.6         ..                 1.5         1.1        2.0
FARILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE. THOU)             ..       222.2/I    3n.89                ..          ..        55.5
USERS (Z OF NARRIED WOMEN)               ..         B.0zj       ..
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANO)          2300.0     2900.0          ..             4300.0     3200.0 a9 13000.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE CX)           56.0 L       13.e         ..               45.8 : 9    31.5       39.5
UNEMPLOYED (I OF LABOR FORCE)             2.0 ,      6.0          ..                .0.
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
Z OF PRIVATe INCOME RECDO BY-
HIGHEST  ST OF HOUSEHOLDS              17.0      2Z.3 .2                         31.                     37.8
HIGHEST 287 OF HOUSEHOLDS             AA.o 9     56.0          ..               62.6 7        ..        63.2
LOWEST   20: OF HOUSEHOLDS              6.5         3.5         ..                1.9 7a       *.         4.2
LOWEST  '.1 OF HOUSEHOLDS              18.0       I 11.2        ..                 7.5        *.        10.2
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
I OWNED BY TOP 101 OF OWNERS                    ..          ..                     9 3.0
Z OWNED BY SMALLEST 1O0   OWNERS           ..         ..                            o 0.J
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
- - - -- - ---  - - -
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN              6. 5o0  /9 .            141.O!             1920.0       tOO0.0     1440.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON         2600.0 7    1080.0/9d   1050.0             3200.0       9000 o      1 57.0
POPULAtION PER HOsPrTAL BED             190.0 7    270.0       270.0 70.0                    160.0       930.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLT OF -
CALORIES (1 OF REQUIREMENTS)                       93.: CO     ..                98.0       118.0       110.0
PROTEIN (ORAMS PER OAY)                           49. 09       ..               6Z.0        85.0        65.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE            .         20. zb    .o  ..               24.0        .0.0        28.0 /a
oEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-'               ..         5.5          ..                 ..          ..         9.8
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                         91.0 /     89.0k       92.0               107.0       95.0       106. o
SECONDARY SCHOOL                       19. 0         o 4. 0  3 37-0 ..           35.0       52.0 /      23. 0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDEO
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)               13.0  9    13.09      13.0/9              12.0       13.0        12.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(I OF SECONUARY)                        5.0/I      3. O       3.01              19. 0 d     32.0        24. 
ADULT LITERACY RATE (X)                  46.0   Re  77.0a         ..                  .        65. 0        6.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (AVERAGE)                 ..        2.3          ..                 ..           ..        2.
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (Z)65O&61 
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY                               65.0         ..                  ..          ..       61.0 
(Z OF ALL OWELLINGS)                    ..        43.0          ..                 ..        85.0        59.0
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTEO
TO ELECTRIClITY (1)                      ..       30.0          ..                 ..          ..        28.0
CONSUMPTION
RDO10 RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)           37.0       41.0        40.0               134.0      142.0       276.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)            IS.0        23.03      29.0/               17.0       57.0        25.0
ELECTRICITY (SWN/YR PER CAP)           200.0      382.09    510.0 A             407.0      867.0       567.0
NEWSPRINT (KXG/,YR PER CAP)               0.8        4. 04       2.9 9               3.6        4. 6        3. 1
SEE NOTES AND OUFINITIONS ON REVERSE



Page 2 of I. Pages
Unlace otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year~ between 19-59 and 1961, for 1910 between 1968 and 1970, and for t..t Recent Retionte between
197 1-ad 1973.
Neelco nas bea  eseleted as an objective cocntr7 va"on  it baa set a rapid path of Industra   epnion inth         ass.  ia.sa'  indusLtral h.se
-1 ritloe   em.ail and the country he. the capacity and pins to expend its industrial production rpidly in the future.
KALAThLA    12fQ O      Wa.., flly ba 1957-Sit          Le 19571    JA   Registered applicants for Work, 1962;   ,(j Federatino of Wlaye.
1970_    a W-st NalaYsia;     &b R&agitred applicants for sok;      L   Emater on register, not all Practicing In the coutry;
dPereonne1 in g-sernaent aereicee;    /a  19666;      af 1-967;   a1  Piped water ineid.;   /h 12-18 years of aeg.
MOS MpCRr EflMAMl.       /- West ta%yela;     /b  Pereonneml in g-vrtnot servicee;     Aj 19741    /d  12-18 years of age.
PERU        1970    Ia    -acldee Indian Jungle populaticen;  &  Urban area   only;   /c Reonnaically active population;    /d   Including evening
schools.
PORMUAL     1970    a   Portugal continental onl;     ab  Including midwiee;    /c 12-16 years of age.
REnlco      1970    a   1966-66;   /b  Ineide only.
R8, May IL, 1976
DEFINITIONS OP SOCIAL INIDICATORS
r~ndaL.cthou     2rj                                                                  Population or nursloggperco   - Population dinided by number of practle-
Toa-oE  uface cr0. comprisiog lend cream ed inlcnd watern.                      inseadfmale graduae nureo, "Itrai-d" or "certified" nurseo,
dcni c- M.onrecet c ntinate of aRrico1tural arce onod temporarily or per-               end auxiliary peroonnel with training or nxperience.
-sinctly for oropo. psotorec. merbet h kitchen  ar.deno or no lie fa1iow.          Population perhos ptal bed - Population div,ided by number of hospital
beds va,labl   in puli    ad private general and specilized hospital
)&per nita III!) - GNP per capita estimates nt marbet prices, nalcu-                 end rehabilitation centers; excludes nuroing hone~ end eatablioshents
conversion method as World Bank Atlas (1972-71 basis).                        f c, custodial and preventin- care.
Per capita aupplyof caoiee     (I of requir-enes   -tCornputed frm. mergy
Po olot          t~~~~iet                                                        equivalent of nt fdoodupplie    avial     in: conry per~ capita per
vita I _y    lion..t.cls of Ju,ly first; if not available, average              day; evailable supplies c-prise diOmstin production, imports lean
otw   eneMleatEn    tes.                                                            exports, and changes in otoch; net suppliea excludie animal feed, seeds,
quoantities need in fund processing and losses in distributIon; re-
Pecuatio desity- pe snnre e -Mid-yea pcp'iiation Per eqoare ftI-              quirenets were est,muted by FAQ base d on physiological needae for
meter)Olbrae)o          tot   oe                                                      normal activity and health considering environmental temperature,
1Pocolu,ni  d-niry - per nuare Ins of anric. land - Cosponed as shoe for                body weights, age and se. distribution, of populotlon, and allowing
aei_culrors  Isod only.                                                               10% for waste at household level.
Per capite supply of po   in (grams per da) - Protein content of pe:r
Vital stnt,vtic                                                                         capita mat supply ofrood Per dlay; net supply of food in defined as
Crude birth rote  or thousand - An-1ol live birthe per thousand of mid-                 ab-ve; requiromente for all nountries established by USD1 Economic
year populatt.on; .uses  y f-ne-yvr overge- ending in 1960, 1970 and                  Resao     evcspoieframnmvalwneo                        0gaoo       oa
19  o  deveoIping coenirlen                                                       protin per day, and 20 grams of animal end pulse protein, of which 10
Crude death rate per thousand - Annual deaths per thousan.d if eid-year                 grama should be animal protein; these cin.derds oro Iboor hUn those
popula tion; usuall1Y fin-Year overage- erding in 1960, 1970 and 1975                 of 75 grams of total protein and 23 grams of animal Protein u, anavr
/on devloping conuntrias.                                                             age for the  w,r1d, proposed by FAO in the Third World Food Survey.
Infunt mortaity rate C/thou) - Annual deaths of infants under one year                Per capita prtisplyfo           aia and cus        Protein supply of food
ofag  artouad live  births,                                                    derived frmo animalsMand puse Ingasprdy
LIfe~ eupctony at birth Cyrs) - Average onuer of year   of lifo remain-               re ate.Lbm         aee  I-L - Annual deaths per thousad In age group
is ,tbrh; uualy frv-ye- averages     rdong in 1960, 1970 and                      -btars    to children in this age group; suggested an an indicator
2975 for developing6 countries,                                                       of malnutrition.
Gross reproduction rate  - Average number of live daughters a coman will
heor lv he   ormal reprcdtrive period if she experiences present age-               Education
spe-ufun fertility rains; usually fine-year -avrages ending in 1960,                Adj1ustedtenrollinec rtio -oriso  school - Enrollment of all ages an
1970and  975for  eveoptIogcuntris                                               pecnaeofp.ayscolaePoulation; includes children aged
PPoplution growth rate (%  - tota  - Compound annual growth rates of mid-               6-11 yours but adjusted for differsnt lengths of primary edcation;
year Population for 19,50-60, 1960-70, and 1960 t o sot rets-t year.                  for countries with universal education, enrollment may exceed 100%
Population growth rate (W - urban - Computed lihe growth rate of itotl                  since soon pupils are below or above the official school age.
pop.oIation; different definitions of urban arenas may affect tompara-Ajseenrlmn ai -scnayohoul - Computed as above; ee,-
blilty nf data among onuntries.                                 ondary~~~~~~t  edcto  rqie  a  es      fou   yearn f approved primary
Ubnppltion (9o ttl      - Ratio of urban to total pupulation; dif-                instruction; prmvides gemrarl, voainlor       eteaher training i-struc-
ferent def i nitions Of urb.n orson may effect comiparability of dota                 Lions for pupils of 12 to 17 years of age; corresponid-ce coarsen are
otncn countries.                                                                      generally excluded.
Agejstr-ture rcest      - Children (0-14 years). working-age (15-64 years),           Years of schooling orvdd(is        nd second.lves      - Total years of
and retired     yecry no   vr)o     eretgv      fmd-erppuein.shoing; at___Arylvl,vcain                                          len1tnxton may he partially
ratio  Ratioof poplationunder 15 snd 65 cod over to               or cnspletely eacloded.
of a es  thrnugh 61.                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~VoaIonl'nrlenn,~Z~t (9 of aecond%ty) -  oVa-tion..l institutions include
iconoic dpendecy rtio  -Raci of pmulaion under 15 and 65 and ove             technical, iodsia      or other pograms which operate independently
to th labr foce I   age~ro   of 5-61years.                                 enr as departments of secondary intit.t ions .
Family pionninc - arceotors cev ulative.to)-Cuaiv  camber of             Adult literacy rate (9    - Literate adults (able to read and write) as
ocptonig rsoframbirthconro  devticen d   auspices of notional foully                  Percentage of to~tal adult Population aged 15 ya.rs and over.
Fasulycnoning - users (   of married woma) - Percentages of maried                    tnn
tocn of Chlid-bearing  9age  15-11 Yea_rs)-wh. use birth-control de-              Prosper room (evera      ) -. Aerage number of persons Per room insc
vie -oalmrried w-men in sane age group.                                        copied convsntioci.  dwellings in urban areas; dwellings exclude non-
j~~~~~121=gnt ~~~~~~~~~~~~~permanent strctures and unocupied Ports.
not                                                                          lcuDed dwellin s wihout    me.Gd wa_t_e_r ) - Occupied conventional
"O   '  bor f thousad) - Ecoo...ically attive pvr-o-, including                    d`ellIngsiiinlyEIWInd-       areas wit out inside orousd      pie
armed forces asd us    eed hit excluding housewives, students, etc.;                  waerfciiie       aieretae       falPccpiddwlins
definitions in varioun countries are not comparable.                                Access toelcticityi(9 of pr tall dwelins)-conventionaldws       ng
Labarform in aricutur~J) - gridutura  labor force (in farming,               with electriiY In living quarters as percent Of total doellingo
foresty, huning ed fishng) aspercetace of total lubor force,                in urban and vial armas.
Unemloye  of abarfo'c) -  nempoyedare usually defined as persons           Rural dwel ao counectd to lect-icit (9) - Computed as abav.        o
who are  ~ ~      taboo Job, nu~t of a Job on agiven day,                  rua   dwolingso-fiItFfo
remine  co  ofa jb,  nd  eekng  irkfor, a sencified minimu
perod  ot xcedig oe web ma co  b  comparable betwee  coon-Cosmtn
tries detloydffrnt dfiefsainitions of uneployed ond nource of data,                 Rado eciers (Per thOu po     ) - All1 tYpes of receivers for radio broad-
e.g.,en emointsoffce    sttsis        -aPle s-rvys, compulsory unoe-                  casts to genaera pulic pethousand of population; excludes unli-
ploytneot insoratccecme.boh                                                 t ah ad  ensed receivers is countries and in years en- registration  ar radio
Tn..m diatribution - Percentage of Pri                          ~~sets was in effect; data for recent years may not be comparable since
kinn diaet-idtn by  Prichentag  of prints inoe(ohi-ahadmat countries abolished licensing.-
hind  reevdb       ihst5.rcet1             po.rest 51%, and poorest                 Passenger oars (p r topp)- P'assenger cars comprise Motor cars seat-
m ofhousoholdo.                                                                   Ing les than   igtht ersons; ealudee amfbulances, hearses and mill-
tory viJs
Olsiribuilon ofpland ownership - Percentages of lend Ownd by wealth-                  Electricit Ykwh      er ca) - Anqial consumption of industrial, cuDm-
best Ihad   .poorst I1   Of lend nu,ers.                                                    I,PM
mrcil, pb0an       private electricity in hilowott hours per cvpita;
th md Nutriti.                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~generally based on Production data, without allowance for losse  in
Health end Nutrition                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~grids hot allowing for imports and exports of electricity.
POPuain e     bsiin-Population divided by number of practicing                        Newsprint (k2/y, p rcap) - Pe IcePita annuMal consoertion in hilograzaw
Physicians qmalified From a medical eubanl at univereity level,                       estimated from dasoic prodx9tolo   Plus net imports of nswept int.



ANMX I
ofg    of ), pages
ECONOMIC INDICATtRS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1975                                     ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (% in corstant prices,,
US$ Hln.                               1960-65     1965-70     1790-7L     Y175
GNP at Market Prices          9,247       100.0                       6.9         5.6         8.7       1.3
Gross Domestic Investment     2,047        22.1                       9.4         7.7        15.3     -15.0
Gross National Saving         1,679        1R.2                      11.8         7.9        11.2     -20.2
Current Account Balance        -266        -2.9
Exports of Goods, NFS         4,008       413.3                       4.1         6.5         7.8      -1.0
Imports of Goods, NFS         4,013        43.4                       3.3         5.7        12.1     -18.0
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1970
Nu Added                    Labor Force/                  V. A. Per Worker
uss Minn-   ,1>                          -sn  $                 LI
Agriculture                      R23     29.7                1.5      46.9                   509         5;,.
Industry                        760      27.5                o.       15.6                 1,520        1 h9.5
Services                       1,184     42.8                1.0      31.3                 1,184        116.1
Total/Average
2,767     00.0                 3.2                           1,017      100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Geoneral Govorn ont                           Central Government
( M$ ln.} I       of ODP                     d   Mln.)        I of ODP
--I775-       I9751      1 97Z -74             1I=         1975        lY2- 7X
Current Receipts                  5,611        27.5        26.L                  4,815      23.6          22.1
Current Expenditure                5,684       27-8        24.6                  4 950      24.2          21.3
Current Surplus                     -73        -O.l         1.9                             -0.7
Capital Expenditures              2,7149       13.5        11.3                  1,073       5.3           5.3
External Assistance (net)             16        0.1         0.2                     32       0.2           0.3
MONEY, CREDIT and PRICES                 1969         1970       1971        1972        1973        1971
-Mllion Mg outstanding end periodj
Money and Quasi Money                   3,724        4,130       4,666      -5',7n      7,574        8,729
Bank Credit to Public Sector              909         833       1,045       1,186       1,375        l,7h6
Bank Credit to Private Sector           1,841       2,246       2,572       3,01l4      X ,586       5,278
(Percentages or index Numbers)
Money and Quasi4Money as % of Olp        33.1        35.o        37.6         43.7       16.1          43.2
General Price Index (1963 - 100)         92.3       100.0       101.6       104.8       115.9        136.0
Annual Percentage Changsg ing
General Price Index                      -0.4         1.9         1.6         3.2       +10.          17.3
Bank Credit to PUblic Sector             6.4         -8.4        25.5        13.5        15.9         27.0
Bank Credit to Private Sector            9.0         21,9        14.6        17.2        52.2         15.1
NOTE: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period
covered.
1/ Total labor force; unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation.  "Unallocated" cowaists
mainly of unemployed workers seeking thoir first job.
2/ Oased on unrevised GDP (Sttist.itc'1l Appendix Table 2.1, Series 1) for comparability.
not available
not applicable



ANNEX I
Page 1, of lI pages
TRADE PAYHNTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                  MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1973-75)
1913 197          1975                                                US $ Mln     %
(US $ Million)
Exports of Goods, NFS         3,145     L,417    !,008
Imports of Goods, NFS         2,713    4,401     4,013
Resource Gap (deficit =              -)  2        --T- -5            Rubber                            1,021    28.5
Tin                                 502    1]J.0
Interest Payments (net)         -40      -43       -52               Timber                              566    ]5.8
Palm Oil                            389     10.8
Other Factor Payments (net)    -230     -206      -157               Petroleum                           239      6.7
Net Transfers                  - 62     - 58       -52               All Other CT,modities               87      2_l.2
Balance on Current Account      100     -308      -266                    Total                        3,587   100,0
Direct Foreign Investment       194      346       223             EXTERNAL DEBT. DECEMBER 31. 1974
Net MLT Borrowing
Disbursements                 55      104       465                                                       US $ min
Amortization  1/            _21                -I .nLL
Subtotal                      31       52      361                Public Debt, incl. Guaranteed
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Other Capital (net)           ( -89     ( 79    (-248                Total outstanding & Disbursed             O7i.3
Other Items n.e.i             (         (       (                                             21
Increase in Reserves (+)        236      185        70             DEBT-SERVICE RATIO for 1975-
%
Net Reserves    (end year)    1,356    1,558     1,643               Public Debt, incl. Guaranteed            3.9
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Fluel and Related Materials                                          Total Outstanding & Disbursed            3.9
Imports                       161       417      479
of which:  Petroleum         49      215
Exports                       152       344      347
of which:  Petroleum        110       280       .        IBRD/IDA LENDING  (April 30, 1976,) (US$ million):
IBRD
RATE OF EXCHAUNGE
Outstanding & Disbursed              27h.6
Throuh      1971              Jme _21_ _973- May31_ 1974       Undisbursed                          303.5
US $ 1.00 = M$3.06            -JS.OO =M$.0                     Outstanding incl. Undisbursed        578.1
M $ 1.00 = US $D.33            WM .00   TTS.40 J2
]972 - FebruarY 13, 1973      June 1, 1974 - Julv 31, 197q
IS X 1.00 = M42.d2             US$1.00 =  M$.30
.  I.00 =75$0.35             M$.00 = US$.143
February 14 - June 21, 197^   Aug 1, 1975 - Dec. 31, 1975
ITS $ 1.00 = M$2.54            US$1.00 =  M$2.50
M $ 1.00 =US$0.39              M$1.00 = US$o.40
Since Jan 1, 1976
US$1.00 = M$2.57
MmL.00 - US$0.39
1/ 1973-74 outstanding debt figures are obtained from IBRD debt data and are not comparable with balance of pay-ents dsts
for 1970-74, which were obtained from Malaysian sources. The public debt estimates presented above exclude a
US; 732 million publicly -guaranteed loan for the iAslaysian International Shipping COrporation which was committed in 197T.
P/ Ratio of debt service to exports of goods and non-factor services
not available
not applicable



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 9
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MALAYSIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS (AS OF APRIL 30, 1976)
Amount in
US$ million
loan                                                                   (Less Cancellations)
Number   Year    Borrower                    Purpose                    Bank   Undisbursed
Eleven loans fully disbursed                                           209.2 -
599     1969    Malaysia                    Education (I)               8.8      2.9
672     1970    Malaysia                    Land Settlement            13.0      1.7
700     19/0    National Electricity Board  Power (V)                  20.0      1.4
753     1971    Malaysia                    Telecommunications (II)    18.7      4.3
77h     1971    Sabah Ports Authority       Ports                      16.1      3.2
779     1972    Malayan Railway
Administration              Railroad                   16.0      2.2
810     1972    Malaysia                    Education (II)             15.5     12.9
851     1972    Malaysia                    Urban Transport            16.0      4.2
880     1973    Malaysia                    Population                  5.0      h.8
bA85    1973    Malaysia                    Land Settlement.           25.0    1l.0
208     1973    Malaysia                    Water Supply               13.5     11.9
931     1973    Malaysia                    Highway                    19.5     11.8
967     1974    Maaysia                     Land Settlement            40.0     35.2
197L    Malaysia                    Agricultural tevelopment  ,I O l.1.J.
974     1974    Malaysia                    Education (III)            19.0     18.9
1031     1974    National Electricity Board  Power (VI)                 43.3     34.6
l044     1974    Malaysia                    Land Settlement            36.0     34.9
1115     1975    Malaysia                    Agricultural Research
and Extension              28.5     28.5
1178     1975    National Electricity Board  Power (VIT)                35.0     35.0
Total commitment                                      643.1
of which has been repaid                             58.6
Total now outstandingL A                              584.5
Amount sold                              18.0
of which has been repaid               11.6           6.4
Total now held by Bank                                578.1
Total undisbursed                                              303.5
/a  In addition, Malaysia is Guarantor for Loan 405-MA of February 26, 1965, to the
Public Utilities Board in Singapore (amount being held by the Bank as of April 30,
1976 - US$4.4 million).
/b  Loan 1213-MA (Kuala Lumpur Sewerage) US$21.5 million and Loan 1214-MA (Kuala Lumpur
Urban Transport) US$26.0 million were signed on March 11, 1976, but as of April 30,
1976, they had not become effective.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 9
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (AS OF FEBRUARY 29, 1976)
Type of     Amount in US$ Million
Year                                       Business    Loan   Equity    Total
1964      Malaysian Industrial
Development Finance            Development
Ltd. (MIDF)                    Financing       -     1.31      1.31
1966      Tasek Cement Ltd.              Cement         1.28   0.28      1.56
1968      Malayawata Steel Ltd.          Steel          2.45   1.01      3.46
1969      Malayawata Steel Ltd.          Steel           -     0.23      0.23
1970      India-Malaysia
Textiles Ltd.                  Textiles       1.25   0.25      1.50
1974      Malaysian Industrial
Development Finance            Development
Ltd. (MIDF)                    Financing       -     0.63      0.63
Total gross commitments                       4.98   3.71      8.69
Less: repayments, sales, cancellations,
terminations and write-offs            3.42   3.46     6.88
Total investments now held by IFC             1.56   0.25      1.81
Total undisbursed                              -      -       _



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 9
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
Loan No. 672   Second Jengka Triangle Land Settlement Project; US$13.0
Million Loan of May 20, 1970; Effective Date: August 20,
1970; Closing Date: May 31, 1977
Loan No. 885   Third Jengka Triangle Land Settlement Project;    US$25.0
Million Loan of March 30, 1973; Effective Date: June 22,
1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The projects (including the First Jengka Triangle Land Settlement
Project which has been completed) consist of clearing the forest, planting
62,000 acres of oil palm and 35,000 acres of rubber and settling 10,000
families in the Jengka Triangle (State of Pahang). The Federal Land Devel-
opment Authority (FELDA), responsible for the execution of the projects,
operates efficiently, keeping high standards of planting and maintenance.
Under Jengka II, development of community facilities and housing is pro-
ceeding satisfactorily although slightly behind appraisal schedule. So
far, approximately 2,800 housing units have been completed (target 2,965).
About 2,000 of them are now occupied by settlers and 20,360 acres have
been allocated to them. Completion of Scheme 9 mill has been delayed be-
cause of prolonged tender procedures and delays in delivery of equipment.
The insufficient mill capacity has caused temporary harvest cut-backs and
reduced earnings of the settlers. Under Jengka III, the clearing has been
completed and planting is progressing satisfactorily. Infrastructure and
village development are behind schedule and settler intake will also be
delayed. Standards of agricultural development are satisfactory, except
for clearing and planting problems encountered in scheme 17 and drainage
problems in scheme 23.
Loan No. 967   Johore Land Settlement Project; US$40.0 Million Loan of
February 27, 1974; Effective Date: May 16, 1974; Closing
Date: June 30, 1982
The project, implemented by FELDA, consists of planting 65,000
acres of oil palm and settling 4,400 families in the State of Johore. The
agricultural development is progressing satisfactorily in line with the
appraisal estimates. In order to speed up the settlement, construction of
access roads and village road network will be done under contract. Damage
in the planted areas, mainly by elephants and wild boar, is increasing,
but measures to reduce further damage are being considered.
Loan No. 1044 Keratong Land Settlement Project; US$36.0 Million Loan of
October 3, 1974; Effective Date: January 9, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1983
The project, implemented by FELDA, consists of planting 55,000
acres of oil palm, settling 3,400 families, constructing two palm oil mills
and establishing two urban settlements. The agricultural development is



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 9
progressing satisfactorily. However, the Pahang Tenggara Development Authority
is still understaffed, and consequently the settlement is delayed. FELDA has
requested a construction of three small-scale palm oil mills instead of two
larger mills as envisaged in the appraisal report. The feasibility of this
proposal is currently under consideration.
Loan No. 973   Western Johore Agricultural Development Project; US$45.0
Million Loan of April 5, 1974; Effective Date: August 14,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The project includes construction of main and feeder drains, coastal
embankments and tidal gates to improve drainage in an area of 134,000 ha
(330,000 acres) in southwest Peninsular Malaysia, as well as an integrated
agricultural development program with changes in cropping patterns to improve
farm incomes, opening up of 24,000 ha of new land, establishment of farmers
development centers and improvements in research, extension and crop process-
ing. A Project Division has been set up in the Ministry of Agriculture to
direct and coordinate the various agencies involved in project execution, to
monitor and evaluate project progress and to prepare a feasibility study for
a second stage project. Because of the need to re-evaluate some of the de-
sign criteria and the delays in survey contracts, and also because of the
delays in appointing engineering staff, construction is about one and a half
years behind schedule. The current problems also include the lack of co-
ordination among the various agencies involved and the lack of basic
agricultural data for planning purposes.
Loan No. 1115 Agricultural Research and Extension Project; US$28.5 Million
Loan of May 30, 1975; Effective Date: October 21, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project aims at strengthening the institutional framework for
agricultural research through providing the Department of Agriculture and the
Malaysian Agricultural Research and Development Institute (MARDI) with inter-
nationally recruited specialists for research, fellowships for post-graduate
training of their staff, laboratories, workshops, offices, storage facilities
and related equipment, imported breeds of farm animals and periodic monitoring
of the ongoing research programs. The Extension Liaison Unit has been estab-
lished and the detail program of implementation has been compiled, but, due
to lack of coordination among various governmental agencies involved, actual
implementation of the project has been delayed.
Loan No. 700   Fifth Power Project; US$20.0 Million Loan of July 16, 1970;
Effective Date: September 29, 1970; Closing Date: January 31,
1977
The project (the third stage extension of the Port Dickson Thermal
Power Station; 3 x 120 MW units) was about 60 percent complete at the end of
December 1975. The Government of Malaysia allowed the National Electricity
Board to apply the fuel surcharge to commercial and industrial consumers from



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 9
March 15, 1975. Energy sales increased by 11.3 percent in FY74 and by 13.7
percent in FY75. The tate of return for FY74 was 10.2 percent and self-finan-
cing of construction was 70 percent. The rate of return for FY75 was 8.2
percent and NEB's sound financial position was maintained. Rates of return
greater than 8 percent (8.2-13.6 percent) are predicted for FY76 through
FY80.
Loan No. 1031 Sixth Power Project; US$45.0 Million Loan of July 25, 1974;
Effective Date: October 22, 1974; Closing Date: June 30,
1980
The project consists of the transmission lines required for the
Temengor Hydroelectric Power Station and for interconnection of the southern
peninsular system. Except for the Malacca-Kluang-Scudai transmission lines
which were recently approved to be financed under this loan, most of the pro-
curement has been completed and implementation of the project is on schedule.
Loan No. 1178 Seventh Power Project; US$35.0 Million Loan of December 17,
1975; Effective Date: March 10, 1976; Closing Date: June 30,
1981
The project consists of the final extension of the Prai Thermal
Power Station (3 x 120 MW units), expansion of the transmission and dis-
tribution systems and a rural electrification study. Procurement of major
equipment and materials is under way.
Loan No. 753   Second Telecommunications Project; US$18.7 Million Loan of
June 21, 1971; Effective Date:   August 18, 1971; Closing
Date: June 30, 1976
After initial delays in procurement, obtaining sites and erecting
buildings, the Telecommunications Department of Malaysia (TDB) has made good
progress in carrying out the project. The original project targets for
December 31, 1975, in respect of expansion of the local telephone, telex
and long-distance services were generally met with two exceptions, first,
the number of additional connections did not reach the target of 80,000
lines until early 1976, and secondly, due to delays in site acquisition
and buildings, two of the microwave routes will be completed only in mid-1977.
An extension of the Closing Date will therefore be required. The reorganiza-
tion of TDM has been completed and it is now operating satisfactorily. TDM's
financial results for the 1971-73 period were very satisfactory with rates of
return of about 16 percent as compared with the appraisal estimates of about
10 percent and the loan covenant of 8 percent. The operating ratio has been
good, between 60-64 percent, and TDM's self-financing has been high.
Loan No. 908   Second Kuala Lumpur Water Supply Project; US$13.5 Million
Loan of June 14, 1973; Effective Date: August 27, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1978
The project consists of the expansion of facilities to provide
piped water supply to parts of Kuala Lumpur and Klang Valley. The facilities



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 9
include an earth dam on the Langat River to form a reservoir to regulate
the river flow. When field surveys were made for the detailed design, the
consultants found that the height of the dam originally planned (175 feet)
had to be raised by 9 feet. The completion of the dam, but not the other
components of the project, is expected to be delayed by about one year to
late 1978. The project cost is presently estimated at about 45 percent more
than the appraisal estimate due to the increased cost of the dam and adoption
of a higher allowance for inflation. However, no difficulties are foreseen
in raising the additional funds required.
Loan No. 774    Sabah Ports Project; US$16.1 Million Loan of June 30, 1971;
Effective Date: August 24, 1971; Closing Date: December 31,
1976
Except for a new headquarters building in Kota Kinabalu and the
port administration building at Sandakan, all civil works were completed by
the end of 1975. Total cost of the project will be about US$38.0 million,
compared to the appraisal estimate of US$22.1 million. The financial posi-
tion of Sabah Ports Authority is satisfactory. The management of the Author-
ity and the operational procedures in the ports are also satisfactory.
Studies of proposed additional port works at Tawau and Sapangar Bay are
expected to be available for review in June 1976.
Loan No. 799    Railway Project; US$16.0 Million Loan of February 11, 1972;
Effective Date: April 17, 1972; Closing Date: March 31, 1977
The project includes purchase and improvement of locomotives, rol-
ling stock, workshops and track. The implementation is 12 month behind sche-
dule due to delay in ordering and delivery of materials, but all the equipment
has now been received except for 110 freight cars which are expected to be
delivered by June, 1976. With the delay in procurement, work on track renewal,
workshops and rolling stock will be carried over into the first year of the
next five year plan. Management lacks effectiveness largely due to the many
vacancies in key technical posts and to the redundancy in unskilled labor.
Operations have not improved to the extent forecast at appraisal. Passenger
traffic continues to rise faster than anticipated. Freight traffic remains
relatively stagnant, but considerable improvement is expected next year, due
largely to increased cement traffic. With increasing costs, there were
operating losses in 1973, 1974 and 1975. Even if the MR's request for a
10 percent raise in passenger fares is granted promptly, there will be fur-
ther losses in 1976. New investment proposed by the MR for the Third Five
Year Plan (1976-1980) totals M$393.0 million. Adoption of such a plan will
depend on the Government's decision on the future status of the railway,
particularly in view of the rapid expansion of highways and highway transport.
To assist in making a decision on the future of the Railway, and on further
investment needed, the Government decided to undertake a general transport
study, and the Bank drafted the terms of reference for consultants.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 9
Loan No. 851   Kuala Lumpur Urban Transport Project; US$16.0 Million Loan
of July 20, 1972; Effective Date: September 20, 1972;
Closing Date: April 30, 1977
The project is designed to improve the transport facilities between
Kuala Lumpur and the adjacent town of Petaling Jaya. It consists of improve-
ment of about six miles of Federal Route 2, including detailed engineering,
widening of the road, construction of interchanges and cycle tracks, and
relocation of services. Civil works are 4-6 months behind schedule, due to
initial shortcomings in the contractor's project management and difficulties
in obtaining steel and cement. These problems have since been overcome, but
the contractor is now experiencing financial difficulties as a result of the
low tender price which did not allow for the subsequent rapid inflation. The
project also includes a transport study for metropolitan Kuala Lumpur (comple-
ted), a national road maintenance study (draft final report completed) and
detailed engineering of about 137 miles of Federal Route 1 (completed).
Loan No. 931    Second Highway Project; US$19.5 Million Loan of August 22,
1973; Effective Date: October 25 1973; Closing Date:
August 31, 1977
Overall progress on the four construction contracts already awarded
is about 12 months behind schedule. Three of these contracts were awarded
shortly before the increase in oil prices in 1973, but a period of uncertain
prices and shortage of some materials and equipment followed and it took the
contractors more time to mobilize than previously envisaged. Progress on all
contracts was affected by delays in land acquisition and eviction of squatters
from the right-of-way, late grant of licenses by the Selangor State Government
to operate quarries, and late approval of work permits for the expatriate staff.
Poor management in the case of some of the contractors also contributed to
slow progress. Although some measures have been taken to remedy these defi-
ciencies, progress of construction is still well below the revised target.
Performance of one of the contractors is so unsatisfactory that in mid-January
1976 the consultants recommended the Government that his contract be termi-
nated. However, a decision on this recommendation is still pending. Bidding
for the fifth and last contract was deferred to give the Government more time
to acquire the right-of-way. Consulting services for various studies and
detailed engineering are satisfactory and on schedule. An extension of the
Closing Date by two years to August 31, 1979 will be necessary. Construction
costs have escalated sharply because of the rapid inflation and the total pro-
ject cost is now estimated to be US$50.0 million compared to the appraisal
estimate of US$37 million. The disbursement rate for the road component has
been reduced as of January 1, 1976 from 55 percent to 40 percent of actual
expenditures.



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 9
Loan No. 599   Education Project; US$8.8 Million Loan of May 23, 1969;
Effective Date: September 16, 1969; Closing Date: March 31,
1977
Construction has been completed at 20 of 21 project institutions,
and the quality of the completed buildings is satisfactory. Project imple-
mentation is about two and one-half years behind schedule because an alter-
nate site had to be selected for one agricultural school. This school is
now expected to be completed in late 1976. Deliveries of furniture and
equipment to the project schools are near completion except for one agri-
cultural school. All the 20 project schools are now in operation and are
functioning satisfactorily. Although no final evaluation has yet been made,
the schools appear to have achieved low dropout rates and high pass rates.
The total project cost is expected to be about US$1.7 million lower than the
original estimate. US$700,000 of this amount has been transferred to the
second education project, and proposals from the Government have been
requested by the Bank concerning an appropriate use of the remaining funds.
Disbursements have reached US$5.7 million.
Loan No. 810   Second Education Project; US$15.5 Million Loan of April 5,
1972: Effective Date: July 7, 1972; Closing Date: Decem-
ber 31, 1977
Project implementation has improved and is now about ten months
behind schedule mainly due to delays in the appointment of consultant archi-
tects for the Penang University, late approval of the campus plan by the
University and slowness of the Public Works Department in preparation of
documents. Of eight secondary vocational and technical schools, seven are
under construction. Tender has been opened for all the facilities of the
University and the recommended awards are acceptable. Contracts have been
awarded for one-third of the facilities and construction is scheduled to be
completed by mid-1977. Total project cost remains to be about 40 percent
above the original estimate. The Government is aware of this cost overrun
and is prepared to finance it. Progress on equipment procurement is satis-
factory. Disbursements have slightly improved.
Loan No. 974   Third Education Project; US$19.0 Million Loan of April 5,
1974; Effective Date: June 26, 1974; Closing Date: Dec-
ember 31, 1980
Project implementation is about three months behind schedule due
to delays in selection of sites for the Teacher Training Colleges (TTCs) but
all sites have now been acquired. Tenders have been opened for seven of the
thirteen project institutions and all sketch plans have been approved. Con-
struction for seven schools started in early 1976. Progress on civil works
is satisfactory. Equipment procurement for Kuantan Polytechnic is slightly
behind schedule. Estimated total project cost remains the same as the



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 9
appraisal estimate. Disbursement is about'one year behind schedule partly
due to delays in equipment procurement but should improve in 1976. The
Project Unit is functioning satisfactorily.
Loan No. 880   Population Project; US$5.0 Million Loan ot February 9, 1973;
Effective Date: June 21, 1973; Closing Date: September 30,
1978
The progress on the civil works component has been outstanding over
the past 12 months compared with the progress observed earlier. Four build-
ings are now completed and 129 more are under construction. The Senior
Research Advisor has been appointed and the, National' Family Planning Board
(NFPB' is taking action to set up a computerized management information
system. The program performance in the current year is also expected to
be better then      k in^ the'-'ast :five years-..' Recently., the Prime Minister ex-
pressed ' c6&c_id W6ker thiE-?cond'iti:6hs In-,urban, slums and asked the NFPB to
intensif yitg''e-f-forts, i-if' imprbv-ing, the' situation.-. On the whole, the Prime
Ministei'-s-'in'te're'st h-a''b"een fake'n-as-an' indication of political commitment
to the program and is expected.:to givei-'impetius to NFPB's activities.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
MALAYSIA
NORTH KELANTAN RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:           Malaysia
Amount:             US$21.0 million.
Project
Description:      The proposed project will improve the productivity and
incomes of low income smallholder farmers throughout
the North Kelantan Region through irrigation and road
facilities and intensified agricultural supporting
services. It will consist of:
Estimated Costs:                                   Local    Foreign    Total
-----(US$ million)-------
Lemal Irrigation Improvement    7.4       5.3       12.7
Small-scale Irrigation          1.1       0.8       1.9
Roads                           3.2       3.8       7.0
Agricultural Extension          2.4       1.4       3.8
Farmers' Development Centers    3.8       2.3       6.1
Studies                          -        0.2       0.2
Base Cost Estimate         17.9      13.8      31.7
Physical Contingencies          2.1       1.8       3.9
Expected Price Increases        7.0       5.4      12.4
Total Project Cost         27.0      21.0      48.0
Financing:          Financing:
Proposed Bank Loan     21.0
Government direct
expenditures and
grants to Kelantan
State                27.0
Estimated
Disbursements:                                  (in US$ millions)
1977   1978   1979   1980   1981   1982
IBRD Fiscal Year   0.2    3.4    19.6   33.3   39.9   21.0



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
Procurement
Arrangements:     Contracts for irrigation and drainage works, access roads,
Farmers'Development Centers and extension quarters would
be carried out under contracts awarded after competitive
bidding advertised locally in accordance with Government
procedures satisfactory to the Bank. Local tender is
justified as the works are dispersed and labor-intensive
and the contracts relatively small. The rural road com-
ponent and all vehicles and equipment (except materials
and small items of equipment necessary to operate the
FDCs, extension offices and maintenance workshops) would
be procured under international competitive bidding in
accordance with Bank Group Guidelines. Construction
of quarternary canals and on-farm drains and small-scale
irrigation systems would be constructed on force accounts.
The GRP flume study would be installed under a central
national contract awarded in August 1975 after locally
advertised competitive bidding.
Rate of Return:      The composite rate of return is 27%.
Consultants:         To test the glass-reinforced polyester flume irrigation
conduits and study the Kelantan Land Development Schemes.
Appraisal
Report:           Report No. 1137-MA, dated   June 10, 1976.



IBRD 12003
I021'00'                                    102  15'                                                          APRIL 1976
102-00'  \121'rLI 
6 15'                                                                                                             THAILAND  i'oio hv,
= kgPeng Kubor                                                     s.. f il,v v
t_Pantoi Dosal                                                                  r-,'xxv' 
> Kg Awang
T H AILAND                          Xp O
Bachok-
Kg K Melwi       v .' 
$                            s      ts       )          r                           MALAYSIA
N~   ~     ~~<                           NAI-      NORTH KElANTAN RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
t              6+J\                                     ~~~~~~~~PROJECT COMPONENTS
.    X     t t                           ~~~~~~~~~~PROJECT ROADS
t~~~~~~~~~~ - -                  -  Vlilloge Roods
nt0u 5Irld 10   IS   20   25                                               k01 Stondard
KILOMETERS*                                             1                                  04 STandard
KILOMETERS                v::42 YKERAI                         @    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Proiect Rood Numbers
I   f   g                   \\    \                              8~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ PWD OffTice / Workshops
-5-30'  MILES                                          ,<A                                         Quarries (Existing)                   50
>1  t  i E Pohl          ~~IRRIGATION PROJECT
ffi                  O~~~~~~ Smalil Proiects
]C\                3    ~~~~~~~Lemal Irrigation Project Areo
60mss   X    tX                        @~    ~~~~~~~~ Weather Stations
s \ J ) - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Existing Federal Roads (Paved)
6         M   k15:./~~~~~~~~~~____               Existing State Roads (Paved)
z % L)rol % ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Existing State Roads (Gravel)
j \ Wt (~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--i-                               Rorlways
8 s         { \ t   ~~~~~~~~~~Z2J             Built-up Areas
!) 8 E   \            /   \>\                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~District Boundaries
<   /  t \   -  -  State Boundaries
Tuth-  -  International Bndaries
02-00 \ 102;t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~10202 30'



IBRD 12004
Al'THAILAND                                                                                                                          APRIL 1976
A]      W.i Bh.,.                                                            AAYI
'EA OF MAP                                                      MALAYSIA
sourH                 NORTH KELANTAN RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
'1NT'ERK   ,    renxgonu                                       LEMAL      IRRIGATION       AREA
TUMPAT                 _ -
S UMAT E RA  >f' SINOAPORE - X.'| V0\ 
\ upR              A i- 
N~~~~~~~A
N
X ,                                   IR~~~~~~~ROGADTWORKS RK
iF  1^"Existing Main Ralds
\\      _vj            ~       \   l   ~>\\\            />Ei                           Existing Field Channels
\\ \< \) _ J - . ~~~~~~~DRAINAGE WORKS
-i---i-- Railways  - -   Propxis   P tingoDr adns ond R(vers
o             2      3      5      5      6           *<     Flood Protection Bunds                PropoProposed Bunds
<i[OM_tERS                                  Irrigation Scheme Boundaries     -- -- Proposed Tidar  Gates and Pumps
t  ~~~~~~  \ ~~~~~ROAD WORKS
Existing Main Rocods
0t                                                        -    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Existing Earth Roads
-4-4       Roilways                   -    -   Proposed PWD Roads (01 Stondord)
0~~~ 1                 2     3        6                  Flood Protection Bunds        -       -Proposed P WD Roads (SubP W DStandard)
KILOMETERS                         I                        Irrigation Scheme Boundories     -    Proposed Form Roads ( Upgrading of
0                     2          3          4                                                                          Penggowo Road)
IMILES                                                                                    ....... Proposed Form Roads ( on Canal Bonk)



