CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1294 MA
LOAN AGREEMENT
(North Kelantan Rural Development Project)
between
MALAYSIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated July 21, 1976


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 21, 1976, between MALAYSIA (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guar-
antee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the Gen-
eral Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Project Manager" means the project manager referred
to in Section 5.01 of this Agreement; and
(b) "DID" means the Borrower's Drainage and Irrigation De-
partment.


﻿- 3 -
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or re-
ferred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty-
one million dollars ($21,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in re-
spect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
contracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be procured
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agree-
ment.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1981
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a e!ommitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)


﻿-4-
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eight and eighty-five hundredths per cent (8.85%) per annum on
the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
0


﻿5
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
agricultural, engineering, administrative and financial practices,
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, ser-
vices and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. (a) In order to assist the Borrower in carrying
out Part H of the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of em-
ployment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the ba-
sic engineering surveys for the Project, the Borrower shall employ
a firm of surveyors and, if in the opinion of the Bank there is
unreasonable delay in carrying out Part E of the Project, in order
to assist the Borrower in carrying out the engineering design and
construction supervision for such Part, the Borrower shall employ
engineering consultants. The qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment of such surveyors and consultants
shall be acceptable to the Borrower and the Bank.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the


﻿-6-
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to re-
place or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules
for the Project, and any material modifications thereof or ad-
ditions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to
record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof)
and to identify the goods and services financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan, and to disclose the use thereof in the Project;
(ii) shall enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit
the facilities and construction sites included in the Project and
to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to
the Bank all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request
concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the
Loan and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be


﻿required for carrying out the Project and shall furnish to the
Bank, if and when reasonably requested by the Bank, appropriate
evidence that such land and rights in respect of land are avail-
able for purposes related to the Project.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall, prior to installing glass-
reinforced polyester flume irrigation conduits for Part B of the
Project, complete a testing program for such conduits. The Borrower
shall, if the Bank or the Borrower shall determine on the basis
of the results of such program that such conduits are not satis-
factory, install an alternative system of conduits acceptable to
the Borrower and the Bank.
Section 3.07. The Borrowe: shall cause DID to prepare feasi-
bility reports analyzing water demand and supply and economic re-
turns for each of the small-scale irrigation schemes included in
Part D of the Project and furnish the first three such reports to
the Bank for review, prior to constructing said schemes.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall ensure that, not later than
three months prior to the beginning of each fiscal year, a state-
ment of the annual credit requirements of the farmer-beneficiaries
of the Project will be prepared and submitted to Bank Pertanian
Malaysia, with copies being furnished to the Bank at the same time.
The Borrower shall thereafter, and after an exchange of views with
the Bank, ensure that an adequate amount of credit will be made
available through Bank Pertanian Malaysia for the farmer-beneficiaries
of the Project.


﻿-8-
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall ensure that, (i) not later
than four months from the date of this Agreement or such other date
as may be agreed between the Borrower and the Bank two subject
matter specialists shall be appointed, (ii) in conjunction with
construction of the facilities for the Project, all extension staff
required to carry out the Project shall be appointed, and (iii) ar-
rangements shall be made to finance the required staff on a con-
tinuing basis.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall cause the various agencies
involved in carrying out the Project to prepare annual budgets
and work programs relating to the parts of the Project for which
each is responsible and submit them to the Project Manager for
his review not later than three months prior to the beginning of
each fiscal year, with copies being furnished to the Bank at the
same time.


﻿-9-
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority over
its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of for-
eign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of such
member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any public
assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any external
debt, which will or might result in a priority for the benefit of
the creditor of such external debt in the allocation, realization
or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall, unless the
Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost to the Bank,
equally and ratably secure the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in creating or per-
mitting the creation of such lien, shall make express provision
to that effect; provided, however, that, if for any constitutional
or other legal reason such provision cannot be made with respect
to any lien created on assets of any of its political or admini-
strative subdivisions, the Borrower shall promptly and at no cost
to the Bank secure the principal of, and interest and other charges
on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on other public assets satis-
factory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely


﻿- 10 -
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking trans-
actions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after
its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative subdi-
vision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or oper-
ating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such
subdivision.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with con-
sistently maintained sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carry-
ing out the Project or any part thereof.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall ensure that: (i) separate
accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of
income and expenses and related statements) are kept in respect
of the Project by the various implementing agencies; (ii) such
accounts and financial statements are collated by the Project
Director; (iii) such accounts and financial statements for each
fiscal year are audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by the Auditor General of the
Borrower; (iv) the following are furnished to the Bank as soon as
available, but in any case not later than nine months after the
end of each such year, (A) certified copies of such financial
statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such


﻿- 11 -
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (v) such other information
concerning such accounts and financial statements and the audit
thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request are
furnished to the Bank.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall ensure that the State of
Kelantan continues to collect charges for operation, maintenance
and recovery of capital costs of facilities constructed under
Parts B and D of the Project, said charges being maintained at an
appropriate level after taking into account the incentives to the
farmer, the capacity of farmers to pay and the other charges and
taxes paid by farmers.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall ensure that the roads con-
structed or improved under the Project are maintained and re-
paired in accordance with sound engineering and financial prac-
tices, and that funds, facilities, services and other resources
required therefor are provided, promptly as needed.


﻿- 12 -
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectivness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a) the employment, after exchanging views with the Bank,
of a suitably qualified and experienced Project Manager, in the
Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture;
(b) the appointment, after exchanging views with the Bank,
of a qualified Chief Extension Officer for the State of Kelantan;
and
(c) the establishment of a Steering Committee, including the
Secretary General of the Ministry of Agriculture and the State
Secretary of the State of Kelantan as co-chairmen, to guide the
Project Manager on policy matters related to the Project.
Section 5.02. The date October 14, 1976, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 13 -
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance or Deputy Minister
of Finance of the Borrower or such other person or persons as
authorized by the said Minister or Deputy Minister in writing are
designated as representatives of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Treasury
Kuala Lumpur 01-01
Malaysia
Cable address:
TREASURY
Kuala Lumpur
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.


﻿- 114-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
MALAYSIA
By /s/ Zain Azraai
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By Is/ Bernard R. Bell
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of ex-
penditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Civil Works                16,500,000         50%
(2) Equipment and vehi-         3,200,000
cles
(a) directly im-                             100% of foreign
ported                                  expenditures
(b) imported but                             65%
procured lo-
cally
(c) locally manu-                            95% of local ex-
factured                                penditures
(ex-factory)
(3) Studies                       200,000        100%
(4) Unallocated                 1,100,000
TOTAL      21,000,000
0


﻿- 16 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by,
or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in re-
spect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement.


﻿- 17 -
5.   Notwithstanding the aliocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Cate-
gory, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to
such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated short-
fall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to another
Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not needed to
meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation cannot
fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement per-
centage then applicable to such expenditures in order that fur-
ther withdrawals under such Category may continue until all ex-
penditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expen-
ditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or lim-
iting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan
Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the
Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is designed to improve the productivity and in-
comes of smallholder farmers throughout the North Kelantan region
through provision of improved irrigation and road facilities and
intensified agricultural supporting services and consists of:
A.   Construction of major flood control and drainage works to
serve about 30,000 hectares in and around the Lemal irriga-
tion areas;
B.   Construction of tertiary and quaternary irrigation and drain-
age networks and access roads to serve about 12,000 hectares
of padi within Lemal;
C.   Provision of required maintenance equipment for Parts A and
B of the Project;
D.   Construction of about 15 small irrigation schemes to serve
about 1,300 hectares of padi;
E. Construction of about 190 kilometers of roads of various
standards outside the Lemal area, and provision of equip-
ment and facilities for maintenance of State and village
roads;


﻿- 19 -
F.   Provision of facilities, equipment, and technical services
to complement a phased build-up of agricultural extension
field staff;
G.   Construction of 12 new Farmers Development Centres, expan-
sion of 13 existing Farmers Development Centres, and pro-
vision of required equipment, working capital and additional
storage facilities for such centres; and
H.   Carrying out of studies of the feasibility of rehabilitat-
ing and expanding existing State land development schemes,
and of the long-term properties of glass-reinforced poly-
ester flume irrigation conduits.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1980.


﻿20 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                             (expressed in dollars)*
October 1, 1981                                     245,000
AprIl 1, 1992                                       260,000
October 1, 1982                                     270,000
April 1, 1983                                       280,000
October 1, 1983                                     295,000
April 1, 1984                                       305,000
October 1, 1984                                     325,000
Aptil 1, 1985                                       335,000
October 1, 1985                                     350,000
April 1, 1986                                       365,000
October 1, 1986                                     380,000
April 1, 1987                                       4oo,000
October 1, 1987                                     415,000
April 1, 1988                                       435,000
October 1, 1988                                     455,000
April 1, 1989                                       470,000
October 1, 1989                                     495,000
April 1, 1990                                       520,000
October 1, 1990                                     540,000
April 1, 1991                                       560,000
October 1, 1991                                     590,000
April 1, 1992                                       615,000
October 1, 1992                                     640,000
April 1, 1993                                       670,000
October 1, 1993                                     700,000
April 1, 1994                                       730,000
October 1, 1994                                     765,000
April 1, 1995                                       795,000
October 1, 1995                                     835,000
April 1, 1996                                       865,000
October 1, 1996                                     910,000
April 1, 1997                                       945,000
October 1, 1997                                     990,000


﻿- 21 -
Payment of Principal
)ate Payment Due                             (expressed in dollars)
April 1, 1998                                     1,035,000
October 1, 1998                                   1,080,000
April 1, 1999                                     1,135,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 22 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums pay-
able on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                           Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                         1.15%
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                          2.30%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                          4.25%
More than eleven years but not
more than sixteen years
before maturity                          6.15%
More than sixteen years but
not more than nineteen
years before maturity                    7.30%
More than nineteen years but
not more than twenty-one
years before maturity                    8.10%
More than twenty-one years
before maturity                          8.85%


﻿-23 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Parts B and D hereof, contracts for
the purchase of goods or for civil works shall be procured in
accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in
Part A of the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans
and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in August 1975 (herein-
after called the Guidelines), on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Civil works other than for rural roads shall be procured
in accordance with the normal procedures of the Borrower after
advertisements have been published locally.
2.   The Borrower may procure items of equipment or vehicles
estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $10,000 each without
resort to international competition, provided that (a) such items
of equipment and vehicles are procured on a basis of reasonable
and competitive procurement procedures and (b) the total cost of
items of equipment and vehicles procured pursuant to this sub-
paragraph does not exceed a maximum amount of the equivalent of
$4oo,000.


﻿C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods except those to be procured in accordance with
local procedures: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods, or the ex-
factory price for domestically-manufactured goods; (ii) customs
duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales and
similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded;
and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other
expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the place of
their use or installation shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in Malaysia may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following pro-
visions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the infor-
mation required to establish the eligibility of a bid for such
preference and the following methods and stages that will be fol-
lowed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be clIssified
in one of the following three groups:


﻿- 25 -
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Ma-
laysia if the bidder shall have established to
the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank
that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes
a value added in Malaysia equal to at least 20%
of the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Malaysia.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes on
goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest evalu-
ated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then be
compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison,
a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this fur-
ther comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of cus-
toms duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in
such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such


﻿- 26 -
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
D.   Procurement Without Contracting
Quaternary canals, on-farm drains and small-scale irrigation
systems will be constructed by force account by the Borrower's
DID.
E.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of prequalification. The Borrower shall, before qual-
ification for civil works for rural roads is invited, inform the
Bank in detail of the procedure to be followed, and shall introduce
such modifications in said procedure as the Bank shall reasonably
request. The list of prequalified bidders, together with a state-
ment of their qualifications and of the reasons for the exclusion
of any applicant for prequalification shall be furnished by the
Borrower to the Bank for its comments before the applicants are
notified of the Borrower's decision, and the Borrower shall make
such additions to, deletions from, or modifications in, the said
list as the Bank shall reasonably request.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and fi-
nal contracts:


﻿- 27 -
With respect to all contracts for civil works estimated to
cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more, and for equipment esti-
mated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require
the Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, with-
out the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on which
bids were asked or prequalification invited.


﻿- 28 -
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
3.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its execu-
tion and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first applica-
tion for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of
such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together
with the analysis of the respective bids, recommendations for
award and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably re-
quest. The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the
contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such de-
termination.


