Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 9940
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EGYPT
FIFTH DEVELOPMENT INDUSTRIAL BANK PROJECT (DIB V)
(FINANCE AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TO SMALL AND
MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRIAL ENTERPRISES)
(LOAN 2074-EGT)
OCTOBER 3, 1991
Industry and Energy Operations Division
Country Department III
Europe, Middle East, and North Africa Regional. Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed witbout World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of June 1991)
1 Egyptian Pound (LE) = US$0.31
1 US Dollar (US$) = LE 3.23
ABBREVIATIONS
CBE     -    Central Bank of Egypt
DFC     -    Development Finance Company
DFI     -    Development Finance Institutions
DIB     -    Development Industrial Bank
IDA     -    International Development Ass)ciation
IDDC    -    Industrial Design and Development Center
ILO     -    International Labor Organization
OECD    -    Organization for Econ,omic Cooperation and Development
SIDD    -    Small Industry Development Department (of EIDDC)
SMI     -    Small and Medium Scale Industrial Enterprises
SSI     -    Small Scale Industrial Enterprises
USAID   -    U.S. Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEAR
DIB:  January 1 - December 31
Govt:  January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE oNLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Diractor-G.neral
Operatons Evaluation
October 3, 1991
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Egypt - Fifth Development
Industrial Bank Proiect (DIB V) (Loan 2074-EGT)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Egypt - Fifth Development Industrial Bank Project (DIB V)
(Loan 2074-EGT)" prepared by the EMENA Regional Office.  No audit of this
project has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
I    T   N M  M I   r   -'I   ,   ' n  -  >  bvi '   *                 'r



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EGYPT
FIFTH DEVELOPMENT INDUSTRIAL BANK PROJECT (DIB V)
(FINANCE AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TO SMALL AND
MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRIAL ENTERPRISES)
(LOAN 2074-ECT)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE ........................
EVALUATION SUMMARY  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .iii
PART I:  PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE . . .1
I. PROJECT IDENTITY .1
II. BACKGROUND .1
The Industrial Sector .         1
Cost of Capital in Egypt.                                        2
Bank's Involvement in the Industrial Sector  . . . . . . .    3
III.  PROJECT OBJECTIVES, DESCRIPTION AND LOAN FEATURES  . . . . .    3
Preparation, Appraisal and Negotiations  . . . . . . . . .    3
Objectives   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  4
Description.                                                     4
Loan Features.                                                   5
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION                     .5
Disbursements.                                                   5
Technical Assistance to SMIs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    6
V. PROJECT RESULTS.                                                    6
Financial Assistance to DIB  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    6
Subprojects Financed.                                            7
SSI Financing  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    9
Technical Assistance for SNIs  ... .  .     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    9
Technical Assistance to DIB .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    10
Interest Rate and Foreign Exchange Risk .  . . . . . . . .    11
Institutional Development .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    11
Resource Mobilization  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    13
Procedures . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    13
VI.  SUSTAINABILITY . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    14
VII.  BANK PERFORMANCE ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    14
VIII. PERFORMANCE OF CONSULTANTS.                                        14
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EGYPT
FIFTH DEVELOPMENT INDUSTRIAL BANK PROJECT (DIB V)
(FINANCE AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCr TO SMALL AND
MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRIAL ENIERPRISES)
(LOAN 2074-EGT)
PREFACE
This is a Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Fifth Development
Industrial Bank (DIB) Project, for which Loan 2074-EGT in the amount of
US$120 million was approved on December 12, 1981. The loan closed on
December 31, 1988, two years behind schedule, and an amount of US$1.9
million was cancelled.
In October 1986, the Netherlands Government approved a grant of
Dfl. 20 million (equivalent to US$9.1 million) to Egypt to be utilized as
incremental funds in an on-going World Bank-f4nanced project.  The Fifth DIB
Project (Loan 2074-EGT) was selected to rece ve these funds. The grant
funds were to be on-lent to DIB on the sar- terms and conditions as those of
the Bank Loan. An agreement appointing the World Bank as Administrator of
the Grant was signed with the Dutch Government on December 11, 1986, and a
Development Grant Agreement between the Arab Republic of Egypt and the Bank
was signed on December 15, 1986.
It should be noted that a PCR covering the previous two loans to DIB
(DIB III, Loan 1533-EGT and DIB IV, Loan 1804-EGT, which closed on
March 15, 1983 and June 30, 1985, respectively) was issued on June 16, 1988.
Under established Bank policy for repeat operations, such as DFC lines of
credit, the next full PCR is not due for five years from the date of the
last PCR, which in this case would be in FY93 after the closing of Loan
2458-EGT (DIB VI). Thus this PCR will focus only on the implementation of
the Fifth DIB project (Ln. 2074-EGT). A full analysis of the institutional
and financial aspects of DIB will not be attempted.
Parts I and III of this report were prepared by the Industry and
Energy Division, Country Department III, EMENA. Part II was prepared by
DIB, the Borrower, and the Industrial Design and Development Center (IDDC),
the Implementing Agency for the technical assistance component to SMIs.
The PCR was sent to the cofinancier (the Dutch Government) for com-
ments but none were received.



- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EGYPT
FIFIH DEVELOPMENT INDUSTRIAL BANK PROJECT (DIB V)
(FINANCE AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TO SMALL AND
1'ZDIUM SCALE INDUSTRIAL ENTERPRISES)
(LOAN 2074-EGT)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
1.    The objectives of this project (para. 3.02) were to further strengthen
the institutional capacity in Egypt for promoting and financing small and
madium-scale industrial enterprises (SMI) projects in the private industrial
sector, with special emphasis on small scale industrial enterprises (SSI),
as well as providing technical assistance to SMI. Towa:ds this end the
project was to: (i) assist the Development Industrial Bank (DIB) by meeting
a part of its foreign exchange requirements in 1982 and 1983 (para. 3.03
(a)) and through the provision of technical assistance and training of its
staff (para. 3.03 (c)); and (ii) support a comprehensive technical assis-
tance program aimed specifically at SMI (para. 3.03 (b)).
Implementation
2.    For the first four years of the project (until 1986), disbursements
were ahead of appraisal estimates (Table 3 and para. 4.01). Starting in
1987, there was a slowdown in disbursements which necessitated two exten-
sions of the last date for subloan applications and two extensions of the
closing date (para. 4.02). The Technical Assistance program for SMI suf-
fered delays of about 8 months (para. 4.03).
Results
3.    The project's main objectives of financial assistance to DIB
(paras. 5.01 & 5.07) and technical assistance to SMIs were met (paras. 5.14-
5.17). Technical assistance to DIB fell short of appraisal expectations
(para. 5.18). It should be noted, however, that though financing of SMIs
was adequate, DIB has a larger number of repeat clients in proportion to
firc* time applications. This may lead one to question whether DIB devoted
adequate attention to attracting new clients, in order to strengthen its
growth prospects.
4.    Various internal and external constraints have limited DIB's capacity
tc. improve its institutional capability to the extent envisaged at ap-
prsisal, (paras. 5.24-5.29). Much more effort is needed in the areas of
project appraisal and supervision if DIB is to maintain its role as a full
flede-d development bank (paras. 5.33-5.34). Training in these areas must
be diligently pursued.



- iv -
Sustainability
5.    Since its creation in 1976 there 8ias been a steady demand for DIB
financing, and DIB has become the paramount lender of private industrial
term loans in Egypt. It is expected that in the future it will continue to
maintain its role as the major lender to SMIs. The Bank through its sub-
sequent loans to DIB and its continuing dialogue with the authorities could
help remove the obstacles in regulations and in the financial environment
and assist DIB in further strengthening its organization. An evidence of
this is that under the sixth loan to DIB (2458-EGT) a restructuring of the
loan took place in order to make it more responsive to DIB needs and to the
sector as a whole. A closer review of DIB's operations is currently being
undertaken by Bank supervision missions (para. 6.01).
Lessons Learned
6     One of the problems faced by DIB during project implementation related
.o losses, that were guaranteed by the Government, on account of the cur-
rency porling system (para. 5.23). Since the Bank will not likely replace
or modify this system any time soon, a viable option might be for the
Government to carry the full risk for a fee and to the extent possil.e seek
to reinsure/hedge through forward coverage of exchange transactions. Under
Loan 2458-EGT this has been taken into account by adding a fee which was
originally 9 percent, and which was reduced in July 1989 to 6.35 percent, to
be retained by the Government to cover the foreign exchange and interest
rate risks to the final beneficiary. However, the Government still bears the
risk of the dollar with the cross currency rates in the "pool".
7.    Bank experience has shown that development finance institutions (DFIs)
that specialize in the long-term financing of investments are finding it a
risky business, both because of the high risk inherent in the investments
themselves and because such lending fluctuates considerably with the busi-
ness cycle. DIB's evolution is consistent with this general situation. It
has been found that DFIs regardless of their financial conditions, can
improve their profitability and incicease their resiliency over the business
cycle through diversification. DIB has not taken full advantage of other
areas in which it is allowed to lend and has not explored commer-
cial/merchant banking type of operations. A review of diversification
strategies could be beneficial for DIB and has been recommended by the Bank
to DIB for quite some time.
8.    To some extent DIB accepted the Bank's subproject approval as a signal
of subproject creditworthiness.  Since the Bank is not on the local scene,
the questions and the issues it raises are normally focused on sub-project
operations and the completeness of the DFI's appraisal. In that context, it
might be useful to explicitly state to DPIs that the Bank's approval of a
subproject does not mean that a judgement has been made as to the sub-
project's creditworthiness and prospects for success.
9.    Use of Bank loan funds to finance consulting services and training did
not prove to be practical as DIB considered that using loan money for
training is not the best use of resources due to the additional interest
cost. They prefer the use of grant money for this purpose and feel that the
Bank should make more effort to find ways of financing training from other



- v -
sources. At the same time, although DIB has received extensive technical
assistance through the services of consultants funded by USAID and EEC, it
has not been able to affectively absorb the TA and implement the recommenda-
tions of various sttiies.
10.   A large nurnb_r of subloans were f.Lnanced under this project.  Many
involved small payments (often below $25,000), the documentation for which
was time consu-.aing, and often caused delays in payment to suppliers. It
might, therefore, have been helpful to use the Statement of Expenditure
method and a Special Account for reimbursement of small subloans.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EGYPT
FIFTH DEVELOPMENT INDUSTRIAL BANK PROJECT (DIB V)
(FINANCE AND TECHNICAL ASSlSTANCE TO SMALL AND
MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRIAL ENTERPRISES)
(LOAN 2074-EGT)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
I. PROJECT IDENTITY
Project Name:   Fifth Development Industrial Bank Project (DIB V)
(Finance and Technical Assistance to Small and
Medium Scale Industrial Enterprises)
Loan No      :   Ln. 2074-EGT
RVP Unit    :   Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region,
Country Department III
Industry and Energy Division
Country      :   Egypt
Sector      :    Industry - (DFC)
II. BACKGROUND
The Industrial Sector
2.01      As a result of the nationalizations of the early 196Cs, industry in
Egypt is dominated by the public sector, consisting of some 180 industrial
public enterprises. Egypt's basic industries (iron and steel, aluminum,
fertilizer, cotton yarn, heavy engineering, cement) are almost all in the
public sector. The private sector is virtually synonymous with the small
and medium scale industrial sector, and the main areas c- private activity
are garments, food processing, leather products, cosmetics, wooden furni-
ture, and light engineering.
2.02       The Government has viewed its control of industry as an important
means of providing a broad range of subsidies to the population. For the
most part, industrial public enterprises have been sheltered from domestic
or external competition and have consequently been unresponsive to market
forces with respect to quality, efficiency or prices. The effect of the
public sector control and management system has been detrimental to the
development of the industrial sector and the economy.  A study undertaken by
the Bank in 1987 "Review of the Finances of the Decentralized Public Sector"
concluded that the industrial public enterprises, on aggregate, contributed
more to the overall government deficit and budgetary burden than any other
sector.



2
2.03      The Open Door Policy of the early 1970o marked the re-opening of
opportunities for the private sector in Egypt. This sector recorded steady
growth from 1974 to the early 1980s averaging an annual growth rate in
industrial output of 21 percent per year, compared to an increase of 15
percent per year for the public sector. Furthermore, its share in total
industrial investment grew substantially between 1974 and 1981 from 4
percent to 23 per.:ent. During the 1980s, however, the private industrial
sector fared less ;1. Its share in investment increased only slightly
from 23 percent in 1981 to 27 percent in 1987. The factors hindering
expansion over this decade were that many of the private industrial invest-
ments which had come on stream in 1982, suffered the consequences of macro-
economic distortionis and the sharp devaluation of the Egyptian pound which
made it difficult for them to service their foreign debt. Under these
circumstances, both investors and banks were more reluctant to undertake
medium and long-term investments, particularly in industry.
2.04      Since 1985 senior government officials, have begun publicly
speaking out to convince Egyptians of the importance of an increased role
for the private sector in industrial growth and development. Government
officials recognized that they do not have the resources to continue
dominating the industrial sector. The Second Five Year Plan (1986/87-
1991/92) expected industrial growth to increase by 9.4 percent per annum and
it gave the private sector the major role in the realization of growth
targets, accounting for 52 percent of planned total industrial investment.
2.05      To promote greater participation from the private sector, the
Government has undertaken to provide certain services and reforms. Am;.ng
these were the creation of new industrial cities and providing numerous
incentives to attract industries to these cities, devoting considerable
resources to the development of infrastructure, unifying the investment laws
to help reduce the bureaucratic obstacles to investments, and since May 1987
the Government has allowed private companies to have access to foreign
exchange through commercial banks.
2.06      More recently, the economic reform program being supported under
the Structural Adjustment Loan to Egypt, supports the initiation of reforms
in the public sector, including privatization. Specifically it aims at
encouraging and facilitating private enterprise development by abolishing
investment and production controls (limiting Government intervention in the
granting of specific investment incentives in justifiable cases), dis-
m&atling Government monopolies, and phasing out private sector discrimina-
tion in the purchase of inputs from public sector companies.
2.07      Given the Government's desire to pave the way for a larger private
sector role in the economy, the policy of the Bank at that time to continue
to support the Development Industrial Bank (DIB) with this loan and tech-
nical assistance program was justified. DIB, a public sector bank, provides
the bulk of '-restment financing to small scale industries and for develop-
ment of mediu- 4cale industries.
Cost of Capital In Egypt
2.08       Interest rates on deposits and loans in local currency for all
financial institutions were regulated by the Central Bank of Egypt (CBE)
until January 1991, when they were freed from CBE intervention to reflect



3
market rates. At the time of project appraisal, interest rates on loans
ranged from 13 to 15 percent depending on the sector.  From 1983 to 1988
interest rates on loans ranged from 13 to 16 percent and in 1989/1990 from
13 to 19 percent.
2.09      Interest rates on foreign exchange loans are not regulated by CBE
and reflect the cost of those resources. The interest rates on DIB's dollar
loans in 1981/82 were 12 to 14 percent (except on small scale indLstrial
enterprise (SSI) loans made by DIB from special funds). The interest free
compensatory daposits of around 20 percent of foreign currency loans
required by DIB from its borrowers increased the effective cost of these
loans to 15-17.  percent.  These rates, with the foreign exchange risk
between the US dollar an- the Egyptian pound borne by subborrowers, were in
line with the cost of long-term foreign currency funds available to Egyptian
borrowers rrom the international market.  Since then and until 1987, inter-
eet rates increased to 15 percent with compensatory interest bearing de-
posits of 10 percent, and another 10 percent as a penalty to complete
collection of collateral if necessary. This made the effective cost of
these loans to be about 15.25 percent. At the time of the effectiveness of
Loan 2458-EGT, the interest rates were between 20.09 percent and 20.26
percent, these rates were reduced in 1989 to 17.55 percent to reflect market
conditions. They are being reviewed again now to see what change is neces-
sary in the light of Government's new interest rate policy.
Bank's Involvement in tne Industrial Sector
2.10      Bank assistance to the private industrial sector is being provided
almost entirely through Development Finance Institutions (DFIs). The need
for the modernization of private industry is widespread and the scope for
economic development and expans.on of the sector is substantial. The loan
for which this Project Completion Report (PCR) is being prepared is the
fifth loan to DIB, and the sixth Development Finance Company (DFC) operation
in Egypt. It was preceded by two IDA credits, extended in 1973 and 1975
when DIB was still a part of the Bank of Alexandria, and two loans extended
in 1978 and 1980 after DIB was establish,d as an independent development
finance institution. Since then three more loans (one each for small and
medium scale industry, export development and development of construction
industry) were extended in 1984 to DFIs, two of which included DIB and one
included different participating banks. Table I provides a brief des_rip-
tion of these loans and credits.
III. PROJECT OBJECTIVES. DESCRIPTION, AND LOAN FEATURES
Preparation, Appraisal and Negotiations
3.01      The project was prepared in April 1981, appraised in June 1981 and
negotiated in Washington on October 26, 1981. During negotiations the main
issues raised related to the foreign exchange rate applicable to DIE, and
conclusion of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between DIB and the Government as
a condition of effectiveness (see Table 2, footnote 1).



4
Obiectives
3.02      The objective of the project was to strengthen the institutional
capacity in Egypt for promoting and financing of projects in the private
industrial sector, particularly Small Scale Tndustrial enterprises (SSIs),
as well as for providing technical assistance to Small and Medium Scale
Industrial enterprises (SMIs). The project aimed to support the development
of the private industrial sector by providing long term finance through DIB
and offering comprehensive technical assistance services aimed specifically
at SMIs. A parallel objective was to continue the Bank's institution
building effort with DIB through the provision of technical assistance for
training of DIB staff.
Description
3.03      The project consisted of three major components.
(a)   Financial assistance, in the form of a line-of-credit for
an amount of $118.5 million to DIB for onlending, to
cover about 65 percent of DIB's long-term foreign-cur-
rency resource needs during 1982 and 1983. The credit
line was to be utilized to finance the foreign exchange
needs of eligible enterprises - defined to include
projects in mining, manufacturing, processing and related
service activities, including construction industry and
tourism projects - to finance acquisition of fixed assets
and associated permanent working capital. The enter-
prises were to be exclusively in the private sector,
including all those formed under Law 43 even if they had
minority or majority participation from public sector
institutions.
(b)   A technical assistance program for SMIs, implemented by
the Small-Scale Industry Development Department (SIDD) of
the Industrial Design Development Center (IDDC) at a
foreign exchange cost of $1.0 million, to be onlent by
DIB to the Government (on the same terms as the Bank
Loan), who would in turn pass on the amount to IDDC as a
grant. The program was to start from July 1, 1982 and to
extend up to December 31, 1984. IDDC was to subcontract
with the International Labor Organization (ILO) for the
services of advisors. A pilot program was designed undr
DIB III to provide services to SSIs on a limited scale.
Under the present project it was expanded to include:
(i) technical extension services to SMIs provided by six
mobile teams of extension officers in Cairo and
Alexandria; (ii) financial and management services to
SMIs; (iii) training of SMI managers and owners; (iv)
establishment of a subcontracting exchange; and (v)
training of staff implementing the program.
(c)   A staff training and technical assistance program for
DIB, at a foreign exchange cost of $0.5 million, to
supplement the institutional development efforts begun
under the previous loans as well as from the U.S. Agency



5
for International Development (USAID) and Organization
for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) grants
since 1976. This program was to include: (i) assistance
in carrying out sector work, e.g., collection of market
data for important inidustrial subsectors; (ii) industry
studies such as investigation of problems common to
specific industrial groups; (iii) provision of on-the-job
training to DIE staff in specific aspects of project
appraisal, particularly market analysis and economic
evaluation; (iv) training of DIB staff in project ap-
praisal techniques in institutions abroad; and
(v) related office equipment and training aids.
Loan Features
3.04      The following were the main loan features.
A.  Onlending Rates and Foreign Exchange Risk.  The loan of $120
million was made to DIB at an interest rate of 11.6 percent per annum. Of
the proceeds of the loan, $118.5 million was to be onlent by DIB to sub-
borrowers at an interest rate of not less than 13 percent per annum.
Subloans wouli have maturities of up to 15 years, including grace periods of
up to three and a half years. As under the previous Bank loan to DIB, the
foreign exchange risk between the Egyptian pound and the Ue dollar was to be
borne by the subborrower, and that between the US dollar and currencies of
disbursement by the Government.
B. Free Limit. The free limit for subloans was set at
$1.0 million. It was expected that about 15-20 subprojects accounting for
about $60 million or 50 percent of the loan, would be over the free limit
and would be submitted to the Bank for prior review before DIB's approval.
In order to ensure that a large number of borrowers benefitted from the Bank
loan, the total amount which could be utilized by DIB for making subloans
exceeding $5.0 million each, was limited to $40 million (i.e., one-third of
the loan).
C.  Financial and Economic Rates of Return.  DIB was required to
calculate economic and financial rates of return for all subprojects pro-
posed for Bank financing, that required subloans exceeding $650,000 and for
all subprojects whose total costs exceeded LE 800,000. A minimum ERR of 12
percent and a minimum FRR equal to the interest rate applicable to the
foreign currency sub-loan (this was fixed at 15 percent) was required for
financing such subprojects.
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Disbursements
4.01      The final date for submission of subloans was originally
December 31, 1984 and the closing date December 31, 1986. Table 3 shows
that for the first four years of the project (until 1986), disbursements
were ahead of appraisal estimates. The main reason for this was that the
loans were disbursed according to the official fixed exchange rate of
LE 0.84 - $1 which was a much lower rate than that existing in the market.



6
On January 1, 1985 a new fund for foreign exchange was created. This fund,
which the Government decided to apply to foreign exchange loans in July
1986, applied an exchange rate of LE 1.25   $1 and continued to increase to
LE 2.10 - $1 in 1988. From 1987 onwards, there occurred a slowdown in
disbursements which necessitated two extensions each of the final date for
submission of subloans and ths closing date.
4.02      The first extension was to allow for the utilization of $5.2
million undisbursed, due to the higher exchange rate, delays in project
construction and machinery supply, resulting from complicated and sluggish
procedures which caused unanticipated slow-downs in the subprojects. In
addition to avail of the Dutch Grant offer (para. 5.03) subloans which were
being financed by the Bank loan, amounting to the dollar equivalent of the
grant (about $9.1 million) had to be shifted to the Dutch Grant account.
This implied that the Bank could accept an equivalent amount of new subloans
to utilize the full loan amount. For this to be feasible, the Bank reopened
the subloan approval period under this Loan, which had expired on
December 31, 1984, to June 30, 1987, and extended the loan closing date to
December 31, 1987. A second extension of each of the subloan submission
date to June 30, 1988 and the closing date to December 31, 1988 was required
due to the continued slowdown in economic activity in the country, which
affected DIB operations and slowed down the rate of commitment of Loan
funds; and the small size of many subprojects submitted which implied a
slower rate of commitment.
Technical Assistance to SMIs
4.03      This component was scheduled to be completed by December 31, 1984.
It was completed about 8 months late, mainly due to delays in the commence-
ment of the financial and management services components which were com-
pleted in March 1985 and August 1985, respectively.
V. PROJECT RESULTS
Financial Assistance to DIB
5.01      The credit line was in fact used for its intended purposes.  Of the
US$127.6 million (US$118.5 million approved under the loan and US$9.1
million under the Dutch Grant), US$126.2 million was used for financing
subprojects (para. 5.07) and US$1.4 million was cancelled.
5.02      The treatment of the Dutch Grant, however, caused various queries
from DIB, who felt that its disbursement could have been handled in a manner
more advantageous to them.
5.03      A principal condition of the Dutch Grant was that the funds had to
be disbursed by December 31, 1986. However, given the fact that the Grant
Agreement with the Dutch Government was signed only on December 11, 1986, no
on-going Bank project could have generated sufficient disbursement applica-
tions to cover the total grant in a 20-day period. Therefore, the direct
disbursement of the Dutch Grant was not considered a viable alternative.
The method that was adopted was the "disbursement substitution method",
whereby Dutch Grant funds would be substituted for Bank disbursements under
Loan 2074-EGT on a given date thus quickly utilizing the grant within the



7
specified time period, and making an equivalent amount available for ap-
proval of additional DIB subloans under the Bank loan.
5.04     DIB believed that the Bank treated the Dutch Grant as a repayment
of the loan, rather than as a substitution/replacement for recent Bank
disbursements under this loan, which would have been more beneficial to DIB.
The Bank indicated that either way would lead to the same result and that
the manner in which the Bank handled the Grant was consistent with the
substitution/replacement concept, as evidenced by the fact that commitments
for an amount equivalent to the Dutch Grant were reopened after being closed
for two years. Moreover, the Bank did not consider applying the Grant
against individual transactions that were already posted to the Loan Account
(as DIB had suggested), since this would have resulted in major administra-
tive complexities in adjusting individual historical transactions under the
Currency Pooling System. Furthermore, this method would not have resulted
in any difference in the principal outstanding, or in the amount to be
credited on the transaction date, because each individual transaction would
have had to be adjusted by a factor that would have reflected changes from
the date of the disbursement to the transaction date of December 31, 1986
and the total for all transactions would have had to be equal to the amount
of the Dutch Grant (US$9.1 million).
Subprojects Financed
5.05      The statistical information on which paras. 5.06 to 5.11 are based
is shown in Table 8.
5.06       The only change that took place during implementation of the
project was that DIB requested to be allowed to use the proceeds of the loan
for health services subprojects. Since the language of the loan agreement
was not very clear, and since a precedent for this type of lending had been
set under Loan 1533-EGT, the Bank agreed to continue this practice. The
Bank informed DIB that health services subprojects, up to 10 percent of the
loan amount, could be eligible for financing from the Loan proceeds, but
emphasized that this type of lending would not continue under the next loan
(Ln. 2458-EGT). A total of US$7.6 million was financed for such sub-
projects, amounting to about 6.5 percent of the credit line and to 6 percent
of the combined credit line and Dutch Grant.
5.07     A total of 630 subprojects were approved under the Bank Loan and
Dutch Grant, for a total of $126.2 million. Of these 33 subprojects were
above the free-limit (A-subprojects).  Three A-subprojects and 110 B-sub-
projects were later cancelled at the request of subborrowers.  The cancella-
tions were mainly due to the devaluation of the LE and the use of the new
exchange rate in determining the subborrowers' liability in LE (para. 4.01).
Thirty A-subprojects, amounting to US$71.7 million (57 percent of combined
credit line and Dutch Grant and 61 percent of the credit line) and 490
B-subprojects amounting to US$54.5 million were financed.  The number and
dollar amount of A-subprojects was higher than anticipated at appraisal
(para. 3.04 B) perhaps indicating DIB's desire to hold on to some of its
larger, better established clients. The average size of the A-subloans was
US$2.4 million. The largest subloan (US$6.7 million) was for a pharma-
ceutical project. The aggregate number of subloans exceeding US$5 million
were three, totalling US$17 million, well below the US$40 million spelled
out in the loan agreement. The average size of the B-subloans was



8
US$111,730. About 54 percent of the B subloans financed were under
US$50,000.
5.08      Subproiect Performance.  Implementation periods for subprojects was
long (an average of 21 months for A-subprojects and 8 months for B-subproj-
ects), by comparison with DIB's experience with similar projects under
earlier loans. This was a result of the unusually long period needed for
start-up ano for completing the construction and infrastructure. Currently,
industrial estates are being set up by Government in various industrial
cities to shorten the construction period of the smaller projects. Costs
were about 8 percent higher than appraisal estimates, mainly due to imple-
mentation delays and changes in the exchange rate that occurred from the
time of preparing the study to the time of contract signing. Actual ERRs
and FRRs were for the most part satisfactory. For the A-subprojects, ERRs
ranged from 9 to 40 percent, with only two subprojects being below the
covenanted 12 percent. For B-subprojects, ERRs ranged from 14 to 49 per-
cent. FRRs ranged from 9 to 47 percent for A-subprojects, with 7 projects
below 15 percent and B-subprojects had FRRs ranging from 11 to 39 percent,
with 3 subprojects below 15 percent. The investments under the Loan created
12,601 jobs at an average cost of LE 31,600 per job. This would indicate
that the investments (especially the A-subprojects) were quite capital
intensive by comparison to the costs under the previous loans. As of
December 1990, Arrears (principal and interest) for subprojects under this
Loan amounted to LE 16.1 million, about 13 percent of total arrears for DIB.
5.09      Location.  The largest number of the subprojects (47 percent) were
located in Cairo and accounted for 19.7 percen. of the loan amount. These
consisted mainly of small subloans to a large number of doctors' clinics.
The largest percentage of the financing (25.1 percent) was for 21 projects
located in the 10th of Ramadan industrial city, on the outskirts of Cairo,
mostly for the larger A-subprojects.
5.10      Type.  Fifty percent of the subprojects were for expansion, 44
percent for new projects, 4 percent for modernization and 0.8 percent for
replacement of old machinery. The large number of expansion projects is
explained by the fact that in these cases the client's credibility with DIB
i-> already established, and by the lack of entrepreneurs willing to invest
in new industrial projects.
5.11      Sectors.  The textile sector received the largest portion of
financing (23.6 percent), followed by metals (15.1 percent) and chemicals,
construction and food processing sectors (12.5 percent each). Tourism
received only a modest 2.6 percent, partly because DIB noticed that there
was excess capacity in the five star hotels already in existence and decided
to limit its financing of such ventures. There was no lending to the mining
sector.



9
SSI Financing
5.12       The percentage of SSI loans in total DIB term loans since 1982 was
as follows:
As of 6/30      1982  1983  1984  1985  1986  1987   1988   1989   1990
Actual           46%   35%   44%   40%   19%   28%    35%    33%   43.8%
Up to 1985, with the Bank's urging, there had been a gradual increase of
lending. A drop occurred in 1986 mainly due to the increase in the exchange
rate effective January 1, 1985. Furthermore, in that year there was a
shortage of funds as Loan 2074-EGT was mostly committed as were other credit
lines from EIB.
Technical Assistance for SMIs
5.13       Of the $1.0 million allocated under this component (para. 3.03 b),
$0.997 million was disbursed and the balance cancelled. The Government to
date, has not repaid DIB the local currency equivalent of this component,
amounting to about LE 1.9 million under Loan 2074-EGT and LE 0.21 million
under 1533-EGT. This is causing problems under the on-going Loan 2458-EGT,
as DIB is withholding the 0.40 percent interest surcharge on its subloans
that was oarmarked for IDDC until the previous obligations on the part of
the Government are settled.
5.14       The program made satisfactory progress.  The expatriate advisor
for technical extension services arrived in September 1982 and played an
effective role in the selection and training of extension officers. Six
teams of extension officers were established. The number of SMI units
contacted by extension teams increased from 39 to 65 per month and the
target of 600 units per year was reached in 1984. Seven training courses
for owners/employees of SMI establishments were held with a high degree of
participant response. Among the areas in which training took place were
financial management with emphasis on product costing and cost analysis,
basic financial accounting for small scale industries, production manage-
ment, basic marketing management and project feasibility study preparation
and evaluation. The number of training courses as well as course hours
exceeded the projected level. The overseas training of IDDC staff and about
8 extension service staff was also carried out. The advisor for financial
and management services arrived in September 1983 for a two-year term, and
the advisor for sub-contracting joined in September 1984.
5.15      IDDC was required to evaluate the results of services provided
under various components of the program on a sample basis, following agreed
upon criteria. The first such exercise, relating to technical extension
services, was completed in April 1984. It showed that 32 enterprises out of
a sample of 84 had already obtained positive results, and another 30 had a
potential for improvement in their performance. A review of selected IDDC
client files and discussions with a few of the assisted enterprises by the
Bank staff during the Appraisal of Loan 2458-EGT, indicated that advice and
assistance offered by extension service teams was practical and appropriate,
and the enterprises were pleased with the services. Also, the number of
enterprises seeking IDDC's assistance on their own initiative was in-



10
creasing, and about 40 percent of the team visits were in response to such
initiatives.
5.16      Shortcomings in the implementation of the program were noticed in
two areas: (i) the Federation of Egyptian Industry has not been very
effective in disseminating information to its SMI members about the acti-i-
ties undertaken under the TA program despite the protocol of cooperation
with IDDC; and (ii) while the extension service has been highly appreciated
by its SMI clients for its practical, on-the-spot trouble-shooting approach,
it has yet to result in use of more modern technology and production methods
by the SMI clients.
5.17      Unfortunately Phase III of this component under Loan 2458-EGT has
not made progress so far, mainly as a result of start-up delays due to
delays in signing and effectiveness of the Loan, which were beyond IDDC's
control, and lack of local currency resources being made available to IDDC.
Phase III aimed to increase the number of extension teams, increase regional
coverage, continue financial, management and training services and stream-
line the operations of the subcontracting exchange. The Bank understands
that the local budget allocation is now available and a revised program
prepared by a consultant should be sent to the Bank shortly for review.
Hopefully the program can be restarted soon.
Technical Assistance to DIB
5.18      DIB did not draw upon the funds earmarked for this component since
grant funds were forthcoming from EEC and USAID. These grant funds were
used for training of DIB staff both locally and abroad (mainly in appraisal
procedures), various consultant studies related to appraisal techniques and
the administration of DIB, and the purchase of office supplies and computer
hardware and software.
5.19      One of the major studies conducted was that by Price Waterhouse
(1981-1985) who prepared an elaborate review on all aspects of DIB manage-
ment, organization and procedures. All departments and offices of DIB were
reviewed and some 286 recommendations were made covering organizational
structure; staffing, computerization of statistical, accounting and manage-
ment information; improvement in office facilities; and internal controls
and marketing strategy. DIB implemented certain recommendations
(para. 5.28).
5.20      EEC financed an expert who spent two years, April 1984 to April
1986 at DIB. He worked alongside the appraisal and supervision staff of DIB
on some 34 DIB financed companies.
5.21      Though DIB found the training and the technical assistance offered
to have some benefits, the current level of its appraisal and follow-up
capabilities indicate that much more needs to be done in this area. This
matter was discussed with DIB management on several occasions but without
reaching concrete results. Training is being given urgent attention under
Loan 2458-EGT.



11
Interest Rate and Foreign Exchange Risk
5.22      Interese Rate.  During implementation, DIB expressed its wish to
transfer the whole Loan from the Bank's fixed interest rate system to the
Bank's variable rate system, and stated that if this were not possible for
past disbursements, then it wished that the variable system be applied to
the undisbursed balance of the Loan. The reason was that at the time the
request was made (in 1987) DIB was paying an interest rate of 11.6 percent,
the highest interest rate ever charged by the Bank, on the said Loan while
the Bank's variable rate, which changed every six months, was around 8
percent. The Bank pointed out to DIB that when this loan was approved in
1981, interest rates were at an all time high, and the 11.6 percent interest
on the loan to DIB was based on the Bank's cost of borrowings at that time.
The continued rise in interest rates in the early 1980s, which threatened
the Bank's ability to earn adequate net income and to continue to mobilize
resources at a reasonable cost, led the Bank to move to a variable interest
rate system in 1982. Since the Bank was not in a position to reduce the
cost of its borrowings which were made at the time that this Loan (and
others) was approved, any reduction in the interest rate would result in a
reduction in the Bank's own net income. DIB's request was therefore de-
clined.
5.23      Foreign Exchange Risk.  DIB indicated that the split foreign
exchange risk treatment under which the clients of DIB carry the risk
between the Egyptian Pound and the US dollar, while the Government carries
the exchange risk between the US dollar and the currency/currencies in which
debt service payments have to be made to the Bank, created problems for all
parties concerned. For DIB's clients, the problems were the result of the
devaluation of the Egyptian pound, and for DIB the result of the devaluation
of the US dollar in the currency pool. In 1986 and 1987 (when this problem
was first brought to the attention of the Bank) losses, which the Government
was supposed to bear, on account of the currency pooling system were about
LE 6 million. The Government was not able to cover these losses because of
budget constraints. Since DIB, as the borrower, was making payments on
account of these losses without timely recovery from the Government, by
either reducing its liquid resources or by borrowing from other institu-
tions, this adversely affected its financial performance. Finally, in FY91,
DIB received LE 33 million (the amount of accumulated losses through
March 31, 1989 due to changes in the exchange rate between the US dollar and
the currency pool) from the Ministry of National Economy. In March 1991 an
additional LE 9.7 million was received from the Government to cover losses
through May 31, 1990. Currently the outstanding balance due from the
Government (till April 25, 1991) is LE 9.5 million, which DIB expects to
receive by end June 1991.
Institutional Development
5.24      Various internal and external constraints have limited DIB's
capacity to improve its institutional capability to the extent envisaged at
appraisal. This is in spite of the extensive technical assistance provided
by USAID and EEC (paras. 5.19 to 5.20). The major constraints have been:
(i) the need for DIB to operate as a public-sector financial institution,
whereby salary scales make it difficult to recruit and retain qualified
staff at all levels; (ii) delays associated with Government budgetary
allocations to reimburse DIB for foreign exchange losses under the Loan;



12
(iii) tax treatment of provisioning which serves as a disincentive to
provide adequately for bad debts; (iv) lack of adequate training; and
(v) lack of coordination between the various departments of DIB.
5.25       DIB's institutional building efforts during most of the imple-
mentation period of this project were in part hampered by the fact that
under existing regulations, CBE is authorized to approve DIB's budget,
annual report, organization and salary structure. The.e constraints
adversely affected DIB in that organizational changes became difficult to
implement. Furthermore, as a public-sector bank, DIB's salaries were
regulated and not competitive with private sector banks. These factors
caused it to steadily lose its professional staff. The Bank on a number of
occasions pointed out the adverse impact of these restrictions to the
Government. Finally, the Government and CBE in 1985 allowed DIB to increase
salaries by raising the annual bonus from two to six months, and in 1986
authorized DIB to introduce changes in its organization as and when re-
quired. It is not clear whether these measures helped sufficiently to
contain staff loss.
5.26      During 1984-85, the Chairman and Deputy Chairman of DIB had retired
and another 4-5 middle level managers retired/resigned from DIB. A new
Chairman, the ex-Minister of Industry, was appointed in June 1984. He took
several measures for the institutional strengthening of DIB including the
filling of all middle management vacancies by internal promotions, the
appointment of additional staff, and the reorgani-tion and expansion of the
supervision department.
5.27      In 1988 DIB established two new departments, one for Rehabilitation
of Defaulting Clients and the other for Investment and Marketing. The
usefulness of these departments, however, needs to be enhanced through
proper training of their staff. Furthermore, there should be more communi-
cation and interchange of ideas between these departments and between them
and the branches.
5.28      Some of the recommendations of the Price Waterhouse study
(para. 5.19) were implemented. The most important of these were: (i) DIB
expanded its office space in 1987 by acquiring the top three floors of the
building where it currently exists, and bought an additional floor in a
separate building to house its Research and Training Departments; (ii) in-
creased its branches from 3 to 6 (another three are currently being estab-
lished); (iii) improved its library facilities; and (iv) acquired computer
hardware and software as well as office equipment.
5.29      DIB's total staff increased from a total of 437 in 1982 to 529 in
1988 and 659 in 1990. An area of weakness however is that for each depart-
ment in DIB, there are 3 to 6 layers of management and reporting levels, an
indication that there could be scope for making DIB a leaner organization.
These management layers tend to complicate timely decision-making and
internal coordination, and may be an outcome of promotions linked primarily
to tenure, and promotions being the only vehicle to increase remuneration.



13
Resource M-bilization
5.30      Nearly all the resources of DIB derive from official international
and domestic sources. DIB had received US$831.2 million as of December 31,
1990 from international and bilateral lending agencies (Table 7), of which
US$416 million (about 50 percent) was from World Bank loans and IDA Credits.
This dependence on World Bank and concessional aid funds is excessive. The
project covered about 60 percent of DIB's foreign currency resource needs in
1982 and 1983 compared with 65 percent estimated at appraisal.
5.31      In addition, as of December 31, 1990, DIB had borrowed LE 416
million from the CBE and the commercial banks and received LE 50.16 million
deposits from clients.
5.32      DIB has made little effort in tapping local savings such as by
offering medium term certificates of deposits or bonds to the public.
Similarly, DIB has made no effort to borrow term loans from the private
international markets, partly because it and its borrowers are reluctant to
assume the associated foreign exchange risk. To ensure sufficient resources
for future operations, DIB should, without delay, begin to devise practical
ways to raise money especially local currency resources, as this has become
a major issue at present due to recent increases in costs of funds (CBE has
raised its rate to DIB for local currency from 10.5 percent to 20 percent,
thereby necessitating an adjustment in DIB's lending rate) and the credit
limitations placed on DIB by the Central Bank. This problem is further
aggravated by high arrears and a low collection rate.
Procedures
5.33      Appraisal.  There has been modest improvement in DIB's project
appraisal work as a result of internal training courses conducted by ad-
visors for appraisal staff and attendance at courses conducted by various
institutions, including EDI. However, there is scope for further improve-
ment in economic and market evaluation of projects. More stringent criteria
should be instituted for project selection and capitalization to provide
sufficient financial resources for the implementation period. The feasi-
bility studies of subprojects are often not of the expected quality mainly
due to loss of experienced officers, and lack of coordination by staff from
various departments involved in preparing the study. The number of staff in
DIB's Long Term Credit Department increased only from 12 professional staff
in December 1985 to 15 at present.
5.34      Supervision.  Project supervision is essentially focussed on the
financial aspects and is still inadequate. DIB lacks an organized project
supervision system and adequate technical staff to provide systematic
project-oriented follow-up assistance. The large number of loans in DIB's
portfolio (about 5,000 by end 1988) makes periodic contact with all bor-
rowers difficult. An encouraging sign, however, is DIB's establishment of
the Rehabilitation of Defaulting Clients unit in 1988. The number of
professional staff in DIB's follow-up department increased from 11 pro-
fessionals in December 1985 to 20 at present.



14
VI. SUSTAINABILITY
6.01      Since its creation in 1976 there has been a steady demand for DIB
financing, and DIB has become the paramount lender of private industrial
term loans in Egypt. It is expected that in the future it will continue to
maintain its role as the major lender to SMIs. The Bank through its sub-
sequent loans to DIB and its continuing dialogue with the authorities could
help remove the obstacles in regulations and in the financial environment
and assist DIB in further strengthening its organization. An evidence of
this is that under the sixth loan to DIB (2458-EGT) a restructuring of the
loan took place in order to make it more responsive to DIB needs and to the
sector vs a whole. A closer review of DIB's operations is currently being
undertaKen by Bank supervision missions.
VII. BANK PERFORMANCE
7.01      The Bank's performance during identification, preparation and
appraisal was satisfactory. However, supervision by the Bank was less than
adequate during certain periods (Table 6). From Loan effectiveness (June
1982) to January 1984, only a brief one-week mission took place; and from
January 1984 to February 1986 only two brief (one-week each) missions
occurred. However, the Bank's intimate knowledge (through previous loans
and credits) of DIB since its inception partly made up for the decreased
supervision effort. It should also be noted, that although the Bank has
made many recommendations for improving DIB's performance, it has not been
persistent enough in requiring implementation of agreed recommendations.
VIII. PERFORMANCE OF CONSUTANTS
8.01      Performance of consultants under the technical assistance program
for SMIs was satisfactory.



15
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWERS' PERSPECTIVE
A.  PREPARED BY DEVELOPMENT INDUSTRIAL BANK (DIB)
(May 8, 1991)
1.       We have reviewed the draft PCR for Loan 2074-EGT.  Part I expressed
the project objectives and achievements very satisfactorily, and the infor-
mation in Part III was accurate.
2.        DIB financed from the credit line, 490 B-subprojects and 30 A-
subpro,ects.
3.        This line of credit had the following positive impact on the
economy:
|   *  It helped develop new industrial communities such as the Tenth of
Ramadan City through financing projects located in them.
*     It financed a number of physicians and hospitals.  This improved
this service, however this advantage is no longer available under
loan 2458-EGT.
4.        Problems.  The most important problem which faced this line of
credit is the variable exch,.nge rate between US$ and L.E. This problem
appeared after January 5, 1985 when the exchange rate began to increase
(from L.E. .84 - US$1 and continued until it reached L.E. 2.10 = US$1).
5. Lessons Learned
Interest charged to DIB was 11.6 -ercent which was higher than
market rates at that time. It is therefore better to use floating
rates cf interest. The fl ating rate was applied under loan
2458-E';T.
*     PooJ.".ng system exposure on DIB and Egyptian Government was very
high. It is recommended to check this system to reflect the actual
cost of borrowing.
Variable exchange rate has been applied in the loan 2458-EGT.
It would have been useful if working capital had been financed
under Loan 2074. This kind of financing is happening under 2458-
EGT.
*     It is recommended that in the future the Revolving Fund method of
payment be used: (i) to facilitate administrative procedures for
smaller payments; ard (ii) to avoid sharp differences in exchange
rates between currencies of LCs and the US$.



16
Institutional Development
6.        From the period 1984-1986 an advisor from EEC, worked with DIB for
2 years. He made the following recommendations which DIB agreed to and
implemented:
(a) Regarding Long Term Lending Department
*    Supporting the Department with credit experienced staff.
*   Determining the executive task of long-term lending department.
*   Preparing an application form for the pre-feasibility study.
(b)  Regarding Follow Up Department
*   Establishing Project Rehabilitation Section.
*   Loan contract with client should include a provision insuring that
the client will provide the follow up department with data and
information required.
(c) Regarding the Engineering Department
A person from the Engineering Department should attend tenders
choosing the machinery to be financed through DIB.
-    The Engineering Department should arrange the files or the clients,
to facilitate any information feedback.
7.        Price Waterhouse Study.  This study reviewed management and
organization of DIB. The most important results were:
Increasing DIB branches from 3 to 6, and another three will be
established shortly.
Improving DIB's library.
Improving working environment (air conditioners, computers, and
telephone communications).
8.        DIB has expanded its office space.
Acquired the three additional floors in the building on El Galaa
street.
Bought a new building (in 1986) in Emad El Din street to accom-
modate some departments such as Research and Training
Center.



17
B. Prepared By Industrial Design Development Center (IDDC)
(May 8, 1991)
In conclusion, Phase II of the Technical Assistance Program (TAP)
to SMIs has achieved the planned results and was successful. The PCR gives
an accurate description of the results. The following are some of the
targets achieved by the Program.
A. The TAP has realized the plarned target with respect to:
1. Technical extension services
2. Management Services group
3. Training of SMI staff and SMI enterprises
4. Short-term consultancy
5. Subcontracting Services
6. Technical information and technical extension
B. Furthermore, under the classified IDDC's of TAP:
1. 33% DIB clients
2. 672 others
3. Industry classification:
49% metal & engineering industry
14% textile & garment
10% plastic & rubber
9% food mfg
4% wooden products
3% leather products
3% electrical & electronic
2% chemical products
2% glass products
2% construction
2% handicraft
C. Geographical area
65% Cairo
21% Alexandria
10% Giza
4% others
D. Types of services
36% Marketing services
25% Process improvement and upgrading
15% Financial management and control
13% Geat treatment
4% Spare-parts mfg.
4% Product design
2% Layout planning
1% Feasibility studies
** The cost of TAP phase II from DIB & IDDC (local cost) were received.



18
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1. Related Bank Loans and/or Credits
Project    : Bank of Alexandria Project - (First DIB). Cr. 412-EGT
: Second Bank of Alexandria Prolect (Second DIB). Cr. 576-EGT
FY         s  1973 and 1976
Status     : Combined PPAR Jure, 1983
Purpose    : The two credits were the first Bank Group opezations in Egypt
in support of industrial deve >pment.  They aimed at (a)
building up an institutional capacity for term financing in
the country to cater mainly to the needs of the private sec-
tor; (b) increasing the access of small industry to institu-
tional financing; and (c) the development of a sound financial
institution that would facilitate the mobilization of re-
sources, particularly foreign. A wider sector objective was
to bring the cost of borrowing then prevailing in Egypt closer
to international levels.
Proiect    : Third Development Finance Company (Third DIB) - Ln. 1533-EGT
Development Finance Company (Fourth DIB) - Ln. 1804-EGT
FY         :  1978 and 1980
Status     : Combined PCR issued June, 1988.
Purpose    : The objectives of these two loans built on the results of the
first two IDA credits. Accordingly, the loans continued to
support Government policy of encouraging private sector es-
pecially its smaller segments. The loans were: (a) to provide
over four years (1978-1988) a part of DIB's long-term foreign
exchange resources for industrial projects in the private
sector and to a lesser extent, to export oriented projects in
the public sector; (b) assist in the strengthening of the
management and organization, project appraisal and investment
supervision procedures of DIB; and (c) promote an appropriate
unit (IDDC) within Government to raise SSI productivity and
efficiency through provision of managerial and technical
assistance, training and business information.
Project   :  Misr Iran Development Bank - Loan 1842-EGT
FY        :   1980
Status    :  PCR issued May, 1990
Purpose   :   (a) To continue to expand the Bank's support to the building
of an institutional capacity to provide financial and other
support to the private industrial sector; and (b) to help MIDB
fulfill its role of promoting/financing medium and larger
scale private sector industrial project with special emphasis
upon the construction and capital goods manufacturing indus-
tries, as well as export-oriented industries.



19
Prolect   :  Small and Medium Scale Industry  - Ln. 2458-EGT
FY        :   1984
Status    :  Under Supervision
Purpose   :   (a) Assistance to DIB to help it provide foreign exchange for
industrial investments, with spec4al emphasis on SSIs;
(b) financing the foreign exchange cost of continuing the
technical assistance program of the Industrial Design Develop-
ment Center (IDDC) to SSIs, begun under Loan 1533-EGT and
expanded under loan 2074-EGT.
Proiect   :  Export Promotion - Ln. 2459-EGT
FY        :   1984
Status    :  Under Supervision
Purpose       To help reform policies related to and institutions involved
in manufactured exports by financing efficient export-oriented
investments ir. the public and private sectors througb several
participating banks; strengthening the newly established
Export Development Bank; restructuring the Export Promotion
Center; providing technical assistance to exporters and
financing specific studies of export polices and procedures to
determine what further actions are necessary to further im-
prove the policy and institutional environment.
Prolect       Construction Industries - Ln. 2460-EGT
FY        :   1984
Status    :  Under Supervision
Purpose   :   (a) improve the efficiency and capacity of the construction
industry (construction contractors, building materials manu-
facturers, equipment leasing companies) in Egypt through
financial and technical assistance and institutional and
policy reforms; and (b) strengther. the capabilities Bank Misr
in appraising and supervising sub-projects in the construction
sector.



20
Table 2. Proiect Timetable
Ln. 2074-EGT
Original          Actual
Preparation                                   04/22/81
Appraisal                                     06/10/81
Negotiations L                               10/26/81
Board Approval                                12/22/81
Loan Signing                                  01/12/82
Loan Effectiveness            05/12/82        06/14/82
Subloan submission             12/31/84   (i) 06/30/87
(ii) 06/30/88
Loan Closing                  12/31/86   (i) 12/31/87
(ii) 12/31/88
Lj During negotiations the main issues raised related to:
(a) Foreign Exchange Rate Applicable to DIB: After appraisal a new
commercial bank rate was established (August 1981) which was
depreciated relative to the Central Bank and the "own exchange"
(market) rates. Bank understood that DIB's transactions would
continue at the Central Bank rate, and thus during negotiations
the issue of DIB's subsidizing foreign exchange users was
raised. The Government was, at that time, discussing various
topics, including exchange rates, with the IMF, in the context
of a Standby Agreement. The Bank thus felt it was unadvisable to
raise this issue in the context of this project.
(b) Subsidiary Loan Agreement as a Condition of Effectiveness:
Under the Technical Assistance Program to SMI (para 3.30 b) $1
million would be onlent by DIB to the Government who would in
turn pass on the amount to IDDC as a grant. Because of the
substantial delays in the pilot program under DIB III in part
because of delays in onlending funds, the Bank felt that
conclusion of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the DIB and
the Ministry of Industry should be a condition of effectiveness.
The delegation argued during negotiations, that there would
probably be a delay in the signing of such an agreement due to
the political uncertainties at the time and the possibility of a
cabinet change. They asked that the condition of effectiveness
be replaced by a dated covenant (June 1982). Bank agreed.



21
Table 3. Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(In US$ million)
Ln 2074-EGT
As of June 30             1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989
Appraisal Estimate        7.80   42.60   82.20  106.20  120.00  120.00  120.00
Disbursement Profile    2.36   14.17   40.15   80.31  103.93  118.10          -
Actual                  23.06   65.12   94.40  111.94  109.38  113.47  118.10
Last Disbursement:       June 30, 1989.
Cancellations     :      An amount of US$1.9 million was cancelled (of which
US$1.8 million as of December 31, 1988, and US$0.1
as of June 30, 1989).
Table 4. Proiect Financing
(in US$)
Appraisal Est.    Actual          Cancelled
Credit Line to DIB               118,500,000   117,102,076.75   1,397,923.25
Technical Assistance to SMI        1,000,000        997,529.35         2,470.65
Technical Assistance to DIB          500,000              -          500,000.00
Dutch Grant                          -            9.124,087.59           -
120,000.000   127,223,693.69   1.900.393.90
Table 5. Staff Inputs
(in Staffweeks)
Preparation         19.0
Appraisal           19.1
Negotiations         4.2
Supervision         35.0
PCR                  4.0
81.3



22
Table 6. Mission Data
Days in   No. of      Status   Types of
Month/Year   Field      Persons    Rating   Problems
Identification              02/81         7         1
Preappraisal                04/81        15         3
Appraisal                   06/81        15         2
Supervision I               01/84 /I    15          3           2           M
Supervision II              02/86 /1    10          3           2           M
Supervision III /2          09/87        10         5           2           2
Supervision IV  /2          10/88        11         1           2           2
Li      From Effectiveness (June 1982) to January 1984 only 1 brief mission
(1-week, 1-staff) took place in October 1982 along with preparation
of the Construction Industry project; and from January 1984 to
February 1986 two brief (1-week, 1-staff) missions occurred in
October 1984 and October 1985 both combined with other projects.
12      Supervised with Ln. 1842-EGT, 2458-EGT and 2459-EGT



23
Table 7. Status of Foreign Funds
As of December 31, 1990
Comrit-   Disburse-
Funds                       Amount        Status   Approvals    ments         ments
----         ------.. -----    -----  ......... ......... .
-------         -       US$1000
IDA I                          14,700     CLosed
IDA 11                         25,000
World Bank 1533                40,000
World Bank 1804                50,000
World Bank 2074               118,099
Dutch Grant                     9,124
Agro Industrial 1988            9,300
Agro Industrial 2243           18,700
Wort Bank 2458                168,496    Ongoing      59,100      49,300      35,300
USAID K-35                     30,200        I
USAID K-52                      5,000
USAID K-54                      5,000
USAID K-55                      5,000
USAID 263/147                   4,000
USAID 263/201                   1,000
Afr. Dev. Bank 77/300           6,800
Afr. Dev. Bank 80/5            13,400
Afr. Dev. Bank 81/7            11,900
Afr. Dev. Bank 84/11           71,400        "
EIS I                          18,900
EIB for Capital Risk            3,800
EIB II                         31,500
OPEC                            8,750
Swiss Mixed Loan                3,500
KfW Loan 81-65-607             29,500
KfW Loan 86-65-81              13,000
KfW 87-66-107                  16,000    Ongoing
KfW 89-65-543                  36,100    Ongoing
Islamic Dev. Bank              13,000    Ongoing
Saudi Monetary Fund            50,000    Ongoing         800         8oo         800
831,169



24
Table S.  Summary of Subprojects Financed
A -SUBPROJECTS               I         B-SUBPROJECTS                 !                 TOTAL
----------------- --------------  !  --------------------------- -- !------ ------------------
No. of  % of          USS   % of   !  No. of % Of             USS   % of   !  No. of % of             USS
Subpr.  Total       Mill.  Total        Subpr.  Total       MiLl.  Total   I Subpr.  Total          Mill.
--------------    -------------   - !----- --------    --------------!  --------------    -------
LOCATION
Cairo                   1    3.3%        0.4    0.6%          244   49.8%       24.5   44.8%  !       245   47.1%       24.8
10th Ramadan            9   30.0%       25.4   35.4%  !        12    2.4%        6.2   11.4%  !        21    4.0%       31.6
6th Oct.                1    3.3%        2.3    3.2%            1    0.2%        0.7    1.3%            2    0.4%        3.0
ALex                    6   20.0%        15.6   21.8%  !       55   11.2%        6.0   11.0%  !        61   11.7%       21.6
Katubeya                4   13.3%        9.4   13.1%  I        14    2.9%        2.6    4.8%           18    3.5%       12.0
Luxor                   1    3.3%        0.9    1.3%  !         2    0.4%        0.9    1.7%  !         3    0.6%        1.8
Giza                    2    6.7%        2.4    3.3%  !        63   12.9%        4.2    7.7%  !        65   12.5%        6.6
Ismailia                1    3.3%        3.5    4.9%  I         3    0.6%        0.2    0.4%  !         4    0.8%        3.7
Gharbeya                2    6.7%        4.3    6.0%  !        15    3.1%        1.5    2.8%  !        17    3.3%        5.8
Dakahleya               1    3.3%         1.6    2.2%  !        7    1.4%        0.4    0.8%            8    1.5%        2.0
Port Said               1    3.3%        5.3    7.4%            3    0.6%        0.2    0.4%  !         4    0.8%        5.5
sinai                   1    3.3%        0.6    0.8%            -    0.0%           -    0.0%  !        1    0.2%        0.6
Mehalla                 -                   -      -            5    1.0%        0.3    0.6%  !         5    1.0%        0.3
Tanta                   -                          -            6    1.2%        0.6    1.1%  !         6    1.2%        0.6
Sharkeya                -       -           -      -   I       18    3.7%        1.9    3.5%  !        18    3.5%        1.9
Other                   -       -           -      -   !       42    8.6%        4.3    7.9%  i        42    8.1%        4.3
-------           -------              -------            -------          !-----                 .......
30               71.7           I     490               54.5            !     520              126.2
-------            -------          !-------               -------     
Subsectors
No. of  % of                % of    I No. of  % of                 % of    !  No. of   % of
Subproj Total      US$ mit Total   !  Subproj Total        USS mil Total   !  Subproj Total       USS mil
--------------    --------------      ------------- _      ------   !-----------    ---  -------....
Chemicals               3   10.0%        8.5   11.9%  !        48    9.8%        7.3   13.4%  I        51    9.8%       15.8
Construc                4   13.3%        6.4    8.9%           30    6.1%        9.4   17.2%  !        34    6.5%       15.8
Engin                   1    3.3%         1.4    2.0%  I        4    0.8%        1.2    2.2%  i         5    1.0%        2.6
Food                    5   16.7%       11.1   15.5%           20    4.1%        4.3    7.9%  !        25    4.8%       15.4
Metals                  3   10.0%       12.0   16.7%  I        35    7.1%        7.0   12.8%  !        38    7.3%       19.0
Textiles                8   26.7%       19.2   26.8%  !        81   16.5%       10.5   19.3%  !        89   17.1%       29.7
Pharmaceutical          1    3.3%        6.7    9.3%  !         -    0.0%          -    0.0%  I         1    0.2%        6.7
Tourism                 2    6.7%        1.5    2.1%  !         8    1.6%        1.8    3.3%  !        10    1.9%        3.3
Printing                -       -           -                  12    2.4%        1.6    2.9%  !        12    2.3%        1.6
Medical                 -       *           -      -          214   43.7%        7.6   13.9%  !       214   41.2%        7.6
Leather                 -       -           -      -            6    1.2%        0.8    1.5%  I         6    1.2%        0.8
Other                   3   10.0%        4.9    6.8%           32    6.5%        3.0    5.5%  !        35    6.7%        7.9
-------            -------          !  ------              -------          I  -------             .......
30               71.7           I     490                54.5           !     520              126.2
I.                                     !
Type
Expansion              14   46.7%       33.2   46.3%  !       295   60.2%       30.4   55.8%  !       309   59.4%       63.6
New                    16   53.3%       38.5   53.7%  !       113   23.1%       17.5   32.1%  !       129   24.8%       56.0
Modernization           -       -           -      -   !       74   15.1%        5.6   10.3%  I        74   14.2%        5.6
Replacement             -       -           -      -   I        8    1.6%        1.0    1.8%  I         8    1.5%        1.0
------             -------          !  -------             -------          I   -----              -----
30               71.7           !     490                54.5           1     520              126.2



25
Table 9. Legal Covenants
Section                  Description of Covenant                Status
L.A. 2.02 (a):           The Borrower agrees to relend,         Complied with.
out of the proceeds of the            (para 5.13)
loan $1.0 million to the
Government for use by its
Ministry of Industry and
Mineral Resources for
financing the foreign currency
cost of a TA program for SMI.
G.A. 3.01 (a):           For purposes of carrying out a         Not complied with
TA program to SMI Government          see para 5.13.
shall be required to repay the
Borrower the equivalent in
terms of Egyptian pounds of
the amount relevant (this
includes interest and
commission).
L.A. 2.02 (b):           The Borrower shall allocate            Did not take
out of the proceeds of the            place.  Other
Loan $500,000 for the                 grant funds were
implementation of a TA program        available (see
to DIB.                               para 5.18).
L.A. 2.03 (c):           The final date for subloan             This date was
applications shall be December        extended twice.
31, 1984.                             See para 4.02.
L.A. 2.04:               The closing date shall be              This date was
December 31, 1986.                    extended twice.
See para 4.02.
L.A. 3.06:               The Borrower shall allocate            Not complied with
not less than 30 percent in           in all years.  See
1982, 35 percent in 1983, not         para 5.12.
less than 40 percent in 1984
and between 40-50 percent from
1985 onwards of the amounts
approved for term lending for
financing SSI.
L.A. 3.06 (c):           Allocate during 1982-1984 the          Complied with.
equivalent of not less than
$20.0 million out of its
foreign currency resources,
including the loan, fc.r SSIs.
L.A. 3.07 (a):           The Borrower shall charge a            Complied with.
minimum annual rate of                Interest charged
was 15 percent.



26
interest of not less than 13
perc.ent on subloans.
L.A. 3.07 (b):           The Borrower shall review              Reviewed with
annually with the Bank the            various missions.
rates of interest applicable          The rate of 15
by the Borrower to its lending        percent was found
operations.                           competitive.
L.A. 3.08.               The Borrower shall not provide         Complied with.
subloans in amounts exceeding         See para 5.07.
the equivalent of $5.0 million
each for a total amount of
more than $40.0 equivalent out
of the proceeds of the loan.
L.A. 3.09:               DIB was required to calculate          Complied with.
economic and financial rates          See para 5.08.
of return for all projects
requiring subloans exceeding
$650,000 and for all projects
whose total costs exceed LE
800,000 proposed for Bank
financing. A minimum ERR of
12 percent and a minimum FRR
equal to the interest rate
applicable to the foreign
currency subloan was required
for financing such projects.
L.A. 4.02:                Submit audited reports 6              Reports were
months after the close of each        received but often
fiscal year.                          late.
G.A. 3.01 (b):           Government shall cause IDDC to         Some delays in
employ by June 30, 1982               hiring
consultants for its Technical         consultants.  See
assistance program.                   para 5.13.



