Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY             p         i .;
Report No. 3595-EGT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
EGYPT
FIFTH DEVELOPMENT INDUSTRIAL BANK PROJECT
(FINANCE AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TO SMI)
November 30, 1981
Regional Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



EGYPT
Fifth Development Industrial Bank Project
(Finance and Technical Assistance to SMI)
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Rate for Central Bank Operations
LE 1.00 = US$1.43
US$1.00 = LE 0.70
ABBREVIATIONS
AfDB    ..       .    African Development Bank
CBE     ..       .    Central Bank of Egypt
DIB     ..       .    Development Industrial Bank
EIB     ..       .    European Investment Bank
EIDDC  ..        .    Engineering and Industrial Design
and Development Center
GOFI    ..       .    General Organization for Industrialization
ILO     ..       .    International Labor Organization
KfW     ..       .    Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
LIBOR  ..        .    London Inter-Bank Offering Rate
MIDB   ..        .    Misr Iran Development Bank
NBE     ..       .    National Bank of Egypt
OECD    ..       .    Organization for Economic Cooperation
and Development
OSF     ..........   Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries (OPEC), Special Fund
PVT     ..........   Productivity and Vocational Training
Department, Ministry of Industry
SIDD    ..      .    Small Industry Development Department
(of EIDDC)
SMI     ..       .    Small and Medium Scale Industrial
Enterprises
SSI     ..       .    Small Scale Industrial Enterprises
SSPIS  ..        .    Special Services to Private Industrial
Sector (Department within BOA)
USAID  ..        .    U.S. Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEAR
Until December 31, 1979 DIB's fiscal year used to coincide with the calendar
year. Thereafter a six-month accounting period was observed from January 1,
1980 to June 30, 1980, and DIB's fiscal year now begins on July 1 and ends on
June 30, thus coinciding with the Government's fiscal year.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
EGYPT
Fifth Development Industrial Bank Project
(Finance and Technical Assistance to SMI)
Staff Appraisal Report
Table of Contents
Chapters                                                       Page No.
I.  Introduction                                                1
II.  The Industrial Sector                                       1
A.  Structure and Performance                               1
B.  Policy Issues and Prospects                             2
C.  A Strategy for Private Sector Development               4
D.  Bank Assistance to Industrial Sector                    5
III.  The Financial Sector                                        6
A.  Institutional Framework                                 6
B.  Availability of Investment Funds                        6
C.  Financing of SSI                                        7
D.  Cost of Capital in Egypt                                9
IV.  Development Industrial Bank                                 9
A.  Institutional Aspects                                   9
B.  Operations and Developmental Impact                    13
C. Operating Results and Financial Position                15
D.  Operational and Financial Projections                  17
V.   The Project                                                18
A.  Financial Assistance                                   19
B.  Technical Assistance for SMI                           20
C.  Technical Assistance to DIB                            29
D.  Loan Features                                          31
E.  Project Benefits and Risks                             33
VI.   Recommendations                                            33
This report is based on the findings of Bank missions which visited Egypt
in April-May and June 1981 and included Messrs. Abhay Deshpande, Shyamadas
Banerji, Sunit Gupta and Robert Zaborski of the Europe, Middle East and
North Africa Regional Projects and Programs Departments.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Annexes
1.   DIB: Summary of Operations
2.   DIB: Analysis of Term Loan Approvals
3.   DIB: Condensed Income Statements
4.   DIB: Condensed Balance Sheets
5.   DIB: Portfolio and Arrears
6.   DIB: Projected Operations
7.   DIB: Long Term Resources Position
8.   DIB: Projected Income Statemenc's
9.   DIB: Projected Balance Sheets
10.   Evaluation of Pilot Technical Assistance Program for SSI
11.   Budget for the Technical Assistance Program for SMI
12.   Proposed Staffing Plan for SIDD
13.   Job Description for Engineerin-g and Extension Services Advisor
14.   Job Description for Industrial Management Development Advisor
15.   Job Description for Subcontracting Advisor
Map: IBRD No. 15973 - DIB Branch Locations
.



I. INTRODUCTION
1.01     This report appraises a project aimed specifically at assisting small
and medium scale industries (SMI) in the private sector in Egypt through
provision of long term finance using the Development Industrial Bank (DIB) as
a channel and through the provision of a comprehensive package of technical
assistance services to the SMI sector. The Bank's institution building effort
with DIB will also be continued through provision of technical assistance for
training of DIB staff.
1.02     The proposed project will be the fifth Bank project aimed primarily
at assisting the private industrial sector using DIB as a channel, and has
been preceded by two IDA credits extended in 1973 and 1975 when DIB was still
a part of the Bank of Alexandria, and two loans extended in 1978 and 1980
after DIB was established as an independent development finance institution.
1.03     DIB has grown rapidly since its creation in 1975, virtually doubling
its lending each year until 1979. Its role as an important provider of long
term resources to meet the needs of the private industrial sector has been
increasingly recognized in Egypt. DIB has still to overcome a number of dif-
ficulties caused partly by its status as a public sector institution operating
within the guidelines applicable to all public sector banks, however, it has
made a great deal of progress in its institutional and operational aspects,
and prospects for continued improvement are reasonably good.
1.04     The program for provision of technical assistance services will build
upon the experience gained during the implementation of a pilot program for
technical assistance to SSI which was initiated under the Bank's third loan to
DIB. It is now proposed to expand the program in size, scope and regional
coverage and to include medium scale industries also. The proposed program
will be implemented through the Engineering and Industrial Design and Develop-
ment Center (EIDDC) which implemented the pilot program.
II. THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
A. Structure and Performance
2.01     Structure.  Egypt's manufacturing industry is a large and fast
growing sector, though its share of GDP decreased to 12.4% in 1979, because of
the increasing volume of revenues from the petroleum and services sectors
(Suez Canal, tourism and workers' remittances). Industry (excluding the
petroleum sector) employed about 1.3 million persons in 1979, nearly 13% of
S           the civilian labor force, and was responsible for 18% of commodity exports.
As a result of the nationalisations of the early 1960s, industry is dominated
by the public sector, consisting of some 200 mostly large companies, which
provide two-thirds of industrial value added and slightly more than half of
the total industrial employment. The private sector is virtually synonymous
with the SMI sector in Egypt. Of some 5,000 establishments employing 10 or
more workers in the private sector, 90% are establishments in the 10-50
workers range. Establishments employing less than 10 workers (artisanal
enterprises) number about 113,000 and account for about one-half of
manufacturing value added in the private sector. Egypt's basic industries
(iron and steel, textiles, aluminum, fertilizer) are all in the public



- 2 -
sector. Garments, food products, leather, furniture and plastic and metal
products are the important industries of private activity. About 75% of
private manufacturing establishments are located in Greater Cairo and
Alexandria.
2.02     Recent Performance. The performance of the industrial sector which
was characterized by significant idle productive capacities in 1973-74, parti-
cularly in the public sector, rapidly improved following the adoption of the
"topen door" policy in 1973.  Except for a temporary slowdown in growth in 1978
(5.5%), the sector's oultput has grown at an annual average rate of about 8%
during 1974-79. The greater availability of foreign exchange and relaxation
of bureaucratic controls following the adoption of the "open door" policy has
undoubtedly contributed to revitalizing the private sector, which showed a
remarkable annual average growth of 12% in real terms between 1974-80. As a
result, the private sector increased its share of total manufacturing output
from 25% in 1974 to 32% in 1980. Building materials, food products, wood and
leather products and engineering products are the fastest growing private
industries in that order. These are the industries which have benefitted from
the sharp increase in domestic demand for consumer goods as well as the
massive investment in construction activities.
2.03     In contrast to the excellent performance with regard to growth of
output, the private sector has fared poorly on the export front. Exports of
manufactured products totalled LE 490 million in 1980 (9.5% of the gross value
of industrial output) of which the private sector's share was LE 72 million
or 14%, down from 24Y% in 1976.  The mnajor reason for the severe Jecline in
private sector exports since 1975-76 has been t.ne abrupt reduction in exports
to East European countries under bilateral agreements. Some shifts in exports
to Western markets have recently taken place but the private sector has yet to
improve product quality and price competitiveness sufficiently to compete with
other exports in these markets. The rapidly growing domestic market coupled
with the relative appreciation of the Egyptian Pound and the lack of insti-
tutional support and incentives have further inhibited export initiatives.
B. Policy Issues and Prospects
2.04     Policy Issues.  Despite the growing importance of industry, the
Government has yet to develop a fully coherent industrial strategy for the
country. Effective mechanisms for planning and coordination need to be
introduced.  Issues related to the private sector include the need for   (i)
clear guidelines regarding the role of the private sector; (ii) reform of
tariff structure to remove anomalies and to provide incentives for the capital
and intermediate goods industries; (iii) upgrading the infrastructure support
to industry, particularly the construction/contracting industry 1/ which is a
major bottleneck for implementation of projects; and (iv)to strengthen the
1/  The Construction/Contracting Industries Study being carried out under Loan
1456 is addressing the issues and problems and will recommend remedial
actions (See also para. 2.10).



supportive institutional framework and devise policies conducive to the
growth of SSI. Recent actions of the Government indicate that it is aware
of and taking steps to resolve some of these issues. The Government is
also contemplating providing the same investment incentives (tax holiday
and customs duty exemptions) which are at present available to Law 43 joint
venture projects to new private industrial projects in the domestic sector,
thereby eliminating an anomaly and furthering the role of the private
sector. The Bank intends to continue to assist the Government in clari-
fying and resolving these issues through its ongoing dialogue.
2.05     Prospects for Growth.  Egyptian industry has significant long-term
prospects to grow and broaden its base deriving primarily from the large
and growing domestic market and a strategic location with access to markets
in Europe and Africa. An industrial structure and tradition already
exists, as well as a large and still relatively low-cost labor force.
Though Egypt is not endowed with a wide range of raw materials, they are
adequate to develop efficient industries in many subsectors. Small and
medium scale industrial private sector enterprises appear to have signi-
ficant potential for growth because of such factors as relatively low scale
economies, relatively low capital intensity and high income elasticities of
demand for many products, strong backward and forward linkages and subs-
tantial possibilities for efficient import substitution and export. In
this regard the following subsectors appear to have the greatest potential
for growth: engineering (fabricated metal products, electrical and non-
electrical machinery, transport equipment), food processing, ready-made
garments, footwear and leather products, wood products and furniture,
plastics, and construction materials.
2.06     Egyptian industry, which has so far focused primarily on the
development of consumer and some intermediate products is now ready to
enter into the next stage of industrial development through the enlargement
of the share of the engineering industries including capital goods. Many
capital goods of intermediate complexity are skilled labor intensive and
can be produced efficiently at small and medium scales of production. The
technology requirements for the manufacture of such capital goods can be
acquired by Egypt under joint venture or licensing arrangements. In
particular, considerable potential exists for the manufacture of more
complex fabricated products and a greater range of electrical and non-
electrical machinery as well as for the production of components and parts,
presently imported, particularly for transport equipment.  Manufacture of
intermediate components can be promoted through subcontractors selected
from the large number of small engineering firms (numbering over 10,000) in
the private sector 1/. This would create employment at low cost and
facilitate the transfer of technology to small firms.
1/ The technical assistance component of the project (paras 5.12-5.19)
proposes to establish a subcontracting exchange to foster sub-
contracting linkages between SMI and large enterprises, particularly in
metalworking industries.



- 4 -
2.07     For Egyptian processed food products - canned fruits, juices and
vegetables - there appear to be good export prospects. Good export
potential also exists for traditional wood and leather products but these
industries need considerable support to improve product design and quality
as well as marketing support. The chemicals subsector is a growth area for
exports of SSI firms (essential oils and perfumes) as well as paint and
plastics products of larger firms. With the development of engineering
industries, good prospects exist for the exports of simpler engineering
products (irrigation pumps, agricultural equipment, simple machine tools,
etc.) to neighboring African countries.
2.08     Outlook for Private Industrial Investment. Industry's role as a
lead sector is reflected in the 1980-84 National Development Plan, which
allocated 20% of the total investment budget to industry. About 80% of
industrial investment is targetted for the public sector and the remaining
20% is notionally earmarked for the private sector. Before 1974, the share
of the private sector in total industrial investment was extremely small,
averaging about 4%. Following the implementation of the "open door"
policy, the private sector's share of total industrial investment has
increased to about 13%. Investment licenses annually issued by the General
Organization for Industrialization (GOFI) to the private sector increased
from LE 67 million in 1975 to LE 167 million in 1980, indicating an upsurge
of investment plans in the private sector. In addition, some 356 manu-
facturing projects involving an investment of LE 2,399 million by the
private sector had been licensed until the end of 1980 by the Investment
and Free Zones Authority under Law 43, of which 144 projects with a total
investment of LE 250 million are in operation and some 105 projects with a
total investment of LE 1,200 million are under implementation. The
industrial sub-sectors for which significant amounts of investment licenses
have been approved are building materials (LE 694 million), textiles and
clothing (LE 664 million), engineering (LE 388 million) and chemicals (LE
271 million). These developments reflect the favorable response of the
private sector to the Government's policies.
C.  A Strategy for Private Sector Developent
2.09     There can be no doubt that a dynamic private sector mainly
comprising small and medium scale industrial enterprises can contribute
substantially to growth and employment. Given that most public sector
industry is capital intensive, overstaffed and suffers from a variety of
administrative and policy constraints, it is the private sector which will
have to take the lead in creating the bulk of new employment opportu-
nities. In order for private industry to play the lead role described
above, it will be necessary for it to overcome bottlenecks, such as
obsolete equipment, the result of past shortage of foreign exchange;
inadequate training, lack of contact with new technology, products,
marketing and management techniques, which are to be explained by Egypt's
limited exposure during the 1960s and early 1970s to the markets that could
offer these facilities. Active assisitance needs to be provided to
familiarize the private sector with modern production techniques and



training, and to assist it to redirect its trade toward free currency
markets. In addition, support to SSI would also enable the most efficient
and dynamic of these enterprises to grow gradually to medium and large
scale enterprises. In addition to tangible socio-economic advantages,
support for SSI may help reduce the existing high concentration of
industrial activity in Cairo and Alexandria. The proposed project aims to
assist the private sector to overcome some of these bottlenecks through a
comprehensive program of technical assistance in addition to providing
investment finance through DIB.
D. Bank Assistance to the Industrial Sector
2.10     The industrial sector has received the largest portion of Bank
lending in Egypt during the last five years. The Bank's recent loans to
industry included (i) program loans to alleviate foreign exchange
constraints and thereby improve capacity utilization; (ii) assistance to
individual large, high priority projects; and (iii) assistance to financial
institutions to enable them to provide assistance to the private sector,
including SSI. The more fundamental effort has been directed at intro-
ducing policy and structural improvements. Towards this end, the Bank
financed six subsector studies in textiles, building materials, pulp and
paper, food processing, metallurgy and engineering industries in order to
assist the Government in formulating a package of policy and investment
proposals.  In addition the Bank financed, and assisted the Government in
carrying out a major study of the construction/contracting industry which
has recently been completed. Discussions on the report are expected to be
initiated with the Government before the end of 1981 to formulate a plan of
action. To complement the construction/contracting industry study, the
initiation of a study to develop a master plan for brick-making is also
under discussion with the Government.
2.11     While an increased understanding of the overall macroeconomic
situation of Egypt and of the trends that are likely to characterize the
medium-term future has been obtained as a result of the Bank's economic
studies, there is a strongly felt need to link the overall macroeconomic
analysis to an analysis of relative prices and incentives and analysis of
issues and problems that arise at a sectoral level. The Bank has therefore
initiated, with the Government's approval, a study on trade strategy,
investment planning and shadow prices wich aims at linking macro and micro
*            analysis.  This should ultimately help achieve greater coordination and
complementarity between country work, sector work and project work.  The
study is expected to be completed by the end of 1982.
2.12     Bank assistance to private industry is being provided almost
entirely through DFCs.  The need for modernization of private industry is
widespread and the scope for economic development and expansion of the
sector is substantial.  The proposed loan will be the fifth loan to DIB and
the sixth DFC operation in Egypt, one loan having been made to Misr Iran
Development Bank (MIDB). The two DFCs are largely complementary in their
operations, DIB concentrating increasingly on the SMI sector while MIDB



assists mainly larger projects. The scope of loans through DFC operations
is being tailored to emphasize special purpose lending which can increas-
ingly supplement the basic long-term efEfort of assisting the private
industrial sector. Hence the proposed loan has been designed to assist the
SMI sector by provision of finance through DIB and a technical assistance
program to upgrade technical and managerial capacity of SMI and also to
promote linkages between large scale enterprises and SMI by promotion of
subcontracting.
III. THE FINANCIAL SECTOR
A. Institutional Framework
3.01     Since the enactment of Law 43 in 1974 and Law 120 1/ in 1975, the
financial sector has grown rapidly in Egypt to a point where a broad array
of domestic, foreign and joint venture banks freely compete in the market.
In addition to banks, a number of other types of financial institutions
have also been set up. As of December 31, 1980, there were 16 commercial
banks (four public sector, four Egyptian private sector and eight joint
venture private sector), 20 investment or merchant banks, one free zone
bank, two development banks (DIB and the new National Development Bank) and
44 other institutions including the Nasser Social Bank, insurance
companies, multinational banks (three) and representative offices of
foreign banks (28).  MIDB is classified as an investment bank in the above
listing. Only DIB and MIDB extend long term credit to industrial firms.
All other banks concentrate on short t,erm credit and in a limited number of
cases extend medium term loans to low risk firms. A study 2/ of growth of
assets and deposits of 16 selected Banks, including DIB and MIDB, from 1976
to 1979 shows impressive annual growth rates ranging from a low of 8.8%
(Arab International Bank) to high of 110% (Misr America International
Bank). These banks have also earned adequate returns on assets in most
cases ranging between 1.0% (Arab African Development Bank) and 4.3% (Banque
du Caire et Paris).
B. Availability of Investment Funds
3.02     The general assessment of banks in Egypt is that availability of
foreign funds has increased due to increased receipts from petroleum
exports, the Suez Canal, workers' remittances and tourism. There is how-
ever a shortage of local currency, especially for most of the enterprises
in the public sector, due to their large investment requirements coupled
with low profitability. The primary source of investment funds for public
sector projects is budgetary allocations, though public sector companies
may also secure short term loans from commercial banks. Longer term loans
1/  Law 120 of 1975 permitted foreign banks to participate in commercial
and investment activities in order to stimulate banking activity.
2/  Evaluation of AID loan program and assessment of future assistance for
industrial private sector development - May 1981, Coopers and Lybrand
Associates (Carried out for USAID).



are granted by commercial banks to public sector companies only on a
selective basis. A new institution--The National Investment Bank--was set
up in October 1980 to channel all budgetary allocations to public sector
but is yet to become operational.As of June 30, 1980, the total loans
outstanding to public sector companies from banks totalled LE 1,252 million
(40% of total advances), almost all (70%) in the form of short term credit.
3.03     Until 1974, private sector companies were at a disadvantage in
securing foreign exchange. However, they can now borrow freely from
financial institutions or convert local currency to foreign currency in the
"own exchange" market. Outstanding loans and advances to the private
sector increased substantially in the last five years from LE 233 million to
LE 1,883 million (60% of total advances), of which LE 577 million equi-
valent was in foreign currency. However, only 30% of local currency
lending and 24% of foreign currency lending went to the industrial sector.
Moreover, about 80% of the loans to private industrial firms were for one
year or less. Although some of these loans were made with the under-
standing that they would be rolled over, the majority of financing was for
relatively short periods. This preponderance of short term lending is due
to the short maturities of deposits held by the commercial banks, and also
due to reluctance of bankers and entrepreneurs to make long term
commitments. As a result, DIB and MIDB, which are virtually the only
institutions making long term foreign currency loans, accounted for $56
million out of the total of $85 million (66%) of over-five-year loans made
available to private industrial companies in 1980 1/. During 1981 also,
about half the long term foreign currency loans are expected .v D  made
available through DIB. A new source of long term foreign currency
financing for industries, which is now being established, is the Private
Investment Encouragement Fund (PIEF) set up within the General Authority
for Investment and Free Zones. Initial resources will be provided by the
Government and a contribution of $33 million from USAID. PIEF will
supplement long term loans and equity available to larger projects (up to
$50 million investment). It is envisaged that all commercial and joint
venture banks will be eligible to process projects and submit them to PIEF
for approval. The sponsoring bank will provide medium term (up to 5 years)
funds for the project and PIEF will supplement the medium term loan with
long term (up to 12 years) funds. Early maturities will be taken by the
sponsoring banks, which will have to agree to supervise the loans and
collect repayments until all PIEF funds are repaid. PIEF has just become
operational and its impact is yet to be perceived.
C. Financing of SSI
3.04     The banking system as a whole provides financing to SSI in the
general framework of its short term lending operations, without any
particular emphasis or special procedures tailored to the requirements of
1/ A study of the feasibility of a Private Investment Encouragement Fund,
R.R. Nathan Associates, September 1979 (carried out for USAID).



- 8 -
SSI borrowers. Bank branch managers perceive such loans as having low
profits and high risk. Only the National Bank of Egypt (NBE) has kept
upsome interest in small business lending and provides mainly short term
and occasionally medium term local currency loans. At the end of 1980, its
outstanding loans to small business amounted to around LE 1.0 million
(compared with total assets of LE 4.1 billion) involving some 5,000
clients 1/. The loans are limited to a maximum of LE 5,000 and are not
secured (the NBE Board authorized allocations of up to LE 1.0 million in
provisions for losses against such loans but NBE has not incurred any
losses so far). Loans range from 2 months for working capital to 3 years
for equipment and currently bear a 12% rate. Under the Bank-financed Urban
Development Project (Credit No. 831-EGT) a line of credit of LE 805,000
($1.15 million) was allocated to refinance small business loans made by the
NBE under this scheme. Loans would be up to a maximum LE 5,000 ($7,150)
per enterprise located in the project area. As this project is only in its
initial implementation phase, no disbursements have yet been made by NBE.
3.05     The second institution catering to SSI is the Nasser Social Bank,
which is a public sector entity administering various social funds and
programs. Only a small portion of its financing is for productive
purposes. Its financing of SSI has been limited to bulk purchasing from
abroad and resale on an installment basis of machinery and equipment, taxis
and tourist buses. The Nasser Bank operates along Islamic principles and
charges no interest on its loans. In return however, it requires sub-
stantial collateral and adds a profit margin to resale prices thereby
inducing a much higher cost to the borrower than under normal banking
finance. It also finances raw material requirements of SSI through their
cooperative organizations. The amount of such financing could not be
obtained but is reported to be small in comparison to DIB's, owing to its
high cost.
3.06     DIB remains the largest source of investment financing to SSI.
Under DIB IV, SSI were defined as enterprises whose fixed assets did not
exceed LE 200,000 excluding land and buildings. DIB undertook to increase
the share of SSI in its term loan approvals from 20% in 1978 to 30% in 1979
and 1980 and has largely met this target. In the three year period
1978-1980, DIB's total term lending to SSI totalled LE 43.4 million. Since
figures relating to overall term lending to SSI by all institutions in
Egypt are not available, it is not possible to accurately determine DIB's
share in SSI financing; but given the perceived reluctance of other insti-
tutions to firstly, extend long term financing and secondly, to assist SSI,
it is reasonable to assume that most of the institutional financing of SSI
investment needs is provided by DIB.
1/ The definition of the eligible group is not clear but judging from the
maximum loan ceiling of LE 5,000, only very small artisanal enterprises
may be involved.



-9-
D. Cost of Capital in Egypt
3.07     Interest rates on deposits and loans in local currency for all
financial institutions are regulated by CBE. Interest rates on local
currency loans were increased further in January 1981 from a range of
12%-14% to 13%-15%, while the maximum rate obtainable on savings (term)
deposits was increased from 6.0% to 9.0%.  The maximum interest rates on
lending and deposits have increased by 8% and 6.5% respectively over the
last 5 years. (Since 1977 interest earnings on bank deposits are tax
exempt). As a result of these changes, various local notes and bonds issued
by banks now yield interest varying from 9% to 10.5% for short term and
long term issues while redeemable savings certificates may yield up to
12%. Inflation rates are difficult to measure in Egypt. The wholesale
price index shows increases of 8.7% in 1978, 14.0% in 1979 and 18.0% in
1980. However, the official index is biased by controlled prices for
essential commodities, especially basic foodstuffs, and does not adequately
reflect price movements in uncontrolled markets where price levels tend to
be significantly higher. The Bank's latest inflation projection for Egypt
is 16% in 1981,14% in 1982 and 13% in 1983. It would thus appear that
current interest rates on local currency loans are marginally positive in
the light of current and expected inflation. The Government is also
considering further adjustments to the interest rates.
3.08     Interest rates on foreign exchange loans are not regulated by CBE
and reflect the cost of those resources. The interest rate on DIB and MIDB
dollar loans is currently 12% to 14% (except on SSI loans made by DIB from
an OPEC Special Fund loan where the maximum rate is 8%). The compensatory
deposits of around 20% of foreign currency loans required by DIB from its
borrowers increases the effective cost of these loans to 15-17.5%. This
onlending rate, with the foreign exchange risk borne by subborrowers, is in
line with the cost of long-term foreign exchange resources in Egypt and in
the international capital markets. Foreign exchange-loans provided by
other institutions (mostly short term and some medium term) generally carry
floating interest rates of about 2% over 6-month LIBOR (which was about
18% during the first half of 1981). Commercial credits including export
financing carry rates varying from 7.5% to 9.0% p.a. In addition, down-
payment requirements of up to 20% of commitments to be paid in foreign
currency, the necessity for subborrowers to assume the entire foreign
exchange risk and tied procurement tend to generally limit the utilization
of such facilities.
IV. DEVELOPMENT INDUSTRIAL BANK
A. Institutional Aspects
4.01     Establishment and Ownership.  DIB was established by decree in
1975 and commenced operations in 1976 by taking over the functions and part
of the portfolio of the SSPIS Unit (Special Services to Private Industrial
Sector) of the Bank of Alexandria. DIB's paid-in capital of LE 20 million



- lo -
($28 million equivalent) 1/ is held entirely by the Government, and DIB is
subject to supervision, under Egyptian banking law, by CBE. DIB's annual
budget, salary structure, financial statements and appropriations of profit
are subject to CBE approval.
4.02     Organization.  DIB operates from its head office in Cairo and
three branches located at Cairo, Alexandria and Tanta. The Tanta branch
was established in early 1979 and DIB plans to open the next branch at the
city of 10th of Ramadan in 1982, followed by branches at Minya in Upper
Egypt and at Damanhour in the lower Nile Delta. DIB has an established
system of delegation of loan approval authority downwards from the Board to
the branch managers. As a result, loans in local currency up to LE 25,000
for terms up to 5 years are approved in the branches. In addition, the
branches perform their normal functions of customer relations, disbursement
and collection of loans and maintenance of customer deposits and accounts.
All foreign currency loan appraisals, as well as appraisals for local
currency loans in amounts exceeding the authority delegated to the branch
managers are handled at head office. At the head office there are now 17
departments (each headed by a manager), of which ten are grouped under
three General Managers (one each for finance and administration; short term
operations and resources, and for long term lending and follow-up) which
report to the Vice-Chairman. The remaining departments dealing with legal
matters, internal audit etc. report directly to the Chairman. Overall,
DIB's organizational structure seems to be appropriate for its present
activities as well as those planned in the medium term.
4.03     Board, Management and Staff.  The number of Directors of DIB is
fixed by the law regulating public sector banks at seven, including two
outside members. The five internal Directors are the Chairman, Vice
Chairman and three General Managers. The present two external Directors,
who have been on the Board since DIB's inception, are a Professor of
Economics at Alexandria University and an Advisor in the General Authority
for Investment and Free Zones. Both the external members are competent and
have provided valuable advice to DIB.
4.04     As the legal provisions governing the composition of the Board
limits DIB's ability to draw on experience and expertise from additional
external Directors, the Government, at the urging of the Bank, set up an
advisory committee to the DIB Board consisting of seven prominent persons
with wide experience in private industry and finance. The committee has
functioned satisfactorily and has given considerable advice on policy
matters to DIB's Board. The committee will continue to function during the
utilization of the proposed loan.
4.05     The Board meets about once a month or more often as necessary to
decide on all loan applications for amounts in excess of LE 500,000 or its
equivalent in the case of a foreign currency loan. All cases submitted to
the Board are screened by a loan committee consisting of the Chairman,
1/ Increased to LE 25.0 million ($35 million equivalent) in July 1981.



- 11 -
Vice-Chairman and the General Managers of the legal, short term lending and
long term lending groups.
4.06     DIB's senior and middle management team has remained virtually
unchanged since its inception, with the exception of two retirements. As
the team has gained experience, there has been considerable improvement in
delegation and in communication of information between departments. There
has been considerable improvement in the performance of the management
also, due to training of senior managers in foreign institutions during the
last four years and the provision of extensive advisory services. Further
improvement is expected to continue with the provision of advisory services
under the USAID program of management consultancy (para. 4.09). The entire
management team, having been drawn from the Bank of Alexandria, does still
have, albeit decreasingly, an inclination to follow commercial bank
practices concerning collateral for loans, amortization periods and loan
supervision. Rapid changes in outlook and quality of DIB's middle
management cannot be realistically expected as DIB has to operate within an
institutional framework, being a public sector Bank, which prevents direct
recruitment of senior staff at competitive salaries.
4.07     As of December 31, 1980, DIB had a total of 344 employees
including 194 professional staff (excluding top management). DIB's salary
scales make it difficult to recruit top quality experienced staff
especially as the emergence of the large number of merchant banks in Egypt
has created increased demand for individuals with experience or knowledge
of project analysis, and has pushed salary levels well beyond DIB's
permissible scales. DIB's salary levels for a typical appraisal officer
with about two to three years experience are only one third of salaries
paid by the merchant banks. However, DIB has brought about improvement in
staff quality by recruiting fresh graduates and training them with the help
of advisors, and by sending its appraisal officers to training courses
abroad. In addition, during 1981 DIB has raised the quantum of annual
bonus payable to its staff to the maximum permissible limit. Professional
staff turnover during 1980 was 18%, which is high, but after the recent
bonus increases, there are signs that turnover will decline.
4.08     Advisors.  A key component of the third Bank loan to DIB was the
provision of technical assistance for various advisory services and
training programs. During 1979-1980 USAID also financed training courses
organized by A.D. Little and conducted by a projects advisor. The program
was very successful and the impact of the training is clearly noticeable
through improvement in quality of subproject appraisal reports.
At present, DIB has the services of one SSI advisor, funded by OECD and is
recruiting a projects advisor also funded out of OECD grants. The SSI
advisor works mainly with the branches and the SSI department and trains
DIB staff in the identification, appraisal and supervision of SSI projects.
4.09     Perhaps the most critical element of the technical assiatance
package under DIB III was the provision of management advisory services.
A management advisor, funded by USAID, was recruited in September 1979 but



- 12 -
due to a number of personal difficulties his contract was terminated only
nine months later. Instead, to provide further management advisory
services, a substantial program of management technical assistance, to be
funded by USAID, has been designed and has just commenced on October 1,
1981. The services will be provided by a consortium of two management
consultancy companies--Price Waterhouse and R. Robert Nathan Associates.
It is planned that consultants specialized in various areas will be deputed
to DIB for varying lengths of time andl fulfill specific assigned tasks,
which have been divided into three priority groups. Group I tasks deal
mostly with improvements in day-to-day functioning of DIB by improvement of
management information systems, accounting systems, organizational
structure, etc. After the recommendations are accepted by DIB, the
consultants will be expected to draw up an implementation plan and assist
in its execution. Thereafter, priority II and III tasks, which deal with
changes in recruitment systems, career development, staff salaries and
promotional and research activities of DIB will commence. The program is
expected to continue for two years and a grant of $700,O0O is earmarked by
USAID for the purpose.
4.10     The Bank has been continuously involved in the work of advisors
for DIB, including those funded by USAID and OECD. In particular, the Bank
reviewed the USAID proposals in detail at the request of DIB with USAID's
concurrence. During negotiations, agreement was reached with DIB that the
recommendations to be made by the management consultants to be provided
under the USAID program would be reviewed by the Bank prior to their
implementation.
4.11     Policies.  DIB's policy statement, originally adopted in 1978, has
been amended and made comprehensive in 1980. The policy statement pro-
vides, inter alia, that DIB's financial assistance will be available mainly
for enterprises in the private and cooperative sectors, including artisans
and persons providing professional services. Public sector projects may
also be financed on a selective basis. DIB will particularly assist
projects which will result in increased utilization of existing capacities
and will endeavour to spread its assistance among different regions in
accordance with the broad economic objectives of the Government. Normally
DIB limits its lending so that the beneficiary projects' debt/equity ratio
does not exceed 2:1, except in the case of projects whose fixed assets
excluding land and building do not exceed LE 200,000 and in the case of
hire-purchase operations, where up to 80% of the project cost may be
financed. Regarding equity investments, DIB will not usually take up more
than 25% of the equity of an enterprise and DIB's total equity portfolio
will not exceed its own equity. Financial exposure of DIB, in all forms of
assistance (loans, equity participat-ion and guarantees) to a single
borrower shall not exceed 20% of DIB's equity, which may be relaxed up to
25% in exceptional cases. DIB follows rather conservative collateral
policies, although there is a trend towards a relaxation in this respect.
4.12     Procedures.  There has been clearly perceptible improvement in
DIB's project appraisal work as a result of internal training courses con-
ducted by advisors for appraisal staff and attendance at courses conducted



- 13 -
by various institutions, including EDI. Continuous input has also been
provided by Bank staff during supervision missions and during review of
sub-loans submitted by DIB. There is now a much better effort at market
estimation and evaluation of management capability of prospective bor-
rowers. Weaknesses remain due to the relatively limited technical guidance
available to appraisal staff from middle management. This is an area in
which short term improvements cannot be realistically expected as mentioned
in para 4.06, and Bank efforts will have to continue to be directed towards
improving quality of appraisal at the initial level itself.
4.13     Project supervision is essentially directed towards loan col-
lection as DIB lacks the technical staff to provide adequate project
oriented follow up assistance. The large number of loans in DIB's
portfolio (3,791 at present) makes regular periodic contact with all
borrowers very difficult. The extension services to be provided to DIB's
SMI borrowers under the proposed TA program will play an important role in
this respect and is expected to reduce DIB's supervision work load. In
order to help DIB to formulate an adequate and feasible supervision
mechanism, the management consultants to be provided under the USAID pro-
gram would study DIB's supervision department and prepare a supervision
program which would segregate DIB borrowers into categories according to
the degree of supervision required and to develop the necessary reporting
and follow up procedures.
B. Operations and Developmental Impact
4.14     Loan Operations.  DIB's loan and equity investment operations
during 1978, 1979 and 1980 are summarized in Annex 1. Compared with the
early period after DIB's establishment, operations in the last three years
have shown a rapid decrease in the proportion of short term operations and
an increase, to a predominant position, of medium and long term foreign
currency operations. Foreign currency loan approvals amounting to LE 18.0
million ($25.2 million) exceeded medium and long term local currency loan
approvals for the first time in 1978. In 1980, foreign currency loan
approvals totalling LE 46.3 million ($66.1 million) equalled total local
currency loan approvals (including short term loans). Also in 1980,
foreign currency loan commitments reached LE 27.8 million ($39.7 million)
and equalled medium and long term local currency loan commitments. These
trends confirm that DIB has now attained one of its objectives of becoming
primarily a provider of medium and long term foreign currency investment
funds to industry in Egypt. An analysis of DIB's medium and long term loan
approvals according to size of loans, sectors, loan term, size of bor-
rowers, industrial subsectors, geographical location, purpose, type of
project (new/expansion) and employment creation is given in Annex 2. SSI
projects have received LE 15.8 million ($22.6 million) or 33% of DIB's term
loan approvals in 1979 and LE 20.7 million ($29.6 million) or 28% in 1980.
Food processing industries were the largest beneficiaries in 1978 and 1979
(27% and 33%) while building and construction industries had the largest
share (26%) in 1980. DIB has made a conscious effort to disperse its loans
outside Cairo and has succeeded in increasing the share of other regions



- 14 -
from 48% in 1978 to 58% in 1980. About half the loans were for acquisition
of machinery over the three year period, and 64% of the loans had
maturities ranging between five to ten years. Overall, DIB's term lending
approvals have now achieved an appropriate and sustainable pattern.
4.15     Equity Investments.  DIB's equity investment activity has not been
very significant due to the lack of an active capital market in Egypt.
Moreover the majority of DIB's borrowers are either partnerships or
proprietary firms, ruling out equity holdings in them.  DIB has so far
approved equity investments in six ventures including two banks (Misr
America Bank and National Development Bank) for a total value of LE 5.3
million. Out of the total, LE 4.0 million is accounted for by partici-
pation in the "Food Security Company" to be set up by the Government under
its food self-sufficiency program. The approval for this investment
represents, in fact, only a commitment to support the Food Security Company
up to the above amount. DIB's equity investment activity is unlikely to
grow rapidly at least in the near future, until the capital markets in
Egypt become more developed. This is a matter on which the Government has
sought IFC Advice. Subsequent to the submission of a report 1/ prepared by
an IFC consultant, Government has initiated steps to set up a Capital
Markets Authority. The future growth of capital markets in Egypt would, to
a large extent, determine the volume of DIB's equity investment activity.
4.16     Bank-Financed Operations.  DIB has so far received two IDA credits
(Credit No. 412 - $15.0 million and Credit No. 576 - $25 million) and two
loans (Loan No. 1533 - $40 million and Loan No. 1804 - $50 million) during
the last seven years. The final dates for submission of subprojects were
extended by one year in the case of both IDA credits. Disbursements have
lagged considerably behind schedule. The closing date for DIB I was
extended by 2-1/2 years and that for DIB II by 1-1/2 years. It appears
that these delays were caused by DIB's initial inexperience with term
lending operations, as DIB III was fully committed on schedule. Dis-
bursements are also on schedule and amount to $32.9 million as of September
30, 1981. DIB's improved performance in utilizing Bank funds has been
further demonstrated during the implementation of DIB IV. Commitments
under the loan totalled $46.1 million as of September 30, 1981, well above
projections. DIB expects to fully commit the loan by the end of 1981, six
months ahead of schedule. Disbursements under the loan amounted to $11.3
million as of September 30, 1981. DIB is also one of the three banks in
Egypt responsible for channelling loans to agro-industrial projects under a
$20 million component of Credit No. 988-EGT, which became effective on
December 3, 1980. DIB has submitted seven subloans for $3.0 million as of
September 30, 1981 and appears to be utilizing the credit satisfactorily.
No disbursements have so far taken place.
4.17     Bank/IDA funds have provided resources for 70% of DIB's foreign
currency loan operation up to end of 1980. DIB has made 283 subloans so
1/ "Report and Recommendation on Development of Capital Markets in Egypt",
D.L. Gordon, January 21, 1981.



- 15 -
far a total of $111.3 million of which 14 projects for a total amount of
$26.5 million were in the public sector and 269 projects for a total
amountof $84.8 million (76%) were in the private sector. The geographical
distribution, as well as subsectoral allocation of the subloans follows the
general pattern of DIB's term lending.
4.18     OPEC Special Fund.  At about the same time as DIB III, the OPEC
Special Fund (OSF) extended a soft loan, for an amount of $8.75 million
with a service charge of 0.75% p.a. and repayable over 15 years, to DIB
through the Government. The entire loan was to be utilized for SSI
projects, with half the loan to be allocated to "smaller" SSI projects
(with total assets excluding land and buildings not exceeding LE 20,000)
and the other half to "larger" SSIs with total assets (excluding land and
buildings) not exceeding LE 100,000. The OSF loan is being administered by
the Bank.  DIB has so far utilized $3.8 million for "larger" SSIs in 50
subloans and $4.6 million for "smaller" SSIs in 112 subloans. As expected,
utilization of the allocation for "smaller" projects has been comparatively
slower. DIB expects to complete the disbursement of the entire OSF loan by
mid 1982, about two years behind schedule, mainly due to difficulties in
locating suitable "smaller" SSI projects.
4.19     Developmental Impact of DIB Operations.  The developmental impact
of DIB's operations has to be measured bearing in mind that for the
majority of the SMI sector, DIB is the only accessible institutional source
of investment funds, and but for DIB's operations, many of the SMI projects
would not have becn set up at all.  Further, DIB has financed projects in
priority sectors and has made conscious efforts to disperse its loans
outside Cairo and Alexandria within the limitations imposed by its lack of
an extensive branch network. DIB has also successfully allocated about
$5.4 million to "smaller" SSI projects (with fixed assets, excluding land
and buildings not exceeding LE 100,000) during 1980, as agreed with the
Bank. The 283 bank financed projects are expected to create 13,900 direct
jobs with an estimated capital investment of $24,400 per job in 1980
prices. Employment creation as a result of all DIB loans was estimated at
about 27,000, using the Bank financed projects as a sample, because it is
virtually impossible to compile accurate data on all of DIB financed
projects which number more than 4,100 up to end of 1980. There is however
very wide disparity between large and small projects financed by DIB out of
Bank funds. The financial rates of return on the Bank financed projects
have ranged between 17% and 48% on an ex ante basis. Economic rates of
return have been calculated by DIB on all "above free limit" sub-loans and
range between 20% and 58% as compared to the minimum of 12% required for
projects under DIB IV.
C. Operating Results and Financial Position
4.20     Profitability.  DIB's income statements for 1978-1980 are given in
Annex 3. DIB has made adequate profits, before-tax return on average
equity ranging between 9.7% and 12.0% p.a. Return on equity has been main-
tained at a reasonable and steady level despite the doubling of DIB's



- 16 -
paid-in capital in 1979, which illustrates DIB's ability to deploy funds in
a remunerative manner within a short period. Return on total assets has
been adequate (between 2.9% and 3.6%) and DIB has enjoyed an increasing
average spread on borrowed funds excluding deposits. DIB's profitability
is projected to grow in line with its operations (para 4.29) and DIB is
expected to be able to have no difficulty in meeting its operational and
financial expenses after making adequate provisions for doubtful debts.
4.21     As provided in its statutes, 25% of DIB's profits are set aside as
legal reserves and 75% of the profit remaining after appropriation to
reserves is distributed as dividend to CBE, being DIB's shareholder. The
remaining 25% is distributed to DIB's employees. However, only about LE 75
is paid to each employee in cash, and the rest is credited into various
social security schemes on their behalf.
4.22     Financial Position.  DIB's comparative balance sheets for 1978--
1980 are provided in Annex 4. DIB's total assets have grown at an average
annual rate of over 80% during the 1978-1980 period. As of December 31,
1980, 94% of DIB's assets were accounted for by outstanding loans, re-
flecting a high degree of resource utilization, as well as a need for
further resource mobilization. DIB has achieved a satisfactory liquidity
situation, with current assets exceeding current liabilities by 2.3 times.
Despite the high rate of growth of assets and debt, DIB has a very satis-
factory financial structure after the doubling of its paid-in capital to
LE 20 million in 1979. The long term debt/equity ratio was 4.8:1 as of
December 31, 1980, well within the limit of 7:1 fixed under the loan
agreement for DIB IV. Overall, DIB has a very strong financial position
and is well placed to continue substantial expansion of its operations.
4.23     Quality of Portfolio.  As of December 31, 1980, DIB's loan
portfolio consisted of 3,791 loans for a total of LE 121.8 million ($174.2
million), having grown by 164% in two years. The portfolio was composed of
short term loans (up to 1 year) totalling only LE 17.6 million (14%), the
remaining LE 104.2 million being medium and long term loans.  The share of
the public sector in the portfolio has declined rapidly from 25% as of
December 31, 1978 to 16% as of December 31, 1980. The portfolio is well
diversified among industrial subsectors and has now matured, over 70% being
in repayment stage. The situation of loan arrears is shown in Annex 5.
Loan arrears increased substantially from LE 1.3 million (2.9% of port-
folio) to LE 3.1 million (4.1% of portfolio) in 1979. This was largely due
to difficulties being experienced by borrowers in completing their projects
on schedule due to bottlenecks in the construction sector. The situation
has eased in 1980 with perceived increases in construction capacity and
also due to stepped up collection efforts by DIB.  As of December 31, 1980
total arrears of principal and interest amounted to LE 2.5 million and
affected 11.4% of DIB's loan portfolio,which is a clearly perceptible
improvement over the position as of December 31, 1979 when arrears amounted
to LE 3.1 million and affected loans totalling 14.9% of the loan port-
folio. Projects as yet uncompleted accounted for 27% of the arrears. The
repayment performance of DIB's SSI clients is almost the same as that of



- 17 -
medium and large scale enterprise clients. Overall, taking the rapid
growth of DIB's portfolio over the last three years into account, the port-
folio as of December 31, 1980 is of sound quality. DIB is also
strengthening the staff in the loan followup department to prevent an
increase in arrears and has agreed to develop a supervision program to
maintain the soundness of its portfolio (para 4.13).
4.24     Provisions and Reserves.  DIB has consistently followed a very
prudent policy in making provisions for doubtful loans. An elaborate
procedure, requiring review of each loan in arrears is followed every year,
followed by detailed review by DIB's auditors. Total accumulated pro-
visions for doubtful loans were LE 6.2 million as of December 31, 1980 in
addition to reserves of LE 0.8 million. Together, provisions and reserves
were a substantial 6% of loan portfolio and almost three times the total
amount in arrears. Moreover, DIB follows a very conservative collateral
policy. In view of the sound quality of the loan portfolio and the
collateral available, provisions and reserves appear to be fully adequate.
4.25     Audit.  DIB's financial statements are audited by Z. and H. Hassan
and Co., a reputable firm of chartered accountants associated with Messrs.
Peat, Marwick, Mitchell and Co. Audit is carried out in accordance with
Bank requirements and the performance of the auditors has been satisfactory.
D. Operational and Financial Projections
4.26     Projected Operations.  DIB's operational projections for 1981-1985
are provided in Annex 6. The projections assume an annual increase of 10%
in nominal terms in both foreign and local currency loan approvals. The
rate of increase assumed is much lower than the historical rate of growth
of DIB's loan approvals, and represents in fact, a decrease in real terms
given the expected inflation rate of 16% in 1981, 14% in 1982 and 13% in
1983. It is, however, considered appropriate in view of the need to
consolidate operations, train staff and maintain the quality of the
portfolio. The projected level of operations is considered realistic in
view of the good general outlook for industrial investment in the private
sector (para 2.08) and DIB's project pipeline which contained loan appli-
cations for a total of LE 19.5 million in local currency and for LE 63.9
million ($91.3 million equivalent) in foreign currency loans. Among the
projects under consideration for foreign currency loans, food processing
ventures account for requests for loans totalling $25.2 million, building
materials -- $2.12 million and textiles -- $7.0 million. Fourteen loan
requests are for foreign currency loans exceeding the proposed free limit
of $1.0 million (para. 5.32) and two exceed the proposed limit of $5.0
million on size of individual subloans (para. 5.33). However several of
these large projects are at a preliminary stage of preparation and may not
materialize in time for financing under the proposed loan. DIB's local
currency loan approvals are expected to rise from LE 29.5 million ($42.2
million) in 1981 to LE 43.3 million ($61.9 million) in 1985. Foreign
currency loan approvals are projected to increase from LE 55.5 million



18 -
equivalent ($79.3 million) to LE 81.3 million equivalent ($116.1 million).
Loan commitments and disbursements are projected to grow faster than the
long term trends in 1981 and 1982 due to the large backlog of uncommitted
loan approvals and undisbursed commitments.
4.27     Resource Requirements.  DIB's long term resource position as of
December 31, 1980 is shown in Annex 7. DIB's major source of local
currency resources is a loan discounting facility provided by CBE.  The
facility was originally approved for a total of LE 57 million at an
interest rate of 9.5% p.a.  CBE has agreed to increase the facility up to
LE 100 million at the same interest rate in 1981. An increase in this long
term resource, together with the increase in DIB's paid-in capital from
LE 20 million to LE 25 million approved in July 1981 should meet DIB's
local currency needs over the projected period.
4.28     Foreign currency resources made available to DIB so far total
LE 160.2 million ($228.6 million) of which $130 million have been provided
by Bank/IDA. As of December 31, 1980 uncommitted foreign currency re-
sources totalled LE 75.7 million ($108.1 million equivalent). Almost the
entire uncommitted resources are expeclted to be committed by December 31,
1981. During 1982-83 DIB expects to commit foreign currency loans
totalling LE127.6 million ($182.5 million equivalent). The proposed Bank
loan of $120.0 million will thus provide 65% of DIB's foreign exchange
needs over the two year period on a commitment basis. DIB plans to obtain
about $10.0 million equivalent each from KfW and EIB by early 1982 and will
approach the African Development Bank i(AfDB) for $20.0 million in 1982 to
meet most of its remaining foreign exchange needs.
4.29     Projected Profitability and Financial Position.  Projected income
statements and balance sheets are provided in Annexes 8 and 9. DIB is
expected to maintain adequate profitability with net profit rising from
LE 1.7 million in 1980 to LE 9.4 million in 1985, return on equity ranging
between 30.4% and 37.7%. Appropriations to reserves will be made equal to
25% of profits, and 75% of remaining will be paid to CBE as dividends.
Provisions for doubtful debts and resources will be maintained at 6% of
outstanding portfolio. DIB will continue to have satisfactory liquidity
with the current ratio expected to range between 1.5 to 2.8. DIB's
financial structure will continue to be sound with debt/equity ratio being
below the 7:1 limit (which is proposed to be kept unchanged) until end of
1983. At that stage, a further increase in equity would be required.
Given the record of strong support the Government has provided to DIB in
the past, it is reasonable to assume that further equity contributions will
be available at the appropriate stage.
V. THE PROJECT
Objectives and Scope
5.01     The objective of the proposed project is to further strengthen the
institutional capacity in Egypt for promotion and financing of projects in
the private industrial sector, particuLarly SSI as well as for providing



- 19 -
technical assistance to small and medium scale enterprises 1/. The project
would support the development of the private industrial sector by provision
of long term finance through DIB and the provision of comprehensive tech-
nical assistance services aimed specifically at small and medium scale
industries. A parallel objective is to continue the Bank's institution
building effort with DIB through provision of technical assistance for
training of DIB staff.
5.02     The project of $120 million consists of three components, which
are described in detail in the following paragraphs;:
(A) Financial assistance, in the form of a DFC line-of-credit for an
amount of $118.5 million to be made available to DIB for
onlending, which will cover about 65% of DIB's long-term foreign
currency resource needs over the next two years;
(B) A technical assistance program for SMI, to be implemented by EIDDC
at a foreign exchange cost of $1.0 million, to commence from July
1, 1982 and to extend up to December 31, 1984; and
(C) A staff training and technical assistance program for DIB, at a
foreign exchange cost of $0.5 million, to supplement the ongoing
institutional development efforts begun under the previous loans.
A. Financial Assistance
5.03     The credit line of $118.5 million will be utilized by MIB to
finance the foreign exchange needs of eligible enterprises - defined to
include projects in mining, manufacturing, processing and related service
activities including construction industry and tourism projects - to
finance acquisition of fixed assets and associated permanent working
capital. The enterprises will be exclusively in the private sector,
including all those formed under Law 43 even if they have minority or
majority participation from public sector institutions. All enterprises
formed under Law 43 are legally private sector enterprises and are legally
exempt from guidelines applicable to public sector enterprises in Egypt. In
particular, such enterprises have managerial authority identical to wholly
owned private companies in all the critical areas of profit retention,
investment decisions, hiring, termination and remuneration of staff and
incentive policies.  The loan proceeds will finance 100% of the cost of
direct imports. In the case of relatively small SSI projects, it is
possible that the entrepreneus may, in some cases, prefer to purchase
machinery of foreign origin already imported into the country by machinery
dealers. In such cases of "off the shelf" purchases, 60% of the local
purchase cost will be eligible for financing out of the loan proceeds.
1/ For the purposes of this project, SSI are defined as in Para 5.06 and
SMI are defined as enterprises employing up to 150 workers or with
fixed assets excluding land and buildings up to LE 1.0 million.



- 20 -
5.04      While the objective of the project is to assist the SSI sector
within the private industrial sector in Egypt to acquire modern equipment
and improve productivity, no specific allocation is proposed for financing
SSI projects out of the amount of $118.5 million earmarked for this
component, given the fungibility of resources available to DIB for on-
lending. Instead, it has been agreed that DIB will devote an increasing
share of its total term loan operations to SSI. Experience during the
implementation of the past loans to DIB has shown that the quality of DIB's
lending to SSI, in terms of quality cif projects financed as well as quality
of project appraisal is satisfactory; this will continue to be reviewed on
an ex-post basis under this loan. As the loan will meet 65% of DIB's
foreign currency needs during 1982-1983, a substantial number of SSI pro-
jects are likely to be financed out of Bank funds.
5.05      DIB will allocate at least 30% of its total term loan approvals in
1982 to SSI, to be increased to 35% in 1983, to 40% in 1984, further to up
to 50% in the years thereafter provided a review of DIB's SSI lending be
carried out before the end of 1984 confirms the feasibility of the increase
proposed for 1985. Otherwise the level of 40% will be maintained in any
case. In 1978, the share of SSI in DIB's total term lending was 20%, which
increased to about 30% in 1979-80. However about 35% of DIB's lending to
SSI in 1979-80 was financed out of the OSF loan, which was onlent at con-
cessional interest rates to SSI. The OSF loan being exhausted, the agreed
targets represent a significant increase in DIB's commitment to SSI
lending. Agreement was also reached during negotiations that within the
SSI lending to be carried out by DIB, an amount of at least $20 million
will be allocated over the three year period (1982-1984) to relatively
"smaller" SSI projects.
5.06      Under the Bank's fourth loan to DIB, SSI were defined  as
enterprises with fixed assets not exceeding LE 200,000 (excluding land and
buildings). After allowing for inflation, and the changes in equipment
needs of SSI in Egypt, SSI will be defined, under the proposed project, as
enterprises with fixed assets (excluding land and buildings) not exceeding
LE 300,000 in 1981 prices. The ceil.ing of LE 300,000 will be revised
annually in line with the increase in the wholesale price index in Egypt.
"Smaller" SSI projects were defined tnder the fourth loan as enterprises
whose fixed assets, excluding land and buildings did not exceed
LE 100,000. Making the same adjustment the fixed assets ceiling will be
revised to LE 150,000 in 1981 prices and also revised annually in line with
the wholesale price index.
B. Technical Assistance for SMI
1. Background
5.07      Under this component, a comprehensive technical assistance program
will be implemented at a foreign currency cost of $1.0 million based on
experience of the pilot program for technical assistance initiated under



- 21 -
the DIB III project. 1/ The pilot program was confined to SSI and
comprised the following components: (i) technical extension services to SSI
in the engineering, metalworking, plastics, woodworking and furniture
making trades; (ii) skill upgrading of workers in engineering, metal-
working, woodworking and furniture trades; (iii) industrial management
training for owners and managers of small industry; and (iv) accelerated
training for unskilled or semiskilled workers in the engineering trades.
The first three components of the pilot program were implemented by EIDDC
in Cairo and the fourth component was to be implemented by the Productivity
and Vocational Training Department (PVT) of the Ministry of Industry in
Cairo and Alexandria. Although the pilot program was designed to assist
SSI in general, it was expected that many of the beneficiary SSI firms
would be existing or potential clients of DIB. The foreign exchange cost
of the pilot program, estimated at $200,000 ($80,000 for vehicles and
machinery, $110,000 for 24 staff months of advisory assistance and $10,000
for fellowships) was financed under the Bank loan while the local cost of
LE200,000 ($280,000) was provided by the Government. The pilot program was
funded for a trial period of 18 months after which it was planned to
enlarge and redesign the program as appropriate taking into account the
lessons of the pilot stage.
5.08     Evaluation of the Pilot Program.  A detailed evaluation of the
pilot program is provided in Annex 10. Briefly, initiation of the pilot
program was delayed by two years because the subloan agreement between DIB
and the Government to enable DIB to provide foreign currency funds to EIDDC
was not concluded until May 1979, and subsequently further delays took
place in hiring the technical extension expert for EIDDC who began work
only in May 1980. Both EIDDC and PVT also encountered delays in obtaining
the local currency funds committed by Government; this held up other
preparatory actions. As a result, the pilot program has been in operation
for only about a year. Increases in the costs of employing foreign
advisors due to the delay necessitated a reduction in the scope of the
pilot program. Conseqently, EIDDC could not implement the management
development component of the pilot program. Although sufficient time has
not elapsed to permit a full evaluation, a preliminary review of the
program components enables the following conclusions. (i) The operation of
the technical extension unit indicates that the original concept and design
are sound and are being implemented in an effective manner even though the
original numerical targets have not been attained. The unit has taken an
active promotional approach in seeking out and assisting clients. The
foreign advisor provided under the pilot program has been involved in
on-the-job training of staff of the unit in extension techniques including
carrying out diagnostic surveys and developing data recording and analysis
procedures for evaluation of the unit's work. The advisor's work has been
highly appreciated both by EIDDC and the beneficiary SSI firms. (ii) In the
field of training, EIDDC has completed two four-week training programs
designed especially for upgrading the skills of SSI owners and skilled
1/ For details, see Supplemental Letter No. 3, Loan 1533-EGT, dated
April 12, 1978.



- 22 -
workers in the engineering and woodworking fields. An important finding
from this experience is that SSI owners and managers are more interested in
attending short-term (2 to 4 week) courses to upgrade skills which cause
less disruption of their normal activities, rather than long-term (6 month)
courses. Although the number of trairning days falls short of original
targets, the performance on the whole is satisfactory given the teething
problems involved. (iii) PVT successfully completed the component for
accelerated training in various engineering skills (machining, fitting,
welding, sheet metal work, automobile repair, etc.).  A total of 675
trainees successfully completed the training courses. The trainees were
drawn mainly from existing SSI establishments in Cairo and Alexandria.
Preliminary inquiries indicate that SSI owners are satisfied with the
training program. In view of the generally satisfactory implementation of
the pilot program, additional funding was arranged through UNDP and Bank
funds from an existing loan to continue the pilot program up to June 30,
1982.
2. The Proposed Program
5.09     The pilot program which was designed to provide services on a
limited scale will now be expanded in size, scope and regional coverage and
will include medium scale industries also. The enlarged program which is
expected to commence by June 30, 1982, will be implemented by the Small
Industry Development Department (SIDD) of EIDDC which has been organized as
a separate department in EIDDC with the manager reporting directly to the
General Director. The proposed program aims to provide extension services
and training to SMI in both technical and management fields and also to
establish a unit for promotion of subcontracting. The foreign currency
cost of the proposed program is estimated at $1.0 million (para 5.11) and
the local currency cost of LE 355,000. Proposed financing arrangements are
described in para 5.23. While the program is aimed at SMI in general,
DIB's clients will receive priority in obtaining technical assistance
serviced from EIDDC. The existing close cooperation between DIB and EIDDC
has been formalized in a protocol between the two institutions (para
5.24). It is proposed to exclude the accelerated training component for
semi-skilled workers from the proposed program since Bank support is not
required for continuation of this component. Both the Government and PVT
have confirmed that they will continue to provide accelerated training to
SSI workers in future years.
5.10 Program Components and Costs. The proposed program will have the
following components:
(i) Technical extension services for SMI, to be provided by six mobile
teams, four based in Cairo and two in Alexandria;
(ii)  Financial and Management Services for SMI, to be provided by a new
unit to be set up in SIDD in Cairo;
(iii)  Training for SMI owners and managers to be provided by EIDDC in
Cairo and Alexandria;



- 23 -
(iv) Subcontracting and Information Services for SMI, to be provided by
a new subcontracting exchange to be set up in SIDD in Cairo; and
(v) Training for SIDD and EIDDC staff through training courses and
study tours abroad.
5.11 Costs. The total cost of the proposed technical assistance program
over the 2-1/2 year period (July 1, 1982-December 31, 1984), broken down
according to components is estimated as below:
Component                          Total Cost
Foreign ($)   Local (LE)
(i)   Technical Extension Services               204,000        162,200
(ii)  Financial and Management Services         168,000         51,750
(iii) Training for SMI                                -         42,500
(iv)  Subcontracting Exchange                   151,000         36,150
(v)   Staff Training                            140,000            -
Subtotal                                663,000        292,600
Administration & Contingencies                  304,607         63,000
Total Cost                             $967,607      LE355,600
The foreign currency cost includes; (i) 60 staffmonths of foreign advisory
services at a rate of about $7,500/staffmonth, assuming that the experts
would be provided by ILO (see para 5.22) and that ILO scales of
compensation and allowances would apply, (ii) equipment and vehicles, (iii)
computer software for the subcontracting exchange and (iv) ILO support
costs for recruitment of foreign advisors (para 5.22). The detailed
program budget is provided in Annex 11, and financing arrangements are
discussed in para 5.23. The program components are described below.
(i) Technical Extension Services for SMI
5.12     The existing technical extension unit in Cairo is expected to
increase its staffing from three engineers to five engineers by July 1981
which will enable it to form two mobile teams for undertaking diagnostic
visits. The unit will be further expanded to four mobile teams by December
31, 1983 by adding 6 extension officers to its staff. The Cairo based unit
will serve SMI located in the greater Cairo region including Tanta. A new
extension unit will be established in Alexandria to serve enterprises in
that region. The Alexandria based extension unit is expected to begin
operations with one mobile team by December 31, 1982 and build up to two
teams comprising five extension officers by December 31, 1983. Each of the



- 24 -
technical extension units will be managed by a senior engineer designated
as a national expert. The national experts would be hired on contract at
salaries competitive with the private sector, which would enable EIDDC to
attract and retain highly qualified and experienced professionals for
supervisory positions. On the basis that each team is capable of under-
taking diagnostic surveys of 100 firms per year (a level which has been
achieved under the pilot program), the Cairo and Alexandria units should be
able to cover over 600 firms per year, and thus be able to assist almost
all of DIB's new and existing SMI clients  who apply for loans each year
(projected to number around 600-700 per year over 1981-84). It is anti-
cipated that about 10%-15% of the firms participating in the diagnostic
survey will require specialized back-up services from EIDDC's facilities to
resolve more complex problems. EIDDC is well-equipped and staffed to
handle this projected demand. The new program provides for a foreign
advisor on extension services to provide on-the-job training to the staff
of the extension unit for a further period of two years (July 1982-July
1984). The incumbent advisor is expected to continue in the post for this
period.
(ii) Financial and Management Services for SMI
5.13     As mentioned in para 5.08, lack of funds prevented EIDDC from
implementing the management development component of the pilot program.
The growing domesLic market and greater availability of raw materials and
finance have generated strong growth pressures in the SMI sector. However,
for most SMI entrepreneurs, weaknesses in management as well as lack of
knowledge of finance and marketing have created conditions inimical to
successful diversification and expansion. This is an area where SMI
managers and owners (particularly in firms with 20-100 workers) need
assistance and guidance.
5.14     A new management services unit will therefore be established in
SIDD under the proposed program with the following functions:
(a) to provide consulting assistance to SMI enterprises on finance
(e.g. cost accounting, pricing, financial planning), production
management (e.g. production planning, scheduling, inventory
control), administration, organization and personnel management
and marketing (e.g. advertising, pricing, distribution networks,
market research). The unit will complement the activities of the
technical extension unit and collaborate as needed in assisting
entreprises. For complex problems requiring a sustained level of
assistance, enterprises could be referred to other agencies (e.g.
local universities);
(b) to assist entrepreneurs to prepare feasibility studies/reports on
new and expansion projects for submission to DIB for financing;
(c) undertake research and studies including: collecting information
dealing with legislation, regulation and taxation affecting SMIs;



- 25 -
collecting and analyzing data on SMI using inter-firm comparison
techniques; preparing model feasibility reports on potential
projects which can be implemented by SMI; undertaking market
research in product areas where SMI predominate, collecting data
on export markets for SMI products, etc.; and
(d) assist EIDDC's Training Department in designing management
development courses suitable for SMI owners and managers,
including developing and adapting teaching aids and materials for
the courses. The unit's experience with assisting SMI in solving
actual management problems could provide case studies for use in
training.
The unit would be staffed by three management analysts specializing
respectively in industrial marketing, finance and production management, an
industrial economist, and a training specialist. The unit would be managed
by a national expert with substantial training and experience in business
management or economics. The program provides for a foreign adviser on
management development and training with extensive experience in small
industry management problems for two years (July 1982-July 1984) to help
develop working methods and training programs and provide on-the-job
training to the staff. Recruitment of staff and other steps to establish
the unit will commence from July 1, 1982 and the unit should be operational
by December 31, 1982.
(iii)  Training for SMI
5.15     Under the pilot program, EIDDC had developed and implemented a
limited number of training courses primarily aimed at upgrading the skills
of workers from small scale enterprises in the metalworking and woodworking
fields. The expanded program proposes to introduce a wider range of
courses covering both technical and management development and to increase
the number of training days. Drawing on the experience gained during the
pilot program (para 5.08) it is proposed that EIDDC will organize and hold
10-12 courses of 2-4 week duration, representing about 100-120 training
days specifically aimed at upgrading technical and management skills of
small industry owners and managers. Technical courses will cover subjects
in the engineering field (e.g. reading blueprints, analyzing fits and
tolerances, design of jigs and fixtures, process design, operation of
specialized machine tools, etc.). Management development courses will be
geared to the need of managers from small industry and will cover
accounting, production management, marketing, procurement, labor law, etc.
The courses will be taught in the evenings in both Cairo and Alexandria by
the staff of EIDDC's Training Department and the Management Services Unit
as well as by management teachers recruited from local universities and
PVT. The training officer in the Management Services Unit will be
responsible for designing and organizing the training programs. The
foreign advisor on management development will be extensively involved in
developing course designs, teaching aids and training local staff



-. 26 -
(iv) Subcontracting and Information Services for SMI
5.16     The modernization and expansion of public sector firms and the
establishment of new joint venture private sector firms in the engineering
industries, particularly those manufacturing consumer durables, transport
equipment and electrical and mechanical machinery, have created new oppor-
tunities for small and medium scale enterprises to develop as suppliers of
intermediate components and sub-assemblies and services to these larger
firms. In particular, the public sector appears to have somewhat relaxed
its complicated procurement regulations which essentially restricted it to
purchasing all goods and services from or through other public sector
organizations. SMI in Egypt are thus entering a new phase in their
development as potential producers of intermediate products and components
for large enterprises rather than being confined to producing goods and
services mainly for the final consumer market. This process could be
guided and accelerated if active steps are taken to foster linkages between
potential buyers and suppliers.
5.17     EIDDC as an arm of GOFI and because of its close linkages with
both private and public sector companies is in an ideal position to promote
subcontracting linkages between SMI and larger enterprises. A small unit
in SIDD will therefore be established, commencing from July 1, 1982 to
promote subcontracting whose major functions would be: (a) to develop and
maintain an up-to-date computerized information system utilizing a computer
recently acquired by EIDDC, which would contain data on SMI firms
interested in subcontracting, e.g. list of machinery, capacity, skills,
record of performance, etc. for evaluating the capability of firms for ful-
filling orders with facility for quick access to specific data needs; and
(b) to promote subcontracting opportunities between large and small firms
by: (i) contacting large firms to encourage purchase of products, compo-
nents and sub-assemblies from smaller firms on a subcontracting basis; (ii)
providing information to large firms on capabilities, competitiveness,
delivery dates, etc. of potential suppliers; (iii) assisting large firms to
purchase their requirements through competitive procurement practices; and
(c) assisting small and medium size firms with technological and management
problems encountered in filling subcontracts with the assistance of the
extension unit.
5.18     EIDDC will need to work closely with DIB, the Federation of
Egyptian Industry including the various Chambers of Industry affiliated
with the Federation, and GOFI to collect data for the information system to
be established in the exchange and to publicize the functions of the
exchange among public and private enterprises. The Federation, which
represents all public and private industrial enterprises with over 25
workers has agreed to actively support the establishment of the exchange by
providing information on its members and hosting seminars where EIDDC staff
can discuss the objectives and functions of the exchange with the
Federation's members. In the engineering sector, where the potential for
fostering subcontracting is the highest, the Chamber of Engineering and
EIDDC already have a linkage. The Director General of EIDDC is a member of



- 27 -
the Board of the Chamber of Engineering while the Director of the
Engineering Chamber is on the Board of EIDDC. To ensure close cooperation
and an unimpeded exchange of information on a long-term basis between EIDDC
and the Federation, the two institutions have agreed, at the Bank's sug-
gestion, to formalize their agreement to cooperate through an exchange of
letters. EIDDC would send a letter to the Federation outlining the
objectives and functions of the exchange, the information needed on members
and the support desired from the Federation in publicizing the functions of
the exchange.  The Federation has agreed to confirm in writing its willing-
ness to fully cooperate with EIDDC's request for information and publi-
cizing the functions of the exchange among its members. The exchange of
letters is expected to be accomplished by June 30, 1982. EIDDC will also
be able to obtain information on DIB's SMI clients on a regular basis under
the protocol of cooperation between DIB and EIDDC (para 5.24). The unit
would also be responsible for publicizing the activities of SIDD including
developing and distributing information materials (brochures, phamplets,
etc.) relating to recent developments in technology, management, investment
opportunities, training opportunities, financing availability, etc.
affecting SMI.
5.19     The subcontracting unit would be headed by an engineer with
substantial experience (10-15 years) covering a wide range of engineering
industries. To enable EIDDC to recruit an adequately qualified individual
for the position, the post of the unit chief has been designated as that of
a national expert.  In addition, the unit would be staffed with a sub-
contracting specialist (mechanical/electrical engineer) and an information
specialist to assist with the operation of the computerized information
system. The program provides for a foreign advisor on subcontracting for
six months (July 1982 - December 1982) to provide guidance in establishing
the exchange.
(v) Training of Staff
5.20     An essential prerequisite to the development of an effective
technical assistance program is to build up a core group of competent and
dedicated advisory staff in SIDD and EIDDC. Consequently, the program
provides resources for staff training and development (through training
courses, study tours, etc.) in institutions outside Egypt. Fellowships for
training approximately twelve staff members of the extension and management
services units are included in the program budget as well as funds for
study tours.
3. Organization, Management and Staffing
5.21     The program will be implemented under the overall supervision of
the General Director of EIDDC, who has actively participated in designing
the expanded program. The direct responsibility for managing the program
rests on the Manager of the SIDD, who has substantial experience in
assisting small industry both within and outside EIDDC. Each of the four
units - technical extension services (2), management and training services



- 28 -
and sub-contracting and information services - will be supervised by a unit
Chief reporting to the departmental manager. The unit chiefs who would be
national experts recruited at salaries competitive with the private sector,
would manage the individual units and work closely with the foreign
advisors on staffing training and development. The technical staff of SIDD
will increase from the present four to 22 over the next 2-1/2 years . The
bulk of the additional technical staff are likely to be recruited from
EIDDC's existing staff. The current and projected staff of SIDD is shown
in Annex 12.
5.22     Under the pilot program, EIDDC has subcontracted with the Inter-
national Labor Organization (ILO) to obtain the services of the foreign
advisor, as well as procure vehicles and supplies. This administrative
arrangement has worked smoothly and helped EIDDC to establish an equitable
compensation package for the foreign advisor and procure vehicles and other
supplies at competitive prices. ILO charges its standard fees for this
service. EIDDC and the Government have expressed interest in continuing
with this arrangement under the new program. The job description of the
three foreign experts, which have been reviewed and are satisfactory to the
Bank, who would be obtained through ILO are given in Annexes 13, 14 and 15.
The CV's of the foreign experts suggested by ILO would be reviewed by the
Bank prior to their assignment and the experts would be employed in
accordance with the Bank's guidelines on recruitment of consultants.
4. Financing Arrangements
5.23     The foreign and local currency costs of the proposed technical
assistance program for the two and a half year period (July, 1982-December
31, 1984) are estimated at about $1.0 million and LE 355,000, respectively
(Annex 11).   A commitment for this period is essential to ensure sustained
financial support for the program and to remove any uncertainties which may
adversely affect program implementation. The Government's concurrence to
the overall design of the TA program including provision for foreign
advisory services was therefore obtained.   An amount of $1.0 million is
proposed to be allocated under the loan for the foreign exchange costs of
the TA program, which would be on lent by DIB to the Government, to be
passed on in turn to EIDDC as a grant. The Government, and not DIB or
EIDDC, will thus effectively be responsible for the repayment of this
amount. This was the arrangement under which the foreign currency cost of
the pilot program was covered. The Government has indicated that it would
prefer to use soft funds to meet the foreign costs of the TA program rather
than using Bank funds. This is an acceptable alternative. If, therefore,
at any point in future, the Government is able to obtain soft funds to
continue the TA program, the unspent balance of the allocation of $1.0
million would be available to DIB for its lending operations. The local
currency requirements would be provided to EIDDC by the Government from its
annual budget. However, since DIB's clients are to receive priority in
obtaining technical assistance under the program, DIB has agreed to provide
LE 70,000 p.a. from a special fund generated from the interest spread
available under the OPEC Special Fund loan to supplement the local currency



- 29 -
cost of the program. These funds would be utilized by EIDDC to hire
national experts on contract and to supplement staff salaries through
incentive payments as needed, which would permit hiring and retention of
capable staff.
5.24     Protocol of Cooperation Between DIB and EIDDC.  Since DIB's
clients are to receive priority in obtaining technical assistance under the
program and moreover, since DIB has agreed to finance a part of the local
currency costs of the program, both DIB and EIDDC have formalized this
understanding in a protocol. The protocol specifies the services to be
provided by EIDDC to DIB's clients including assistance towards preparing
project feasibility reports for appraisal by DIB. It also includes DIB's
obligation in referring and providing information to EIDDC on its clients
in need of technical assistance as well as its commitment towards financing
a part of the local currency costs of the program. The protocol provides
for joint reviews of the program by the two institutions on a periodic
basis. The protocol has been reviewed and is considered satisfactory to
the Bank.
5 Monitoring and Evaluation of Implementation
5.25     Monitoring.  Under the pilot program, EIDDC reported to the Bank,
on a quarterly basis, the progress of implementation of the technical
extension service component. These reports provide data on the number of
firms participating in the diagnostic survey, the number of firms obtaining
back-up services from EIDDC's facilities and the nature of the assistance
provided and the number of project feasibility reports prepared by the
extension team. In the field of training, EIDDC reported on each training
course held, covering the subject area, number of participants and issues
affecting the effectiveness of the courses. This quarterly reporting
system has functioned effectively and EIDDC has agreed to continue to
provide such reports, which will be expanded in scope to cover the new
components to be implemented under the proposed program, throughout its
duration for the Bank's review, irrespective of the source of financing of
the TA program.
5.26     Evaluation.  In order to evaluate the performance of the units
providing technical extension and management services, EIDDC has agreed to
contact and collect information on about 10% of the participating firms (as
a sample) about 6 months after they receive the assistance. EIDDC will
develop appropriate standardized reporting formats for this purpose
covering the following:
(i) Quantifiable operational improvements (e.g. increased
productivity, cost savings observed) among SMIs that have
benefitted from the extension services;
(ii) Technical improvements, e.g.:



- 30 -
(a) New product development; use of new materials as input;
product quality improvements.
(b) Introduction of new or adaptation of manufacturing technology
- new tooling, jigs and fixture design, etc.
(c) Improvements in production technology, introduction of
improved plant/workshop layout, quality control, improved
industrial safety, etc.; and
(iii) Introduction of improved accounting, production planning,
marketing and other management procedures as appropriate.
5.27     In order to evaluate the subcontracting and information services
component, EIDDC will contact and survey 10% of the registered SMI sub-
contractors who have received contracts from large scale enterprises 6
months after the contracts have been fulfilled, and obtain the sub-
contractors' assessment of the effectiveness of the subcontracting exchange
and the technical assistance provided by the procuring firm. EIDDC will
also contract 10% of the large scale enterprises participating in the sub-
contracting program to obtain their assessment of the effectiveness of the
exchange in locating suitable subcontractors.
5.28     In order to evaluate the training component of the program, EIDDC
will survey about 10% of the participants of the various courses, three to
six months after completion of each course, and obtain the participants'
assessment of the design, utility and effectiveness of each course. The
Training Specialist in the Management Services Unit will be responsible for
preparing evaluation reports at annual intervals on the training component.
C. Technical Assistance to DIB
5.29     DIB has received considerable technical assistance from advisors
furnished by the Bank under the Second IDA Credit, as well as from USAID
and OECD grants since 1976. As a result, most of DIB's needs for critical
advisory services have been substantially met. Further, the substantial
program of management technical assistance funded by USAID, has just
commenced in October 1981 (para 4.09). DIB will now require Bank technical
assistance only for the following specific needs which are not covered by
either USAID or OECD grants. These have been identified during appraisal
as; (i) assistance in carrying out sector work, e.g., collection of market
data for important industrial subsectors; (ii) industry studies such as
investigation of problems common to specific industrial groups; (iii)
provision of on-the-job training to DIB staff in specific aspects of
project appraisal, particularly market analysis and economic evaluation
including use of shadow prices; (iv) training of DIB staff in project
appraisal techniques in institutions abroad; and (v) related office equip-
ment and training aids. It is therefore proposed to earmark an amount of
$0.5 million to meet the foreign exchange costs of the technical assistance
needed by DIB. The amount will cover 24 staff months of short-term



- 31 -
consultancy services, to be provided by suitable consultants who would be
selected according to Bank guidelines, at the rate of $12,500/staffmonth
($300,000) to cover items (i), (ii), and (iii) above; the cost of
sponsoring selected DIB staff for training courses abroad ($150,000) and
office equipment and training aids ($50,000). Any unutilized balance out
of the amount of $0.5 million will be available to DIB for onlending.
D. Loan Features
5.30     Lending Arrangements.  The loan is proposed to be made to DIB with
the guarantee of the Government. DIB will onlend the proceeds of the line
of credit of $118.5 million by making subloans to eligible enterprises
(para 5.03) for terms up to 15 years including a grace period up to 3-1/2
years. DIB will repay the loan to the Bank according to the aggregate
amortization schedule of the individual subloans and the two technical
assistance components. As a commitment period for subprojects of three
years is proposed from the date of signing of the loan, the final maturity
of the loan will thus fall within about 18 years. The amount of $1.0
million allocated for the technical assistance program for SMI and the
amount of $0.5 million allocated for technical assistance to DIB will also
be repaid to the Bank with a term of 18 years including a grace period of
3-1/2 years.
5.31     Subsidiary Loan Agreement.  In order to prevent recurrence of
delays which occurred in the initiation of the pilot TA program, and to
ensure that the new program commences by June 30, 1982, it is necessary
that a subsidiary loan agreement satisfactory to the Bank, onlending the
amount of $1.0 million allocated for the TA program for SMI be signed
between DIB and the Government by June 30, 1982. It has therefore been
agreed during negotiations that further subloan applications from DIB shall
not be entertained by the Bank after June 30, 1982 if for any reason the
subsidiary loan agreement is not signed by that date until the subsidiary
loan agreement is signed. This condition is considered essential to ensure
that the entire package of financial and technical assistance for SMI
designed under the project is implemented in a coordinated manner on
schedule to enable DIB's prospective SMI subborrowers to receive technical
assistance when needed.
5.32     Onlending Rates and Foreign Exchange Risk.  DIB's foreign currency
onlending rate would be a minimum of 13%.  As discussed in para. 3.07 DIB
applies differentiated interest rates for various subsectors and this is
expected to continue. DIB has agreed to maintain an arrange spread of 2.5%
over the cost of loan proceeds.  The proposed minimum rate would be
marginally positive in real terms over the life of the subloans. The
differential in the interest rates is in line with sectoral priorities and
appears to be appropriate. As agreed under previous Bank loans to DIB, the
subborrowers will assume the Bank's commitment charge and the foreign
exchange risk between the Egyptian Pound and the US dollar. Sub-borrowers
will be obligated to repay their subloans in local currency in an amount
equivalent to the foreign exchange loan at the highest exchange rate



- 32 -
declared by the Central Bank of Egypt at the time of repayment. The
Government will bear the foreign exchange risk between the US dollar and
the currencies owed to the Bank. In order to ensure that DIB's lending
rate remain positive over the life of the subloans, reflect the real cost
of capital in Egypt and are generally in line with interest rates in
international markets, it was agreed that DIB will annually review
itslending rates with the Bank, including the feasibility of eliminating
the compensatory deposits required by DIB from its foreign currency
borrowers, accompanied by an appropriate increase in the nominal interest
rate.
5.33     Free Limit.  The free limit for subloans is proposed to be $1.0
million. The free limit was fixed at $650,000 under the Bank's fourth
loan. The proposed free limit of $1.0 million is considered appropriate
after a review of DIB's project pipeline, its appraisal capability and
after adjustment for inflation. There would be no aggregate free limit.
After a review of DIB's project pipeline and the increased allocation for
SSI projects, it is expected that about 15-20 subprojects accounting for
about $60 million or 50% of the loan will be over the free limit and will
be submitted to the Bank for prior review before DIB's approval.
5.34     Limit for Larger Subloans.  In order to ensure that a large number
of borrowers benefit from the Bank loan, it is proposed that the total
amount, which may be utilized by DIB for making subloans exceeding $5.0
million each, will be limited to $40 million (i.e. one-third of the loan).
5.35     Financial and Economic Rates of Return.  Under the Bank's fourth
loan, DIB was required to calculate economic rates of return for all
subloans above $650,000 and for all projects, proposed for Bank financing,
whose capital cost exceeded LE 800,000. It is proposed to keep these
thresholds unchanged, and in addition stipulate that DIB will also
calculate financial rates of return for all such projects. A minimum
financial rate of return equal to the interest rate applicable to the
foreign currency subloan will be required and a minimum economic rate of
return of 12% will be required for such projects to be eligible for Bank
financing.
5.36     Debt/Equity Ratio.  After the increase in capital to LE 25.0
million is paid in by December 1981 DIB's debt/equity ratio will be
4.9:1. The debt/equity ratio is expected to reach the existing limit of
7:1 in 1984. In order to enable DIB to mobilize additional resources and
considering the soundness of its loan portfolio, it is proposed to raise
the ratio limit to 8:1.
5.37     Procurement and Disbursement.  It is proposed that DIB would
follow its normal international shopping procedures with comparison of
offers from more than one supplier. Review of DIB's procurement procedures
in the course of subloan review has established that these procedures are
satisfactory and result in procurement of suitable goods at a reasonable
price. The Bank loan will be disbursed against 100% of the foreign
expenditures and 60% of the local purchase cost of "off the shelf" purchase



- 33 -
of equipment already imported by machinery dealers. Disbursements under
the proposed loan will be made against standard documentation.
5.38     Other Features.  The final date for submission of subloans is
proposed to be December 31, 1984 and the closing date for disbursements,
December 31, 1986. Other terms and conditions of the loan are proposed to
be those applicable to normal Bank loans to DFCs.
E. Project Benefits and Risks
5.39     The proposed project is a continuation of the efforts to develop
adequate institutional capacity in Egypt to promote and finance the
development of the private industrial sector. The Bank's continued support
to DIB will contribute to the strengthening of DIB as an institution. The
technical assistance program for SMI will provide urgently needed technical
extension services to SMI and the management and financial consultancy
services to be provided would help improve the efficiency and competitive-
ness of the SMI sector by introduction of more modern management and
costing systems. Finally, the subcontracting exchange to be set up under
the project will further the linkages between the SMI sector and large
scale public and private sector enterprises. The projects financed
previously by DIB exhibited ex ante ERR ranging between 20% and 58% and
subprojects under the proposed loan should have similar returns. All
subprojects involving loans in excess of $650,000 will have to show a
minimum ERR of 12%.
5.40     Project risks relate mainly to two areas.  Firstly, DIB's ability
to recruit and retain capable staff is constrained by public sector salary
guidelines applicable to DIB staff. Though at present the situation seems
to be manageable, DIB does face the difficult task of recruiting additional
qualified personnel to sustain its projected rate of growth. Secondly, the
implementation of the technical assistance program for SMI requires strong
support from the Government, assembly of dedicated extension staff, and
awareness of the importance of the program among the agencies and officials
involved. However, the sustained improvement in DIB's institutional and
operational aspects and the generally satisfactory implementation of the
pilot TA program supports the view that on the whole, project risks are
reasonable and acceptable.
VI. RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01     During negotiations, agreements were reached with the
Government that:
(i) The Government will implement the TA program for SMI as proposed
in para 5.09 - 5.20, through EIDDC, commencing by June 30, 1982
(para 5.09).
(ii) An amount of $1.0 million would be allocated from the Bank loan to
cover the foreign currency costs of the program. The amount of



- 34 -
$1.0 million will be borrowed by the Government from DIB with a
repayment term of 18 years including 3-1/2 years grace from the
date of signing of the Bank loan and with interest and other
charges the same as the Bank loan to DIB (para 5.23);
(iii) The Government will in turn make the proceeds under (i) available
on a grant basis to EIDDC. The Government and not DIB or EIDDC
will thus in effect be responsible for the repayment of the amount
of ($1.0 million) (para 5.23);
(iv)  If, at any time during the implementation of the TA program for
SMI, the Government obtains and allocates soft funds to continue
the financing of the foreign costs of the program, the unspent
balance of the subloan of $1.0 million would be available to DIB
to be used for making subloans (para 5.23);
(v) The Government will bear the local currency costs of the TA
program for SMI estimated at LE 355,000 and make the necessary
funds available to EIDDC through annual budgetary appropriations
(para 5.23);
(vi)  The Government will assume the foreign exchange risk between the
US dollar and the other currencies owed to the Bank (para 5.31).
6.02      The following agreements were reached with DIB:
(i) DIB will utilize the loan proceeds for financing projects
exclusively in the private sector, including joint venture
projects approved under Law 43 (para 5.03);
(ii)  DIB will allocate out of its total term loan approvals, 30% in
1982, 35% in 1983, 40% in 1984, and 40-50% in 1985 to SSI as
defined in para 5.06, provided that a review to be carried out by
the Bank and DIB before the end of 1984, confirms the feasibility
of the increase (para 5.05);
(iii) DIB will allocate at least $20.0 million in foreign currency loan
approvals to "smaller" SSI during the three year period 1982-1984
(para 5.05);
(iv) For (i) and (ii) above, SSI will be defined as enterprises whose
fixed assets, excluding land and buildings, do not exceed
LE 300,000 in 1981 prices and "smaller" SSI will be defined as
enterprises whose fixed assets, excluding land and buildings, do
not exceed LE 150,000 in 1981 prices. The fixed asset ceilings
will be revised annually in accordance with the increase in the
wholesale price index in Egypt (para 5.06);
(v) Subloans would be for a maximum term of 15 years including 3-1/2
years of grace and bear interest at a minimum rate of 13%. The



- 35 -
foreign exchange risk between the Egyptian pound and US dollar
will be borne by the subborrowers (paras 5.30, 5.32);
(vi) In the event that a Subsidiary Loan Agreement onlending the amount
of $1.0 million to finance the foreign exchange cost of the
technical assistance program for SMI is not signed by June 30,
1982, further subloan applications from DIB shall not be
entertained by the Bank after that date, until such Subsidiary
Loan Agreement is signed (para. 5.31);
(vii) DIB will review its lending rates annually with the Bank (para
5.32);
(viii) The free limit for individual subloans will be $1.0 million (para
5.33);
(ix) Not more than $40.0 million would be utilized for individual
subloans exceeding $5.0 million out of the proposed loan (para
5.34);
(x) DIB will continue to calculate financial and economic rates of
return for all projects requiring subloans exceeding $650,000 and
for all projects whose total costs exceed LE 800,000 proposed for
Bank financing. A minimum ERR of 12% and a minimum FRR equal to
the interest rate applicable to the foreign currency sub-loan will
be required for financing such projects under the Bank loan (para
5.35);
(xi) DIB's long term debt/equity ratio will not be permitted to exceed
8:1 (para 5.36);
(xii) The last date for submission of subloans under the project will be
December 31, 1984 and the closing date for disbursements will be
December 31, 1986 (para 5.38);
(xiii) DIB will review with the Bank, prior to their implementation, the
recommendations which would be made by the consultants appointed
under the USAID program for management consultancy services for
DIB (para 4.10);
(xiv) An amount of $500,000 will be allocated for provision for
technical assistance to DIB as described in para 5.29. Unspent
balances out of this allocation, if any, would be used by DIB for
making subloans. The amounts used for obtaining technical
assistance and other purposes as described in para 5.29 will be
repaid by DIB with a term of 18 years including 3-1/2 years grace
from the date of signing the loan, and with interest and other
charges the same as the Bank loan to DIB (para 5.30).
6.03     Subject to the understandings and conditions listed above, the
proposed project is suitable for a Bank loan of $120.0 million.



EGYPT - DEVELOPMENT INDUSTRIAL BANK
Summary of Operations  1978-1980   (LE '000)
1978                   1979                   1980
Years Ending December 31           No.     Amount         No.     Amount         No.     Amount
Approvals
Short-Term Loans                  218      12,626        285      12,447        472      20,814
(Local Currency)
Medium and Long-Term Loans
Foreign Currency                 89      18,037        111      28,796        164      46,299
Local Currency                  566      17,291        685      18,992        921      26,761
Total Medium and Long-Term        655      35,328        796      47,788                 73,060
Commitments
Short-Term Loans                  162       6,553        267       9,433        553      14,882
(Local Currency)
Medium and Long-Term Loans
Foreign Currency                 72      12,924         89      16,043        124      27,775
Local Currency                  525      14,366        663      16,576        851      26,426
Total Medium and Long-Term        597      27,290        752      32,619        975      54,201
Disbursements
Short-Term Loans                   -        9,156         -        9,524         -       20,112
(Local Currency)
Medium and Long-Term Loans
Foreign Currency                 -        5,776         -       16,041         -       20,463
Local Currency                   -       13,068         -       18,973         -       26,399
Total Medium and Long-Term         -       18,844         -       35,041         -       46,862
Equity Investments                                                                                                    x
Approvals                                    -             1         175          2          434
Commitments                                  -             1         175          2          434
Disbursements                                 260         -          303         -           470



-  37  -
EGYPT - DEVELOPMENT INDUSTRIAL BANK                                                 Annex 2
Analysis of Term Loan Approvals - (1978-1980)             (LE '000)
1978                             1979                              1980
No.       Amount       27        No.        Amount       e         No.       Amount        '7
1. BY Size of Loans
LE       1- 16,000                   431       2,064         6         551       2,977        6          709       4,075        6
LE 16,001- 51,000                     97       2,723         8         114       3,826        8          177       5,468        7
LE 51,001-100,000                     49       3,869        11          52       3,744         8          85       6,563        9
LE 100,000-500,000                    59       9,696        27          58      12,845       27           94      30,153       41
Over LE 500,000                       19      16,976       48           21      24,396       51           20      26J801       37
655-     35,328      100          796     47.786       100       1,085       73.060      1o0
2. By Sectors
Puiblic Sector                         5       4,362       12            3       3,898        8            8      11,475       16
Private Sector: SSI's                549       6,963       20          696      15,770        33         970      20,716       28
Private Sector: Other                 97      23,856       68           92      28,013        59         105     40,578        56
Cooperatives                           4         147       -             5         1o,,      -             2         291       -
655      35,328      100          796      47,788      100       1,085      73,060       100
3. By Term of Loans
I -  3 years                      179          457        1           94         363        1         113       1,126         2
3.1 -  5 years                       332       6,591       19          518       6,455       13         856      17,872        24
5.1 - 10 years                       135      21,861       62          172      27,420       57         112      46,567        64
more than 10 vears                     9       6,419        18          12      13,550       29            4       7,495       10
655      35,328      100         796      47,788-      100       1,085      73,060       100
4. By Size of Fixed Assets
of Borrowers
Less than LE 50,000                  464       2,895         8         591       5,658       12          826      10,365       14
LE 50,001 -100,000                    44         973         3          64       2,209        5           60       2,558        4
LE 100,001-170,000                    42       2,765        8           25       1,505        3           58       4,237        6
LE 170,001-500,000                    57       5,324        15          55       9,957       20           48       5,776        8
LE 500,001-1.0 million                17       2,846        8           25       3,894        8           42       8,460       12
Over LE 1.0 million                   31      20,525       58           36      24,565       52           51     41,664        56
655      35,328      100          796     47,788       100       1,085      73,060       100
5. By Industrial Sub-Sector
Food Processing                       55       9,468        27          76      15,597       33          110      11,302       15
Textiles                             108       6,539       18           92       3,905        8          131       6,579        9
Building and ConstruJction            27       1,791         5          29       6,125       13           79      18,925       26
Tourism and Hotels                    37       6,198       17           45       9,598       21           35       9,549       13
Printing and Paper                    24         971         3          36       1,210        2           40       1,773        2
Mineral and Engineering              225       3,983        11         302       5,789       12          385       7,706       11
Chemicals                             49       2,333         7          40       2,531        5           59       9,612       13
Wood Industries                       68       2,427         7          86       1,212         2         102       3,281        4
Leather                               23         290         1          27         325        1           31         256        -
other                                 39       1,328        4           63       1,496        3          113       4,077        7
655      35, 328     100         796      47,788       100       1,085      73,060       100
6. By Geographical Location
Cairo Zone                           218      18,608       52          256      21,647       45         331      30,856        42
Alexandria Zone                      218       4,999        14         229      13,816       29          210       7,575       10
Lower Egypt                          172       6,353        18         231       6,767       14         436       11,055       15
Upper Egypt                           40       3,744       11           73       5,510       12           92      17,440       24
Canal Zone                             7       1,624         5           7          48        -           16       6,134        9
655      35,328      100         796      47,788       100       1,085      73,060       100
7. By Purpose of Loans
Land and Buildings                    61      11,623       33           98       9,225       19           72      11,038       15
Machinery and Equipment              312      20,633        58         473      32,654       68          635      51,863       71
Working Capital                      272       3,026         9         245       5,909       13          375       9,956       14
Others                                10          46         -          -           -         -            3         203        -
655      35,328      100         796      47,788       100       1,085      73,060       100
8. By Type of Project
New Projects                          76      18,430        57         455      1t,956       35          651      29,954       41
Expansion/Modernization              307      13,872       43          106      24,924       52          141      35,799       49
Working Capital                      272       3,026        10         245       5,908       13          293       7,307       10
655      35,328      100         796      47,788       100       1,085      73,060       100
9. Bv Jobs Created in Projects
1- 9 Jobs                           375       2,186        6         481        3,873        8         658        5,785        8
10-24 Jobs                           114       2,887        8          125       3,082        6         188        7,466       10
25-49 Jobs                            68       3,591       10           75       4,693       10         112        8,633       12
50-99 Jobs                            42       5,881       1,           51      8,079        17          53       7,398        10
Over 100 Jobs                         56      20,783       59           64      28,061       59           74     43,778        60
655      35,328      100         796      47,788       100       1,085      73,060       100



-  38  -                           Annex 3
EGYPT: DEVELOPMENT INDUSTRIAL BANK
Condensed Income Statements
(1978-1980)               (LE '000)
For Years Ending December 31                  1978           1979           1980
INCOME
Interest on Deposits                           54.5          195.2          231.0
Interest on Local Currency Loans            2,360.6        4,356.7        8,202.1
Interest on Foreign Currency Loans          1,360.1        2,160.6        3,770.3
Other Income                                704.5          878.9        1,275.8
Total Income                             4,479.7         7,591.4       13,479.2
EXPENSES
Interest Paid to CBE                          411.1        1,391.1        2,770.4
Interest on Foreign Currency Debts            883.0        1,482.1        2,623.3
Other Interest                                150.3          157.6          279.4
Administrative Expenses                       890.8        1,310.5        1,635.4
Provisions for Doubtful Debts               1,027.0        1,400.5        2,335.0
Other Provisions                                1.1            1.1          136.4
Total Expenses                           3,363.3         5,742.9        9,779.9
Net Profit before Taxes                     1,116.4        1,848.5        3,699.3
Taxes Paid                                    775.4        1,092.5        1,984.3
Net Profit                                    341.0          756.0        1,715.0
Appropriations
Reserves                                       85.2          189.0          428.7
Dividends to CBE                              191.9          425.3          964.7
Dividends to Employees                         63.9          141.7          321.6
341.0          756.0       1,715.0
Ratios:
Profit before tax/Av. Equity (%)               11.0           12.0            9.7
Profit before tax/Av. Total Assets (%)          3.0            2.9            3.6
Admin. Expenses/Av. Total Assets (%)            2.3            2.1            1.6
Average Spread on Borrowing
(Excluding Deposits)(%)                         3.9            4.4            5.1



-  39  -                          Annex 4
EGYPT: DEVELOPMENT INDUSTRIAL BANK
Condensed Balance Sheets
(1978-1980)               (LE '000)
As of December 31                             1978           1979           1980
ASSETS
Current Assets
Cash and Banks                              1,360.7        3,762.2        4,333.9
Other Current Assets                          326.5        5,641.4        1,424.2
Total Current Assets                       l1687.2        9,403.6         5,758.1
Portfolio
Loans Outstanding                         46,096.5       75,059.7      121,828.5
(less: Provisions for doubtful debts)   (2,251.6)        (3,797.1)      (6,182.9)
Net Loans Outstanding                     43,844.9       71,262.6      115,645.1
Equity Investments                            571.4          845.1       1,482.9
(less: Provisions for likely losses)         (15.9)          (15.9)         (15.9)
Net Equity Investments                        555.5          829.2       1,467.0
Net Loans and Equity Portfolio            44,400.4       72,091.8      117,112.1
Net Fixed Assets                               16.0           16.0           16.0
Other Assets                                   -              17.0           84.6
Total Assets                              46,103.6       81,528.4      122,970.8
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
Current Liabilities
Demand Deposits                            1,340.8           967.7        1,712.2
Time Deposits                                 890.0          940.0          823.3
Total Current Liabilities                  2,230.8        1,907.7         2,535.5
Long Term Debt
Borrowers' Deposits                        4,905.2        8,560.4       12,980.0
Central Bank of Egypt                     15,987.3       22,561.3       43,583.0
Other Banks                                1,005.7        2,591.6        2,500.0
Foreign Currency Loans                    11,197.4       25,027.8       39,905.4
Total Long Term Debt                      33,096.2       58,741.1       98,968.4
Administrative Provisions                     560.7          474.1          632.7
EQUITY
Paid-in Capital                           10,000.0       20,000.0       20,000.0
Reserves                                      215.9          405.5          834.2
Total Equity                              10, 215.9      20,405.5       20,834.2
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY              46,103.6       81,528.4      122,970.8
RATIOS:
Current Ratio (times)                          0.75            4.9            2.3
Debt Equity Ratio (times)                      3.2             2.9            4.8
Provisions and Reserves/Portfolio (X)          5.6             5.8            6.0



EGYPT: DEVELOPMENT INDUSTRIAL BANK
Portfolio and Arrears
(LE '000)
As of December 31                 1978       1979        1980
Portfolio
Loans Outstanding                46,096     75,059    121,828
Loans Affected by Arrears         4,702     11,188      13,871
Arrears
3-6 Months                          320        639         390
6-12 Months                          89      1,260       1,000
12-24 Months                        683        353         877
Over 24 Months                      246        837         235
Total Arrears                     1,338      3,089       2,502
Ratios
Portfolio Affected by
Arrrears/Portfolio (%)              10.2        14,9       11,4
Arrears/Portfolio (Z)                2.9         4.1        2.0



EGYPT: DEVELOPMENT INDUSTRIAL BANK
Projected Operations
(1981-1985)
(LE '000)
For Years Ending December 31           1981        1982         1983         1984         1985
Approvals
Short Term Loans                    20,800       20,800       20,800      20,800       20,800
(Local Currency)
Medium and Long Term Loans:
Foreign Currency                   55,500       61,100       67,200       73,900      81,300
Local Currency                     29,500       32,500       35,700      39,300       43,300
Total Approvals                     105,800     114,900      123,700      134,000      145,400
Commitments
Short Term Loans                    23,600       20,800       20,800      20,800       20,800
Medium and Long Term Loans:
Foreign Currency                   58,800       62,900       64,700      71,200       78,400
Local Currency                     27,420       31,800       34,900      38,400       42,300
Total Commitments                   109,820     115,500      120,      400             141,500
Disbursements
Short Term Loans                    21,200       21,200       20,800      20,800       20,800
Medium and Long Term Loans:
Foreign Currency                   27,481       47,487       62,140      65,225       70,700
Local Currency                     26,600       30,720       34,100      37,700       41,300
Total Disbursements                  75,281      99 407      117,040      123,725     132,800
Equity Investments
Approvals                             1,500       1,500        1,000        1,000       1,000
Commitments                             500         500        1,000        1,000        1,000
Disbursements                         1,687       3,500        2,000        1,000        1,000



-  42  -                          Annex 7
EGYPT: DEVELOPMENT INDUSTRIAL BANK
Long Term Resources Position
As of December 31, 1980
(LE '000)
Local Currency
Share Capital                                     20,000
Reserves and Retained Earnings                       834
Provisions                                         6,182
Local Currency Borrowipg                          65,694
Total Local Currency Resources                    92,710
Less:
Local Currency Loans Outstanding                  62,763
Equity Investments                                 1,416
Fixed Assets                                          16
Resources Available for Disbursements             28,515
Less:
TJndisbursed Commitments                           5,988
Resources Available for Commitments               22,527
Less:
Uncommitted Loans                                    335
Resources Available for Approvals                 22,192
Foreign Currency
Total Lines of Credit                            160,020
Less:
Total Loans Disbursed                             63,457
Resources Available for Disbursements             96,563
Less:
Undisbursed Commitments                           20,887
Resources Available for Commitments               75,676
Less:
Uncommitted Loans                                 28,788
Resources Available for Approvals                 46,886
($ equivalent)                                   (68,050)



EGYPT: DEVELOPMENT INDUSTRIAL BANK
Projected Income Statements
(1981-1985)
(LE '000)
For Years Ending December 31                   1981           1982           1983            1984           1985
INCOME
Interest on Local Currency Loans             12,202         13,940         14,681         15,875          17,248
Interest on Foreign Currency Loans            6,309         10,028         15,357         21,026          26,140
Other Income                                  1,699          1,823          1,989          2,086           2,192
Total Income                                 20 210         25791          32,027         38,987          45,580
EXPENSES
Interest due to CBE                           5,258          6,138          6,218          6,348           6,753
Interest on Foreign Currency Debts            4,740          7,520         11,517         15,769          19,604
Other Interest                                  200            200            200             200            200
Administrative Expenses                       2,254          2,676          3,170           3,747          4,423
Provision for Doubtful Debts                    130          1,910          2,180          2,282           1,912
Other Provisions                                 58             64             70              77             85
Total Expenses                               12,640         18,508         23,355         28,423          32,977
Net Profit before Taxes                       7,570          7,283          8,672         10,564          12,603
Tax Liability                                 1,892          1,821          2,168          2,641           3,151
Net Profit                                    5,678          5,462          6,504           7,293          9,452
Appropriations
Reserves                                      1,420          1,366          1,626           1,981          2,363
Dividends to CBE                              3,194          3,072          3,658           3,984          5,317
Dividends to Employees                        1,064          1,024          1,220                  1,772
5,678          5,462          6,504          7,293          9,452
Ratios:
Profit before Tax/Av. Equity (%)              35.1           30.4           31.0            33,8           37.7
Profit before Tax/Av.Total Assets (Z)          5.3            3.9            3.6             3.6            3.6
Admin. Expenses /Av,Total Assets  M%)          1.6            1.4            1.4             1.3            1.3
Average Spread on Borrowing (X)                4.8            4.6            4.3             4.2            4.2



44                                         Annex 9
EGYPT: DEVELOPMENT INDUSTRIAL BANK
Projected Balance Sheets
(1981-1985)
(LE Million)
As of December 31                        1981           1982          1983           1984           1985
ASSETS
Current Assets
Cash and Banks                           3,316 1/       5,055         4,485          5,804          7,413
Other Current Assets                     6,424          1,424         1,424          1,424          1,424
Total Current Assets                     9,740          6,479         5,909          7,228          8,837
Portfolio
Loans Outstanding                      157,833        208,585       260,084        317,129        364,922
(less: Provisions for Doubtful Debts) (6,313)         (8,223)       (10,403)       (12,685)       (14,597)
Net Loans Outstanding                  151,520        200,362       249,681        304,444        350,325
Equity Investments                       3,150          6,650         8,650          9,650         10,650
(less: Provisions for Likely Losses)       (16)          (16)           (16)           (16)           (16)
Net Equity Investments                   3,134         6,634          8,634          9,634         10,634
Net Loans and Equity Portfolio         154,654       206,996        258,315        314,078        360,959
Net Fixed Assets                           186            326           436            516            566
Other Assets                             106            106           106            106            106
Total Assets                        164.684        213.907        264,766        321,928        370,468
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
Current Liabilities
Demand Deposits                          2,624          2,555         2,810          3,090          4,183
Time Deposits                              924          1.145         1,075            989            983
Total Current.Liabilities                3,524          3,700         3,885          4,079          4,283
Long Term Debt
Borrowers Deposits                      12,150        15,455         18,690         22,247         26,170
Central Bank of Egypt                   55,883        61,183         57,483         63,783         65,583
Other Banks                              2,500         2,500          2,500          2,500          2,500
Foreign Currency Loans                  62,324       101,694        151,137        196,187        236,355
Total LonR Term Debt                   133,217       180,832        229,810        284,717        330,608
Administrative Provisions                  691            755           825            905            987
EQUITY
Paid-in Capital                         25,000         25,000        25,000         25,000         25,000
Reserves                                 2,254          3,620         5,246          ? 227          9,590
Total Eq'uity                           27,254         280620        30,246         32,227         34,590
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY                         2fA,rp  l213,907  264,766     321,928        370,468
RATIOS:
Current Ratio (times)                    2.8 1/        1.7            1.5            1.8            2.1
Debt/Equity Ratio (times)                4.9            6.3           7.0            8.0            8.2
Provisions and ReservesfPortfolio(%)   5.9             6.1            6.3            6.6            6.9
1/  DIB's paid in capital was increased by LE 5.00 million from LE 20.0 million to LE 25.0 million.  As
this increase was paid in cash, DIB's liquidity is projected to be temporarily high up to end of
1981. In subsequent months, the funds paid in will be deployed in loans, restoring liquidity to a
manageable level.



45 _
Annex 10
Page 1 of 3
EGYPT
PILOT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAM FOR SSI
Components and Scope
1.       Under the DIB III project, a pilot program for providing technical
assistance to SSI was initiated with the following components: 1/
(i) Technical extension services, including project preparation
assistance, to improve the productivity of small enterprises in
the engineering, metalworking, plastics, woodworking and furniture
making trades in Cairo, to be organized and implemented by the
Engineering and Industrial Design and Development Centre (EIDDC).
(ii) Skill upgrading of workers in engineering, metalworking,
woodworking and furniture trades, to be carried out by EIDDC in
Cairo.
(iii)  Accelerated training for unskilled or semiskilled workers in the
engineering trades, to be implemented by the Productivity and
Vocational Training Department of the Ministry of Industry (PVT)
in Cairo and Alexandria.
(iv)   Industrial Management training for owners and managers of small
industry to be executed by EIDDC in Cairo.
2.       Although the pilot program was designed to assist SSI in general,
it was expected that many of the beneficiary SSI firms would be existing of
potential clients of DIB. The regional coverage was confined to Cairo and
for a part of the program (the accelerated training through PVT) also
included Alexandria, which together cover 75% of SSI. The foreign exchange
cost of the pilot program, estimated at $200,000 ($80,000 for vehicles and
machinery, $110,000 for 24 staff months of advisory assistance and $10,000
for fellowships) was financed under the Bank loan while the local cost of
LE200,000 ($280,000) was to be provided by the Government. The pilot
program was funded for a trial period of 18 months after which it was
planned to enlarge and redesign the program as appropriate taking into
account the lessons of the pilot stage.
Evaluation of the Pilot Program
3.       Implementation.  Initiation of the pilot program was delayed by
two years because the sub-loan agreement between DIB and the Government to
enable DIB to provide foreign currency funds to EIDDC was not concluded
until May 1979, and subsequently further delays took place in hiring the
technical extension expert for EIDDC who commenced work only in May 1980.
At the same time, both EIDDC and PVT also encountered delays in obtaining
the local currency funds commited by Government which held up other
preparatory actions.
1/ For details, see supplemental letter No. 3, Loan 1533-EGT, dated
April 12, 1978.



_ 46 _
Annex 10
Page 2 of 3
As a result, the pilot program has been in operation for only about a year. A
further consequence of these delays has been cost increase in program inputs,
particularly in the costs of employing foreign advisors which necessitated a
reduction in the scope of the pilot program. Under the pilot program, EIDDC
was to be provided 24 staff months of foreign expert advisory assistance
divided between technical and management experts. However, the funds
available for hiring foreign advisors were sufficient only to cover the costs
of one foreign expert for the technical extension service for 12 months.
Consequently, EIDDC could not implement the management development component
of the pilot program.
4.       Technical Extension Service.  A preliminary review of the operations
of the technical extension unit indicate that the original concept and design
is sound and is being implemented in an effective manner. However, not enough
time has elapsed to permit a full evaluation on the basis of criteria
developed under the DIB III project. The technical extension service unit has
been operating with three extension officers including an engineer manager and
a foreign adviser on extension services. In the nine-month period between May
1980 and February 1981, the unit completed about 145 diagnostic surveys
involving 72 firms of which 46 employed 10 or more workers. During these
diagnostic surveys the extension unit identified and provided advice on a
variety of problems including selection of machinery and raw materials, tool
and die design, production planning, factory layout, product and process
design. In order to resolve more complex problems requiring specialized
assistance, seven beneficiaries requested follow-up services which were
provided by various technical departments of EIDDC. In addition, five firms
were assisted in preparing project feasibiolity studies for submission to DIB
for financing. These are commendable achievements even though the original
numerical targets have not been attained. 1/ The unit has taken an active
promotional approach in seeking out and assisting clients. In addition to
contacting SSI firms referred by DIB, the unit has actively sought clients by
publicizing its free diagnostic surveys. It has also received several
requests from SSI entrepreneurs on their own, based on referrals from
beneficiaries of the service. The foreign advisor provided under the pilot
program has been involved in on-the-job training of staff of the unit in
extension techniques including carrying out diagnostic surveys and developing
data recording and analysis procedures for evaluation of the unit's work. The
advisor's work has been highly appreciated both by EIDDC and the beneficiary
SSI firms. Given the proposed expansion of the program, it would be desirable
to continue to utilize his services.
4.       Training by EIDDC.  In the field of training, EIDDC has completed two
four-week training programs designed especially for upgrading the skills of
SSI owners and skilled workers in the engineering and woodworking fields. The
total number of participants in both courses numbered 35. In addition, EIDDC
organized two on-the-job training courses of about two weeks' duration for
1/ The original target, based on the operation of three extension teams,
called for diagnostic services to 100 firms with 10 or more workers and
to 150 firms with less than 10 workers.



_ 47 -
Annex 10
Page 3 of 3
workers at the factory locations at the request of factory owners. About 25
workers were given on-the-job training in welding and milling machine
operations. EIDDC has also trained about 15 SSI owners in its regular
training courses which are being selectively modified and adapted to cater to
a wider clientele including SMI.  1/  An important finding from this
experience is that SSI owners and managers are more interested in attending
short-term (2 to 4 week) courses to upgrade skills which cause less disruption
of their normal activities, rather than long-term (6 month) courses. Although
the number of training days falls short of original targets, the performance
on the whole is satisfactory given the teething problems involved.
5.       Accelerated Training Through PVT.  The first batch of 360 trainees
underwent accelerated training through the PVT in various engineering skills
(machining, fitting, welding, sheet metal work, automobile repair, etc.) in
September 1980, followed by a second batch of 360 trainees in April 1981. A
total of 675 trainees actually successfully completed the training courses,
the balance representing wastage. The trainees were drawn mainly from
existing SSI establishments in Cairo and Alexandria. PVT has yet to complete
an evaluation of the training but preliminary inquiries indicate that SSI
owners are satisfied with the program. PVT will be requested to formally
evaluate the program prior to initiating new programs for SSI training.
1/ EIDDC currently runs about twenty technical courses for engineers through
its training department, many of which can be adapted to meet the needs
of SSI owners and managers, particularly those who have some basic
technical education.



48  -
EIDDC - Technical Assistance Program for MI                           Annex 11
PFrifr Bidget
1982                  1983                   1284                 Total
Foreitn     t Local    Foreign    Local      Poreivn     LOMa      Y            u -L
LE               E                     L                     LEe
A. PROGRAM COMPONENTS
(i) Technical Extension Services
Foreign Advisor                   39,000                 78,000                 39,000               156,000
Cairo Unit
Chief (National Expert)                        3,000                 6,000                 6,000                 15,000
Extension Officers                            12,000                30,000                 30,000                72,000
Support Staff                                  1,950                 6,300                 6,300                 14,550
Vehicles                                                 24,000                                       24,000
Subtotal                          -         16,950     24,000     4-,300                 42,300     24,000    1O1,550
Alexandria Unit
Chief (National Expert)                        3,000                 6,000                 6,000                 15,Q00
Extension Officers                             3.000                 6,000                 15,000                24,000
Support Staff                                  1,350                 3,900                 3,900                  9,150
Vehicles                          12,000                 12,000                                       24,000
Administrative Expenses                        2,500       _         5,000                  5,000   _ _          12,500
Subtotal                        12,000       9,850     12,000     20,900       -         29,900     24,000     60 650
Component Total                   51.000      26.800    114.000     63.200    .19,00       72.200    204.000    2.200
(ii) Financial & Mauagement Services
Foreign Advisor                   39,000                78,000                 39,000               156,000
Chief (National Expert)                       3,000                  6,000                 6,000                 15,000
Professional Staff                            6,000                 12,000                12,000                 30,000
Support Staff                                 1,350                  2,700                 2,700                 6,750
Vehicles                          12,000                                _12000
Component Total                   51,000               778000 20,700                        -       168,000
(iii) Training for SKI
Training Officer                              1,500                  3,000                 3,000                 7,500
Lecturers Fees & Services                     5,500                 11,000                11,000                27,500
Supplies                                      1,500                  3 ooo       -         3,000       -        _SW0
Component Total                     -         8,500       -         171000       -        17,000      -         42,500
(iv) Subcontracting & Information
Services
Foreign Advisor                   19,500                19,500                                       39,000
Chief (National Expert)                       3,000                  6,000                 6,000                 15,000
Professional Staff                            3,000                  6,000                 6,000                 15,000
Support Staff                                   750                  2,700                 2,700                  6,150
Computer Software & Supplies      20,000                40,000                 40,000               100,000
Vehicles                          _                     12,000                               _       12,000
Component Total                   39,500      6,750     71,500      14,700     40,000     14,700    151,000     36,150
(v) Training of Staff
Fellowships                       20,000                40,000                 40,000               100,000
Study Tours                       10,000                10,000                 20,000                40,000
Component Total                   30,000       -        50,000        -        60,000       _       140,000        _
B.  PROGRAM ADMINISTRATION
Department Manager                            1,500                  3,000                 3,000                  7,500
Short-Term Consultants              -                   19,500                 19,500                39,000
Promotion & Publicity Costs                   2,500                  5,000                 5,000                 12,500
Administrative Support Costs                  5,000                 10,000                10,0O0                 25,000
Office Equipment                                         4,000                                        4,000
Vehicles                          12,000                12,000                                       24,000
Miscellaneous Expenses             1,000      4,000      2,000       7,000      2,000      7,000       5,000     18,000
ILO Support Costs                 32,305                37,310    __           25,950                95,565
Total Administration Costs        45,305     13,000     74,810      25,000     47 450     25,000    167,565      63,000
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS              216,805     65,400    388,310    140,600                149,600    830,565    355,600
C.  CONTINGENCIES
1982 - 8.1%                       22,745                                                              22,745
1983 - 17.1%                                            55,455                                        55,455
1984 - 26.1%                                                          _        58,842       _         58,842
TOTAL PROGRAM BUDGET             239,550     65,400    443,765    140,600    284,292    149,600    967,607    355,600



~49   -                        Annex 12
EIDDC
Proposed Staffing Plan for the
Small Industry Development Department
1980     1981 1/      1982 2/      1983      1984
Department Manager                  1         1            1            1        1
A. Technical Services Unit
Foreign Advisor                  1         1            1           1         1 (6 sm) 3/
Cairo Office
Chief (National Expert)                    1           1            1         1
Extension Officers               3         5                       10        10
Regional Office (Alexandria)
Chief (National Expert)          -        -            1            1         1
Extension Officers               -        -            2            5         5
B. Management Services Unit
Chief (National Expert)          -         -           1            1         1
Economist                        -         -           1            1         1
Financial Analyst                -         -            1           1         1
Industrial Engineer              -        -            1            1         1
Market Analyst                   -         -            1            1        1
Training Officer                 -         1            1           1         1
Foreign Advisor                  -         -            1 (6 sm)    1         1 (6 sm)
C. Sub-Contracting and Information
Services Unit
Chief (National Expert)          -        _             1           1         1
Sub-Contracting Specialist       -         -            1           1         1
Publicity/Information
Specialist                     -        -            1            1         1
Foreign Advisor on
Sub-Contracting                -        -            1 (6 sm)    -          -
D. General
Foreign Advisors                 -         -            -           1 (3 sm) 1 (3 sm)
(Short Term Industrial Specialists)
1/ Staffing level as of July 1, 1981.
2/ Staffing level as of July 1, 1982 when new program commences.
3/ Staff months.



- 50 -
Annex 13
JOB DESCRIPTION
Post Title           Engineering and Extension Services Adviser
Duration             24 months
Date required        July 1, 1982
Duty station         Cairo, with travel within the country.
Purpose of project  To assist in providing industrial extension services to
the SMI sector through EIDDC.
Duties               The adviser will be attached to the Centre, and will
specifically be expected to:
(1)   Advise and assist in the formation of an
industrial extension service and parti-
cipate in the implementation of such service;
(2)   Train the professional staff of the Centre in
industrial extension procedures;
(3)   Advise on the nature and extent of services to be
created within the Centre to support extension
workers in the field;
(4)   Devise standard procedures and methodology for
the conduct of diagnostic surveys, and
assist/train staff in undertaking surveys and
implementing recommendations;
(5)   Devise standard procedures and an information
system for monitoring and evaluating the
extension services;
(6)   Advise on special consulting services needed to
strengthen the extension services; and
(7)   Advise on the design of skill upgrading programs
for workers from small industries in the
engineering trades.



- 51 -
Annex 13
Page 2
Reports              The expert will be expected to prepare a final report
setting out his recommendations to the Government on
further action which might be taken.
Qualifications       A mechanical or industrial engineer with practical
experience of industrial extension procedures in a
developing country.
Language             English, Arabic - desirable.
l



- 52 -
Annex 14
JOB DESCRIPTION
Post Title           Industrial Management Development Adviser
Duration             24 months
Date required        July 1, 1982
Duty Station         Cairo, with travel within Egypt
Purpose of project  To assist in management development and training of
owners and managers of SMI enterprises, through EIDDC.
Duties               The Adviser will be attached to the Center, and will
specifically be expected to:
(1)   Developing curriculum and training materials for
short courses on various aspects of management of
relevance and interest to managers of small-scale
enterprises. Subjects would include broadly all
aspects of management; marketing, finance and
accounting, production management, managerial
economics with special emphasis on project
preparation and personnel management. Training
materials and course designs should be
specifically oriented towards the need of small
industries;
(2)   Providing training to counterpart staff on course
design, use of training materials and teaching
methods;
(3)   Devising procedures for evaluating the training
programs, praticularly the impact on the
enterprises themselves;
(4)   Initiating a management advisory and consultancy
service for small enterprises and training
counterpart staff to undertake consulting
activities; and
(5)   Devising procedures for developing case studies
based on actual problems existing in small firms.



- 53 -
Annex 14
Page 2
Reports              The expert will be expected to prepare a final report
setting out recommendations to EIDDC on appropriate
further actions which might be taken.
Qualifications       Master's degree in Economics/Engineering/Management
with ten years experience in management training of
managers from small industries.
Language             English, Arabic - desirable.



_ 54 _
Annex 15
JOB DESCRIPTION
Post Title                 Subcontracting Adviser
Duration                   6 months
Date Required              July 1, 1982
Duty Station               Cairo, with travel within the country
Qualifications             Mechanical/Industrial Engineer with at least 10
years experience over a wide tecanological
field. Should have experience in operaing a
subcontracting exchange in a developed/developing
country.
Purpose of Project         To assist in establishing and operating a
subcontraction exchange for the metalworking and
woodworking industries at EIDDC.
Duties                     The Adviser will be attached to EIDDC and will be
specifically expected to:
(1)   design and establish a computerized information
system in the subcontracting exchange capable of
providing information to prospective principals
on the facilities, capacities and technical
capabilities of small and medium scale
enterprises associated with the exchange to fill
orders for specific products;
(2)   develop and implement procedures for updating the
data-base for the information system on a
continuous basis;
(3)   develop detailed operating procedures including
documentation for handling subcontracting
inquiries and follow through to excution of
orders;
(4)   assist small and medium scale enterprises, with
the help of the technical extension services and
the management services units in EIDDC, to submit
bid for subcontracting jobs (estimating unit
costs and delivery periods, preparing draft
contracts, etc.) and to execute orders as needed;



_ 55 _
Annex 15
Page 2
(5)   visit larger firms in the region with potential
for subcontracting and assist in identifying
products that could be subcontracted to smaller
firms;
(6)   design programs (advertising, exhibitions, etc.)
for promoting and publicizing the activities of
the exchange including preparation of brochures
and pamphlets for distribution to industrial
enterprises;
(7)   train staff on the systems, procedures and
documentation used in the exchange.
Qualifications       Mechanical/Industrial Engineer with at least 10 years
experience over a wide technological field. Should
have experience in operaing a sub-contracting exchange
in a developed/developing country.
Reports              The expert will be expected to prepare a final report
setting out recommendations to EIDDC on appropriate
further actions which might be taken.
Language             English, Arabic - desirable.



0
I



IBRD 15973
G~~~~~1REC                     X9TJr<-  S _ _
--   ONT5e 7 sX^ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE
.   -p                                                                                                     AND
N\    2 F           >\<>jARAB A                                          TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TO SMI PROJECT
C       H                        'I  I IA                                                          0               0oo           2X0             300
+ SCU Ohr N,                                           '                                                  {tEN jS KILOMETERS
n~~~~~~ (  TiO0' A ,
6                                                          io                                                         34I 
14    d                                                                                                  r a n e a r,  a    Prcposed DIB B-rnches
/sM   e d, t e r r o n e  o r             5 eCo                                                 ,        =       E-ist ng DIEB BrnCOOs
.  D!B Headqoiarters
(  Qtrh                                             \ RS                                                 '' -   /    - *-   Intern-tionol B-andories
- +    ~                     Ateopvd><vv                                              7 m ri 3 of,  -N<t .I   ,     7a  copitol City
CoDamoonho                                                                      r f    0     g  \ r   Cities a nd Towns
Tooa              o'sa  a- --   Rivers
-f   -                                 t   /                0      00Te,th           ,                                Wads.
(~~~~~                                                                      ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ --caCl I300-entn                                     Ionerntrionvl Airports
3Q0. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~)\30.
|cy,R  -vs Oo  -                                        Gevos*G CA PC )       ,n,o                                            4    Domestic Airports
\                   -                                                  zo~~~~~~ ~ ~ ~              ~      ~        ~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ He waOn  ,\  
Be,e
!~~~~E                           T        R                                           vr-nssyo     -~  -          N,                                     i-.i 9
t6                   .                                              -                                              3en                                                                 -        2 6~ 
:~~~~~~                                     ~      ~      ~~~~                            ~~                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .N- Sue  '- 
I  I                   D ESE R T                                                                          Isno jjJvOR -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-CE- A-v
j TWR's Ea, 5as neR vred vs s-in        T                                                     n R
<      .            ca                             i        5~~~~~~~~~~ A  U  D  I |
I WosPan | Asv! HhodRat eo,                                                                                                                                                  A  R A  B I A
_m .RoRec  SR he sorers
I vv,rvariesSRsvr,i 00 ERRS rsvp ~ ~ ~ ~       ~         ~        ~        S~.g 
-26'  j,                                                                                                                    Q     ->e;ea                              :                             26-
do oDe iEy vs                              E   R   /                    or h
11  I- 611  t1)- bu 1                                                                                                                                                        -1
b!                                                                                                                               -- h-. - h
d.   -fpls,n  'h p- a                                                                                                                                                   ''-. 
WOend ACE o 50 "l vEE,IS-iv
}~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                                ~ .  .S .' .  .              '--- 
Iv vmord Bkks sraff Regal rRsV for                                                                                 GN  . 
|3 theconvevseoe of vohe bovodss, cf-                                                                                     ...    ..
W.od Holl.
to6nda                                                          30'                                S  U  D  A  N                 3'4-
SEPTEMEER 19P1



