Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY         t         C
Report No. P-3165-EGT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
DEVELOPMENT INDUSTRIAL BANK OF EGYPT
FOR A
FIFTH DEVELOPMENT INDUSTRIAL BANK PROJECT
(FINANCE AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TO SMALL AND
MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRIAL ENTERPRISES)
December 3, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
Currency Equivalents
Official Foreign Exchange Rate
1 Egyptian Pound (LE)  =  US $1.45
1 US Dollar ($)         =   LE 0.70
Fiscal Year
(Arab Republic of Egypt and DIB)
July 1 to June 30
Abbreviations
CBE    : Central Bank of Egypt
DIB    ; Development Industrial Bank
EIDDC  : Engineering and Industrial Design
and Development Center
SIDD   :  Small Industry Development Department (of EIDDC)
SMI    ; Small and Medium Scale Industrial Enterprises
SSI    :  Small Scale Industrial Enterprises
USAID  ; United States Agency for International
Development



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
FIFTH DEVELOPMENT INDUSTRIAL BANK PROJECT
(FINANCE AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TO SMALL AND
MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRIAL ENTERPRISES)
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower;             Development Industrial Bank (DIB)
Guarantor:            Arab Republic of Egypt
Amount:               $120.0 million equivalent
Terms:                The loan would bear interest at 11.6 percent per annum.
Repayment would be according to a schedule reflecting the
composite amortization schedules of the subloans
financed. Allowing three years for commitment of
individual subloans and a maximum repayment period of 15
years, the Bank loan would thus be repaid in 18 years.
OnlendingTerms:       Out of the proceeds of the loan, $118.5 million would be
onlent by DIB to subborrowers at an interest rate of not
less than 13 percent per annum. Subloans would have
maturities of up to 15 years including grace periods of
up to three and a half years. As under the previous Bank
loan to DIB, the foreign exchange risk between the
Egyptian pound and the US dollar would be borne by the
subborrower and that between the US dollar and currencies
of disbursement by the Government. $0.5 million out of
the proceeds of the loan would be used for training and
technical assistance for DIB. $1.0 million would be
onlent by DIB to the Government at 11.6 percent per annum
to cover the foreign exchange cost of a technical
assistance program for small and medium scale industrial
enterprises (SMI). The amounts allocated for the
technical assistance programs would be repaid to the Bank
in equal installments with a term of 18 years including
three and a half years of grace.
Project               The project is designed to: (i) provide a part of DIB's
Description:          foreign exchange requirements over 1982-83 to assist SMI,
with special emphasis on small scale industrial (SSI)
enterprises (DIB would allocate an increasing share of
its total term lending to SSI: 30 percent in 1982, 35
percent in 1983, 40 percent in 1984, and subject to
review at the end of 1984, up to 50 percent in the years
thereafter); (ii) assist DIB in strengthening its
development banking functions by a program of technical
assistance and training; and (iii) finance the foreign
exchange needs of a comprehensive program of technical
assistance to SMI to be implemented by the Engineering
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
and Industrial Design and Development Center (EIDDC), an
agency under the Ministry of Industry and Mineral
Resources. Thus the project would provide financial
assistance to the private SMI sector in Egypt, which has
an important role to play in the development of the
Egyptian economy, as well as urgently needed training and
technical extension services in order to improve the
efficiency and competitiveness of the SMI sector. No
special risks are associated with the project.
Free Limit:           $1.0 million for individual subloans.
Final Date of
Project
Submissions:          December 31, 1984
Procurement:          Through international shopping procedures which require
comparison of offers from more than one supplier.
Estimated Bank
Loan Disbursements:                          US $ Million
FY83   FY84   FY85   FY86   FY87
Annual        7.8   34.8   39.6   24.0   13.8
Cumulative   7.8   42.6   82.2  106.2  120.0
Staff-Appraisal
Report:               No. 3595-EGT, dated November 30, 1981.
IDF Division, Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE
DEVELOPMENT INDUSTRIAL BANK
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
FOR A FIFTH DEVELOPMENT INDUSTRIAL BANK PROJECT
(FINANCE AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TO SMALL
AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRIAL ENTERPRISES)
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Development Industrial Bank (DIB) with the guarantee of the Arab
Republic of Egypt for the equivalent of US$120.0 million to help finance part
of the foreign exchange requirements of DIB's development finance operations
and technical assistance needs and of a technical assistance program for small
and medium scale industrial enterprises. The loan would bear interest at 11.6
percent per annum. Repayment of the line of credit for DIB would be according
to a schedule reflecting the amortization schedule of the subloans financed.
Allowing three years for commitment of individual subloans and a maximum
repayment period of 15 years, the Bank loan would be repaid in 18 years. The
amounts allocated for the technical assistance programs would be repaid to the
Bank in equal installments with a term of 18 years including three and a half
years of grace.
PART I - THE ECONOMY!/
2.       A report on "Recent Economic Developments and External Capital
Requirements" (SecM80-933) was distributed to the Executive Directors on
December 24, 1980. Country data sheets reflecting the recently updated and
revised macroeconomic accounts are attached.
The "Open Door" Strategy
3.       Following more than a decade of inward looking and centralist
economic policies, the late President Sadat in 1974 announced a new "Open
Door" policy with the objective of accelerating the pace of development by
liberalizing the economy and stimulating foreign and domestic private
investment. It is important to stress that the "Open Door" policy was not a
radical break with the past but a redefinition of priorities in the face of
changing opportunities. Parallel to the changes in economic policy there was
progress towards peace which brought with it expectations of rapid economic
growth and greater prosperity. The recent succession of Vice President Hosni
Mubarak to the Presidency has taken place in accordance with procedures
provided in the Constitution, and the former Cabinet was reconfirmed shortly
thereafter. President Mubarak has expressed his intention to continue
President Sadat's search for peace in the Region and basically maintain the
economic policies and objectives of the "Open Door" strategy, with increased
emphasis on domestic productivity and equity considerations.
1/ This section is substantially the same as for the Third Telecommunications
Project (P-3105-EGT), the documents for which were distributed to the
Board on June 30, 1981.



4.       To implement the "Open Door" strategy the Government took a number
of specific policy actions. Among the more important ones were the gradual
devaluation of the Egyptian pound (LE), and the concurrent liberalization
of foreign exchange regulations. Starting in 1973 when the parallel market
rate was introduced, Egypt's currency was devalued by 44 percent from
US$2.56 to US$1.43 per LE by January 1979 (para. 14). Exchange
restrictions were eased, specific import allocations were replaced by
general import quotas, and more foreign exchange was made available to both
the public and private sector. A new investment law (1974, amended in
1977) offered attractive incentives to foreign firms. Trade agreements,
especially with the EEC, opened new markets for export products; at the
same time, bilateral trade with COMECON countries was much reduced.
5.       In 1975, Egypt was able to reopen the Suez Canal.  At the same
time petroleum production in the Gulf of Suez started increasing at rapid
rates and workers' remittances as well as tourism became significant
sources of foreign exchange. Nevertheless, Egypt was facing serious
balance of payments problems. The base from which foreign exchange
revenues were growing was too small to meet the increase in imports
triggered by the liberalization program and the Government's commitment to
providing ample supplies of basic consumer goods at stable prices.
However, large capital inflows, primarily from the oil-rich Arab Gulf
states, sustained the "Open Door" policy during the 1975-77 period. These
loans and grants also complemented the public sector's fiscal resources and
allowed a large expansion of both consumer subsidies and public sector
investment.
6.       By the end of 1978 the balance of payments started to show clear
signs of improvement as a result of the sustained rapid growth in receipts
from remittances, tourism, the Suez Canal and petroleum exports. The last
two years have confirmed and strengthened this improving trend. Petroleum
exports and workers' remittances reached about $2.7 billion each in 1980.
On capital account, the cessation of Arab aid following the Camp David
agreements was largely offset by a substantial increase in U.S. assistance
and an increase in direct foreign investment, mainly but not exclusively in
the oil sector.
7.       The Egyptian economy has thus entered the new decade with a much
improved balance of payments. Moreoever, the emergence of the petroleum
sector has strengthened the budget considerably. Deficit financing through
the domestic banking system declined from an average of about 10 percent in
the 1975-1979 period, to 5 percent in 1980. Finally, gross fixed
investment increased from about 25 percent of GDP in the 1975-1977 period
to almost 28 percent over the last two years with the share of national
savings in total investment rising from 30 percent in 1974 to 70 percent in
1979; real GDP growth averaged almost 10 percent throughout the period.
8.       While much of the momentum for this accelerated pace of
development is attributable to the "Open Door" policy, the increasing
openness and accompanying structural changes have made economic management
more difficult and changed the environment in which economic policies
operate. Inflation has emerged as a principal policy concern. Prior to



1975, Egypt was essentially a fixed price economy and resource allocation
and investment decisions were centrally determined. Moreover,
international and domestic inflation was low, so that while relative prices
may have been out of line with world prices, price inflexibility did not
create undue macroeconomic imbalance. The situation has since changed
radically. The opening of the economy coincided with an acceleration in
world inflation. At the same time, labor migration and the rapid expansion
of the economy led to supply bottlenecks in several key sectors. Effective
demand, especially for consumer goods, also rose sharply following the
income gains that resulted from the growth of tourism, remittances and
other receipts. All these factors have exerted sharp upward pressure on
domestic prices. In a country unaccustomed to inflation and flexible
prices, and where there are no easily functioning mechanisms for
cost-of-living adjustments in wages and salaries, the required price
adjustments appeared large and unjust. Some small adjustments were made
and, in the uncontrolled parts of the economy, prices and wages did in fact
surge upward. In the controlled sector, major changes could not be
achieved. As a result the gap between world prices and domestic selling
prices of key traded goods has continuously increased, leading to large
implicit and explicit subsidies and resulting in an increasingly distorted
system of relative prices and incentives.
Recent Economic Developments
9.       Recent economic trends have been characterized by continued rapid
overall growth and the emergence of the petroleum sector as the dominant
sector in Egypt's economy. In May 1980, the fiscal and administrative year
was shifted from January-December to July-June. As a result, data for
calendar year 1980 are not always available and fiscal year 1981 (July 1980
- June 1981) estimates are used instead of calendar 1980 estimates to
describe the most recent developments.
10.      Overall GDP growth averaged about 10 percent in constant FY81
prices over the last four years.l/ The very high rate of growth reflects
the emergence of the petroleum sector and rapid growth in industry,
transportation, trade and finance, and Suez Canal traffic. Agriculture
stands out by its low growth rate, around 2.2 percent per annum, although
it should be stressed that agricultural performance improved compared to
the 1965-75 period when growth averaged 1.5 percent. The combination of
continued growth in real petroleum output and the doubling in export prices
has resulted in considerable changes in the structure of GDP. The share of
petroleum in value-added at factor cost has tripled since 1977 to about 19
percent in FY81.
11.      Production of crude petroleum is at present averaging close to
650,000 barrels a day (32 million tons a year). There is general agreement
in Egypt and among foreign observers that the proven reserves attached to
Egypt's large established petroleum fields could not sustain production at
1/ In 1975 prices real growth would decline to 8.5 percent, the difference
being due to the changed petroleum prices.



present rates beyond the mid-1980's. On the other hand, over the last two
years Egypt has added about 100 million tons to the stock of proven
reserves largely through a continuous stream of small discoveries.
Investment in exploration by foreign oil companies has increased
dramatically and is expected to average at least $600 million annually for
the next few years. Given the performance achieved over the last two years
and the massive investment program, it is only reasonable to assume that
new discoveries will continue to occur. The magnitude of these discoveries
remains, of course, highly uncertain.
12.      In addition to crude petroleum, the output of natural gas has
recorded a steady increase reaching over 2 million tons of oil equivalent
in FY81. Substantial investments are planned for the exploitation of
existing gas fields and for further exploration, which will hopefully
release additional quantities of petroleum for export. However, the level
of the exportable surplus of petroleum would also depend on domestic energy
consumption, which has been growing by over 11 percent annually in recent
years. It is important therefore that efforts to increase production of
energy are complemented by measures designed to achieve more efficient
domestic use of energy.
13.      Reflecting the sharp increase in petroleum export earnings and the
continued growth in workers' remittances and Suez Canal revenues, Egypt's
foreign exchange earnings have grown rapidly since 1979. At $1.9 billion,
the current account deficit in FY81 was lower in relation to GDP (7.5
percent) than in any year since 1973. Net medium- and long-term capital
inflows are estimated at $2.9 billion, giving an overall surplus in the
balance of payments of about $1 billion compared with a surplus of $167
million in 1978 and a deficit of $250 million in 1977. The improvement in
the balance of payments since 1979 has allowed for some buildup in foreign
exchange reserves, which stood at about $1 billion at end-1980 (about one
and a half months of imports). Despite the apparent strength of the
balance of payments, certain structural features are worth noting: (i)
Agricultural and manufactured exports constitute only a very small fraction
(10 percent) of Egypt's foreign exchange receipts. Petroleum ($3.1 billion
in FY81), Workers' Remittances ($3 billion), the Suez Canal ($0.9 billion)
and foreign capital inflows ($2.9 billion) dominate the accounts. (ii)
Food imports, at $2.6 billion, are almost equal to petroleum earnings.
Moreover, with severely limited arable land and a growing population,
Egypt's dependence on imported food is likely to grow. (iii) The share of
imported capital goods in overall investment is high. Along with import
requirements of industrial raw materials, this implies a continued high
import dependence in the medium term.
14.      The liberalization of the trade and payments system has
contributed significantly to Egypt's balance of payments performance in the
1977-1981 period. However, by enhancing capital mobility through the
creation of the so called "free" foreign exchange market, liberalization
has made it more difficult for the monetary authorities to pursue policies
divorced from external circumstances and the problem of harmonizing fiscal,
interest rate and exchange rate policies has assumed increasing



importance. The official exchange rate has been fixed at LE 0.70 per $1.0
since January 1979. However, the free market exchange rate has fluctuated
between LE 0.75 and LE 1.03 per $1.0 over the last two years. The
increasing importance of the free market has put pressure on the commercial
banks and led to the emergence of an intermediate commercial bank rate,
lower than the free market rate but higher than the official rate.
Effective August 1, 1981, the Government established a new commercial bank
rate for a limited number of transactions at LE 0.84 to the dollar in an
attempt to attract foreign exchange from the free market to the commercial
bank pool. The system is clearly in a transition state and there is need
for a comprehensive reform including greater flexibility in the official
rate and greater consistency between interest rate and exchange rate
policies. Attempts to keep domestic interest rates much below world levels
will lead to private capital outflows and upward pressure on the exchange
rate. Policies to mobilize private savings through the development of a
domestic capital market must, therefore, be complemented by an interest
rate policy that acknowledges the growing sensitivity of capital movements
to expectations about future price changes and to the relative structure of
incentives.
15.      Turning to the influence of exchange rate movements on trade
performance, it must be noted that with inflation in the domestic Egyptian
economy having been somewhat more rapid than inflation affecting the real
value of the dollar, over the last three to four years the purchasing power
parity deflated value of the Egyptian pound has slowly but steadily
appreciated with respect to the dollar. Egypt faces the typical problem of
real appreciation characterizing many natural resource and oil exporting
economies. While oil and service receipts have shown spectacular growth,
non-oil merchandise exports have declined in volume since the mid-1970's.
Part of this decline may be due to the necessity of replacing Egypt's
traditional Eastern European markets with outlets in the convertible
currency areas. But the transition should by now have been achieved and
increasingly the problem may be due to an erosion of Egypt's competitive
cost position and a shift of incentives against exports. The trend towards
real appreciation has also reduced the profitability of import competing
activities. The situation is complicated, however, by the subsidies
provided to domestic producers through low energy prices and other
subsidized inputs. These subsidies allow competitive production of some
exports and import substitutes in spite of the appreciating real exchange
rate. The medium and long term prospects for the volume and composition of
merchandise trade, therefore, are intimately tied to developments in price
and exchange rate policies.
16.      While rapid growth was achieved over the last five years and there
has been a significant improvement in the balance of payments, the overall
fiscal deficit of the consolidated public sector remained very large during
the 1976-1979 period, fluctuating between 13 and 22 percent of GDP. The
1980 budget, presented in end-1979 and revised in February 1980, included
several proposals to raise revenues and limit the growth of expenditures.
The most important of these were: a new sales tax, an increase in
electricity tariffs, price increases for public sector companies, and a
reduction in consumer subsidies. However, some of these measures were



dropped when a new Cabinet took office in May 1980. A different set of
measures were announced and a new budget presented to the People's Assembly
in response to growing signs of social tension and based on the additional
revenues provided by the petroleum sector. Wage increases were awarded to
public sector employees, the prices of several commodities were reduced and
the government embarked on a large scale import program.  The declared
objective of the new budget and the accompanying measures was to break
inflationary expectations, raise incomes of disadvantaged groups and
reaffirm the Government's commitment to ample supplies of basic commodities
at stable prices.
17.      Despite the large increases in subsidies and the other net
expenditure raising measures taken in 1980, the overall fiscal deficit
declined substantially as a percentage of GDP from 19.5 percent in 1979 to
about 13 percent in 1980/81. Excluding investment expenditures, the
current budget has actually been in surplus. This improved situation is
due to the additional resources provided by the petroleum sector and the
Suez Canal. Together, petroleum and Suez Canal revenues have more than
tripled since 1978 (9.1 percent of GDP in FY81), more than offsetting the
deteriorating trend in Central Government savings. This massive increase
in public revenues has reduced the need for domestic bank financing from
more than 9 percent of GDP in 1979 to less than 5 percent in FY81, the
lowest percentage since the mid-1970's.
18.      There was hope that increased public sector savings and reduced
deficit financing would reduce the pace of monetary expansion that has
averaged about 30 percent annually over the last few years. This has not
so far been the case because the reduced growth in the domestic assets of
the banking system has been more than compensated by more rapid growth in
net foreign assets reflecting the overall surplus in foreign payments.
Since a large portion of the increase in reserves has accrued to the
Government, domestic bank credit to the public sector understates the
expansionary monetary effect of public sector operations. During a phase
of foreign asset accumulation, monetary control requires special
sterilization policies so that the fiscal improvement can reduce the
underlying inflationary pressure which constitutes such a crucial source of
concern for Egyptian policymakers and which is an obstacle to many of the
required reforms in the areas of pricing and institutional change.
Development Potential and Constraints
19.      Egypt has considerable potential for continued rapid development.
The reasons for this are, in brief: a large domestic market, a relatively
skilled and literate population, an agricultural potential not yet fully
developed, varied raw materials (including oil, gas and phosphate), and a
key geographical location. Future economic growth may come less easily,
however, than during the past years. The gradual need to substitute
domestic for foreign savings will become more pressing as net foreign
contributions decline in relation to GNP. Capacities are now strained in a
number of sectors, including infrastructure. The expansion of new
capacities has been slowed down by administrative inefficiency, inadequate



fiscal resources and weakness in national coordination and sector
programming. Managerial effectiveness in public enterprises and financial
incentives for production are often inadequate. Higher levels of economic
activity together with labor emigration have led to shortages in critical
professional and technical skills. Educational facilities in Egypt still
reflect a non-technical bias and their quality needs to be upgraded.
20.      In addition, the rapid economic growth of recent years has been
based on the performance of sectors with only weak linkages to agriculture,
industry and services where the bulk of the labor force is occupied. For
example, the Suez Canal and the petroleum sector currently account for
about 22 percent of GDP but only one percent of total employment. While
tourism and remittances directly touch the lives of a much greater number
of people, they cannot provide a solid basis for employment expansion and
technological development. Moreover, the long-term real growth potential
for receipts from petroleum, Suez and remittances is uncertain. The
challenge for Egypt lies in the necessity of channeling a good part of the
surpluses and revenues from these "natural resource" based sectors, into
productive investment in agriculture, industry and social infrastructure in
order to lay the foundations for self-sustaining growth and employment
expansion in the domestic economy. There is tremendous scope for improving
the efficiency and dynamism of domestic institutions and production
processes, particularly at a time when overall resource constraints have
been eased and the absence of short-term crises provides a valuable
opportunity to address the difficult problems of long-term structural and
technological change.
21.      Another key issue is population.  At an estimated 42 million in
mid-1980, Egypt's population is already very large for its limited arable
land area, with an average density exceeding 1300 per sq. km, higher than
that of Bangladesh or Indonesia. Recent census results show that
population has continued to grow at an annual rate exceeding 2.5 percent,
adding almost one million people every year. Moreover, almost half of this
increase is concentrated in the greater Cairo area alone. This continues
to create pressures on resources for consumption and investment and
aggravates the employment problem in the longer run. Although the
government has initiated a more aggressive population program, it will take
considerable time and further measures to achieve measurable results in
fertility reduction.
22.      A serious side effect of recent inflation appears to have been a
deterioration in the relative distribution of income and a growing
disparity in consumption levels. Although inequality and the incidence of
absolute poverty is no worse in Egypt than in most economies at similar
income levels, continued inflation and lack of progress in more effective
taxation of high income groups could lead to serious social problems.
23.      To maintain the momentum of development and to meet the challenges
of the future, major efforts are required to overcome the structural
constraints cited above. Specifically, action is needed to (i) increase
the efficiency of the administration through organization and procedural
modifications and selective changes in salary structures; (ii) increase



- 8 -
real domestic savings through an effective mobilization of domestic
resources and fiscal reform; (iii) strengthen the general use of prices as
meaningful indicators of relative scarcities; (iv) develop a long-term
export promotion policy including appropriate management of incentives and
real effective exchange rates; (v) pursue a vigorous and balanced program
to upgrade the country's physical infrastructure; and finally (vi)
intensify efforts to develop a coherent and effective population policy.
There is an ongoing dialogue on all these imDortant issues between the
Egyptian authorities and the Bank. They have also been the focus of
discussions among the members of the Consultative Group for Egypt.
External Debt and Creditworthiness
24.      Egypt's non-military medium- and long-term public debt outstanding
and disbursed as of June 30, 1980, was estimated at about $12.6 billion.
Bilateral loans comprised about $7.9 billion or about 63 percent of the
debt outstanding while the shares of multilateral credit and suppliers'
credit were about 22 and 9 percent, respectively, with the remainder being
held by financial institutions. Major creditors were the USA and Gulf
Organization for the Development of Egypt (GODE), followed by Saudi Arabia,
Kuwait, and the Federal Republic of Germany. IBRD/IDA debt comprised about
6 percent of the total disbursed debt. Reflecting the rapid increase in
foreign exchange earnings and more favorable credit terms, the debt service
ratio 1/ has steadily declined from 33 percent in 1973 to about 14 percent
in 1979 and 1980.
25.      Although there has been a marked improvement in the overall
resource situation, and in particular in the balance of payments, in a
longer term perspective, Egypt's development needs remain immense. It is
still a relatively poor country with a population projected to increase to
55 million by 1990. A large investment program will thus be required if
Egypt is to meet the basic needs of its growing population and lay the
foundations for self-sustaining growth. This, in turn, implies the need
for continued large foreign capital inflows in the medium term.
26.      Given the concessional nature of much of the aid flows Egypt has
drawn on in the recent past, but taking account of some new borrowing on
commercial terms, Egypt's debt-service ratio is projected to remain very
moderate, between 17 and 20 percent, over the next five years. In the
longer term, the behavior of the debt service ratio will depend on domestic
policies and on developments in the oil sector.
1/ Debt service payments on medium- and long-term debt as a percent of
export earnings.



PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN EGYPT 1/
27.      The proposed loan would be the World Bank's sixtieth lending
operation to Egypt, and would bring Bank and IDA commitments to $2,372.1
million. 2/ Through these operations, the Bank Group has assisted in the
development of the agriculture, industry, power and energy, water supply,
population, transportation, telecommunications, tourism, urban and
education sectors. Annex II contains a summary of Bank loans and IDA
credits as of September 30, 1981 and notes on the execution of ongoing
projects.
28.      The Bank has tailored its response to Egypt's basic structural
problems in a very broad fashion and in close cooperation with other
donors.  Its strategy implies deliberate involvement in a broad spectrum of
sectors in order to provide not only direct finance with its relatively
limited resources but, equally, to act as a catalyst for other bilateral
and multilateral agencies, and as a spur for initiating discussion and
positive action on a coherent framework of policies and investment
proposals which can tackle the substantive issues. The approach also
includes delivery of technical assistance, not only for adequate
implementation of specific investment programs but for developing the
domestic institutional capability to articulate and implement future
policies and investment programs. The Bank's broad multisectoral
intervention has been tailored to the pace at which the Egyptian
authorities can reasonably be expected to address these issues and
implement the programs.
29.      Industry, which has been over the past five years the sector
receiving the largest portion of Bank resources and significant attention,
illustrates the nature and scope of the Bank's intervention. The Govern-
ment looks upon rapid industrialization as a means to stimulate growth of
the economy, create productive employment, cater to basic consumer needs,
and generate an "export surplus". Efforts under Bank financed projects
have gone beyond the immediate objective of improving capacity utilization
(Imports loans and credits Nos. Cr. 524, Ln. 1062 and Ln. 1456) and in-
creasing production capacity and supply of essential commodities in
resource-based industries (cotton ginning, textiles, cement and fertilizer
projects). The more fundamental effort has been directed at introducing
policy and structural improvements. Towards this end, the Bank has
financed six subsector studies in textiles, building materials, pulp and
paper, food processing, metallurgy, and engineering industries, in order to
assist the Government in formulating a package of policy and investment
1/ This section is substantially unchanged from the corresponding part of
the President's Report for the Third Telecommunications Project
(P-3105-EGT) which was distributed to the Board on June 30, 1981.
2/ This includes the Telecommunications III Project ($64 million) approved
by the Board but not yet signed.



- 10 -
proposals, which are embodied in our projects. To complement these efforts
the Bank has also carried out a study on small-scale industries and is
assisting the Government in a comprehensive study of the construction/
contracting industry, which is one of the major bottlenecks facing the
Egyptian economy today. Finally, the Bank is working with the Government
on a study of Trade Strategy, Investment Planning and Shadow Prices which
will focus on the sectoral allocation and timing of Egypt's investment
program in the context of a viable foreign trade strategy.
30.      The sketch provided above of the scope and breadth of the Bank's
intervention in one sector is illustrative of the multifaceted approach
that it has adopted in varying degrees in the entire spectrum of the
Egyptian economy. It is a role that is in harmony not only with the
Egyptian Government's wishes but is welcomed by the various bilateral and
multilateral donors as an appropriate function for the Bank as the Chairman
of the Consultative Group. Preparation of projects for future lending fol-
lows this strategy, and the pipeline includes projects in education, gas
development, rural and urban development, population and nutrition, trans-
portation, water supply, agriculture (including drainage), development
finance and industry.
31.      Bank Group disbursements in FY81 represented about 8 percent of
total disbursements on grants and medium- and long-term loans. The Bank
and IDA shares of total external debt outstanding and disbursed were about
3.6 percent and 2,5 percent, respectively, as of June 30, 1981. For the
future, the Bank and IDA shares of total external debt outstanding and
disbursed (excluding military debts) are estimated to reach about 6.0 and
3.1 percent, respectively, in FY85. It is estimated that in FY85, debt
service payments due to the Bank and IDA will represent about 4.6 percent
and 0.2 percent, respectively, of service payments due on Egypt's external
debt.
32.      IFC participation and lending for projects in Egypt now total
about $74 million and include; a ceramics project; a ready-made garment
project; a project for an agricultural complex, primarily for sugar beet; a
poultry project; a fish farming project; a building materials project; and
a tourism project. IFC is discussing several other private sector and
joint venture projects. A summary of IFC operations in Egypt is given in
Annex II.
PART III - INDUSTRY AND INDUSTRIAL FINANCE SECTOR
The Industrial Sector
33.      Egypt's industry (manufacturing and mining, excluding petroleum) is a
key sector in the economy, although its share in CDP has declined in recent
years to 12.4 percent in 1979, because of the growing importance of revenues
from petroleum, the Suez Canal, tourism and workers' remittances. In 1979,
the sector employed about 1.3 million people (nearly 13 percent of the
civilian labor force) and was responsible for 18 percent of commodity
exports. The industrial structure is weighted heavily in favor of import
substitution activities with industries producing consumer goods accounting



- 11 -
for about 58 percent of industrial gross value added; intermediate products
(building materials, fertilizers, chemicals, and metals), for about 34
percent; and capital goods, for only 8 percent.
34.      As a result of the nationalizations of the early 1960s, the public
sector, comprising some 200 firms, accounts for almost all of the large
enterprises including Egypt's basic industries (iron, steel, aluminum and
fertilizers). It generates some two-thirds of the value added in industry and
mining and provides slightly more than half of the total industrial
employment, mainly in four subsectors: textiles, food products, metal and
engineering, and chemicals. The private sector is virtually synonymous with
the small and medium scale industrial (SMI) sector in Fgypt and accounts for
about one-third of total value added in industry and about half the sector's
labor force. Garments, food products, leatber, furniture, plastic and metal
products are the important industries of private activity.
35.      The performance of the industrial sector, which was characterized in
1973-74 by important idle productive capacities, rapidly improved following
the announcement of the "open door" policy in 1973, which resulted in the
relaxation of controls and greater availability of foreign exchange. Except
for a temporary slowdown in the growth of industrial output expressed in value
added in 1978 (5.5 percent), the sector's output has grown at an annual
average rate of about 8 percent during 1974-79. The growth of industrial
output in the public sector during this period has had mixed results and
averaged about 5 percent. On the other hand, the private sector has shown a
remarkable annual average growth of 12 percent in real terms between 1974-80.
As a result, its share of total manufacturing output has increased from 25
percent in 1974 to 32 percent in 1980. Its share in total industrial
investment has also increased from an average of 4 percent before 1974 to 13
percent since that time, reflecting a favorable response to the Government's
policy.
36.      Egyptian industry has significant long-term prospects to grow and
broaden its base deriving primarily from the large and growing domestic market
and a strategic location with access to markets in Europe. An industrial
structure and tradition already exist, as well as a large and still relatively
low-cost labor force. Since development of agriculture is proceeding slowly
and the service sector (mainly Government) is overstaffed, it is to industry
that the Government looks to provide stimulus to growth through continued
expansion, efficient import substitution emphasizing intermediate and capital
goods, and expanded exports, as well as to absorb the growing labor force.
This is reflected in the 1980-84 National Development Plan which allocates
about 20 percent of total investment to industry. The Plan also recognizes
the potential of the private sector for Egypt's industrial development: about
20 percent of total industrial investment was projected to be financed by the
private sector during 1980-84 which is almost twice the level attained during
1975-77.
37.      The Government recognizes that a dynamic private sector can
contribute substantially to growth and employment in the Egyptian economy.
Small and medium industrial private sector enterprises have significant
potential for growth because of such factors as relatively low capital
intensity and high income elasticities of demand for many products, strong



- 12 -
backward and forward linkages and substantial possibilities for efficient
import substitution and export. In particular, considerable potential exists
for manufacturing consumer goods as well as in the long run more complex
capital goods and intermediate components, which are now largely imported.
These components could be produced by small firms working as subcontractors
and could create employment at low cost and facilitate the transfer of
technology. The technical assistance component of the proposed project would
foster such subcontracting linkages (para. 57). Given that most public sector
enterprises are capital intensive, overstaffed and suffer from a variety of
administrative and policy constraints, it is the private sector which will
have to take the lead in creating the bulk of new employment opportunities.
38.       In order for Egyptian industry to play a more dynamic role, it will
be necessary to overcome existing bottlenecks, such as inefficient and
obsolete equipment, the result of past shortages of foreign exchange;
inadequate performance by Egyptian construction companies and shortage of
construction materials; inadequate training; and lack of contact with new
technology, products, marketing and management techniques, which are to be
explained by Egypt's limited exposure during the 1960s and early 1970s to the
markets that could offer these facilities. The Government is moving in a
number of ways to address these problems in both the public and private
sectors. The Government and the Bank are working together to complete a
construction/contracting study and will soon begin a trade strategy study
(para. 29). Besides ad hoc measures which have been gradually introduced over
the last three years, the Government is considering specific legislative
proposals to radically reform and liberalize the policies and regulations
governing the public sector and thus lay the base for higher efficiency in the
sector. By means of joint ventures under Law 43 and technical assistance
programs financed by the Government and external donors, assistance is being
provided to familiarize the sector with modern production techniques and
training and to assist it in redirecting its trade toward free currency
markets. The proposed project is intended to assist the private sector in
overcoming some of these bottlenecks through a comprehensive program of
technical assistance in addition to providing needed investment finance
through the Development Industrial Bank (DIB).
Recent Bank Lending to Industry
39.      The Bank's loans to industry include: (i) program loans to alleviate
foreign exchange constraints and thereby improve capacity utilization; (ii)
assistance to individual large, high priority projects; and (iii) assistance
to financial intermediaries to enable them to provide financial and technical
assistance to the private sector, including small scale industrial
enterprises. Lending commitments, including IFC, amounted to $661 million for
industry from FY73 to FY81, of which about $370 million has been disbursed as
of September 30, 1981. Performance under the loans and credits for industry
has been mixed.  The earlier operations have encountered substantial delays
and cost overruns which were mostly the result of restrictions imposed upon
the public sector in general.  However, recent improvements and plans to
liberalize the public sector (para. 38) should introduce greater efficiency
into the sector.  The performance under the four previous DIB operations has
been generally satisfactory (para. 51). DIB I and DIB II are now closed, and



- 13 -
a project completion report for the first operation is scheduled for April
1982. The Misr Iran Development Bank (MIDB) project, after some initial
delays, is also proceeding satisfactorily.
Financial Institutions and Industrial Finance
40.       Industrial investments in the public sector are financed primarily
from the national budget and, to a very limited extent, from internally
generated funds and bank loans, including small amounts from DIB. A new
institution - the National Investment Bank (NIB) - was established in October
1980 to channel all budgetary allocations to public sector companies.
Long-term financing for private sector industry is provided mainly by DIB and
MIDB, the only two active industrial development banks in Egypt. Their roles
are complementary in that DIB finances small- and medium-scale enterprises,
through loans in both local and foreign currency, while MIDB promotes and
finances the foreign exchange needs of medium and larger private enterprises
through loans and equity investments. Other institutions providing finance to
industry include four state owned commercial banks (National Bank, Bank Misr,
Bank of Alexandria, Banque du Caire), Cairo Barclays (one of the many
joint-venture banks) and the two international banks in Cairo -- Arab African
Bank and Arab International Bank. While the state owned banks sometimes
provide substantial long-term financing in particular for large joint venture
projects promoted by the public sector and some such financing to the private
sector, commmercial banking of a short- and medium-term nature is likely to
remain the main or only interest for most banks other than MIDB and DIB.
41.      While the availability of foreign exchange has increased due to
increased receipts from petroleum exports, workers' remittances, tourism and
the Suez Canal, continued bilateral and multilateral assistance is needed to
supplement these earnings to satisfy Egypt's foreign exchange requirements
including those of industry. There is a shortage of local currency for the
public sector due to large investment requirements coupled with low financial
profitability in most public sector enterprises. At the same time, long-term
local currency resource mobilization through private savings has been hampered
in the past by low interest rates and the lack of a capital market. However,
legislation was enacted in December 1979 for the establishment of a capital
markets authority for the development and regulation of capital markets in
Egypt. Equity capital of project promoters is expected to continue to provide
most of the local cost financing for projects, with long-term loans from DIB
and short-term loans from commercial banks providing the remainder.
42.      The banking system as a whole provides industrial finance for small
scale industrial enterprises (SSI) in the general framework of its short-term
lending operations, without any particular emphasis or special procedures
tailored to the requirements of such borrowers. Most banks perceive SSI loans
as having low profitability and high risk. DIB, the most important
institution providing resources to SSI, has strengthened its capacity to reach
these enterprises (para. 50).



- 14 -
Cost of Capital in Egypt
43.       Interest rates on deposits and loans in local currency for all
financial institutions are regulated by CBE. Over the last five years,
lending rates have been increased by 8 percentage points to a level of 13 to
15 percent; and rates on deposits, by 6.5 percentage points to a level of 9.0
percent. Inflation rates are difficult to measure in Egypt. The wholesale
price index shows increases of 8.7 percent in 1978, 14 percent in 1979 and 18
percent in 1980. However, the official index is strongly biased by controlled
prices for essential commodities, especially basic foodstuffs, and does not
adequately reflect price movements in uncontrolled markets where price levels
tend to be significantly higher. The Bank's latest inflation projection for
Egypt is 16 percent in 1981, 14 percent in 1982 and 13 percent in 1983. It
would thus appear that current interest rates on local currency loans are
marginally adequate in the light of current inflation. Nevertheless, the
Government is considering further adjustments of the interest rate structure.
44.       Interest rates on foreign exchange loans are not regulated by CBE and
reflect the cost of those resources. The interest rates on DIB and MIDB
dollar loans are currently 12 to 14 percent (except on SSI loans made by DIB
from special funds). The compensatory deposits of around 20 percent of
foreign currency loans required by DIB from its borrowers increase the
effective cost of these loans to 15-17.5 percent. These rates, with the
foreign exchange risk between the US dollar and Egyptian pound borne by
subborrowers, are in line with the current cost of long-term foreign currency
funds available to Egyptian borrowers from the international capital market.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
45.      A Bank mission visited Egypt in April 1981 to help prepare the
project. Appraisal was carried out in June 1981. Negotiations were held in
Washington October 26 to 30, 1981. The Egyptian delegation included Mr. Samir
Koraiem, Senior Undersecretary, Ministry of Economy and Mr. Abdel Hamid A.
Kabodan, Chairman, Development Industrial Bank (DIB). A staff appraisal
report, "Egypt: Fifth Development Industrial Bank Project (Finance and
Technical Assistance to Small and Medium Scale Industries)" (No. 3595-EGT)
dated November 30, 1981, is being circulated separately.
Project Objectives
46.       The objective of the proposed project is to further strengthen the
institutional capacity in Egypt for promoting and financing projects in the
private industrial sector, with special emphasis on small scale industrial
enterprises (SSI), as well as providing technical assistance to small and
medium scale industrial enterprises (SMI). 1/ Towards this end the project
1/ SMI are defined under the proposed project as those enterprises which
employ 150 workers or less with fixed assets (excluding land and
buildings) of less than LE 1.0 million in 1981 prices, and SSI (para. 50)
as enterprises with fixed assets (excluding land and buildings) not
exceeding LE 300,000 in 1981 prices.



- 15 -
will; (i) assist the Development Industrial Bank (DIB) by meeting a part of
its foreign exchange requirements over the next two years and through the
provision of technical assistance for training its staff, and (ii) support a
comprehensive technical assistance program aimed specifically at SMI being
executed by the Engineering and Industrial Design and Development Center
(EIDDC), an institution under the Ministry of Industry and Mineral Resources.
47.      The proposed Bank loan of $120 million would be made to DIB at an
interest rate of 11.6 percent per annum, for the following three components:
(i) Financial Assistance to DIB: $118.5 million, representing about 65 percent
of DIB's foreign exchange needs for 1982-83, would be onlent by DIB to private
sector borrowers for projects in mining, manufacturing, tourism, processing
and related service activities such as construction. (ii) Technical
Assistance to DIB: $0.5 million would be earmarked to meet the foreign
exchange costs of technical assistance and training needed by DIB. (iii)
Technical Assistance to SMI: $1.0 million would be onlent through DIB to EIDDC
for a comprehensive technical assistance program benefitting SMI.
Financial Assistance to DIB
48.      The Institution: DIB was established in 1975 with Bank assistance and
took over the functions and part of the portfolio of a special services unit
of the Bank of Alexandria. Its paid in capital of LE 20 million, which was
recently increased to LE 25 million, is held by the Government. As a public
sector bank, DIB is subject to supervision by CBE and thus operates within
public sector limitations in such areas as salaries and incentives. Its
management, however, has developed a recruitment and training strategy which
allows DIB to operate successfully within these constraints. DIB is well
known to the Bank. Its institutional structure, policies and procedures have
not changed significantly since the Bank's previous loan approved in March
1980 (Report P-2711-EGT). As envisaged at that time, DIB has made substantial
progress in tackling the following major institutional issues: (i) expanding
the availability of expert advice to its Board; (ii) improving its management
capabilities and operating procedures; and (iii) improving the quality of its
professional staff. Given DIB's extraordinary growth in operations (para.
49), the tasks emerging as especially relevant to its effectiveness appear to
be: (i) setting up an adequate mechanism for the supervision of its portfolio
(para. 55), (ii) undertaking adequate economic/sector work and industrial
studies (para. 55), and (iii) mobilization of adequate resources. DIB's
ability to mobilize resources has been influenced by its SSI lending which
involves greater risks and necessitates a higher spread. As long as interest
rates in the international capital markets are at their prevailing high level
it would be difficult for DIB to raise funds from those markets at a cost
which would enable the borrowed resources to be onlent at an interest rate
acceptable to the Government and to DIB's clients. While DIB is fully
sensitized to the need to expand its borrowing activities to new domestic and
international markets, in the interim it would have to meet its resource needs
by borrowing from bilateral and international institutional sources such as
the Bank (para. 53).
49.      Operations: DIB's operations between 1978 and 1980 have increased
substantially: approvals and commitments of medium- and long-term loans have
doubled to LE 73 and LE 54 million respectively.  In 1980, foreign currency



- 16 -
loan approvals increased to LE 46 million (from LE 18 million in 1978), which
approximately equals total local currency loan approvals (including short-term
loans). The portfolio is sound, and reserves and provisions for doubtful debt
are satisfactory. DIB's 1980 portfolio is adequately diversified among the
food processing (26 percent), building and construction (10 percent),
chemicals (11 percent), tourism (13 percent), and metals and engineering (11
percent) subsectors. DIB has made conscious efforts to disperse its lending
outside of the Cairo and Alexandria areas, for which approvals have decreased
from 71 percent in 1978-79 to 52 percent in 1980. DIB's equity investment
activity thus far includes six investments for LE 5 million and is likely to
remain minor, due to the lack of an active capital market in Egypt and the
traditional ownership pattern of most of DIB's borrowers (partnerships or
proprietary firms).
50.      SSI Activities; In recent years, DIB has gradually increased the
proportion of its lending to SSI. In 1979-80 they received 30 percent of its
term loan approvals, of which $5.4 million were allocated to "smaller" SSI in
1980. This performance is in line with the targets established as part of the
DIB IV project, under which SSI were defined as enterprises with fixed assets
(excluding land and buildings) not exceeding LE 200,000; and "smaller" SSI,
with fixed assets (excluding land and buildings) not exceeding LE 100,000. In
order to account for inflation and the changing equipment needs of SSI that
have taken place over the last two years, these ceilings under the proposed
loan would be increased to LE 300,000 and LE 150,000 in 1981 prices
respectively and would be revised annually in line with the increase in the
wholesale price index in Egypt. DIB has agreed to allocate at least 30
percent of its total term approvals to SSI in 1982, 35 percent in 1983 and 40
percent in 1984 and, subject to the findings of a review at the end of 1984,
this allocation would be increased to between 40 and 50 percent in 1985 (Loan
Agreement, Section 3.06(a) and (b)). Since about 35 percent of DIB's SSI
lending in recent years was funded by OPEC special funds (now exhausted) and
onlent at an interest rate of 8.5 percent, these allocations represent an
ambitious, but realistic, objective. Within its SSI lending, DIB would
allocate at least $20 million over the three year period (1982-84) to
"smaller" SSI (Loan Agreement, Section 3.06(c)).  Besides financing the needs
of SSI, DIB's new SSI Department is also providing diagnostic and extension
services with the assistance of a qualified SSI advisor.
51.      Bank-Financed Operations: Bank/IDA funds have provided resources for
70 percent of DIB's foreign currency loan operations up to the end of 1980
through Credits 412 (FY73) and 576 (FY76) for $15 and $25 million, Loans 1533
(FY78) and 1804 (FY80) for $40 and $50 million and the $45 million
Agroindustries Credit 988 (FY80) under which DIB is one of three participating
institutions. While DIB's initial inexperience led to some delays in the
commitment of the funds provided by the first two credits, the DIB III loan
has been committed and is expected to be disbursed on schedule, and DIB IV
should be fully committed by end 1981, six months ahead of schedule. Through
December 31, 1980, DIB has made 283 subloans out of Bank/IDA funds for a total
of $111.3 million, which are expected to create 13,900 direct jobs with an
estimated capital investment of $24,400 per job in 1980 prices. Employment
creation as a result of all DIB loans was estimated at about 27,000, using
Bank financed projects as a sample for the more than 4,100 projects approved



- 17 -
by DIB through end 1980. The financial rates of return on the Bank financed
projects have ranged between 17 and 48 percent; and the economic rates of
return for above "free limit" subloans, between 20 and 58 percent.
52.      DIB'S Financial Performance, Resource Position and Needs: DIB's
financial performance has been satisfactory during 1978-80 and is projected to
continue to be so for the 1981-85 period. As a percentage of average total
assets, profits before taxes ranged between 2.9 and 3.6 percent and are
estimated to be at least 3.6 percent in 1981-85. DIB will continue to have a
more than adequate spread on borrowing, and administrative expenses as a
percentage of average total assets are expected to continue to decline from 2
percent in 1978-80 to 1.3 percent by 1985. DIB's total assets have grown at
an annual rate of over 80 percent during 1978-80; as of December 31, 1980,
they were LE 123 million and are expected to increase to LE 370 million by
1985. Despite the high rate of growth of assets and debt, DIB's long-term
debt ratio was 4.8;1 as of December 31, 1980, well within the existing limit
of 7:1 which is not expected to be exceeded until sometime in 1983. In
recognition of the satisfactory developments in DIB's financial performance
and position and the satisfactory quality of its portfolio, and to enable DIB
to increase its capacity to borrow, the Bank has agreed to increase the
long-term debt ratio to 8:1 (Loan Agreement, Section 4.05). DIB's accounts
are audited in a timely and satisfactory manner by an auditor acceptable to
the Bank and are expected to be so in the future (Lcan Agreement, Section
4.02).
53.      The projections for both foreign and local currency loan approvals
for 1981-85 assume an annual increase of 10 percent which, while lower than
the historical rate of growth, is considered appropriate in view of the need
to consolidate operations, train staff and maintain the quality of the
portfolio. Thus approvals of medium- and long-term loans in local currency
are expected to rise from LE 29.5 ($42.2) million in 1981 to LE 43.3 ($61.9)
million in 1985 and in foreign currency from LE55.5 ($79.3) to LE81.3
($116.1) million. By December 31, 1981, DIB will have exhausted its foreign
currency resources. DIB expects to commit foreign currency loans of $182.5
million in 1982-83, which is well supported by its current pipeline. DIB has
prospects of lines of credit from Kreditanstalt fUr Wiederaufbau and the
European Investment Bank of $10 million each and plans to approach other
sources, including the African Development Bank, for $20 million. On the
above basis, a Bank loan providing $118.5 million for DIB's lending operations
appears justified. For its local currency requirements, DIB has relied upon
CBE to provide funds in the absence of a bond market in Egypt. CBE has
increased up to LE 100 million the amount of local currency made available to
DIB, which would provide the necessary local currency resources over the
projected period.
54.      Main Subloan Features; Subloans under the proposed loan may be made
for up to 15 years with grace periods of up to three and a half years (Loan
Agreement, Section 2.08(b)). As under the previous loan to DIB, subborrowers
would assume the Bank's commitment charge and the foreign exchange risk
between the Egyptian pound and the US dollar; the Government would bear the
risk between the US dollar and currencies owed to the Bank (Loan Agreement,
Section 2.08(e); Guarantee Agreement, Section 3.02). DIB's current onlending
rates, which are differentiated to reflect national priorities (12 percent for



- 18 -
food processing projects, 13 percent for other industries and 14 percent for
tourism projects), would be positive in real terms over the life of the
subloans (para. 44). DIB is, however, reviewing its current interest rates
with the view towards maintaining a minimum average spread of 2.5 percent over
the cost of the Bank loan. It has been agreed that a minimum onlending rate
of 13 percent would be applied under the proposed loan; DIB's interest rate
policy would be reviewed annually with the Bank (Loan Agreement, Section
3.07). Inflation and DIB's satisfactory performance in terms of project
quality and appraisals justify increasing the free limit under the loan from
$650,000 to $1.0 million (Loan Agreement, Section 2.02(e)). It is expected
that about 15-20 projects (50 percent of the loan amount) would be above the
free limit; the remainder (including SSI projects) would continue to be
reviewed on an ex-post basis. As under the previous Bank loan, DIB would
continue to calculate economic rates of return (ERR) for all subloans
submitted for Bank financing above $650,000 and for all projects whose total
costs exceed LE 800,000 ($1.1 million). In addition, DIB would also calculate
internal financial rates of return (FRR) for such projects; a minimum FRR
equal to the interest rate applicable to the subloan and a minimum ERR of 12
percent would be required (Loan Agreement, Section 3.09). In order to ensure
that a large number of borrowers benefit from the Bank loan, only $40 million
out of the proceeds of the loan would be used for subloans in excess of $5.0
million (Loan Agreement, Section 3.08). The final date for submission of
subloans would be December 31, 1984, and the closing date for disbursements
December 31, 1986 (Loan Agreement, Sections 2.03(c) and 2.04).
Technical Assistance to DIB
55.      The Bank has been continuously involved in the technical assistance
provided to DIB, not only under previous IDA and Bank assisted projects (DIB
II and DIB III) but also that funded by other donors. Recent programs
include: a USAID financed training program (1979-1980) in project appraisal,
which has been very successful and which has had a noticeable impact on the
quality of subproject appraisal reports; and the services of an SSI advisor,
currently at work, and a projects advisor, being recruited, both of which are
funded by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. A
substantial two-year program of management technical assistance, funded by
USAID, has commenced. DIB would review with the Bank the recommendations to
be made by the consultants under the program before implementing them. In
addition, by June 30, 1982, DIB would develop, with the aid of these
consultants, a plan for the supervision of its loan portfolio, including
estimated staff implications, and review it with the Bank. To complement
these activities, $500,000 would be earmarked under the proposed loan to meet
the foreign exchange costs of (i) short-term consultants (24 staff months at
$12,500/staff month, including overheads) to assist DIB staff in sector work,
including specific aspects of project appraisal, particularly market and
economic analysis; (ii) staff training in institutions abroad; and (iii)
office equipment and training aids. Consultants would be hired on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank (Loan Agreement, Section 2.02(b)).



- 19 -
Technical Assistance for Small and Medium Scale Industrial Enterprises (SMI)
56.      Under this component, a comprehensive technical assistance program
would be implemented, based on the experience of the pilot program under the
DIB III project (P-2241-EGT). The pilot program was confined to SSI and
included technical extension services, skill upgrading of workers, industrial
management training and accelerated training for unskilled and semi-skilled
workers. The performance of the pilot program has been generally satisfactory
notwithstanding the teething problems and initial delays in its
implementation. Under the proposed loan it would be expanded in size, scope
and regional coverage and would also include medium scale industries. The
enlarged program would continue to be implemented by the Small Industry
Development Department (SIDD) of the Engineering and Industrial Design and
Development Center (EIDDC) under the Ministry of Industry and Mineral
Resources and would be undertaken in close cooperation with DIB, recently
formalized in a protocol between EIDDC and DIB.
57.      The proposed program and the timetable for its implementation have
been agreed with the Government (Guarantee Agreement, Section 3.01(a)) and
would include the following components;
(i) Technical extension services for SMI, to be provided by six mobile
teams, four based in Cairo and two in Alexandria. The units would be
able to undertake diagnostic surveys for over 600 firms a year, and
thus assist almost all of DIB's new and existing industrial SMI
clients who apply for loans each year.
(ii) Financial and management services for SMI. A new management services
unit would be established by July 1982 under SIDD to provide
consulting assistance on management; to assist entrepreneurs in
preparing feasibility studies; to undertake research on existing
legislation and taxation affecting SMI, markets for SMI products and
export potential; and in the designing of management courses.
(iii) Training for SMI. EIDDC would hold technical courses (100-120
training days) specifically aimed at upgrading the technical and
management skills of SMI industry owners and managers.
(iv) Subcontracting and information services for SMI. EIDDC, because of
its close linkages with both private and public sector companies, is
in an ideal position to promote subcontracting linkages between SMI
and larger enterprises. A unit for this subcontracting exchange
would be established in SIDD by July 1982 to promote such linkages by
encouraging large firms to purchase from SMI on a subcontracting
basis, providing information to larger firms or potential SMI
suppliers, assisting large firms to purchase their requirements
through competitive procurement practices, and assisting SMI with
technological and management problems encountered in filling
subcontracts with the assistance of the extension service units.
EIDDC would work closely with DIB and the Federation of Egyptian
Industry (which represents all public and private industrial



- 20 -
enterprises with over 25 workers) to collect data for the information
system to be established in the exchange and to publicize the
functions of the exchange among public and private enterprises.
EIDDC and the Federation will formalize their agreement to cooperate
through an exchange of letters by June 30, 1982.
(v) Training of staff. The program provides resources for staff training
and development in order to build up a core group of competent and
dedicated advisory staff in SIDD.
58.       Implementation:  The program would be supervised by the Manager of
SIDD, who has substantial experience in the field, under the overall direction
of the General Director of EIDDC. The professional staff of SIDD would
increase from the present four to 22 over the duration of the program. Each
of the four units -- technical extension units for Cairo and for Alexandria,
management and training services for SMI, and subcontracting services, would
be managed by a senior engineer who would be hired on contract as a national
expert at a salary competitive with the private sector. They would be
assisted by three foreign advisors (engineering/extension, industrial
management development and training, and subcontracting) satisfactory to the
Bank (Guarantee Agreement, Section 3.01(b)). As under the pilot program,
FIDDC would subcontract with the International Labor Organization (ILO), which
charges it a standard fee, for the services of these advisors. The methods
which EIDDC would use for monitoring the program, which worked satisfactorily
under the pilot program, and for evaluating the program's impact, are
satisfactory to the Bank.
59.       Costs and Financing:  The foreign and local currency costs of the
proposed program for the period July 1982-December 1984 are estimated at about
$1.0 million and LE 355,000 ($507,000), respectively. The foreign costs
include (i) 60 staff months of advisory services at a rate of about
$7,500/staff month, including overheads, (ii) equipment and vehicles
($100,000), and (iii) computer softwear to develop the subcontracting exchange
($100,000). As under the DIB III project, the $1.0 million would be onlent,
on the same terms as the Bank loan, by DIB to the Government under a
subsidiary loan agreement satisfactory to the Bank to be concluded by June 30,
1982. Conclusion of the subsidiary loan agreement by that date would be a
condition of continued Bank approval of subloans (Loan Agreement, Section
2.03(d); Guarantee Agreement, Section 3.01(a)). The C-overnment in turn would
pass on the amount to FIDDC as a grant. The local currency costs of the
program would be provided by the Government (Guarantee Agreement, Section
3.01(a)(iv)). However, since DIB's clients are to receive priority in
obtaining technical assistance under the program, DIB has agreed to provide
LE 70,000 annually to supplement the local currency costs of the program which
would be utilized by EIDDC to hire national experts on contract and to
supplement staff salaries through incentive payments as needed. These
understandings have been formalized in a protocol between DIB and EIDDC.
Procurement and Disbursements
60.       DIB's procurement procedures for all subprojects would follow
international shopping procedures which would conform to Bank requirements for
DFC projects. The Bank loan would be disbursed against 100 percent of the



- 21 -
foreign exchange expenditure for imported equipment and 60 percent of local
purchase costs in case of "off the shelf" purchase of equipment already
imported by dealers. (In the case of relatively small SSI projects,
entrepreneurs may prefer to purchase machinery of foreign origin already
available in the country.) Disbursements under the proposed loan would be
made against standard documentation and are expected to be completed by June
30, 1987 (see Loan and Project Summary). Amortization of the Bank loan for
DIB's onlending activities would conform with the aggregate of the
amortization of the individual subloans which would not exceed 15 years
including three and a half years of grace. Allowing three years for
commitment of individual subloans, the Bank loan would thus be repaid within
18 years. The amounts allocated for the technical assistance program for DIB
and the SMI program would be repaid to the Bank in equal installments with a
term of 18 years including a grace period of three and a half years.
Project Justification and Risk
61.      The private industrial sector has an important role to play in the
development of the Egyptian economy. The need of the sector for replacement
and modernization of equipment is widespread and the scope for economic
development and private sector expansion is substantial. Recent Government
policies supporting investment by the private sector in industries, the
increase in approvals by the Government of private industrial projects and a
generally more favorable investment environment have resulted in a
considerable improvement in DIB's business prospects. DIB, being virtually
the only source of term-financing for small and medium scale enterprises in
Egypt, has a critical role to play in the current environment in the
preparation and implementation of sound industrial projects. The projects
financed previously by DIB have had ERR ranging from 20 to 58 percent, and
subprojects under the proposed loan should have similar returns. The Bank's
continued support to DIB and the technical assistance and training program for
it included under the project would contribute to the strengthening of DIB as
an institution. DIB's emphasis on SSI under the project would have social and
economic benefits, both in terms of employment and output. SSI could benefit
greatly from the increased institutional financing which DIB, through its
upgraded ability, could make available. Finally, the technical assistance
program for SMI would provide urgently needed training and technical extension
services to SMI and strengthen the Government's capacity to provide such
services. The management and financial consultant services to be provided
would help improve the efficiency and competitiveness of the SMI sector by
introducing modern management and costing systems, and the subcontracting
exchange will further the linkages between the SMI sector and large scale
enterprises. Thus, the proposed loan is both justified and timely.
62.      Project risks relate to two areas.  First, DIB's ability to recruit
and retain capable staff is constrained by public sector salary guidelines
applicable to DIB staff. Though the situation seems to be manageable at
present, DIB does face the difficult task of recruiting additional qualified
personnel to sustain its projected rate of growth. Second, the implementation
of the technical assistance program for SMI requires strong support from the
Government, assembly of dedicated extension staff, and awareness of the
importance of the program among the agencies and officials involved. However,



- 22 -
the sustained improvement in DIB's institutional and operational aspects and
the generally satisfactory implementation of the pilot technical assistance
program (under the DIB III project) allows the project risks to be considered
as reasonable and acceptable.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS
63.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Development
Industrial Bank (DIB), the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Arab Republic
of Egypt and the Bank, and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article
III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
64.      Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
65.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
66.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
December 3, 1981
Washington, D. C.



ANNEX I
- 23 -                                                                          Page 1 of 6
Paue I
TABLE 3A
EGYPT - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
EGYPT                              REFERENCE CROUPS (WEIGHTED AVER AGES
LAND ARLA (IHOUbAiD bS.  KM.)                                                                 - tlUST RECENT ESTIMATE) A
lUTAL            1001.4                                                         MIDDLE INCOME
AGRILULIUkAL       2b.4                                   tlOST RECENT          NORTH AFRICA 6              MIDDLE INCOME
1960  lb    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b          MIDDLE EAST          LATIN AMERICA   C GARIBBEAN
oINY PLh LAPITA (USk)                  I1U.U          170.0     480.0                   865.5                    1616.2
LUNEKLY LCNbU1ITlUN PLK LAPITA
(KILULRAMAI  Uti COAL LQI1VALENT)     299.4        321.2      565.1                  758.3                    1324.1
PUPULAIION ANU VirAL STAIlSICLS
PUPULATIUN  HlD-YEAR (THUUSANDb) 25929.0         32341.0   3886b.0
URUAN PoPULAIION (PEACEtrT UF  UoTAL) 37.9          42.2       45.1                   45.2                       64.2
PUPULATION PRUJELIlONS
PUPULAIOUN IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONb)                           60.2
bTATIUNARY 1UPULArlUN  (MILLIONb)                   ..      104.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATIuN lS REACHED                      2080
PU PULAI ION DENS ITI
PER bQ. Ei.                          25.9         32.3       38.8                   36.3                      34.3
PEK Sq. KE. AGRILULIURAL LAND   1016.8          1142.8    1338.4                   442.7                      94.5
PUPULAIluN AGE SIRUCTIURE (PERCENT)
U-14 YRS.                            42.2         41.8       40.0                   44.2                      40.7
b-sA4 YKb.                            54.7         54.9       56.6                   52.4                      55.3
o5 IRS. AND A80VE                      3.1          3.3        3.4                    3.4                       4.0
PUPULAILUN GRUWTH BAIE (PERCENT)
rOTAL                                 2.4          2.2        2.0                    2.7                       2.4
UKRAN                                 4.1          3.3        2.8                    4.6                       3.7
LRUOL SIKIH RAIE (PER THoUbAND)        44.0         38.1       37.0                   41.5                      31.4
CKUDL ULAIH RATE (PER THOUSAND)        18.b         14.9       12.2                   12.8                        8.4
ORbOb KEPRODULTION RATE                 3.u          2.7        2.4                    2.9                        2.3
FADILY PLANNING
ACCEPTURS, ANNUAL (THUUSANUS)          ..        206.0      187.0
UbLKR  IPLELLNT UO  MARRIED WOMEN)    ..           9.0       17.0
FUUo  AND NUTRXTIUN
INDLX UF FOUO  PRUUCrIuN
PER CAPIIA (1969-/1-lUU)             96.0         99.0       94.0                   96.3                     108.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY UF
LALuRIES (PERLENI UF
REIUIOEtIENTS)                    102.0        104.0      109.0                  110.4                     107.6
PROTEINb (IGRAMS PER DAY)            73.0         71.0       75.0                   73.4                      65.8
UF WHIlCh ANlMAL AND PULSE         17.0         17.0       19.0                   17.1                      34.0
CHILC  (ACES 1-4) MuRTALITIY RArE      31.7         21.9       14.9                   14.9                        7.6
HEALiH
LIFL EXPLCIANLY AT lIRTH (YEARS)    46.1            51.6       56.6                   55.9                      64.1
INhANI tWURIALITY RATE (PER
IHoUbAND)                             109.3        116.0       85.0                     ..                       70.9
ALLCCS TO SAtE WAIER (PERCENT OF
POPULATIluN)
ITOAL                                  ..           ..       66.0                   59.4                      65.7
URbAN                                39.5           ..       88.0                   83.9                      79. 7
RURAL                                  ..           ..       50.0                   40.8                      43.9
ALCESS TU LECKErA DlSPUSAL (PERCENT
UF PUPULATION)
IoTAL                                  ..           ..         ..                     ..                      59.9
UKBAN                                  ..           ..         ..                     ..                      75.7
RURAL                                  ..           ..         ..                     ..                      30.4
PUPULATION PER PRYSICIAN             2556.1       1856.7    1046.OjS                4174.5                    1728.2
POPULAIOUN PER NURSING PERSuN        2730.0/c    158b.4/c  1096.6j,                 1780.5                    1288.2
POPULATIUN PER ROSPITAL BED
TOTAL                               466.0        448.7      459.6                  647.4                     47L.2
UKBAN                                  ..        352.2      654.0                  547.2                     558.0
RURAL                                  ..       2128.1    2291.8                  3361.1
ADMISSlUNS PER HOSPITAL BEU              ..           ..       30.8                   25.3
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZL OF HUUHSEHULD
ToTAL                                  ..           ..        5.2                     .
URBAN                                 4.8           ..        5.0
RURAL                                  ..           ..        5.5
AVLKALG  NUMbER OF PERSONS PEK KUUM
TUrAL                                  ..           ..        1.8
UMbAh                                 1.6           ..
RURAL                                  ..           ..         .                       ..
ACLCbS TU ELLCIRICITY (PERCENT
uF DWELLINGS)
TuTAL                                  ..           ..       45.7
URBAN                                37.8           ..       76.9
RURAL                                  ..           ..       18.6
_   .                                                                         _~~~~~~~~~~- - - - - -



- 24 -                                                          ANNEX I
Page 2 of 6
Page 2
TABLE 3A
EGYPT - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
EGYPT                            REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIQHTED AVERAGCS
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) a
MIDDLE INCOME
MOST RECENT        NORTH AFRICA &             MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b        MIDDLE EAST        LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 66.0        70.0      74.0                  85.1                    101.7
MALE                 80.0         88.0      88.0                 101.5                    103.0
FEMALE               52.0         54.0      58.0                  67.5                   101.5
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 16.0        33.0      47.90                 38.0                     35.3
MALE                 23.0         44.0      60.0                  48.1                    34.9
tEMALE                9.0         21.0      35.0                  28.3                    35.6
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY) 22.0          19.0       20.0                 11.3                     30.1
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            39.0        38.0      34.0                  34.9                     29.6
SECONDARY                          16.0        25.0      25.0                  23.8                     15.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        26.0          ..      43.5                  43.0                     80.0
CONSUI*TION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          3.0         4.0       7.6                  18.3                     42.6
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         57.9       136.1     142.1                 121.0                    215.0
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPPULATION                         1.9        16.4      17.0                  37.4                     89.0
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                    ..        23.0      83.0                  35.9                     62.8
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  3.0          2.0         ..                  3.0                      3.2
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      7481.4      9041.9   10839.7
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    7.3         7.2       7.8                  10.5                     22.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              58.0        54.4      50.4                  43.5                     35.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 12.0        18.8      28.6                  27.3                     23.2
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTaL                                28.9        28.0      27.9                  26.4                     31.8
MALE                                 53.2        51.5       50.9                 47.0                     49.0
FEMALE                                4.2         4.1       4.4                   5.7                     14.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               I.6         1.6        1.6                  1.8                      1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   17.5/d       17.4/d e  22.0/f
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  44.47a       42.87    49.27.
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.6/d        7.0/d, e   5.1/f
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   17.l/d       18.7/d,e  14.B8/f
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                *           *      131.0                 271.4
KURAL                                ..          ..      94.0                 144.6                    187.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
UREAN                                ..          ..     180.0                 400.8                    513.9
RURAL                               ..           ..     118.0                 290.9                    362.2
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
UR,AN                                ..          ..      21.0                  22.1
RURAL                               ..           ..      25.0                  29.2
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   Registered, not all practing in the country;  /d Rural expenditures;  /e 1964-65;  /f National, 1974-75.
May, 1981



ANNEX I
- 25-                                                                                       Page 3 of 6
Pe.3
DEFINITIONS IF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Notes: IAlthouh the data ar  dron true souce.. generally jugdtenttnhrttn    n  reliable, it should  l- be cond that they mY not be toIr
nationaly coprebla because of the jock of etandardied defInitions   .od           ..noPte usd by different truntrise  n  olelo  the data.  Tt dotte., none
the1...... uefu1 to descotba orders of aagaituda, ioAicate trend., sod ohorscerisa certain salon differeo-   hnne..nc..nnrIIIs.
Tarfeec  grops  r  (11 otth,sm  c nr -gou  Of the. sobjece outnY end (2  a country group ntth ..oeshtto  higher etrg   otoms thutthe   . totr  groop
of he  ubjot  ruory  sacpt  or  lepealSurlusOilfaprts stgoup  hsra "teiddla Ioom   North A fnira sod riddle Esee" is rhosan bansoftrge
ot-onue   fin,ities).  It ths referec..   rou  da1ta tht ao-ragte ens popolation enghtnd srtthetic  -an  for ash indirstor aed shov  onlyb1
mJority of ebe ontie        , ir   group hoe dots for thenlot nn.Since. the coverageS of contis  aog tire indiators. d.peda or the sre'ilbiity of dste
eod i. ro  u.if.-n. catno  n-e  be aunrciaed in  eaigoese   f .ro  iedncanor or anonher.  ma..a.rea r  on lY ueu   roe..pa-ing  the valu  of
o.nsiodicacorane  tcesanognh.acou..tryeadrefer..oce  groups.
LANDr AIA  ltbouasnd soa.M)                                                                     PouaIo     Io H'yte  So   ttl   ra,ad rura  - Population  (tonal,
Tnl-Totcalsufc  ar urptinglad erg. end rlan.d reeeCuba,adtrl  divided by, hbiar raspette n abt of hospital beda
Ar irulnura  - nso eo   gnunra   raue   eprrly orpermanenly                                    avalalble nI pobit, rd pionn  geealad  spnata    optlad p.-
for orops, pors   ahCk  erd kIttctts  genders or or lie fallow; 1971 den.thblcnlnetr.    Soapie                                               1 resnalahata Parmanonly staffd
by an Inse.t one Phyeioien. fEntbliehb..nts prr-iding principally ..uano-
igo po IAITA  005)- OttNPncaiaetess en.currat narkt  rtc-                 c                 dial care ace rot tvldad.  Roo.al hoepirals, hotur  iood   a
cu-ne  by  ae  covrsone'd as norld Dark utlas (1977-79 beans),; 191.ad  .rdinal Cror.o. no  pereorrony stffe  by                                   h tytir (bu by
1970, and 1979 data.                                                                           adc gcstn.nra  eLdets  etc.)  bth 1f-fartia-petta-ntac...-
danion end provIde a  iomdnag  of maditel fclina.for atate:-
EfRfaY CfNSUKFPTION Fog CAPITA - Auoa ...   ns-ueptito  of            ...rie .eegy(ca             nir   prossore  hWpnl  icue9HOap.                 nialg     Iea  hospitas
sod "ence.ptr',     u   natral gao n.od hyd, -  onleed  -arharea  tier1-                       en   Iualh lal oa  o   ut h.,apinalsd end eadica1lsod mantarni
ortoityl in kllora-  of coa  sotetpe   ena   960, 1970, avd 1979                                 ....... .   peniLnad'  .... hoptal  are  oldedonY under totnl.
data.                                                              ddmigalons rot tSoaott~~~~~~P.   I alRd - Total combaT of  dmisai... to or discharges
froe hoapitols divided by th number of bode.
POPULIATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
Total Fopolation.,OdTo                     A.uaod)-h  of July 1; 1960, 1970, nod 1979      HOUSINGi
dati.Arreiacohushllnroaprhueld  -. tonal, oba_. and rural-
Urban- rlnr   rrenof 'tonl) - oaLti  of-orbac to toal population;                              AIhuaodooteso     ru   f indidul  ott soe  liin -qot
differen  defininious of urban ar...myaffet conar blt oTf done                               and thair mIAin maaI..  A boardar or lodger may or may no  be iooluded ia
amog --untlea;1960, 1970, and 1979 data,                                                     the house..hold foreainraCupee
Poonletio  Projecion A.saa  nuber of ra oatr  tom-otal . urban,..ad rura- A-arga  un
Porilatln In yer 1111    luor:n  poplationrrjcoos              ;,.bsd  nIIN           ber of posn  perroo ft all coe,anditloopedcnetoa
Projection parmcrsfrmrtalit  rates  -op,iet of nhire.t lerleeu_-.ou.Pi:dpats
log lIft _eurctau  t   birth increaingnbuonr'aprr 'I Pine tn.r.e                         Aest    aniit(rr t of dllin..sI - ntatl. urban. mud rural -
esesforrctlt  raeasohv   hree1- level  assmin  deIreSf rotal. -buro, and rural dnelltogsrnpc ay
fertility a.cordung to  ore  acdad Paet faily planri.  pIfomera
nachconrletn  .s.ge  one o f three nine uotoianioa of gorna1ity                        EUATO
end f-rttliny  trende for  pojcton purpane                                               Adjue-d fRoll1at.t gatita
itatisa r ' P    tlai..n-lo  sa rtionar.y roynMloion there ia or gr-nh slots                 Prmryebl-tta,maeed.ea                     .-rs   tonal, mal aodSl
tha bnrnth rat  I      Iqo  no the death  cn, end alsot.  tttsenot- rere-                    anuls    fal  gsa  napiar   ee  as pencennagas of rrptn
erico coneItan.Tis. Iachne-s  oolyatfn tr f ...n   atsden  noIprimary euhool-ags pryolatioe ...                                    eilly nClodas cbildro  agd6-11
the replaus   tIn lve  of -innt  reprod.io  rant  hbon .a             . georaior             yaens bun adjuete.d for diffearet 1angnth  of primary educton.      o
of nea  replaes Itelf nuutly.The  ttoaypopulation sies ne                           cotni   .uthoavra  adctnrerort may eaned 101 paret..I
aet=matd-on thebastef thte projerned therarcenisolc  of the pouainsic                               -rsPupl  are bltl   o  aov  tb  official school age.
in the year"200. ao.d the rate of decline of fertility IrIe ro replace-                    Serood-ry school -total, male and female - Computed as above; saader
noron level.. edctionrqt                                                                                           tlie foryasfapproved primary instrnon io;
Teraon-      r porulat,iotI  reached - The ytar nh.e. toar   oulto    proieegnea,  oationl,or eshe  nrnn    "nIunnn   o  ppill
slee ho  bee  reathed.                                                                       uaLyof 12 no 17 palrs  fae   orsodns  ore   r   eeal
Per an. k. - and-pear Ppuplannor per ero         idomat-r (100 h.ttecnre) of                 toainopnole               r.aroot of soodarp) - Vo..caIonaliaatui
total are; 1960, 1970 ad 1979 dana.                                                          anldatcia,industpia, or ohther progrem    hithir  opeasn  ind.pod-
Per sok. ha.ericultural land - C.eput.d aehov  for ngCiCultrnrn  land                          entiy or as d      tenesn  ofera yinstitutios
only  196f. 1970 and I97t dens.                                                            Peun -teh-e ratio - PrCav.ed ..acMdap  - Tntel stdeone onr1lled Io
Popudetiro ACs strutur  (prMoson) - Cttildreo  (0-14 ytare), orlgge(15-                           Primay an  econdary levels divided by num Ir of necor  n  the
64   easlad rsna(65 ysresacd over..l .... pretags.  of  id-yasryopo,-                          tor.so.d.     glevls
lati ; tlb0  170, and 1979 dana.                                                        ndl  ieooaelecaa      ieaeaut  (ISratreaded   wine
hruei   rvbRunt )onCectl -total  A-1dna  gronoh vIa   fttlad                             ass.    rang  of rote: adul  rpuao  1o? 5  ersed  or
yer  opleione for 1950-, 196-0,  n  1970-7,9.
Pornlatcn Aronnt nate (rceon)- uran-  Annul groath raeso  ocher popo-              CSOTOT
Iatonsfo  1950o-60, 1960-70, and 1970-79.                                              PaM :na  Core (pra  th--sad Protulatine) -Psas                 - ar   rpnies altro
Crude 5 biota (per housad) - Arouo Ive birihs per thoe-d of mid-yea-asenigle   hnegnproa;ecue   eoaosCape   o
popula-tion;1960, 19710, ead 1979 dat..                                                        mdlIP-narpoebbmltlse.al.....
P             19n6at   on  earthusn      Analdtnspe7hosndtf  l-ya                           Radio Ia.eiv-re Ir.. thouan  onrlanan  - All CType  of raceives  orrai
pon..lRnlon; 1960,  -97, sodS 1979 dana                                                       bradotsno genaral public per thousan  of population; s..clodeun
losh.   rouno  gt-vraeoaero   aghesaore    i  baar in                                          IIenedaclva   in  narie  an.:d in year nhan regianrtie..  at radio
her noe  reProductive period if she  uav,        a  prset   -aga-eniff fite-                 st  a   nfet   aafrrot   er   a   o   ecmaa                           iu
ility  -ate; usuallY fire-year aneaga  end)ing in 1960, 1970, and 1979.dmtetfounartas abtibabed litensieg.
FamIly planaita-Aooos.ana  teaadj-Aaa  or-berofLatsp97                        r  T9 nenaitera Sp 1thusad oulotiont .                      Or iesfrbudoit
pop ar orITi.hld; o                                                                             to Lr.di  be ia "doly  if In 1 aper  ah otfu  tmsa  eh
Indn  f PndPrduoio  or Cpia  196-7-107    bne  f  ercaptaanuol CismaAnnu Atenane rp  arna  arYea  -noed  n heor fbe  o
PaI   sleerl   f  aois(aco  o   enrdna       moa   rmamdfoosaduepoe  bon  acl-ding                                                            -Ia hnseiee  etodeis  ec-i.-d
par day.  Aveidabla sopp tle  9 compisedomsti  pnduonicor. i.Pitrn                  t  blase  eec  copaabe  1960, 191  and 197  data.  . .k
nson,andcagsil       no.lnsple  acutafo   ed   ed,                                 Pml )erdoenCn) d- Paetbn.otrsprenado  ntal  IIIe fors
-nr  .dr sai-te by i60 ban   nptsocio   rd   o   u lat-fatinkg:l aspned                                     g   ftna   ao   ot;16,  90ad17   aa
end ens diannibotbon of prpnlan~~~~~ion, o and allowin  10 percen  for eass aan eolerniiy    ae   n   a   spretg   ftnllbrfrr   90
pho-jeehold       "d.. leel  196-65  1970,and   1977 65 data 0.1970199                            and.b. 1979 dons.. d            _,ly ti   P_               _l
qe cria  n-l- of -oo fe   d (gas p     dy -Vlb. Proat  c_ripa ofprcaia                Panoecin   atCecnl-ctl   ae  n   a                       Ptiiotno
polas poteror  of ehctt 10  rama sould b  aetmalprotei.  Tbas  snanr         Crsanio,  ..o ag - lan  nr dnob of the-d houlnon.an-lon tdtae  tran. 
anadmal pota  asovl        as  o thei- meld,  propsd b   ADIteThr                        Eroami Raendor Ratio 1 -...e           D of popolat Lo unde  15  ..d.9 aed. ove
Iol  Pod huve; 961-6i ,19k0 andC197  dana.:      d-1                                   Ct othetonal. ia960 force
Pepctitna rro dsin forad from . aimal adp rols      rti         pyo   od.ho
Ctidias10   otlnt   as(e  huad      enldathsb   A   ..d h.  ! pa191ed  n            Preneeo   rrn  Icm   hn  ind 9eaen  kind)t              - o  Rteto1adb trfrnbe
tre   dot derived from-lifettables;o1965, 1970fand 1979 dana0 ofdho979hdlds
abirtt;d960  197  an         rZ .  d                                                       90.d 1979 data,  n   hadb   nepee  nt   aedrbecuim
WoYo unli Rt  orcosad      enldab  ofP infnt  undert onePst.                         raEtimaed1   IelnoPoety Ina   ae  )n   a   ain)-ibn a.n
of geper tofasad live d..irthe        l  Yf  L i.Abseofi                                             ovdnyaicomeinve  isthenlanalevl hlP              tnbamiia
qcteiro ht eOcntaca   frplnnttnl.ubn  n   ne                                                   ufnoa fdnqnfaldet platebeliiL7 , non-tro  reqIrseeis  e
.h.d by USDA pt-id. f.ttimagedNala                          ..r Povertyonoetavl )S  prneal-ubansdrua
sonar each as-o en tri pronta   hn aeye spide  and  -anofsry,alls).                  aeratl s. reatf tostyl  - inu a levl i   met-ibr  of oeaeperpn
pnruetsgprof     fttIr  epciv oh       aire    o    urban area190 e publIc...1 B.
fonano Cnnpotlrtdptmrste   0   aesfrmahnsmyb                                         prsoml  hones of n          - c ofty  tro   ee  I   acdtean poe
"osiee"   a bin  iniPnumnbl   ora  o   ha  hue.I  rrl  enalnn  nto  djametfa  igarcstr  lrngnaube   ree
reascobls sream   ould  mply  han te heuenIf  or msbenaof th  heaaheld      enimaed PoulatAO  eln Absluteirdsrtkmine lava  (perent)   orbf
do nnldv  t Food   deS-,; n1p61 n65 ne1i7 partdr19 th  dayIntechig  heen  corl   PeroCI                         t of popuation (abaCmd  url  eb d non "a          ut
tci'srterreds                                                                         moP lar    I.-P   yo  f. 
pnronetagee of tbain respectiv  pupleLnna   on-et  de,psaisayfnau
Prulti..  .t ret - ftreoioin   C.l.                             td                                               C - Poudeuondnbdothy eL.e ofphooirig pydi Ra  Rl9Nb b    th
clans qualifed from a meical etb 960   190t . unna 79t daa.                          Pa-C ih.20p.C                         t2   .c_, dPorC4pCCt
PruTnonpe   nofn eron-Pouunrndviedb  nmblofprrirn
mai le andtale.,sit grydnuc  nurses,      - practice   nurses  a od a iftae  nrsesi.,     PVRYTIa   wp



EGYPT - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Population; 39.8 million (mid-1980)
GNP per capita: US 5580
A..ount (million
US8 at current                               A N N U A L   G R O W T H   R A T E S   (Y)
prices)                    A C T U A L                   EST.                     P R 0 J E C T E D
1979         1975    1976    1977 7    1978    1979    1980/81   1981/82   1982/83   1983/84   1984/85   1985/86
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Groas Domestic Product a/         17745.0          10.4    10.3   10.9    11.9       8.2       9.0       8.3        6.4       6.8        6.8       6.4
Agriculture                     3844.0           6.3     1.6    -3.0      5.5     3.9      2.2        2.1        2.3       2.5       2.7        2.8
Industry                        3237.0          10.6     4.8     9.8    12.3      6.5      9.8        9.2       9.6        9.3       9.6        9.4
Petroleum                       2728.0         39.4    52.3    55.2    22.0    10.3       11.6       12.8        3.5       6.1       5.9        3.9
Ser-ices                        7263.0          9.2    11.6      9.4    12.0    10.2      10.8        8.8       8.2        8.0       7.7        7.5
Consumption                       15010.0          -3.8     8.3    11.0    11.2      4.5      12.0      10.3        8.2       7.0        6.7       6.9
Gross Investment                   5450.0          54.2    -8.2     9.3   -2.4       9.4      9.6        7.1        7.1       .7        6.2       5.7
E.ports of GNFS                    5585.0          27.2    30.8     9.0      3.0     5.8      12.4       8.0        4.6       6.0        6.0       5.9
Imports of GNFS                    8300.0          16.0    -5.3     2.5      4.2     8.9      18.7       8.5        7.6       6.2        5.2       5.3
Gross National Saving              3885.9         133.0    74.8    25.7    17.4  -13.4         -         -          -
PRICES
GDP Deflator                                       50.6    55.9    60.5    65.8    81.0    100.0         -
Exchange Rate b/                                    2.15    1.97    1.75    1.54    1.43       1.43      -          _
Share of GDP at Market Prices (%)                            Average Increase (X) at Constant Prices
(at current prices)                        1965 Prices  1975 Prices           1980/81 Prices
1960    1970    1975    1979    1984/85   1989/90             1960-1970    1970-1975  1975-1979  FY81-FY86  FY86-FY90
Gross Domestic Product
- Agriculture                     27.9    25.3    28.2    21.7       16.3      13.5                4.7          5.1         1.9         2.5        3.1
- Industry 6 Petroleum            23.7    26.1    25.4    33.6      37.8       40.4                3.0          2.6        17.5         7.9        4.6
- Services                        42.9    40.8    42.8    40.9      41.7       39.6                6.3          4.4        10.8         8.0        7.1
Consumption                       87.3    99.6    90.4    84.6      87.0       87.5                4.4          8.0         6.8         7.8        6.6
Gross Investment                  13.3    13.9    32.3    30.7      29.7       29.6                5.8          4.2         1.8         6.6        5.2
Export of CNFS                    19.5    14.2    21.5    31.5      35.0       37.3                4.9         22.8        11.6         5.9        3.3
Import of CNFS                    20.1    18.8    44.1    46.8      51.7       54.5                1.1         13.5         2.5        6.6         4.9
Groan National Saving             12.9     7.7    10.9    21.9       16.9      15.1                7.2          17.2       22.2         -          -
As 2 of GDP
1960    1970    1975    1979
PUBLIC FINANCE
Current Revenue                 18.5    21.3    34.1    37.2
Current Expenditure             21.5    22.0    39.9    33.9
Surplus (e) or
Deficit (5)                   -3.0    -0.7    -5.8      3.3
Capital Expenditure             11.8    11.1    16.6    23.0
Foreign Financing                -       -       16.0     4.4
1960-70  1970-75  1975-80  FY81-FY86  FY86-FY90
OTHER INDICATORS
GNP Grouth Rate (X)               4.5      5.0      11.5      7.3         5.9
GNP per capita growth
rate (X)                        1.9      2.7       8.7      4.7         3.5
Energy consumption grocth
rate (X) c/                    14.9     14.9      13.2     11.4        11.9
ICOR                              -        -         3.6      3.7        4.3                                                                             m
Marginal Savings Rate             -        -         0.46     0.15       9.14
Import Elasticity                 0.9      1.7       0.9      0.8        0.8                                                                              ,
a!  GDP for 1979 at current prices is valued at market prices.  Rates of growth concern GDP at Factor cost.
h/ Effective rate computed as a weighted average of official and parallel market rates.
c/  Electricity only,                                                                                                                          Division IA
CPD 1, EMENA Region
November 20, 1981 (420J)



- 27 -
EGYPT - EXTERNAL TRADE                                                ANNEX I
Population; 39.8 million (mid-1980)                                                                                     Page 5 of 6
GNP per capita: 580
Amount (million                  Annual Growth Rates (2) at Constant 1980/81 Prices
US * at current
prices                          ACTUAL                        EST.               PROJECTED
1979          1975     1976    1977    1978    1979    80/81   81/82   82/83   83/84   84/85
EXTERNAL TRADE
Merchandise Exports           4024            27.2    19.6       3.1      7.7      9.6    10.8       6.8      3.4      5.5      5.5
- Primary 1/                   546          -15.3    -8.5    25.7   -29.8          4.5      5.2      3.0      3.7      2.4      2.8
- Manufactures 1/              618            24.8   -14.6   -27.3    17.9   -29.6          9.2      6.1      6.1      6.7      7.3
- Petroleum                   2860            72.0    63.3    11.1    16.1    22.6    12.1           7.5      2.9      5.8      5.6
Merchandise Imports           7336            14.1    -5.0    -1.1        8.5      5.9    18.0       8.6      7.4      6.0      5.1
- Food                        1677            27.4    16.9   -18.1    25.8    -7.0    21.2    11.7            5.5      3.4      1.9
- Petroleum                    243          -34.2   -23.3   -53.3         2.7   -11.8    17.7        6.1      2.6      1.3     0.4
- Machinery and
Equipment                2846            59.5    24.8    21.4    -0.7    25.6    14.3           8.8      8.6      7.6      7.0
- Others                      2570            17.9   -26.2    10.7        7.5      0.2    20.0       6.4      7.9      6.7      5.6
Prices
Export Price Index                            51.5    49.9    52.3    52.9    76.0   100.0   100.7   107.9   121.3   134.0
Import Price Index                           60.6    63.5    70.4    76.1    87.9   100.0   108.8   119.1   129.0   139.3
Terms of Trade Index                         85.0    70.6    74.3    69.5    86.5   100.0    92.5    90.6    94.0    96.2
Composition of Merchandise Trade (2)            Average Annual Increase (W)
(at current prices)                    at constant 1980/81 prices
1970   1975   1979   84/85   89/90          1975/79   FY81/FY86   FY86/FY97
Exports                                                                9.8          5.0          1.6
Primary 1/           64.2   28.3   13.6    12.8    12.4             -4.1         2.9           3.2
Petroleum             4.8   25.2   71.0    73.4    70.9             26.8         5.1           0.2
Manufactures 1/    31.0   46.7   15.4    13.8    16.7              -15.3         6.8           8.9
Imports                                                                1.9         6.4           4.7
Food                 13.4   23.6   22.9    25.3    23.4              2.9         5.1           2.9
Petroleum             8.2    6.9    3.3        3.2      3,5        -24.5         2.5           3.9
Machinery            23.4   23.7   38.8    40.0    40.9             17.2         7.7           5.3
Others               55.0   45.8   35.0    31.5    32.3             -3.1         6.4           5.4
Share of Trade With           Share of Trade With               Share of Trade With
Industrial Countries (2)   Developing Countries (x)   Capital Surplus Oil Exporters (x)
1965     1970    1975         1965    1970    1975               1965    1970    1975
DIRECTION OF TRADE
Exports              27.0    17.0    14.0          18.0    22.0    10.0                1.0      1.0      4.0
Primary            29.0    19.0    lB.O          17.0    22.0    11.0                -        1.0      3.0
Manufactures       19.0    12.0       3.0        23.0    23.0       9.0              4.0      3.0      5.0
Imports              55.0    42.0    65.0          18.0    25.0    14.0                -        -        4.0
1/  not including oil and oil products.
Division 1A
CPD 1, EMENA Region
November 20, 1981 (420J)



70       ,  700   I   -5  00        *I         Oft  00         I  7      III    C   ft       ft  7      ft       0   '7       'ft  Ct  7   7   lOft.   1000         I
07   oftft-o               ft<          ftC       0  ft  ft            ft  ft  ft             ft              0.ftftftftftftft                            ft  ft  ft  ft    ftft      Oft  00
00  ftft tO  Oft 000  00 ft. 700  ft ft 0 000   ft CoO OftftftHftftftftft  .00-5.00,0                                                                          ft*ft 0
ftC                  07      ft  Oft    ft  ftftftftftftftftft   ft                 ftft0ft   I  ftftOO    0   -   ft  ft  ft       ftftftftftft                           0,00    ftftftft  ft
000   7770           .0    1' ftft-ft1ftCft'--             ft  ftft'ft     ft  'ft  ft00ft  C.  00010Cr  ft  ft  ft  00            ft  00  ft  ..oC   ft  ft
00    Oftftft        ft..  07    Oft-  07    Oft    00  ft    ft..  Oft.-    OftUr-.  ft  ft  C               ft           =       Oft  ft        ftft.Qlftftftftftftft   COO    CI
Oft.  Oftoft         00   ftft  ftft  ftft  ftftft   ftftft,ftftOftftftOOftft                                 ft  01  00  00  ft  Oft         0   ftftb.   ftft.-ftftftft    ft ft    ft
-   ft  ft   ft.  ft  ft         -.  -   --  r-.  ftft.ftftftftl*.ft                                    ft  ft
ft7   Oft   ftftftftftftftftftftft                   ft  ftC  ft  ft              0        ft          ftft  ft  ft  ftftft   0   00  ft  0   ft  0   0          0
Oft  0.ftft7           -     ft    ft-ft        Oft  ft.  ft  ft0,ftftft              Oft   ft               ft   0   ft  0   ft  000         --    .-.ft.ftft    070                        .0
501-.  o-ftftft            ftO            0  ft  ft.  0   ft.  ft     ft   ft  ft.   '-       ft             ft  ft  ft  ft   ft   ft    -   ft      -   ft  ft   ft                    ft
*     ftft                 'ftC           ft   ft      ft      ft       ft  00  ft     ft  ft  ft.            -   ft   ft  'ft     7ft    ft  ft      7    ft  ft       o-.  S  00   9   ft  'ft
ft     ft       ft  ft*      ft.  ft  Oft   ft  ft  ft                 ft  ft  ft  7   Oft  Oft             000          Hft   ft  ft  ft  ft  ft
ft      0    ft  ft          ft           ft  Oft         ft   ft       .            .-.  .0  ft             C   ft  ft   H   ft        ft
0     ftft  ft            ft    '         ft     'ft      ft  00       ft             ft  ft  ft             ft   ft  0   00  ft   0.00  ft  'ft               ft  ft  0   ft   0-  ft  ft   00
00    0   Oft              ftC           ft  ft  ft       '0           00             ft  ft   -              ft      ft1-ftftft                          -        ft   0   00  -   ft       7
OftOft               ft                 ft  ft                                  ft  00                 ft      ft       0          ft  ft          ft   00  ft  ft   9        ft       7
SOftft                 ft          00  ft  0                     ft             ft      Cr             ft       0   ft  ft   ft  ft  ft             ftftftftft'ft                      .0
I            ft          ftftft                                       ft  ft  0                       ft   7         ft      ft          ft  ft  ft        0.      ft.  7   10
ft            -    ft  ft                         0          ft                   ft   ft  ft       ft  7   ft.  ft
ft    ft                            ft  ft  ft                   ft.                ft   ft                             9      ft      00           ft  ft   00      ft   ft  ft  ft
ft                 ft.  ft                         ft  ft    ft       ft          0    ft           ft  ft  ft
ft  00                              0                            ft                 ft.                             ft  0                           ft  ft                I        ft
7 ft-ft 0 ft 0 ' 0 ft ft ft ft 'ft 0,
ft                ft                              H    ft    ft                   7                 .   S       ft
ft  Oft                                                                                                                                                              .    ft  .   ft
'0 7 ft 00 ft
ft  ftft                                                                                                                                                              01
ft                                      '   "                                         ft  ft                                       ft           0000     700              00
ft  ft               H            00   ft  00       00    700   7             001100   00              ft      ft       ft  700        00     I         'ft          0000     700              ft
ft  0                             .     ft0ft       0      ft00  00           001   ft  000ft0'ftftft                   .   Oft  00  ft  00ft00   7   0000ftft00ft00                           00
O   ft              ft           00    MOft         ft    ftC   ft            00    00000000000   0   00  'ft           Oft000000ft00ft00ft   ft  700
ft  ft               7                  ft          00           ft                      ft      ft     ft  0,                         ft                ft          0000     000             00
ft  0.              00           ft   '0,00          ft    007   7            00   00  0         ftft  00  C   00       ft  700        0000ft0000                0,  000,    700               0
0.  ft.              '                  00ft00       ft    0000               00  OftO.  CftftftCftftft                 .   00   ft  0   00ft0ft007    00000                  ftC
ft              00           0      000000      00    00   0              00000000ft0000ft'ftft0000                 7   0000  00  ft  000   00  00  0   00  7.-.    0000
ft                ft           00    0,00  00                                                                                      ft           0000    0000              00           -
00          00       ft00      0      Oft  ft            000   ft  7        ft00  00  ft  00       -  o'00       ftftft00ft00              ft  007      700              0            Oft
*           .      7ft00       ft    0000   0            000000.'  00  0000000  00  00  7          .   0000   7   00  000000  00  00  0   -              00ft'            00          .4
00          ft   ftOftO        ft    00   0              00  ftftftftftftft   00  ft  00           ftftft0,ftftCOft00ftft00ft                            007                           00
ft                00  o        ft    0,00   7                       -   ft        ft       00                                      -            0000    0000             'ft           00
00      ftC        00    007   0            000        0   0   0,00   7   00  00       00ft10017ft00    00                     00  -7       007              0            0'
*           .      000000      ft    000  00             000000ft007ft000000ftft                   .   007   700    ft00000000ftft'ft                    007              0            00
0           -      04000       00    00   0              0.00000   00  000007   0000   00          ft  000   0   00  00000ft000000    07                 007
.-0
0,10
0.0

ft                ft  7        00    0,7  00                                      ft       ft             -        I    ft'ft      ft       -   0000    ft000
0           ft    ' 00ft       00    0000  00           ft         7   00    0   00  00  7         ft  7          ft  0,070000              7   700      0000             ft         00
777         00    ftft  ft            ftftftft  00  00000000   0   ft  -        '   00   ft  7   70000   7   00  00  00  7ft    0000                   7          ,00
00          00    ftftftft     0      00   0             7 7ftftft000000 00  0   00  00            00  ft 7007    007700-   ft  7   700                  77                          7
ft.
0,ftS    00
Or                       0,           7     7
00                00  -        ft    ft00   -            ft         -                      00             -        I    ftft      -        -   07       0000             7          joft
00          00       000       00    700  00             0   ft   00          00  00  -   00       ftft010000000ft00                        ft  0000     700
000000      ft    000  00             007000000000000   00              00      -   000  00  700ft0ft000000007                        007                         050
00          ft    00000        00    00   0              000700000000000   00  0   00              7   007   7   7   0007   000000000                    ft00                        *ftS
pm
00N
II                     -   .       00
-                  00  -       00    000,  00                       ft        ft  ft.     00             ft   0   I    ftft       00       -   07       007            7   00
00          00   .0000         00    0000  00            ft  ft    0          -   00  00  00       -   100007000000    00  0   I  -   700                77             0   0        *00
-           -      00000       00    700   0             7   0070,000000000000   7                 -      0   00  00  0,0010  00  7   I  00  0000        77             'ft  ft        00
00          00    00000        -      000  00            0000700   ft  0070000  00  00  -          00    0   700000700    0                 000000000                   7   .          0
00
II                     ft            00
7                  0   ft      00    0000  00            -          -         -   7        00             -        I     ft00   -   00      7      00    007                           U
0           0     .000         00    000  00            00  --   00           00  00  ft  00       ft  100   I  7   00000,  -   7   0  00  700           0000           7
-           -      0000        ft    0000  00            0000700   7   77000,  0   00  00          .   100  00  00  0000000010007                        007            ft             C
00          00    0000         00  0000   0              00000   00  00000   00  ft  0             00   00  00  0   00000   0   00          0   000      000            7              7
ft                 7   00      00    0000  ft            -          00        C'  ft       00             -              0,00   -   00      -   0000     77             7
-           .      000,00      0   00000   -             0000000ftft7ft.00007ft                    .   100        007000000    I  0   007                0000           ft
ft          00    0,700        00  00000  00        0   0000000000000    C   00  00                -      00  0   0   000   0   0           0   07       70             7
-                  00  00      00  0,0000   0            -          00        -   -        00             -              0,00   -   00      0,  007      700            7
00          0      .77         7   0000   -          0000070070000000                              0   100        0   00700  00  00   I  00  700         000            00  00
-           -      000000      7   000000  00        000,007000   00   7   00  0   0,              .      00      0,0,0007001000000                      0000           ft  00
00          00    0,000        0   0000   00         0   00000   0   000007   0   00  00           000000000007    0   00                   0000000000                  7   7
00          0      .000        00  00000   7         0   70000   000          00  00  7   7        0      00      7   0000000,1000,00                    77             00
-                  00000       0   00000   7         0,  007000000770000    0   7                  -   I         7000,000,00               00  77       00ft0          ft
ft          00    0000         0   00000  00         00  000000000000000   0   ft  00              700700000000000                          00  000      07             -
ft                 0-00        0   00000  00             -         00         0,  -        00             -       7      00000,00           -   000      0,00           7
00          0      .007        00  000000  00       00  070000   000,    000700                    0   100        00  000000   700100000,0,7                            00
-           .      700,        7   70000  00         7   700,00000000000000                             100       000,00000000    I  00  700             0000           ft
00          ft    0,000        0   0000   00         00  00000   0   000000   0   00  0            0      00  0   0   00000   0   0         0   000      0000           7.
0,                 00000       0   000000  00        00  00        00         -   00  -   0               0,      00  .0000   00  7         -   0,00     700            7              ft
00          0      .007        00  000,00  00        00070000000              00  0   00  00       0      00      ft  000000  7   00   I  0   000        0000           7
-           .      00700       00  000000  00        0   0000007   7   00    0   00  0   00        -      00      00  70000   0000100000070                             ft             00
00          00    0,00         0   000   7          00  70007   00  70000   00  0   00             00    00  0   0   070    0   00          C   00       000            7



ANNEX II
Page I of 11
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN EGYPT
STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of September 30, 1981)
Amount in million US dollars
Loan/Credit      Approved        Borrower        Purpose                                        (less cancellations)
Numbers            FY                                                                    Bank        IDA      Undisbursed
11 Loans and Credits fully disbursed                                                       91.4    184.4             -
Cr 393               73            ARE           Upper Egypt Drainage                         --      36.0          2.0
Cr 423               74            ARE           Cotton Ginning Rehabilitation                --      18.5          1.5
Ln 1064              75             SCA          Suez Canal Rehabilitation                  50.0        --         13.0
Ln 1085              75            ARE           Tourah Cement                              40.0        --          1.9
Ln 1098              75            ER            Railways II                                37.0        --          4.7
Ln i239              76            APA           Alexandria Port                            45.0        --         26.4
Ln 1276-T 1/         76            ARE           Fruit and Vegetable Dev.                   50.0        --         24.6
Cr  637              76            ARE           Upper Egypt Drainage II                      --      40.0         11.7
Ln 1285              76            ARE           Upper Egypt Drainage II                    10.0        --         10.0
Ln 1292              76            ARE           Textile Rehabilitation                     52.0        --         10.9
Ln 1369              77            AWA           Alexandria Water Supply                    53.2        --         27.0
Cr  681              77            ARE           Education I                                  --      25.0          3.8
Cr  719              77            ARE           Nile Delta Drainage II                       --      27.0          3.1
Ln 1439              77            ARE           Nile Delta Drainage II                     27.0        --         27.0
Ln 1440-T 1/         77            ARE           Nile Delta Drainage II                     12.0        --         12.0
Ln 1453              77            EEA           Regional Electrification                  48.0         --          7.6
Ln 1456              77            ARE           Industrial Imports                         70.0        --         13.9
Ln S-005             77            ARE           Iron Ore Beneficiation and Eng.             2.5        --          0.5
Ln 1482              78             SCA          Suez Canal Expansion                      100.0        --         29.8
Cr  774              78            ARE           Telecommunications II                        --      53.0         49.1
Ln 1533              78            DIB           Development Industrial Bank III            40.0        --          7.1
Cr  830              78            ARE           Agricultural Development                     --      32.0         26.5
Cr  831              78            ARE           Urban Development                            -       14.0         12.8
Cr  85U              79            ARE           Population II                                --      25.0         15.8
Cr 868               79            ARE           Education II                                 --      40.0         26.0
Ln S-14              79            ARE           New Valley Phosphate Engineering
and Technical Assistance               11.0        --          3.3
Cr  909              79            ARE           Tourism                                      --      32.5         29.8
Ln 1732              79            ARE           Gulf of Suez Gas                           75.0        --         33.2
Cr  935              79            ARE           Shoubrah El Kheima Thermal Power             --      37.0         36.4
Ln 1733              79            EEA           Shoubrah El Kheima Thermal Power 2/  102.0             --        102.0
Cr  988              80            ARE           Agroindustries                               --      45.0         42.8
Ln 1804              80            DIB           Development Industrial Bank IV             50.0        --         38.7
Ln 1837              80            ARE           Textiles II 3/                             69.0        --         69.0
Lii 1842             80            ARE           MIDB                                       30.0        --         30.0
Cr 1024              80            ARE           Cairo Gas Distribution                       --      50.0         24.6
Ln 1849              80            ARE           Pulp and Paper 3/                          50.0        --         50.0
Ln 1886              80            EEA           Power III                                   7.0        --          7.0
Cr 1052              80            EEA           Power III                                    --    120.0         119.7
Cr 1069              81            ARE           Education III                                --      40.1         39.9
Ln 1928              81            EGPC          Western Desert Exploration                 25.0        --         17.8
Cr 1083              81            ARE           New Land Development                         --      80.0         80.0
Cr 1111              81            ARE           Fish Farming 3/                              --      14.0         14.0
Ln 2002              81            HADISOLB    Hadisolb Rehabilitation 3/                   64.0        --         64.0
Cr 1156              81            ARE           Beheira Water Supply 3/                              56.6         56.6
Cr 1162              81            ARE           Technical Assistance 3/                      --       6.9          6.9
Totals 4/                                                                                1211.1    977.0         1234.4
Of which has been repaid                                                                    65.3       0.5
Total now outstanding                                                                    1145.8    976.5
Amount sold                                              7.5
Of which has been repaid                                 7.5
Total now held by Bank and IDA                                                            1145.8    976.5
1/ Third Window Loan.
2/ Not included is EEC Special Action Credit 20 of $35.0 million.
3/ Not yet effective.
4/ In addition, $64 million Telecommunications III Project has been approved by the Board but not yet signed.
(231J)



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 11
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN EGYPT
STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of September 30, 1981)
Year    Obligor                     Type of Business                   Loan      Equity    Total
1976    Arab Ceramic Company        Ceramic Industry                    4.80      0.83       5.63
1978    Nile Clothing Company    Ready-Made Garment Industry            0.43      0.16       0.59
1978    Delta Sugar Company         Agricultural Production,           20.00      3.00      23.00
mainly sugar
1979    Ismailia Misr Poultry    Food and Food Processing               5.97      1.52       7.49
Company
1980,   Ismailia Fish               Food and Food Processing            1.93       .55       2.48
1981        Farming Company
1980    Suez Cement Company        Building Materials                  30.0         -      30.0
1981    Luxor Hotel 1/              Crocodile Tourist Project           4.41       .86       5.27
Total gross commitments                                                67.54      6.92      74.46
Less: Cancellations, terminations, repayments
and sales                                                 10.04       -       64.42
Total commitments now held by IFC                                      57.50      6.92      64.42
Total Undisbursed                                                      19.21      2.76      21.97
1/ Not yet signed.
231J



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 11
STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
AS OF SEPTEMBER 30, 1981
Cr. No. 393-UAR - Upper Egypt Drainage I Project; US$36 million Credit of
June 8, 1973; Effectiveness Date: November 28, 1973; Closing Date: July 31,
1981.
Work is virtually completed on some 1,640 km surface drains in
300,000 feddan project area. Of the four pumping stations, two are
complete and progress is being made on the other two. Installation of tile
drains is more than two-thirds complete. Progress on this activity has
been slow because of inadequate management by contractors and recently the
shortage of cement. Bilharzia Control Program is proceeding as scheduled.
Progress on procurement is satisfactory. The credit was closed as planned
on July 31, but IDA has agreed to keep the credit account open until
December 31, 1981, in order to honor existing letters of credit.
Cr. No. 423-UAR - Cotton Ginning Rehabilitation Project; US$18.5 million
Credit of July 30, 1973; Effectiveness Date: February 15, 1974; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
The projecL is estimated to be completed in 1982. Previous
substantial delays, primarily due to lack of adequate local funds, have
been overcome.
Ln. No. 1064-EGT - Suez Canal Rehabilitation Project; US$50 million Loan of
December 20, 1974; Effectiveness Date: April 21, 1975; Closing Date: June
30, 1982
Project execution is generally satisfactory although some items
are lagging behind appraisal schedule. Contracts for most items in the
project have been awarded and the cost of Bank-financed items is expected
to exceed appraisal estimates slightly.
Ln. No. 1085-EGT - Tourah Cement Expansion Project; US$40 million Loan of
February 10, 1975; Effectiveness Date: June 9, 1975; Closing Date: December
31, 1982
Civil works and procurement of machinery and equipment have been
completed. Mechanical erection has also been completed for several
facilities. Substantial progress has been made in recent months towards
completing the remaining erection work. Start-up of facilities is expected
to be progressively achieved by March 1982 when the project is expected to
be completed.
1/  These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 11
Ln. No. 1098-EGT - Railways II Project; US$37 million Loan of April 2,
1975, Effectiveness Date: August 20, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Investment in mobile assets has been satisfactory but progress on
fixed installations is slow. The Egyptian Railways' (ER) operations and
maintenance situation remains very poor with low availability of
locomotives and rolling stock. The track renewal and repair program is
also behind schedule. Efforts are now being made to improve rolling stock
maintenance with the help of consultants and ER plans to set up separate
companies with overseas technical assistance to upgrade track conditions.
The 1980-84 draft investment program contains many large investments
including new lines for which no economic justification has been
demonstrated. The financial situation is poor and a deficit of LE 38
million was recorded for 1979. After many years without tariff increases,
substantial increases in freight tariffs were made in 1979, and passenger
fare increases are promised for 1981. A draft decree which would establish
a National Railway authority and aims to give the railways inter alia
considerably more autonomy in relation to tariffs and staff salaries is
under discussion. There are no plans for extending the closing date.
Reimbursements under certain existing letters of credit will continue until
December 1981 when it is estimated that the final disbursement total will
be approximately US $35.9 million.
Ln. No. 1239-EGT - Alexandria Port Project; US$45 million Loan of April 19,
1976; Effectiveness Date: August 30, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Progress on the execution of the main civil works and dredging
contract is proceeding reasonably well although other civil works are
behind schedule. Procurement of most equipment is progressing
satisfactorily although the evaluation of bids for radar equipment is
behind schedule. Estimated final cost remains within appraisal estimates.
Because of the delayed start of the main civil works, the closing date of
the loan has been extended.
Ln. No. 1276-EGT - Fruit and Vegetable Development Project; US$50 million
Third Window Loan of June 11, 1976; Effectiveness Date: December 20, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project is now over two years behind schedule but is making
progress. All funds are committed for the credit component. Work on the
drainage and irrigation components of the project is proceeding and a large
contract has recently been awarded. The seed component has major problems,
which the Bank has been discussing with Egyptian officials to agree on
revised modes of management. However, in the last 12 months, physical
plant has been increased, tenders prepared for further investments, and
considerable crop production achieved. The Agricultural Development
Lending Unit in Bank Misr is attempting, with assistance from the World
Bank, to ensure that the various sub-borrowers proceed with their
respective investments, and to identify additional sub-borrowers. The
project scope has been expanded to allow financing of agroindustries
subprojects, and terms of financing liberalized.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 11
Ln. No. 1285-EGT and Cr. 637-EGT - Upper Egypt Drainage II Project; US$10
million Loan and US$40 million Credit, both of June 11, 1976.
Effectiveness Date: January 31, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Progress on construction of open drains is satisfactory with
completion in about 70 percent of the project area. Tile drains have been
installed covering 10,000 feddans. This activity is behind schedule due
mainly to construction planning and management constraints in the Drainage
Authority and in public sector contracting companies, as well as because of
delays in importing plastic pipe laying machines. Progress on the
Bilharzia Control Program is on schedule, but it will need continued
integrated strategy of snail control measures and treatment of infected
patients, and improved quality control. Amelioration of saline soils will
commence following completion of field drainage in affected areas.
Ln. No. 1292-EGT - Textile Project; US$52 million Loan of September 20,
1976. Effectiveness Date: February 16, 1977; Closing Date; March 31, 1982
The project is proceeding with a delay of more than two years
caused by a later and slower than anticipated start of the civil works,
shortage of steel and cement, and a recent fire on the construction site of
one of the two beneficiary companies. The project is now estimated to cost
about US$20 million equivalent (all in local currency) more than appraised,
due to increased scope of civil works and increase in cost of construction
materials beyond what was expected at appraisal. No difficulties are
foreseen in financing this, although some government equity contribution
would be required in the next two years to supplement the companies'
internal cash generation in order to adhere to the financial covenants as
well as project costs. Early management problems have now been overcome
and both companies have developed effective project implementation units.
Disbursements are slower than anticipated reflecting initial delays in
procurement. However, about 90 percent of the contracts for machinery and
equipment have now been awarded and the balance is expected to be awarded
in the near future.
Ln. No. 1369-EGT - Alexandria Water Supply Project; US$56 million Loan of
March 7, 1977; Effectiveness Date: July 6, 1977; Closing Date; June 30, 1982
Bidding for all equipment has been completed and orders placed.
Management studies were completed in the Authority and AWA is implementing
some of the recommendations. AWA has called for bid proposals for new data
processing equipment. The award has been made for the civil works
construction of the Bank financed water treatment plant extensions and work
is expected to start shortly. Local bidding for 65 km pipeline contracts
has been completed and awards made to four contractors who now have the
works under construction. Satisfactory progress is being made on meter
replacement and reduction of waste and AWA's regularly submitted reports
reflect good general progress.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 11
Cr. No. 681-EGT - Education Project; US$25 million Credit of March 7, 1977;
Effectiveness Date: August 19, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Project implementation, since the transfer of two MOHE institutes
to Credit 868, is proceeding satisfactorily. Curricular and staff
development, and technical assistance are essentially complete. About 95
percent of all equipment has been procured and nearly all has been
installed. Of the 23 institutions to be constructed 22 are completed and
operational, and the remaining one will be operational by fall 1981. All
of the existing institutions being re-equipped are operational.
Commitments and disbursements total about 92 percent of Credit amount.
Cr. No. 719-EGT, Ln. No. 1439-EGT and Ln. No. 1440-EGT - Nile Delta
Drainage II Project; US$27 million Credit, US$27 million Loan and US$12
million Third Window Loan of July 15, 1977; Effectiveness Date: April 17,
1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Construction and remodelling of open drains in about 425,000
feddans is on schedule. Tile drains have been installed covering some
12,000 feddans. This activity is behind schedule due mainly to
construction planning and management constraints in the Drainage Authority
and in public sector contracting companies. The progress is expected to
improve with the delivery of plastic pipe laying machines being imported by
the contractors. Moderate progress has been made with the civil works of
four new pumping stations. The Bilharzia Control Program is on schedule,
but it needs continued integrated strategy of snail control measures and
treatment of infected patients, and improved quality control.
Ln. No. 1453-EGT -Regional Electrification Project; US$48 million Loan of
July 15, 1977; Effectiveness Date: February 6, 1978; Closing Date: December
31, 1981
Physical progress is good. A six month delay in completion of
construction is expected, however. Consultants for the extension of the
UNDP Power Sector Survey have completed their work. Consultants for the
distribution companies are in place. All contracts for equipment,
materials and technical assistance have been awarded. Because of delay in
equipment delivery from one supplier, Government has requested extension of
the closing date to June 30, 1982.
Ln. No. 1456-EGT - Industrial Imports Project;USO70 million Loan of July
15, 1977; Effectiveness Date: November 7, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
As of August 31, 1981, the loan has been fully committed and about
80 percent disbursed. Based on discussions with Government, the Bank has
agreed to reallocate funds among the various categories to take account of
projected over-commitments in Category I and provide additional funds in
Category IV for financing engineering services for National and Rakta paper
companies. The study of the Construction Industry in Egypt financed under
Category IV is now completed.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 11
Ln. No. S-5 EGT - Iron Ore Engineering and Beneficiation Project; US$2.5
million Loan of July 15, 1977. Effectiveness Date: February 2, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Consultants' reports on iron ore beneficiation and diagnostic
study substantially completed. As a result of the findings of the
beneficiation study, it is not clear that a large beneficiation plant
should be built; however, HADISOLE has requested that remaining funds in
the loan be utilized for engineering work on construction of a pilot
beneficiation plant. This request has been approved by the Bank, and
HADISOLB is now discussing design aspects of the pilot plant with its
original consultants.
Ln. No. 1482-EGT - Suez Canal Expansion Project; US$100 million Loan of
September 28, 1977; Effectiveness Date: February 8, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
Progress in the execution of the project is close to appraisal
estimates although in some areas, such as procurement of tugs, there has
been some delay because of delayed decisions on design which have now been
taken. The financial situation of the borrower is sound, total canal
traffic continues at levels close to appraisal forecasts and revenue is
higher than appraisal estimates.
Ln. No. 1533-EGT - Development Industrial Bank III; US$40 million Loan of
April 12, 1978; Effectiveness Date: July 18, 1978; Closing Date: December
31, 1982
Progress is satisfactory. The loan is fully committed and $32.9
million has been disbursed.
Cr. No. 774-EGT - Second Telecommunications Project; US$53 million Credit
of March 21, 1978; Effectiveness Date: September 19, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
Project execution has been delayed due to slow procurement action,
and is about three years behind appraisal schedule. ARENTO has been urged
to expedite all remaining procurement. ARENTO's financial performance
deteriorated since 1979 and the rate of return and contribution to
expansion is currently well below appraisal values. ARENTO's proposals for
revision of tariffs which would correct this situation have been approved
by the Government in principle and are awaiting formal endorsement by the
Cabinet. Government has requested extension of the closing date.
Cr. No. 830-EGT - Agricultural Development Project; US$32 million Credit of
July 24, 1978; Effectiveness Date: February 20, 1979; Closing Date;
December 31, 1983
Project tractors have been procured and distributed. Agreements
have been reached and steps taken which have resulted in improved project
implementation. Project organization and management have been strengthened
and the project has been simplified to reduce coordination problems. A
study of the agricultural bank's policies, organization, operations and



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 11
finance will be initiated shortly. Establishment and operation of
machinery workshops under the project are now under way and procurement of
farm implements is improving.
Cr. No. 831-ECT - Egypt Urban Development Project; US$14 million Credit of
August 30, 1978; Effectiveness Date; April 30, 1979, Closing Date; December
31, 1982
Efforts to strengthen the Low Income liousing Development Unit are
continuing and performance is improving. With the exception of the
Alexandria components, satisfactory progress has been made in the
implementation of the physical aspects of the components of Cairo and
Assuit Governorates as well as in the selection of consultants for the
various studies financed by the proceeds of the Credit.
Cr. No. 850-EGT - Second Population Project; US$25 million Credit of
October 30, 1978; Effectiveness Date: May 1, 1979; Closing Date: December
31, 1983
Civil works and procurement of furniture, equipment and vehicles
are proceeding satisfactorily. All sites have been selected and
construction on over 50 (of 153 sites) is underway. Progress has been made
in implementation of software activities particularly in the home visiting
program, IEC and training in terms of completing much delayed institutional
arrangements for full software implementation.
Cr. No. 868-EGT - Second Education Project; US$40.0 million Credit of
January 26, 1979; Effectiveness Date: July 18, 1979; Closing Date: March
31, 1984
Project implementation is proceeding very well. Of the 23
institutions to be constructed, five are completed, another six will be
completed by late 1981, 9 will be completed in mid-1983 and the three MOHE
institutes are expected to be completed on schedule by late 1983. All
equipment is under procurement with contracts already signed for about 50
percent. All technical assistance has been contracted and implementation
is about 9 months ahead of schedule.
Ln. No.S-14-EGT - New Valley Phosphate Engineering and Technical Assistance
Project; US$11 million Loan of May 25, 1979; Effectiveness Date: October
19, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Procurement and delivery of mining equipment is underway and
erection has started at mine site; laboratory tests of phosphate rock have
been completed and reviewed by the Bank. Draft terms of reference for the
pre-feasibility study have been agreed. The experimental mine has started
operation of one long wall mining face.



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 11
Cr. No. 909-EGT - Tourism Project; US$32.5 million Credit of June 13, 1979;
Effectiveness Date: March 26, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Design work is inderway on most project components. Contracts
have been signed for several studies and tendering procedures have
commenced on the others. Contracting and tendering are well advanced for
the following components: telecommunications, electricity, roads, Luxor
airport terminal buildings, and the hotel training school. Implementation
of most components remains behind schedule, but recent steps to strengthen
the project unit have resulted in reductions in further slippages.
Ln. No. 1732-EGT - Gulf of Suez Gas Project; US$75 million Loan of June 29,
1979; Effectiveness Date: January 29, 1980; Closing Date: September 30, 1982
The project is progressing satisfactorily. The onshore contract
has been signed and the contractor has mobilized. The draft financial and
energy pricing studies are completed, and the expoloration study is well
underway.
Ln. No. 1733-EGT - US$102 million, Cr. No. 935-EGT - US$37 million and
Special Action Cr. No. 20-EGT - US$35 million - Shoubrah El Kheima Thermal
Power Project of September 6, 1979; Effectiveness Date: April 8, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986
L.ds for all mrajor equipment packages have been received and are
being evaluated by the consultants and orders are expected to be placed
within the next two months. It might be possible to overcome the delay of
four months that has already taken place in project implementation and to
complete the project on time. Cofinancing virtually complete.
Cr. No. 988-ET - Agroindustries Project; US$45 million Credit of May 1,
1980; Effectiveness Date: December 3, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Construction of the Cairo abattoir has begun and the bids for
construction of the Alexandria abattoir are being evaluated. The credit
component through the three participating banks is proceeding well.
Ln. No. 1804-EGT - Fourth Development Industrial Bank Project;_US$50
million Loan of May 1, 1980; Effectiveness Date: August 8, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984
Commitments and disbursements are progressing satisfactorily.
$46.2 million has been committed and $11.3 million disbursed.



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 11
Ln. No. 1837-EGT - Textile II Project, US$69 million Loan of June 4, 1980;
Effectiveness Date: (Not yet effective); Closing Date: September 30, 1984
Effectiveness action underway.
Ln. No. 1842-EGT - Misr Iran Development Bank Project; US$30 million Loan
of June 4, 1980; Effectiveness Date: December 31, 1980; Closing Date: June
30, 1985
After a change in ownership structure, MIDB has been reorganized
and has resumed its full operations. No funds have yet been disbursed, but
a rapid surge in commitments is expected.
Ln. No. 1849-EGT - Pulp and Paper Project; US$50 million Loan of June 4,
1980; Effectiveness Date: (Not yet effective), Closing Date. December 31,
1984
Action on effectiveness is underway.
Cr. No. 1024-EGT - Cairo Gas Distribution Project; US$50 million Credit of
June 4, 1980; Effectiveness Date: December 4, 1980; Closing Date: December
31, 1985
Implementation of the project is proceeding satisfactorily. One
of the two power plants has been linked to the system. A tariff study has
been completed, and Petrogas has prepared an overall training program.
Cr. No. 1069-EGT - Third Education Project; SDR 30.3 million (US$40.1
million equivalent) Credit of November 7, 1980; Effectiveness Date: April
16  1981  Closin Date  June 30, 1985
Good progress is being made in the preparation of equipment lists,
specifications and bidding documents. Technical assistance agreements have
been signed by Assuit University, Ministry of Social Affairs and Cairo
University.
Ln. No. 1886-EGT, US$7 million, Cr. No. 1052-ECT, US$120 million - Third
Power Project of November 7, 1980; Effectiveness date: July 7, 1981;
Closing Date: June 30, 1987.
Progress in project implementation is satisfactory. Phases I and
II of the tariff study are on schedule.



- 39 -
ANNEX II
Page 11 of 11
Ln. No. 1928-EGT - Western Desert Petroleum Exploration Project; US$25
million Loan of January 13, 1981; Effectiveness Date: May 13, 1981; Closing
Date: December 31, 1983
Four exploration and appraisal wells have been drilled, and gas
has been found in what appears to be commercial quantities. On completion
of the fifth well, the Bank, EGPC and its consultants will review the
results obtained so far and decide on the future course of drilling.
Cr. No. 1083-EGT - SDR 60.9 million (US$80 million) - New Land Development
Project of December 16, 1980; Effectiveness Date: October 2, 1981; Closing
Date: December 31, 1987
Tender for construction of development works on Phase I (7,500
feddans) was issued in August 1981. Bid opening is scheduled on November
15, 1981. Preliminary agreement was reached between Ministry of Land
Reclamation and the consultant for preparing design and tender documents
for Phase II (17,000 feddans). Design work is expected to be completed by
October 1982.
Cr. No. llll-EGT - SDR 11 million (US$14 million) - Fish Farming
Development Project of April 24, 1981; Effectiveness Date: (Not yet
effective); Closing Date: December 31, 1986
Action on effectiveness is underway.
Ln. No. 2002-EGT - US $64 million - Hadisolb Rehabilitation Project of July
28, 1981; Effectiveness Date: (Not yet effective); Closing Date: September
30, 1986
Action on effectiveness is underway.
Cr. 1156-EGT - SDR 46.1 million (US $56.6 million) - Beheira Provincial
Potable Water Supply Project of December 25, 1981; Effectiveness Date: (Not
yet effective); Closing Date; December 31, 1986
Action on effectiveness is underway.
Cr. No. 1162-EGT - SDR 5.7 million (US $6.9 million) - Technical Assistance
Project of August 26, 1981; Effectiveness Date; (Not yet effective);
Closing Date: December 31, 1987
Action on effectiveness is underway.



- 40 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
FIFTH DEVELOPMENT INDUSTRIAL BANK PROJECT
(FINANCE AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TO SMALL AND
MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRIAL ENTERPRISES)
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by agency to prepare project: Six months (January to June 1981)
(b) Date of first presentation to Bank:           January 1981
(c) Agency preparing project;                     Development Industrial Bank (DIB)
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission:   June 1981
(e) Date of completion of negotiations:           October 1981
(f) Planned date of effectiveness:                May 1982
Section II   SpeLial Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III - Special Conditions
1.  DIB would allocate at least 30 percent of its term lending approvals in
1982, 35 percent in 1983 and 40 percent in 1984 to projects benefitting
small scale industrial enterprises (SSI), defined as borrowers whose total
fixed assets, excluding land and buildings, do not exceed LE 300,000 in
1981 prices. Subject to a review at the end of 1983, this allocation
would be increased up to between 40 and 50 percent in the following years
(para. 50).
2.  Within its SSI lending, DIB would allocate at least $20 million in 1982-84
to "smaller" SSI, defined as borrowers with fixed assets, excluding land
and buildings, not exceeding LE 150,000 (para. 50).
3.  DIB's total short and long-term debt and guarantees outstanding will not
exceed 8.0 times its equity (para. 52).
4.  A subsidiary loan agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, shall be concluded
by June 30, 1982, between DIB and the Government, onlending the $1.0
million for the technical assistance program for SMI. If such an
agreement is not concluded by that date the Bank shall not entertain
applications for approval of subloans or authorizations for withdrawals
from the proceeds of the loan until such agreement is concluded (para. 59).



IBRD  15973
TURKEY         '
rrrt,    ~     Yq SSYrK.(        /                                                                                 O
UK )   . : IRUG b                                                    ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
, ' JCRD>AN N
Ce. A Ro'': /    <,                                                         INDUSTRIAL FINANCE
L I B Y A  ! EGYPTS  \   zONr                                                                  AND
*                     Y  _  AU Dl
--x  UKAK A 8 IA                                   TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TO SMI PROJECT
CH A D                                                                                    0            1O             20            300
YM>tt~                                 S                                   U D A N < y    T ERNKILOMETERS
$ 1 < E~~~TH OPIUEg
i4'          I  te rC       an S J  [  Proposed DIB Branches
E -ofting DIB Brooches
(   /       U _  s  U  fi  L  >  DIB Heodqaorters
AMsao&~~~~~o ~~~          KSOKd-          -                -~~~~~~  Q~    Capitol Citty
Do-anhour,T                                              '         yi\         0      Cities and Tows
TO                I-odla                      O          i          Rivers
30                                                                                                   Re r  d o   K                                            Inter ationi l   Airports
OCT f-' ortrro  ,---                               Gecao  CAIRO       Sue                                 *                Domest,c Airports
/   ''        __ I                                                ~~~~~~~ ~~~Hel-a       
'I     ---)                                                                               -- O   p--
.etj~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Se
j             ~~~~~~W  F S T E R N                                      *tI M.nya                              a\
<  |                                                                                                                                                                      S A U D I
A;  ),                   j    H,rghodo                                   A R A B I A
_! I                                                                                                          
26                                                                                                                                                                                26
j                 ~~D E S E R T                                                                  sa>                    
i~l 8-k                                                                                                                                     ,4 -f  N@iy(,1
j                                                                                                            0U  -  L-  
i <DESER
the -onven.en,e of the PM   th- -o
, the report to wO,cU tsetce                         
The devvmivations ttsed and teo
bo tnddries showml Dn Uni mop                                                                 C.r\.t                 \     ~
do not iTOYK on tUe pttrt of rhe                                                  Ahu Siriebe\
WorldBan taa nts aBkAils    rD                                                    A   S-b
j /tdg-etta the 1egttset f                                                          u  lul  fe                                ,9
a n y   t e m tD r y   a -  a n y   ando "s em ta a t
2?  or avvepotance ofeiv suchovjdaaes                                                                                                                                              2? ,t--     
I                                                                /.iWod~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i H.1f.r 
26'                                                        30d )S  U  D  A  N                                        3,4
SEPTEMBER 1981



