Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCAL USE ONLY
RepmtNo. 11883
PROJECT COMPLETION NOTE
YUGOSLAVIA
BUK BIJELA HYDROPOWER PROJECT
(LOAN 1136-YUG)
MAY 17, 1993
Energy and Environment Operations
Country Department II
Europe and Central Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
ffice of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
May 17, 1993
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Note on Yugoslavia
Buk Bilela Hydropower Proiect (Loan 1136-YUG)
Attached is the "Project Completion Note on Yugoslavia - Buk Bijela
Hydropower Project (Loan 1136-YUG)" prepared by the Europe and Central Asia
Regional Office.
The project was canceled after the Bank was informed by the
Government of Yugoslavia that the unanimous agreement of all republics needed to
pass the effectiveness legislation would not be forthcoming.  The underlying
problem was a dispute between the Republic of Bosnia Hertzegovina (where the
project was to be implemented) and the Republic of Montenegro on riparian rights
and their conflicting interest in use of the water resources of the Tara and
Drina rivers.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their officiaL duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






PROJECT COMPLETION NOTE
YUGOSLAVIA
BUK BIJELA HYDROPOWER PROJECT
(LOAN 1136-YUG)
1.    This Note is in lieu of a Project Completion Report for the Buk
Bijela Hydropower Project (Loan 1136-YUG).
2.       The Buk Bijela Hydropower Project was appraised September
10-October 14, 1974 at the request of Elektroprivreda, Bosnia-I-
Herzegovina (EPBIH), the proposed Borrower. EPBIH was a Work
organization composed of 17 Basic Organizations of Associated Labor
concerned, essentially, with power generation and transmission in
Bosnia-Herzegovina.
3.        The project, which was the largest of ten major power
generation projects in the expansion program of Yugoslavia's 1973-80
Investment Program, was estimated to cost US$242.5 million of which
US$86 million was for foreign costs. A US$70 million Bank loan was
contemplated.  The project consisted of two parts:
Part A:   Construction and equipping of the Buk Bijela hydro-electric
station on the Drina river, to be located slightly
downstream from its confluence with the Piva and Tara
rivers and comprising a rock fill dam with clay core,
spillways, intakes and pressure tunnels; a cavern-type
power house containing four 112.5 MW turbo-generator units
operating under a net head of 84 m with appropriate
accessory equipment and a switchyard; a compensating
reservoir with a concrete dam about 10 km downstream near
the town of Foca to re-regulate discharge waters;
Part B:   Improvement of Elektroprivreda's, Drina's and the Basic
Organizations' administration, accounting and training.
4.       Following negotiations on March 20, 1975, the Board
approved the loan on June 5, 1975. Loan documents were signed on
June 30, 1975. The original terminal date for effectiveness was
December 1, 1975. It became apparent during the course of various
discussions, aimed at achieving the effectiveness of this loan, that
a dispute over water rights had developed between Bosnia and
Montenegro and that Montenegro was not willing to give its approval
to ratification of the Guarantee Agreement pending settlement of this
dispute. Such approval was required under Yugoslav practice. Hence
the final date for effectiveness was postponed to February 29, 1976.



-2-
5.        Later it was learned that the the inter-republic disputes
arose from a proposal by Montenegro to divert the waters of the Tara
river into the Adriatic sea via the Moraca river for the purpose of
another project.
6.        Subsequently, the Federal Secretary for Finance, in his
letter dated March 2, 1976, informed the President of the Bank,
Mr. McNamara, that it was not possible to resolve this issue within
the timeframe and therefore the ratification of the Guarantee
Agreement by the Federal Assembly was unlikely. The Federal
Executive Council of Yugoslavia also felt that it would not be
advisable to give further consideration to the problem, and under the
circumstances, the Government, reluctantly, decided not to seek
further postponement of the terminal date of effectiveness. As a
result the Loan and Guarantee Agreements were terminated for failure
to become effective on February 29, 1976.
7.        Mr. McNamara, in his response of March 24, 1976, regretted
the decision, but under the circumstances, terminated the loan and
advised the Bank's Executive Directors of this action.



