CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1136 YU
Loan Agreement
(Buk Bijela Hydropower Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
AND
ELEKTROPRIVREDA BOSNE I HERCEGOVINE-SARAJEVO
DATED JUNE 30, 1975


﻿CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1136 YU
Loan Agreement
(Buk Bijela Hydropower Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
AND
ELEKTROPRIVREDA BOSNE 1 HERCEGOVINE-SARAJEVO
DATED JUNE 30, 1975


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 30, 1975, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank)
and ELEKTROPRIVREDA BOSNE I HERCEGOVINE - SARAJEVO (hereinafter
called Elektroprivreda), an Organization of Associated Labor established and
operating under the laws of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, acting
in its own name and in the name of, and on behalf of, its constituent Basic
Organizations (as this term is hereinafter defined), all of which are hereinafter
collectively called the Borrower.
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in the
financing of the foreign exchange cost of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B)   The Borrower has indicated to the Bank that from the resources of
the Federal Fund for Crediting Accelerated Development in the Economically
Insufficiently Developed Republics and the Socialist Autonomous Province of
Kosovo (Fond Federacije a Kreditanje Brzeg Razvoja Privredno Nedovolino
Razvijenih Republika i Pokrajine Kosovo) of the Socialist Federal Republic of
Yugoslavia, there has been made available to Drina (as this term is hereinafter
defined) a loan for the Project in the amount of one hundred and ten million
(110,000,000) Dinars;
(C)   The Borrower has indicated to the Bank that its constituent Basic
Organizations (as this term is hereinafter defined) pursuant to the provisions of
the Self-Management Agreement of Elektroprivreda (as this term is hereinafter
defined) have proposed to undertake to make an amount of not less than one
thousand three hundred and fifty eight million Dinars (Din1,358,000,000), out of
their free resources referred to in Article 62 of such Agreement, available to
Elektroprivreda and Drina for the purpose of assisting Elektroprivreda and Drina
in carrying out the Project;
(D)   The.iBorrower has indicated to the Bank that the Socialist Republic
of Bosnia-Herzegovina (hereinafter called the Republic) proposes to undertake to
provide to the Borrower and to Drina pooled resources to be secured by the
Republic for the purposes of financing its electric power development plan (i)
through loans from industries located within the Republic; and (ii) through
surcharges from electricity consumers, over and above the Loan hereunder and
the other funds to be made available to the Borrower, which are referred to in


﻿4
the preceding Recitals (B) and (C) hereof, and such additional funds as may be
required to carry out and complete the Project as scheduled;
(E)   Part B of the Project will be carried out by the Borrower and Part
A of the Project will be carried out by Drina with the Borrower's assistance and,
as part of such assistance, the lBrrower will make available to Drina a portion
of the proceeds of the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(F)   The Bank is willing to make the Loan available upon the terms and
conditions set forth hereinafter and in a project agreement of even date herewith
between the Bank and Drina (hereinafter called the Project Agreement); and
(G)   By an agreement of even date herewith between the Socialist Federal
Republic of Yugoslavia (hereinafter called the Guarantor) and the Bank (hereinafter
called the Guarantee Agreement), the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the Loan
as to payment of principal, interest and other charges;
WHEREAS the Bank, on the basis inter alia of the foregoing, has agreed
to make a loan to the Borrower on the conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank,
dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were fully set
forth herein, subject, however, to the following modifications thereof (said General
Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, as so
modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions):
(a)   Paragraph 6 of Section 2.01 of the General Conditions is deleted and
the following is substituted therefor:
"6. The term "Borrower" means Elektroprivreda Bosne i Hercegovine
- Sarajevo with all of its constituent Basic Organizations, as the latter term
is defined in the Loan Agreement, acting jointly and severally as parties to
the Loan Agreement and, whenever the context so requires, includes any
one of the foregoing entities."


﻿5
(b)   The following sub-paragraph 19 is added to Section 2.01:
"19. The terni "Project Agreement" shall have the meaning set forth
in the Loan Agreement"; and
(c)   Section 10.03 is amended by inserting the words "Project Agreement"
after the words "Loan Agreement".
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "Drina"  means   "Hidroelektrane  na  Drini-Sarajevo", a working
organization under the process of foundation pursuant to the provisions of the
Guarantor's Law published in the Official Gazette (Sluzbeni List) of the Guarantor,
dated April 19, 1973 and registered with the District Commercial Court in Sarajevo
on December 14, 1973 under No. 1475/73, for which the Borrower is the founder
for the purposes of the provisions of the said Law or any successor organization
to which the assets constructed under Part A of the Project shall have been
transferred in accordance with Section 5.04 of the Project Agreement;
(b)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank and Drina
of even date herewith, as the sarne may be amended from time to time, and such
term includes all schedules to the Project Agreement;
(c)   "Self-Management   Agreement   of   Elektroprivreda"  means  the
Self-Management Agreement of Elektroprivreda, dated December 21, 1973;
(d)   "Statutes of Elektroprivreda" means the statutes of Elektroprivreda
adopted by the Workers' Council of Elektroprivreda on July 25, 1974;
V
(e)   "Social  Accounting   Service"  means   the  Sluzba   Drustvenog
Knjigovodstva referred to in paragraph (5) of Article 281 of the Guarantor's
Constitution;
(f)   "Basic Organizations" means the 17 basic organizations of associated
labor (within the meaning of the provisions of the Guarantor's Law published in
the Official Gazette (Shivbeni List) of the Guarantor, dated April 19, 1973) which
are constituent parts of Elektroprivreda as listed in Schedule 4 to this Agreement
and whenever the context so requires, includes any one of the foregoing basic
organizations;


﻿6
(g)   "Investment Program" means the Borrower's 1973-1980 investment
program referred to in Article 61 of the Self-Management Agreement of the
Borrower;
(h) "Self-Management Agreement on Pooling the Resources for Expanded
Production" means the agreement to be entered into among the Basic Organizations
listed under numbers 1 through 14 in Schedule 4 to this Agreement pursuant to
Article 62 of the Self-Management Agreement of Elektroprivreda; and
(i) "Self-Management Agreement on Jointly Realized Income from the
Sale of Electric Power" means the agreement dated October 16, 1974 entered into
among the Basic Organizations listed under numbers 1 through 13 in Schedule
4 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and
conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to seventy million dollars ($70,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement, as
such Schedule may be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the goods, works
and services (other than consultants' services) for the Project to be financed out
of the proceeds of the.Loan, shall be procured in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1981 or such later
date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower
and the Guarantor of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.


﻿7
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of eight and one-half
per cent (8-1/2%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-annually on
May I and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan
in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
Section 2.09. The obligations of Elektroprivreda and the Basic Organizations
to pay interest and other charges on the Loan, or to repay the principal of the
Loan, in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement, shall be joint
and several and shall not be subject ot any prior notice to, or demand upon, or
action against, any of them.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out Part B of the Project with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with sound engineering, financial,
public utility and administrative practices, and shall provide, or cause to be
provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.
(b)   Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations
under the Loan Agreement, the Borrower shall cause Drina to perform in accordance
with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations therein set forth,
shall take and cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds,
facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable Drina
to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action
which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(c)   The Borrower shall make available to Drina the portion of the proceeds
of the Loan required for the carrying out of Part A of the Project and provided
for under Categories (1) and (2) of the allocation of the amounts of the Loan
set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may
be amended from time to time, under arrangements (including provision for


﻿8
payment by Drina to the Borrower of the debt service on the Loan out of the
revenues of the power facilities included under Part A of the Project) in form
and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Bank, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports,
contract documents and work schedules for Part B of the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain or cause to be maintained, records
adequate to record the progress of Part B of the Project (including the cost thereof)
and to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan,
and to disclose the use thereof in Part B of the Project; (ii) shall, enable the Bank's
representatives to examine such goods and any relevant records and documents;
and (iii) shall furnish or cause to be furnished to the Bank all such information
as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning Part B of the Project, the
expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan for Part B of the Project and the goods
and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c)   As part of the information as may be requested under subparagraph
(ii) of paragraph (a) of Section 9.01 of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall
furnish annually to the Bank statistical data and monitoring indicators (including
statistical data and monitoring indicators for the years 1970-1974) on the
Borrower's electric power facilities and operations in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request.
(d)   The Borrower shall enable the Bank's representatives to examine all
plants, installations, sites, works, buildings, property and equipment in connection
with the Project and relevant records and documents of the Borrower.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall cause to be taken all such action as shall
be necessary to acquire as and when needed all sUch land, and rights in respect
of land as shall be required for the construction (and operation) of the facilities
included in Part A of the Project and shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after
such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Bank that such land and rights in
respect of land are available for purposes related to Part A of the Project.


﻿9
Section 3.05. (a) In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Part B
of the Project, the Borrower shall employ no later than December 31, 1975, or
such other date as the Bank may agree, management consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Bank and the Borrower.
(b)   The Borrower undertakes that it shall afford the Bank a reasonable
opportunity to exchange views with the Borrower on the recommendations of the
consultants referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section and on the actions the
Borrower proposes to take on the basis of the said recommendations.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall, no later than December 31, 1976, or such
other date as the Bank may agree, complete, with the assistance of qualified and
experienced consultants acceptable to the Bank to be employed under terms and
conditions acceptable to the Bank by the Borrower no later than December 31,
1975, or such other date as the Bank may agree, a study of the fishery resources
of that portion of the Drina river basin located within the Republic, and shall
thereafter exchange views with the Bank on the results of the said study. The
said study shall be carried out within the context of a study covering the entire
Drina river basin.
ARTICLE IV
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall at all times carry out its operations, manage
its affairs and maintain its financial position and plan its future expansion, all
in accordance with sound engineering, business, financial and public utility
principles and practices, and under the supervision of experienced and competent
management, assisted by qualified and competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall take out and maintain with responsible
insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against
such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with sound practice.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall operate and maintain its plants, equipment
and properties, and from time to time make all necessary renewals and repairs
thereof, in accordance with sound engineering and public utility practices.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall at all times maintain the right to carry
on its operations, and take all steps necessary to acquire, maintain and renew all
rights and franchises which are necessary or useful in the conduct of its business.


﻿10
Section 4.05. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
not sell, lease, transfer, assign or otherwise dispose of any of its rights, property
or assets, related to its power generation and transmission operations, except in
the ordinary course of business.
ARTICLE V
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall maintain records adequate to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting practices its operations
and financial condition.
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and        expenses and related
statements) for each fiscal year audited, on a consolidated basis and for each Basic
Organization and Elektroprivreda, in accordance with sound auditing principles
consistently applied, by the Social Accounting Service or another competent and
experienced independent auditing organization acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish
to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than four months after
the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements for such
year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the accounts and financial
statements of the Borrower and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time
to time reasonably request.
Section 5.03. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date of this Agreement
no lien exists on any of its assets as security for any debt except as otherwise
currently reported to the Bank or stated in writing.
(b)   The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree: (i) if the Borrower shall create any lien on any of its assets as security
for any debt, such lien will equally and ratably secure the payment of the principal
of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and in the creation of any such
lien express provision will be made to that effect, at no cost to the Bank; and
(ii) if any statutory lien shall be created on any such assets of the Borrower as
security for any debt, the Borrower shall grant, at no cost to the Bank, an equivalent
lien satisfactory to the Bank to secure the payment of the principal of, and interest
and other charges on, the Loan; provided, however, that the foregoing provisions
of this paragraph shall not apply to: (A) any lien created on property, at the
time of purchase thereof, solely as security for the payment of the purchase price


﻿0                                       11
of such property; or (B) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking
transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after the date
on which it is originally incurred.
Section 5.04. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree the Borrower
shall apply rates for the sale of power at such levels as shall provide revenues
sufficient:
(i)         to cover in any given year all operating expenses including
employee compensation, depreciation, and interest on debt;
(ii)        to cover in any given year debt amortization insofar as it exceeds
depreciation; and
(iii)       to finance, after payment of taxes and other contributions
provided by law, if any, an average of not less than 35% of
the cost of investment in power facilities, including interest
payable   during   construction,   and   its  working    capital
requirements during any social economic development plan
period of the Guarantor.
(b)   For purposes of the foregoing and as part of such information as may
be requested under subparagraph (ii) of paragraph (a) of Section 9.01 of the General
Conditions, the Borrower shall, within the first six months of each fiscal year:
(i)         prepare and furnish annually to the Bank an up-dated statement
of sources and application of funds covering in every case all
years of any current social economic development plan period
of the Guarantor; and
(ii)        prepare and furnish to the Bank all other relevant information
concerning the steps taken or planned to be taken by the
Borrower in order to comply with its obligations under paragraph
(a) of this Section.
Section 5.05. Without limitation or restriction to the provisions of Section
5.04 to this Agreement the Borrower shall, as and when it shall make arrangements
for the supply of electric power outside the regular tariff schedule, ensure (i) that
the rates to be charged under such arrangements reflect adequately the estimated
cost of such supply of power, and (ii) that such arrangements include provision
for said rates to be adjusted periodically and as necessary to take account of
increases in the cost of supply of power.


﻿12
Section 5.06. Before making any modification in the Investment Program
resulting in a variation in cost of said program equivalent to one hundred million
Dinars (Din100,000,000) or more, the Borrower shall afford the Bank a reasonable
opportunity to exchange views with the Borrower on any such proposed
modification.
Section 5.07. Except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree,
if the Borrower or Drina shall repay in advance of maturity any part of its
indebtedness having a remaining maturity of one year or more the Borrower shall
simultaneously repay a proportionate amount of the Loan then outstanding. All
the provisions of the General Conditions relating to repayment in advance of
maturity shall be applicable to any repayment by the Borrower in accordance with
this Section.
Section 5.08. The Borrower undertakes that it shall use its best efforts to
maintain a uniform depreciation policy for its assets consistently applied from year
to year.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   The Republic or any of the Basic Organizations have failed to perform
any of the undertakings referred to in Recitals (C) and (D) of this Agreement,
respectively in such a way as to materially and adversely affect the ability of the
Borrower and of Drina to carry out their obligations tinder the Loan Agreement
and Project Agreement, respectively;
(b)   The Republic shall have failed to perform any of its undertakings
referred to under paragraph (d) of Section 7.01 of this Agreement;
(c)   Any provision (i) of any of the agreements (including any Schedule
attached thereto) referred to in paragraphs (c), (h) and (i) of Section 1.02 of this
Agreement, (ii) of the agreement referred to in paragraph (b) of Section 7.01 of
this Agreement, or (iii) of the Statutes of Elektroprivreda and of the statutes of
any one of the Basic Organizations, as affect in any way the Borrower's ability
to carry out the covenants, agreements and obligations set forth in the Loan
Agreement or the Borrower's existence as an independent enterprise, shall have
been amended, suspended, abrogated or terminated without prior agreement
between the Bank and the Borrower;


﻿13
(d)   Any part of the principal amount of any loan or credit to the Borrower
or to Drina, including any loan made pursuant to the undertakings referred to
in paragraph (a) above, shall have become due and payable prior to its agreed
maturity pursuant to the terms thereof;
(e)   Drina shall have become unable to pay its debts as they mature or
any action or proceeding shall have been taken by Drina or by others, whereby
any of the property of Drina shall or may be distributed among its creditors;
(f)   Drina shall have failed to perform    any covenant, agreement or
obligation of Drina under the Project Agreement;
(g)   An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it
improbable that Drina will be able to perform its obligations under the Project
Agreement;
(h)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have
taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of Drina or for the
suspension of its operations;
(i)   The Workers' Council of the Borrower or of Drina shall have passed
a resolution or shall have taken any other action, having the effect of changing
the status of Drina in such a way as materially and adversely to affect the ability
of Drina to carry out the covenants, agreements and obligations set forth in the
Project Agreement; and
(j) Any provisions of the contract (including any schedule thereto)
referred to in paragraph (e) of Section 7.01 of this Agreement has been amended,
suspended, abrogated, terminated or waived, in such a way as materially and
adversely to affect the ability of Elektroprivreda and Drina to carry out their
respective covenants, agreements and obligations set forth in the Loan Agreement
and Project Agreement, respectively.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   the events specified in paragraphs (b), (c), (f) and (j) of Section 6.01
of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after
notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower and the Guarantor;
and
(b)   any event specified in paragraphs (a), (d), (e), (h) and (i) of Section
6.01 of this Agreement shall occur.


﻿14
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c)
of the General Conditions:
(a)   The Basic Organizations have adopted decisions, or given other
appropriate assurances, all in form and substance acceptable to the Bank, by which
they undertake the obligations referred to in Recital (C) of this Agreement,
respectively, and all instruments, required to this effect, have been duly executed
and authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate action and are in full force
and effect;
(b)   The "Self-Management Agreement on Pooling and Use of the Resources
for Expanded Production" has been duly executed and authorized or ratified by
all necessary corporate action and is in full force and effect;
(c)   The execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on behalf of
Drina have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate action;
(d)   The Republic has adopted decisions, or given other appropriate
assurances in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, by which the Republic
shall undertake:
(i)         the obligations referred to in Recital (D) of this Agreement; and
(ii)        to enable the Borrower to apply such tariffs for the sale of power
as shall provide the revenues required by the provisions set forth
in Section 5.04 of this Agreement; and
(e)   The execution and delivery on behalf of Elektroprivreda and Drina
of a contract on their mutual rights and obligations (providing inter alia for the
arrangements referred to in paragraph (c) of Section 3.01 of this Agreement) in
form and substance acceptable to the Bank between Elektroprivreda and Drina,
respectively, have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate action.
Section 7.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 12.02(c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:


﻿15
(a)   That the agreements and instruments referred to in paragraphs (a),
(b), and (e) of Section 7.01: (i) have been duly executed and authorized or ratified
by all necessary corporate action, (ii) are legally binding upon the parties thereto
in accordance with their terms, and (iii) are in full force and effect;
(b)   That the Project Agreement has been dtly authorized or ratified by,
and executed and delivered on behalf of, Drina, and is legally binding upon Drina
in accordance with its terms; and
(c)   that the decisions or other assurances referred to in paragraph (d) of
Section 7.01 of this Loan Agreement have been duly taken or given by the Republic
and are in full force and effect.
Section 7.03. The date December 1, 1975, is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Addresses
Section 8.01. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.
For the Borrower:
Preduze6e za Proizvodnju i Prenos
Elektrine Energije Elektroprivreda
Bosne i Hercegovine
71000 Sarajevo
Kralja Tomislava ul. 3


﻿16
Cable address:                         Telex:      41142 ELPRIV
ELEKTROPRIVREDA BIH
Sarajevo
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Willi A. Wapenhans
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
ELEKTROPRIVREDA BOSNE I HERCEGOVINE -
SARAJEVO
acting in its own name and in the name and on
behalf of its constituent Basic Organizations.
By /s/ Josip Kulisic
Authorized Representative


﻿17
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each
Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated              % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)   Hydro, Mechanical            55,900,000          100% of foreign
and Electrical                                    expenditures or
Equipment and                                     100% of the ex-
associated services                               factory price of
locally manufac-
tured equipment
(2)   Equipment and material        7,000,000          100% of foreign
for civil works                                   expenditures or
100% of the ex-
factory price of
locally manufac-
tured equipment
(3)   Consulting                      100,000          100% of foreign
services for                                      expenditures
Drina                                             epniue
(4)  Consultants'                   1,500,000          100% of foreign
services under                                    expenditures
Part B of the
Project
(5)   Unallocated                   5,500,000
TOTAL        70,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule the term "foreign expenditures" meins
expenditures for goods or services supplied from, the territory, and in the currency,
of any country other than the Guarantor.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compliance with the
policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan shall be disbursed on account


﻿18
of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Guarantor on goods
or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if any event occurs which shall affect the amount of any such taxes
included in the cost of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan,
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, correspondingly adjust the disburs6ment
percentage then applicable to such item.
4.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or the disbursement
percentages set forth in the table in paragraph I above, if the Bank has reasonably
estimated that the amount of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category,
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category to the
extent required to meet the estimated shortfall proceeds of the Loan which are
then allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are
not needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully
meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then apph able
to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category may
continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.    If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the procurement of any
item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to
in this Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or limiting
any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan Agreement, by
notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Loan as in the Bank's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿19
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is part of the Borrower's 1973-1980 Investment Program and
consists of the following parts:
Part A:    Construction and equipping of the Buk Bijela hydro-electric station
on the Drina river, to be located slightly downstream from its
confluence with the Piva and Tara rivers and comprising a rock fill
dam with clay core, spillways, intakes and pressure tunnels; a
cavern-type power house containing four 112.5 MW turbo-generator
units operating under a net head of 84 m with appropriate accessory
equipment and a switchyard; a compensating reservoir with a concrete
dam about 10 km downstream near the town of Foca to regulate
discharge waters;
Part B:    Improvement of Elektroprivreda's, Drina's and the Basic Organizations'
administration, accounting, and training.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1980.


﻿20
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                               (expressed in dollars)*
November 1, 1980                                       695,000
May 1, 1981                                            725,000
November 1 1981                                        755,000
May 1, 1982                                            785,0
November 1, 1982                                       820,000
May 1, 1983                                            855,000
November 1, 1983                                       890,000
May 1, 1984                                            930,000
November 1, 1984                                       970,000
May 1, 1985                                           1,010,000
November 1, 1985                                      1,055,000
May 1, 1986                                           1,095,000
November 1, 1986                                      1,145,000
May 1, 1987                                           1,195,000
November 1, 1987                                      1,245,000
May 1, 1988                                           1,295,000
November 1, 1988                                      1,350,000
May 1, 1989                                           1,410,000
November 1, 1989                                      1,470,000
May 1, 1990                                           1,530,000
November 1, 1990                                      1,595,000
May 1, 1991                                           1,665,000
November 1, 1991                                      1,735,000
May 1, 1992                                           1,810,000
November 1, 1992                                      1,885,000
May 1, 1993                                           1,965,000
November 1, 1993                                      2,050,000
May 1, 1994                                           2,35,000
November 1, 1994                                      2,5,000
May 1, 1995                                           2,320,000
November 1, 1995                                      2420,000
May 1, 1996                                           2,525,000
November 1, 1996                                      2,630,000
May 1, 1997                                           2,740,000
November 1 1997                                       2,860,000
May 1, 199A                                           2,980,000
November 1, 1998                                      3,105,000
May 1, 1999                                           3,240,000
November 1, 1999                                      3,375,000
May 1, 2000                                           3,515,000
*  To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a currency other
than dollars (see General Conditions, Section 4.02), the figures in this column
represent dollar equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿21
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums payable on
repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the principal amount of the
Loan pursuant to Section 3.05(b) of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                                 Premium
Not more than three years                                1%
before maturity
More than three years but                            2-1/4%
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but not                              4%
more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but                           5-1/2%
not more than sixteen
years before maturity
More than sixteen years but                          7-1/4%
not more than twenty-one
years before maturity
More than twenty-one years                               8%
but not more than
twenty-three years
before maturity
More than twenty-three years                         8-1/2%
before maturity


﻿22
SCHEDULE 4
Basic Organizations of Associated
Labor of Elektroprivreda
1.    "Hidroelektrana Trebinje I" in Trebinje
2.    "Hidroelektrana Trebinje II" in Trebinje
3.    "RP Trebinje" in Trebinje
4.    "Zajednicke sluzbe" in Trebinje
5.    "Hidroelektrana Jablanica" in Jablanica
6.    "Hidroelektrana Rama" in Jablanica
7.    "Zajednicke djelatnosti i razvoj hidroelektrana
na slivu Neretve" in Jablanica
8.    "Hidroelektrana Jajce I" in Jajce
9.    "Hidroelektrana Jajce II" in Jajce
10.   "Usluzne djelatnosti" in Jajce
11.   "Termoelektrana Kakanj" in Catici
12.   "Termoelektrana Tuzla" in Tuzla
13.   "Elektroprenos" in Sarajevo
14.   "Investiciona izgradnja" in Trebinje
15.   "Projektovanje, montaza i izgradnja elektroprenosnih objekata" (ELPIM) in
Sarajevo
16.   "Ribogojiliste Jezero" in Jajce
V " n   r
17.   "Radnicki restoran Termoelektrana Kakanj" in Catici


