CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1136 YU
Project Agreement
(Buk Bijela Hydropower Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
AND
HIDROELEKTRANE NA DRINI-SARAJEVO
DATED JUNE 30, 1975


﻿CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1136 YU
Project Agreement
(Buk Bijela Hydropower Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
AND
HIDROELEKTRANE NA DRINI-SARAJEVO
DATED JUNE 30, 1975


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 30, 1975, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank)
and HIDROELEKTRANE NA DRINI-SARAJEVO (hereinafter called Drina), a
working organization under the process of foundation pursuant to the provisions
of the Guarantor's (as this term is defined in the Loan Agreement) Law published
in the Official Gazette (Sluzbeni List) of the Guarantor, dated April 19, 1973
and registered with the District Commercial Court in Sarajevo on December 14,
1973 under No. 1475/73.
WHEREAS Elektroprivreda Bosne i Hercegovine-Sarajevo is the founder of
Drina for the purposes of the provisions of the Guarantor's Law published in the
Official Gazette (Slu*beni list) of the Guarantor, dated April 19, 1973;
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
Elektroprivreda Bosne i Hercegovine-Sarajevo acting in its own name and in the
name of its constituent Basic Organizations (all of which are hereinafter collectively
called the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the
Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to seventy million dollars
($70,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but
only on condition that Drina agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank
as hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS Drina, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter
set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Loan Agreement and in the
General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.


﻿4
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. Drina shall carry out Part A of the Project with the assistance
of the Borrower and with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
sound administrative, financial, engineering and public utility practices.
Section 2.02. In order to assist Drina in the preparation of plans and
specifications for Part A of the Project, in the preparation of bidding documents
and evaluation of the bids for Part A of the Project, in the supervision of the
construction of Part A of the Project, and, if the need shall arise, in the review
of special hydrological or geological problems encountered in the course of
construction, Drina shall employ engineering consultants whose qualifications,
experience, terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank
and the Borrower.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the goods, works
and services (other than consultants' services) for Part A of the Project to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be procured in accordance with
the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) Drina undertakes to insure, or make adequate provision
for the insurance of, the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
made available to it by the Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for
such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by Drina
to replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, Drina shall cause all goods
and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan made available to it by
the Borrower to be used exclusively for Part A of the Project.
Section 2.05. (a) Drina shall furnish to the Bank and the Borrower, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and
construction and procurement schedules for Part A of the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank and the
Borrower shall reasonably request.
(b)   Drina: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the progress of
Part A of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan made available to it by the


﻿5
Borrower, and to disclose the use thereof in Part A of the Project; (ii) shall, without
limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (c) of this Section, enable the Bank's
representatives to visit the facilities and construction sites included in Part A of
the Project and to examine the goods financed out of such proceeds and any
relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank all such
information as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning Part A of the Project,
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan so made available to it and the goods
and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c)   Drina shall enable the Bank's representatives to examine all plants,
installations, sites, works, buildings, property and equipment of Drina and any
relevant records and documents.
Section 2.06. (a) Drina shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views
with the Bank with regard to the progress of Part A of the Project, the performance
of its obligations under this Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes..
of the Loan.
(b)   Drina  shall promptly    inform   the  Bank   of any condition which
interferes or threatens to interfere with, the progress of Part A of the Project,
the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or the periormance by Drina
of its obligations under this Agreement.
Section 2.07. Drina shall, in consultation with the Bank, take all reasonable
measures necessary to ensure that Part A of the Project is carried out with due
regard to ecological and environmental factors.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of Drina
Section 3.01. Drina shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers,
or make other provisions satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such risks
and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.02. Drina shall at all times carry out its operations, manage its
affairs and maintain its financial position and plan its future expansion in
accordance with sound engineering, business, financial and public utility principles
and practices, and under the supervision of experienced and competent
management, assisted by qualified and competent staff in adequate numbers.


﻿6
Section 3.03. (a) Drina shall operate and maintain its plants, equipment and
properties, and from time to time make all necessary renewals and repairs thereof,
in accordance with sound engineering and public utility practices.
(b)   Drina shall at all times maintain the right to carry on its operations,
and take all steps necessary to acquire, maintain and renew all rights and franchises
which are necessary or useful in the conduct of its business.
(c)   Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, Drina shall not sell, lease,
transfer, assign or otherwise dispose of any of its rights, property or assets except
in the ordinary course of business.
Section 3.04. Without limiting the generality of Sections 3.02 and 3.03 of
this Agreement, Drina shall under arrangements satisfactory to the Bank cause the
dam, waterways, earthworks and reservoir banks constructed under Part A of the
Project to be periodically inspected in accordance with sound engineering practice
in order to determine whether there are any deficiencies or potential deficiencies
in the condition of such structures and earthworks, or in the quality and adequacy
of maintenance or methods of operation of such structures and earthworks which
may endanger the safety of such structures and earthworks.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. Drina shall maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices its operations and
financial condition.
Section 4.02. Drina shall: (i) have its accounts and financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by the Social Accounting Service or another competent and
experienced independent auditing organization acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish
to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than four months after
the end ci each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements for such
year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the accounts and financial
statements of Drina and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
reasonably request.


﻿7
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension;
Assumption of Obligations
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date
upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of Drina
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate
in accordance with its terms.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the Loan
Agreement.
Section 5.04. In the event that Drina would contemplate, upon completion
of Part A of the Project, to transfer the assets constructed under Part A of the
Project to a new organization to be established for the purpose of operating and
maintaining said assets or to another existing organization, Drina shall afford the
Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with Drina on such proposed
transfer, and shall thereafter transfer such assets only on condition that such other
new or existing organization shall assume all obligations of Drina under the Project
Agreement with respect to said assets under arrangements acceptable to the Bank.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated
by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:


﻿8
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.
For Drina:
"Hidroelektrane na Drini"-Preduzece
u izgradnji-Sarajevo
71000, Sarajevo
Zadrugina 17
Yugoslavia
Cable address:
HIDROELEKTRANE NA DRINI-SARAJEVO
Sarajevo
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf
of Drina may be taken or executed by its Manager (Direktor) or such other person
or persons as such Manager (Direktor) shall designate in writing.
Section 6.03. Drina shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the
authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the person or persons who
will, on behalf of Drina, take any action or execute any documents required or
permitted to be taken or executed by Drina pursuant to any of the provisions
of this Agreement.
Section 6.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each
of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.


﻿9
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s / Willi A. Wapenhans
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
HIDROELEKTRANE NA DRINI-SARAJEVO
By /s/ Josip Kulisic
Authorized Representative
All the provisions of this Project Agreement are hereby approved by
Elektroprivreda in its capacity as founder of Drina.
ELEKTROPRIVREDA BOSNE I HERCEGOVINE-SARAJEVO
acting in its own name and in the name and on
behalf of its constituent Basic Organizations.
By Josip Kulisic
Authorized Representative


﻿10
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement
A.    General Procedures
1.    Contracts shall be let under procedures consistent with those set forth in
the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in April 1972, as revised in October 1972 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bidding.
2.    Identical material and equipment shall, to the extent possible, be included
in one single bid.
B.    Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for Domestic
Manufacturers
1.    For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the supply of
goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry)
price for imported goods, or the ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured
goods; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales
and similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded; and (iii) the
cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other expenditures incidental to the
delivery of goods to the place of their use or installation shall be included.
2.    Goods manufactured in Yugoslavia may be granted a margin of preference
in accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
(a)   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall clearly
indicate any preference which will be granted, the information required to establish
the eligibility of a bid for such preference and the following methods and stages
that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of the
following three groups:
(1)   Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Yugoslavia if the
bidder shall have established to the satisfaction of the Borrower,
Drina and the Bank that the manufacturing cost of such goods
includes a value added in Yugoslavia equal to at least 20% of
the ex-factory bid price of such goods.


﻿11
(2)   Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured in
Yugoslavia.
(3)   Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c)   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared among
themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import taxes on goods to be
imported and any sales or similar taxes on goods to be supplied domestically, to
determine the lowest evaluated bid of each group. The lowest evaluated bid of
each group shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.
(d)   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) above, the lowest
bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids shall be further compared with the
lowest evaluated bid from group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the
imported goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs duties and other
import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the importation
of the goods offered in such group C bid, or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of
such goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group
A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award;
if not, the lowest evaluated bid from group C shall be selected.
C.    Review of Procurement Decisions by Bank
1.    Review of invitation to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for materials or equipment estimated to cost
the equivalent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, Drina shall furnish to the Bank, for its
comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and other bidding
documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said documents or
procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any further modification to the
bidding documents shall require the Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b)   Promptly after the bids have been received, Drina shall inform the
Bank of the names of the bidders and the respective amounts of the bids.


﻿12
(c)   After bids have been received and evaluated, Drina shall, before a final
decision on the award is made, inform the Bank of the name of the bidder to
which it intends to award the contract and the reasons for the intended award
and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report,
by the consultants referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement, on the evaluation
and comparison of the bids received, together with the recommendation for award
of the said consultants and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the intended award would be
inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform Drina and state
the reasons for such determination.
(d)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the Bank's
concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked.
(e)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the Bank
promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such
contract.
2.    With respect to each contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph, Drina shall furnish to the
Bank, promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of
the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect
of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with the analysis
of bids, recommendations for award and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the contract
was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the
Borrower and Drina and state the reasons for such determination.


