Documentof              FILE COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2369-SYR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT CF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
FOR AN
OILSEED PROCESSING PROJECT
November 2, 1978
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of January 31, 1978)
Currency Unit                           Syrian Pound (LS)
LS 3.95                                  US$1.00
LS 1.00                                  US$0.253
LS 1,000,000                             US$253,165
US$1,000,000                            LS 3,950,000
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS
CMD           =           Cotton Marketing Organization
FAO/CP        =           Food and Agriculture Organization of the
United Nations - Cooperative Programme
GOC           =           General Organization for Consumers
GOF           =           General Organization for Feed
GOFI          =           General Organization for Food Industry
MAAR          =           Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform
SICVO         =           Syrian Industrial Company for Vegetable Oils
UN            -           United Nations
UNDP          =           United Nations Development Program
USAID         =           United States Agency for International
Development



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
OILSEED PROCESSING PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:         Syrian Arab Republic.
Beneficiary:      Syrian Industrial Company for Vegetable Oils (SICVO).
Amount:           US$21 million.
Terms:            Amortization in 17 years, including 4 years grace at
7.35 percent per annum.
Relending
Terms:           The Government would relend the equivalent of $21 million to
SICVO for 17 years, including 4 years of grace, at 9 percent
per annum.
Project
Description:      The Project aims at rationalizing Syria's state-owned oilseed
processing industry by improving the technical efficiency of
existing plants and increasing total processing capacity. A
factory with a daily capacity to process 300 m tons of cotton-
seed equivalent would be constructed and equipped at Deir ez
Zor; two existing factories in Aleppo would be modernized by
the provision of solvent extraction process equipment and a
third factory modified; and technical assistance for engineer-
ing and design, supervision of construction, test runs and
initial operation, training Syrian technicians and a study
of the vegetable oil subsector would be provided. At full
development vegetable oil processing efficiency and capacity
would be increased resulting in an annual gross incremental
value of production of $17.4 million and net foreign exchange
savings of $5.6 million. The financial benefits would accrue
to the Government; the incremental oil production would bene-
fit Syrian consumers who would be able to purchase larger
quantities of vegetable oil, while increased by-products
would benefit some 500,000 livestock farmers by providing a
relatively inexpensive supply of feed for the dry season.
A failure to increase the availability of oilseeds is the
principal risk faced. Technical risks are negligible since
processes are tested and proven.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discksed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated
Costs:                                                   (US$ millions)
Local       Foreign       Total
Civil Works                          4.0          1.8           5.8
Equipment and Machinery              1.9         12.9         14.8
Installation and Equipment           2.2           -           2.2
Engineering and Supervision           -           1.2           1.2
Technical Assistance and
Training                           0.1          0.4          0.5
Working Capital                      3.1           -            3.1
Contingencies
Physical                           1.0          1.9          2.9
Price                              5.5          2.8          8.3
Interest During Construction         1.5          3.5          5.0
Total Project Cost                  19.3         24.5         43.8
Financing
Plan:                                                   (US$ millions)
Local     Foreign       Total      Percent
Government Equity
in GOFI/SYCVO             8.8          -          8.8         20
SICVO Contribution          1.5         3.5         5.0         11
Loan from Public
Debt Fund                 9.0          -          9.0         21
IBRD Loan                    -         21.0        21.0         48
Total          19.3        24.5        43.8        100
Estimated
Disbursements:                                            (US$ millions)
FY79    FY80    FY81    FY82    FY83
Annual                      0.2      7.5      8.9     3.1      1.3
Cumulative                  0.2      7.7    16.6    19.7    21.0
Estimated
Completion Date: December 31, 1982
Rate of Return:   33 percent
Staff Appraisal
Report:          No. 2139-SYR of November 2, 1978



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC FOR AN OILSEED PROCESSING PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed Bank
loan of US$21 million equivalent to the Syrian Arab Republic to help finance
an Oilseed Processing Project. The loan would have a term of 17 years, includ-
ing 4 years of grace, with interest at 7.35 percent per annum. The proceeds
of the loan would be relent to the Syrian Industrial Company for Vegetable Oils
(SICVO) for 17 years including 4 years of grace, with interest at 9.0 percent
per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        A report entitled "Current Economic Position and Prospects for
Syria" (no. 806-SYR, dated October 31, 1975) was distributed to the Executive
Directors on November 12, 1975. This section is based on the findings of a
Basic Economic Mission which visited Syria in April 1977, whose report will
be discussed with the Government in December 1978, and on a brief updating
mission which visited Syria in July 1978. Country data sheets based on macro-
economic projections made in March 1978, are attached as Annex I.
3.        Since attaining independence in 1946, Syria has had several changes
in regime which resulted in a shift of power from groups of landowners,
traders, and industrialists to a rising class of officers, technicians, and
civil servants, as well as a shift of the economy from an essentially laissez-
faire system to a largely publicly-owned and centrally regulated one. The
Ba'ath Socialist Party, the ruling party since 1963, provided substantial
continuity of emphasis on economic and social development policies which have,
by and large, prevailed in spite of internal Government changes and tensions
within the Middle East. During the 1960s, an agrarian reform was carried out,
with redistribution of land to a large number of formerly landless peasants;
also large segments of the industrial, finance and trade sectors were national-
ized.  In November 1970, General Assad became President of the Republic; his
regime has been characterized by a balance of firmness and conciliation in
domestic policies, economic pragmatism, a concerted search for a better
defined role for the private sector in a centrally regulated economy, as
well as diversification of foreign economic relations. These aims have been
pursued gradually and, in spite of continued political uncertainty in the
Middle East, substantial reorientation of economic policies and diversifica-
tion of production have been achieved.
1/   This part is essentially identical, except for updated statistics, to
paragraphs 2-15 of the President's Report No. 2200-SYR on a Loan to the
Syrian Arab Republic for a Third Highway Project, dated March 23, 1978.



-2-
4.        The Government's attention to economic and financial matters has led
to a sustained on-going effort in conceptualizing objectives, identifying con-
straints, and formulating alternative strategies. As a result, an increasingly
pragmatic assessment of economic policies has been taking place within the Gov-
ernment (and the ruling Ba'ath Party). Recent Governments have attempted to
implement new economic policy directives, strengthen economic management, and
tighten controls over investment decisions in the public sector. The Govern-
ment's program, while re-affirming the Ba'ath Party's commitment to general
socialist principles and the dominant role to be played by the public sector,
calls for improvements in management of the public sector and attempts to
define a role for the private sector (including the specification of activi-
ties open to private investment, exclusively or jointly with the public
sector, and the provision of the necessary safeguards and incentives to
stimulate private investment). The program also calls for the formulation
of a wages and price policy, review of the economic planning system, trans-
formation of the existing Industrial Bank into a genuine industrial develop-
ment finance institution, and changes in interest rate policies to promote
greater consistency with interest rates charged in neighbouring countries and
to stimulate domestic savings.
5.        The 1973 petroleum price increase, which boosted Syria's own petro-
leum export earnings, and the sharp rise in Arab grants following the October
1974 Rabat agreement, augmented financial resource availability in the short
run, leading to revisions of the Third Plan (1971-75) and sharp increases in
public investments. However, adverse financial developments, rooted in the
high investment rates of 1974-75 and external developments, including the
discontinuation of oil transit by Iraq, a temporary decline in Arab aid (in
1976) and the impact of the Lebanese civil war, put unexpected financial
constraints on investment and growth, and delayed the finalization of the
Fourth (1976-80) Plan to early 1977. With the constraints on resource avail-
ability that emerged, however, the Government decided not to implement the
Plan fully and to limit its investment program for 1977-80 mainly to ongoing
projects. Further revisions of the public investment program for 1979-80 are
underway with a view to taking account more appropriately of financial and
other constraints.
6.        The strategy underlying the current investment program places
particular emphasis on industrialization, with investment in agriculture
remaining substantial. The industrial development strategy stresses import-
substitution in consumer goods, and a substantial expansion of resource-based
industries, such as cotton textiles, cement and fertilizers. Significant
exports of manufactured goods by 1980 -- particularly textiles and fertilizers
-- is a primary objective in the manufacturing sector. In agriculture, the
Government's overall objectives are the same as those in the previous Plan:
self-sufficiency in major domestic food needs, meeting the raw material
requirements of industry, and provision of a production surplus for export.
Rational land and water use, the stabilization of annual fluctuations in
output and the improvement in consumer diet through an increase in protein
supply are further objectives. The strategy to achieve these objectives
includes expansion of irrigated agriculture, intensification of crop produc-
tion and achievement of a better balance and complementarity between crop and
livestock production.



-3-
7.        Economic growth during the Third Plan period, 1971-75, is estimated
at close to the 8 percent target level. Public investment during 1971-75
reached about 70 percent of the original Plan target, with about 55 percent
of the total outlays being made in the last two years of the Plan period,
largely as a result of greater availability of financial resources. The
elasticity of savings with respect to GDP fell to 1.0, compared to a target
of 1.8, reflecting a shortfall in the public savings effort, particularly
in recent years. A substantial number of manufacturing projects, including
those in fertilizers and steel rolling, came on stream during the Plan period,
thus diversifying the structure of industrial output.  Particularly heavy
expenditures were made in industry, energy and fuel in 1974 and 1975, as a
large number of projects were commenced. Investments in irrigation and
agriculture appear to have remained stagnant in real terms during the Plan
period and fell substantially short of the target and the Plan's overall
achievement rate. Nonetheless, the Euphrates basin investments were sub-
stantial and if the serious technical problems faced so far are overcome,
may lead to higher growth and stability in the production of the agricultural
sector in the future. Progress in the fields of transport and communications
kept pace with the overall implementation rate of the Plan. Investments in
social services reached a high proportion of planned allocations, although
substantial needs remain in education, health and urban services.
8.         In response to economic and political factors which came into play
in the last few years (temporary slow-down in Arab aid, loss of transit
revenues and concessionary crude oil supplies from Iraq, military expenditures
in Lebanon, and the inflow of refugees from Lebanon), the rate of economic
growth slowed down from 11 percent in 1975 to almost 8 percent in 1976, and to
about 1.1 percent in 1977, as agricultural output declined in 1977 due to
unfavorable weather. The budget deficit continued to increase from LS 3.0
billion in 1975 to LS 4.3 billion in 1976, and to about LS 6.0 billion in
1977, and is expected to amount to LS 7.0 billion in 1978 implying no govern-
ment savings. The balance of payments, reflecting similar trends, moved
from a current account surplus of $76 million in 1975 to a deficit of about
$800 million in 1976, and external reserves fell in 1976 by $353 million. In
1977, however, an increase in official transfers from abroad (from $400
million in 1976 to $570 million in 1977), served to reduce the current deficit
to $456 million, and permitted an increase in reserves of almost $200 million.
In 1978, domestic and external financial pressures are likely to be aggravated.
9.        The Government, faced with the reduced availability of economic
resources, has been making efforts at austerity, and has introduced a number
of policies designed to meet the financial stringency, and to redress the
structural disequilibrium which has evolved in the balance of payments, as
a result of the changed pattern of resource availability and usage in the
last four or five years. With slow but increasing effectiveness, the Govern-
ment has reassessed the economic situation; as a result, the Fourth Five-Year
Plan, which was approved in April 1977, was severely curtailed (para. 5).
More formal development planning has been temporarily suspended, wisely, for
immediate efforts at rational investment decision-making. To meet the finan-
cial stringencies, current expenditures under the 1977 and 1978 budgets have
been held essentially to 1976 levels, and public investment has temporarily



- 4 -
been restricted to on-going projects. Simultaneously, the Government has been
conducting a wide-scale review of economic profitability of the various
on-going projects, as well as of the new projects that had been proposed in
the Five-Year Plan.
10.       Increasingly aware of the needs to improve the economy's performance,
the Government has begun to talke measures to relieve constraints on the coun-
try's development. Following the years of financial ease (up to early 1976),
fiscal performance needs to be improved, if development is to proceed without
interruption and without entailing potentially serious inflationary and public
debt management problems. This will require continuation of the efforts begun
in 1977 to improve domestic resource mobilization and tighten control of
expenditures. Efforts which are underway in the Ministry of Finance to reform
the tax system and to improve the Ministry's budgetary and control functions
need to be increased. In addition, action must be taken to increase the effi-
ciency of economic enterprises and their contribution to the budget through
improved management, including introduction of sound accounting practices (for
which a law was passed in 1974) and control, as well as improved efficiency
in production and introduction of cost-related pricing. The State Planning
Commission is presently studying capacity utilization in agriculture, industry
and transport with a view towards finding means of increasing growth through
improved utilization of existing capacity rather than new investments. The
Government has also sought UNDP assistance in planning, and the Bank is con-
sidering how best to respond to a Government request for assistance in project
identification, preparation and implementation. While these efforts are
expected to have only a small impact in the years immediately ahead, they
are likely to yield fruit in the long run.
11.       The shortage of skilled manpower may cause bottlenecks in project
implementation. The uneven spatial distribution of employment is also likely
to pose problems as a large proportion of public investment in agriculture and
industry is to take place in the Northeast, where the population density is
much lower than in the Western Coastal belt. Measures will be required to
attract population and to provide sufficient skilled manpower to the Northeast
region. The overall manpower situation and the difficulties currently encoun-
tered in fostering an efficient public administration and public economic
sector are exacerbated by emigration of trained technicians and skilled labor
abroad and the outflow of trained manpower from the public sector to the pri-
vate sector as a result of wide wage differentials.  To alleviate the short-
ages the Government will provide extensive training facilities for augmenting
the supply of skilled manpower. It may however have to revamp the structure
of incentives so as to enable the public sector to attract and retain an
efficient cadre of administrators, technicians and other skilled workers. In
the past emigration to neighboring labor-deficit countries and to some extent
low labor force participation rates among females have contributed to reduced
requirement for employment creation through public investment. While the
Government is fully committed to increasing productive employment opportuni-
ties, there is an urgent need to formulate a coherent employment strategy
consistent with the current and future investment strategy.



-5-
12.       Perhaps the most significant obstacle to long-run economic and
social progress in Syria is the absence of effective planning and administra-
tive institutions. Administrative problems are too complex and deep-rooted to
be amenable to even medium-term solutions. There is, nevertheless, an urgent
need to implement a wide-ranging administrative reform to tackle the wide
variety of existing administrative problems so as to develop administrative
capacities and capabilities, particularly in the formulation and execution
of development plans, programs and projects.
13.       Syria's economic prospects depend heavily on the availability of
financial resources and also on absorptive capacity in the various sectors.
Considering these constraints, a reduced investment program is being imple-
mented during the 1977-80 period. This new level of investment is consonant
with the Government's concern for improving the quality of investments.
Tentative Bank projections indicate that such investment would be sufficient
to generate real GDP growth in the neighborhood of 6 to 7 percent per year in
the early 1980's. The sources of growth in the late 1970's are likely to be
the manufacturing and construction sectors, with agricultural production
stabilized at higher levels, rather than mining and commerce which were the
leading growth sectors during the Third Plan.
14.       On Bank assumptions, the requirements of a growing aggregate demand
would entail an increase in the current account deficit from $675 million in
1976 to about $1 billion in 1980. The Government is expected to implement
measures to improve domestic resource mobilization, following the studies
currently underway, so as to narrow the savings-investment gap, and thereby
the resource gap.
15.       At the end of 1977, external public debt outstanding and disbursed,
excluding military debt, was estimated to be around $1,830 million ($3,366
including undisbursed) of which around 80 percent was held by Governments
(37 percent, OPEC; and 43 percent, centrally planned economies), and about 9
percent by multilateral organizations. On Bank assumptions, gross external
capital requirements during 1978-80 will be $3.2 billion. As a result,
Syria's debt service ratio is expected to rise from 11.5 percent in 1977 to 16
percent by 1980, and then to 23 percent by 1985. If assumptions for 1980-85
are simply extrapolated beyond, the debt service ratio is expected to be 26
percent by 1990. The Bank Group's share in total public debt outstanding and
disbursed is projected to increase to 8.5 percent and in total debt service
payments to 6.9 percent in 1980. Subject to continued prudent debt management,
to which the Government started giving priority in 1977, Syria remains credit-
worthy for Bank lending.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SYRIA
16.       Syria has to date received four IDA credits totalling $47.3 million
and twelve loans totalling $417.1 million (including one loan of $12.5 million
on Third Window terms), net of cancellations. Although Syria is a member of
the Corporation, IFC has made no investments. At the end of 1977, the Bank



- 6 -
Group accounted for 5 percent of Syria's total outstanding public debt; by
1980 it is expected to account for 9 percent of total outstanding public debt
and 7 percent of public debt service obligations. Annex II contains a summary
statement of IDA credits and Bank loans as of September 30, 1978.
17.       Project implementation has generally suffered substantial delays due
largely to circumstances beyond Syria's control. The 1973 hostilities brought
works to a standstill and diverted the country's resources first to military,
then to reconstruction tasks; the unsettled conditions in the region and weak-
nesses in the administrative system caused project implementation to slow down.
The above developments were compounded by the high rate of world inflation and
generated considerable cost overruns in most projects. As a result, the scope
of the Damascus Water Supply and Mehardeh Power Projects had to be revised
and additional financing secured. In the case of the Balikh Project, the
Government obtained a $50 million loan from Iran and has undertaken to provide
the Bank with a new financing plan for the project as soon as the current
reassessment of the development program of the Euphrates Valley is completed.
In the case of the Second Highway Project, the war-related delays and the
economic upturn after 1973 made it necessary to redesign the project roads
to four lanes instead of two. To cover the additional cost, the Government
obtained a $45.9 million loan from USAID and an $11.3 million loan from Saudi
Arabia to help finance certain highways originally included in the project.
Disbursements of Bank loans had reached, as of June 30, 1978, 62 percent of
appraisal estimates and 77 percent of revised estimates. The Bank has agreed
with the Government to hold semi-annual reviews to define steps for improving
project implementation.
18.       Lending for infrastructure has accounted for over two-thirds of
Bank Group lending to Syria. It aimed at fostering well designed sector
policies and strengthening various public institutions in charge of power,
water supply, highways and telecommunications. The objective of lending for
irrigation development (Balikh Project) was to help increase and stabilize
agricultural production and farmers' incomes which are subject to wide fluc-
tuations under rainfed conditions. The livestock development project for
which a loan was approved in FY77 provides for fundamental improvements in
feed and flock management policy as well as credit to sheep farmers, most
of whom are among Syria's poor nomadic population, with the objective of
increasing and stabilizing incomes in the sheep subsector throughout Syria
(see para. 30 below).
19.       A diversification of lending operations in Syria is envisaged
through a gradual shift of emphasis away from infrastructure projects, toward
quicker yielding projects in the directly productive (agricultural and indus-
trial) sectors. However, project preparation according to Bank standards,
remains a serious constraint in these sectors. Bank lending in coming years
is therefore also envisaged for a number of infrastructure projects with a
high economic and social priority (e.g. transportation, education and the
provision of basic urban services, such as water supply and sewerage). A
Regional Electrification Project and a Third Highway Project were approved by
the Board in March 1978. A Lower Euphrates Drainage project providing for



- 7 -
drainage and rehabilitation of salt-affected lands in the Lower Euphrates has
already been appraised and is awaiting negotiations. Projects under prepara-
tion include education, rainfed agriculture, water supply and sewerage, and
telecommunications facilities. A finished products pipeline project is also
under consideration.
20.       The lending activities described above would help to improve project
preparation and implementation, especially in those sectors in which the Bank
has not been previously involved, and strengthen sector policies and institu-
tions. The proposed operations will include significant technical assistance
and training components to achieve the above objectives.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
21.       Syria has a land area totalling 18.5 million ha of which about 6
million are cultivated. It is considered to have one of the best agricultural
potential in the Middle East. About 530,000 ha are presently under irrigation
and the potential exists for doubling this area with the availability of irri-
gation water from the Euphrates Dam. Cotton and wheat are major crops in
irrigated areas. Annual agricultural production from rainfed lands varies
greatly as a result of the highly erratic distribution of rainfall. The main
rainfed crops are cereals, and secondary crops include olives, fruits and
oilseeds. Livestock is an important subsector.
22.       Agriculture accounts on average for a quarter of GDP, varying between
19 percent and 36 percent in recent years. It provides over one half of total
employment. Despite a relative decline in agriculture's share of GDP follow-
ing the rapid increase in the value of petroleum exports, it is still a key
sector in the economy, although its development has been neglected. Its
sluggish growth, averaging about 2 percent annually, has become a constraint
to overall national development. Agricultural exports which account for about
60 percent of the value of exports excluding petroleum have stagnated with
cotton lint, the single most important agricultural export accounting for
three quarters of the total by value. Agricultural imports have shown some
tendency to increase. Syria has now become a consistent net importer of
wheat and sugar. Very high population pressure (3.3 percent annual increase)
will place increasing demands on the agricultural sector, and production will
have to increase rapidly during the next decade to provide self-sufficiency
in food, notably cereals and sugar, raw materials for industry (cotton), and
possibly an export surplus.
Agricultural Policy and Planning
23.       Agricultural policy is carried out through a system of laws and
controlled prices with the overall objective of self-sufficiency in food
production. Three key policy issues limit the growth of agricultural produc-
tion: (i) the relationship between physical production targets and pricing
policy; (ii) lack of institutional capability; and (iii) poor allocation of
investments. To meet specified annual production targets, Law 14 of 1975



- 8 -
obliges farmers to follow specific cropping patterns set by the Government.
Prices are controlled for most agricultural commodities including cereals,
sugar beet and cotton. The controlled price system is regarded principally
as a tool of social policy for income distribution and subsidy purposes rather
than as a means of adjusting agricultural production. In the recent past,
farmgate prices paid by the State Monopoly agencies for most crops, with the
notable exception of seed cotton, have been well below the equivalent border
price in international trade, while the increased cost of inputs has reduced
the financial incentive for farmers to produce more.
24.       More and better agricultural data and trained manpower are needed
by the Government to prepare the detailed operational production plans of a
successful centrally-controlled production system. The research and exten-
sion activities of the Ministry of Agriculture also require reinforcement to
increase their effectiveness in helping farmers raise production. The same
applies to the Agricultural Cooperative Bank, the sole institutional source of
farm credit and of physical supply of farm inputs. Investments within the
agriculture sector have not always been sufficiently responsive to policy
objectives resulting in some misallocations. For instance, there has been
too great an emphasis on major infrastructure in the Euphrates Valley and too
little on the complementary investments needed to obtain full production from
new and existing infrastructure. The policies described above have resulted
in an outflow of capital from the agricultural sector and have caused the
Government to initiate a major review of its agricultural policy and planning
mechanism. A dialogue has been opened with farmers which is likely to result
in the introduction of incentives and some liberalization of the private
sector.
The Oilseed Subsector
25.        The main sources of raw materials for vegetable oil in Syria are
olives and cottonseed. Moderate amounts of sesame are produced and the poten-
tial exists for the development of sunflower, soya, and oilseed rape. Olive
oil is a quality product sold at premium prices mostly for salads and uncooked
vegetables. It can be considered largely independent of other vegetable oils
in Syria. Its production and processing operate within a free market system.
Other vegetable oils, principally cottonseed oil, are directly used for frying
and baking or are transformed into shortening and margarine.
26.       The production of cotton and hence, cottonseed, expanded rapidly
in the late 1950's and early 1960's. Hasakeh, Deir ez Zor, and Raqqa in the
east and north account for 60 percent of the national harvest.  Other major
producing centers are Hama and Aleppo. Since the mid 1960's, cotton produc-
tion has levelled off with increases in yield being offset by decreases in
area under cultivation (30 pereent during 1970-76), due to increases in wheat
acreage and salinity problems in the Euphrates basin. However, the reduction
in area planted is now believed to have been arrested and at present produc-
tion costs and prices, remains attractive to farmers giving somewhat higher
returns than wheat or sugar beet. Given future irrigation plans and antic-
ipated yield increases, the prospects are for cotton production to increase



- 9 -
at about 3 percent per annum over the next decade yielding an annual cotton-
seed production of about 250,000 m tons in 1983.
27.       There is presently a mismatch between the main cotton producing and
processing capacities. The latter is heavily concentrated in Aleppo (about
60 percent), necessitating the transportation of a large part of the cotton
production from the Northeast to Aleppo for processing. Plans are underway
to correct this imbalance through the construction of two new ginneries in
Hasakeh and increasing the capacity of an existing plant in Deir ez Zor. This
would increase the availability of cottonseed by about 75,000 m tons per annum.
Cottonseed processing facilities are mostly located in the vicinity of the
ginnery plants. About 90 percent of cottonseed oil processing capacity is
part of the General Organization for Food Industry (GOFI) group controlled by
the Ministry of the Industry. Most of the plant equipment is old and often
suffers from poor maintenance. As a result efficiency is low.
28.       Cottonseed oil is classified as a vital food commodity.  It is dis-
tributed to the public by the General Organization for Consumers (GOC), which
is controlled by the Ministry of Supply, in rationed quantities and at con-
trolled prices ranging from LS 1.60/kg unpacked to LS 1.89/kg in 900 gms
plastic bottles, about one half the economic price. The per capita ration
allowance is 250 gm per month, equivalent to 3 kg per year. Recently the
Government increased from about LS 2.75/kg to LS 4.50/kg the price at which
cottonseed oil not distributed under the ration scheme is sold to private,
commercial and industrial users. This decision, which prices non-rationed
cottonseed oil at the same level as imported soybean oil, may have far-
reaching positive effects on producers' revenues, as such sales typically
account for 40 percent of total sales.
29.       Per capita oil consumption in Syria has remained at about 5 kg of
olive oil and 4.1 kg of other vegetable oils due to supply constraints on both
production and imports. This compares with an average per capita consumption
of vegetable oils and fats of about 28 kg per annum for the EEC countries.
Projections call for increased per capita consumption of vegetable oils, other
than olive oil, of about 6 kg per annum by 1990. This would bring total
annual demand for such vegetable oils from about 33,000 m tons in 1973 to
69,000 m tons in 1990.
Performance Under Previous Projects
30.       The Bank has financed two projects in the agricultural sector, the
Balikh Irrigation and Rural Development Project (Loan No. 975-SYR, Credit No.
469-SYR) and the First Livestock Development Project (Loan Nos. 1311/1312T-
SYR) (para. 18 above). Despite delays in the appointment of consultants and
procurement problems of the Balikh Project, works are now progressing on the
first 10,000 ha section and the construction of a factory for prefabricated
flumes. However, difficulties remain and the Government has halted work on
the remainder of the Project to review the general planning of canals in the
gypsiferous soils of the Balikh area. Execution of the Livestock Project
was initially held up by delays in recruiting consultants, who have now been
recruited. The Government has also been slow in funding the National Feed



- 10 -
Revolving Fund which is the critical element in stabilizing and increasing
sheep production, especially in the more arid regions of Syria.
31.       Future agricultural projects in the lending program include both
rainfed and irrigated projects. Within the irrigation subsector, the proposed
Lower Euphrates Drainage Project and a subsequent irrigation rehabilitation
project in the Lower Euphrates Valley, would concentrate on reclaiming land
for irrigation, and on increasing farm level production through agricultural
research, extension and the provision of inputs. A proposed irrigation devel-
opment project in the Northeast would provide low cost supplementary irriga-
tion from groundwater, which would increase farm incomes in a traditionally
rainfed farming area.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
32.       The proposed Project, the first Bank involvement in the agro-
industry sector in Syria, was identified in June 1976 by an IBRD/FAO Coopera-
tive Programme (FAO/CP) mission. An FAO/CP preparation mission visited Syria
in January 1977. Its report was discussed with the Government in May 1977,
during which it was agreed that the Bank would undertake a study of the
vegetable oil subsector in order to improve its long-run economic efficiency.
Complementary technical studies were completed late in 1977. The Project
was appraised in February/March 1978. Negotiations were held in Washington
from September 21 to 29, 1978. The Syrian delegation was headed by Dr. Ismail,
Director at the State Planning Commission. A Staff Appraisal Report No. 2139-
SYR dated November 2, 1978 is being distributed separately.
Project Objectives
33.       The Project aims at rationalizing the state-owned oilseed processing
industry by improving its technical efficiency and increasing its capacity.
It would address basic issues in the oilseed processing subsector where
additional investments are a high ranking priority in view of an increasing
deficit in edible oils and of the importance of cotton as a major agricultural
commodity. The Project would also include a study to set out the basis for
further expansion of the subsector after 1983.
34.       The Project includes investments to modernize and rationalize three
factories in Aleppo in the northwest and to construct a new factory in Deir
ez Zor in the northeast, two cities that are to become the major poles of
development for the oilseed processing industry because of their location
close to cotton producing and ginning areas. Continuous flow solvent extrac-
tion process equipment would be installed at two of the Aleppo factories and
at Deir ez Zor, which would permit the rate of oil extraction to be increased
from about 14 to over 17 percent without decreasing the value of the cotton
cake by-product as a high protein livestock feed. The additional processing
capacity would allow obsolete factories in Damascus, Homs and Lattakia to be



- 11 -
closed down so that about 94 percent of the remaining oilseed processing
capacity would be operating with the more efficient solvent extraction process.
35.       Under the Project, Syria's net oilseed processing capacity would
be increased by about 50,000 metric tons p.a. cottonseed equivalent to a total
of 261,000 metric tons. The location and dimensioning of the new oil factory
(see para. 37) are designed to process all the cottonseed produced by the
ginneries in Deir ez Zor and Hassakeh which would otherwise have to be trans-
ported 250 to 600 km to Aleppo with the risk of some deterioration of the raw
material. Also since part of the vegetable oil, and most of cottonseed cake
and hulls would be consumed in these cotton production areas, the Project
would result in considerable transportation cost savings for these by-products.
Project Description
36.       The main components of the Project are as follows:
(i) construction and equipment of an oil mill in Deir ez Zor with
a capacity of 300 metric tons of cottonseed equivalent per day;
(ii) modernization of the existing Neirab and Ain el Tal oil mills
in Aleppo by provision of solvent extraction process equip-
ment, and modification of the Liramoun factory for preparing
cottonseed kernels only; the processing capacity for these
factories would total 600 metric tons of cottonseed equivalent
per day;
(iii) provision of consultancy services for engineering and
design works; and
(iv) technical assistance for training Syrian technicians and
for carrying out a study of the vegetable oil subsector.
The Project would be carried out by the Syrian Industrial Company for Vege-
table Oils (SICVO) to which the proceeds of the Bank loan would be relent.
37.       The new factory in Deir ez Zor would be constructed with a total
annual input capacity of 87,000 metric tons cottonseed equivalent. It could
also process other oilseeds, such as soybeans and sunflower seed. At full
development it is expected to produce annually about 14,100 metric tons of
vegetable oil and 38,500 metric tons of cottonseed and soybean meal pellets.
The proposed site is located in an industrial area about 5 km from the city
along the road to Hasakeh and offers proximity to an important consumption
center and easy access to (i) an all-weather road and the railway network;
(ii) electrical power from the national high tension grid; (iii) water supply
from the Euphrates River; and (iv) connection to a sewerage network. The
Syrian Government also intends to relocate the cotton ginnery to an adjacent
site which would permit direct conveyance of the cottonseed to the mill. The
availability to SICVO of title to the construction site is a condition of
effectiveness (Loan Agreement, Section 6.01(c)).



- 12 -
38.       In Aleppo, the Project would provide for the modification of the
three existing oil mills to process a total of about 162,000 metric tons of
cottonseed and 10,000 metric tons of sunflower seed annually, with a yield
of about 32,000 metric tons of vegetable oil and 76,500 metric tons of cotton-
seed meal an.d sunflower meal pellets.  Continuous solvent extraction plants
identical to that installed in Deir ez Zor would be installed in the Neirab
and Ain el Tal plants, thus reducing the need for storage of spare parts. In
addition, in Neirab, the capacity of the cleaning, delinting and decortication
lines would be increased from 250 to 300 metric tons per day by transferring
existing machinery and modifying the pre-pressing lines. In Ain el Tal, the
equipment for preparing cottonseed including cleaning, delinting and decor-
tication, with a capacity of 150 metric tons per day would be modernized.
The Liramoun plant would be modified to supply 150 metric tons daily of
decorticated cottonseed kernels to the Ain el Tal plant for further process-
ing. The existing pressing machinery of the Liramoun plant which is still in
good condition would be transferred to the Deir ez Zor plant.
39.       The Project would also finance the necessary engineering and design
works to be executed by a qualified consulting firm acceptable to the Bank.
These consultants would also be responsible for assisting SICVO in training
and the start-up of operations (see para. 44). The hiring of such a consul-
tant by SICVO is a condition of Loan effectiveness (Loan Agreement, Section
6.01(d)). A cost accountant would be recruited by SICVO to review existing
bookkeeping and accounting procedures and to make recommendations for their
improvement. The Project would provide for overseas training for Syrian
personnel in key positions in oil processing plants. It would also finance
a study of the oilseed processing industry to assess the need for and loca-
tion of additional vegetable oil processing facilities and the feasibility of
producing high protein edible cottonseed flours. Total expatriate consultant
services amounting to approximately 231 man-months for engineering, supervi-
sion and technical assistance would be provided at an average cost of $7,000
per man-month.
Cost Estimates
40.       The total cost of the Project (including taxes and custom duties
estimated at $0.9 million) is estimated at $43.8 million; the foreign exchange
component of $24.5 million representing 56 percent of total Project cost in-
cludes $3.5 million in interest during construction. Cost estimates for civil
works are based on the actual cost of similar works in Syria at the beginning
of 1978, while those for equipment and machinery are based on informal bids
from equipment suppliers obtained in the same year. Physical contingencies
amounting to an average of 12 percent have been included for all components
except technical assistance and working capital. Price contingencies for
local costs, including civil works, were compounded, at annual rates of 16
percent for 1979, 15 percent for 1980, 13 percent for 1981 and 10 percent
for 1982. These rates, although substantially above international inflation
rates, are based on recent experience in Syria; they are also substantially
above the projected increase in the wholesale prices, reflecting the trend of
construction prices which, since the early 1970's, have consistently been



- 13 -
rising about 50 percent faster than the wholesale price index. Price contin-
gencies on foreign costs, mostly for equipment, were compounded at annual
rates of 6.5 percent for 1979, 6.1 percent for 1980, and 6 percent thereafter.
Total contingencies amount to 41 percent of total Project base costs. Interest
during construction would be capitalized and borne directly by SICVO. Summary
cost estimates are as follows:
PROJECT COST ESTIMATES
(US$ millions)
Local        Foreign        Total
Civil Works                                 4.0           1.8           5.8
Equipment and Machinery                     1.9          12.9           14.8
Installation of Equipment                   2.2            -            2.2
Engineering and Supervision                  -            1.2            1.2
Technical Assistance and Training           0.1           0.4            0.5
Working Capital                             3.1            -             3.1
Contingencies
Physical                                  1.0           1.9           2.9
Price                                    5.5            2.8           8.3
Interest During Construction                1.5           3.5           5.0
Total Project Cost                         19.3          24.5          43.8
Financing Plan
41.        The proposed Bank loan of $21 million would finance the foreign
exchange cost of the project excluding interest during construction. The
local currency costs of the Project totalling $19.3 million would be financed
by SICVO and Government contributions to GOFI/SICVO through a long-term loan
of $9.0 million equivalent from the Government's Public Debt Fund, and infusion
of $8.8 million equivalent in Government equity in GOFI/SICVO (Loan Agreement,
Section 3.01). The financing plan, which is based on SICVO's ability to
mobilize funds and service its debt without incurring excessive risks, is as
follows:
(in US$ millions)
Local        Foreign        Total       Percent
Government Equity in GOFI/SYCVO    8.8               -            8.8           20
SICVO Contribution                    1.5           3.5           5.0           11
Loan from Public Debt Fund            9.0            -            9.0           21
IBRD Loan                              -           21.0          21.0          48
Total                           19.3          24.5          43.8         100
42.       The Bank loan would be made to the Syrian Arab Republic at the
request of the Government and would have a duration of 17 years including a
4-year grace period at an interest rate oF 7.35 percent. The Bank funds would



- 14 -
be relent to SICVO with the same repayment and grace periods but at the 9 per-
cent interest rate set by Syrian legislation for all Government loans to state-
owned companies. The Government would thus have an interest rate spread of
1.65 percent to meet the foreign exchange risk and commitment charge. The
relending rate of the proceeds of the Bank Loan to SICVO would be higher than
the past and projected rates of inflation as measured through the wholesale
price index (1976: 12.4 percent; 1977: 8.9 percent; 1978 (estimated): 8.5
percent; 1979 (projected): 8.5 percent; 1980 and 1981 (projected): 8.0
percent).
Project Implementation and Management
43.       Plant operations in Deir ez Zor and Aleppo are expected to start by
November 1981. During the first year of operation, the Deir ez Zor factory
is expected to operate at about 50 percent capacity and the Aleppo factories,
where the solvent extraction process is the only new feature of operation,
at about 80 percent capacity. Project implementation would be the respon-
sibility of SICVO, the largest of the operating subsidiaries of GOFI.  As is
presently the case for the three plants in Aleppo, SICVO would own and operate
the new facilities to be constructed in Deir ez Zor. Existing organization
arrangements would be maintained in view of the wide experience and competence
of the SICVO management and staff in the operation of oil mills; also, such an
arrangement offers the possibility of transferring experienced personnel
temporarily from Aleppo to Deir ez Zor to assist in starting up operations.
The Technical Directorate of SICVO, together with the engineering consultants,
would be responsible for the construction of the industrial facilities at all
three sites. During the construction period, and before the commencement of
civil works, it would be strengthened by the recruitment of two technical
directors, four chief electricians and twelve shift supervisors (Project
Agreement, Section 2.01(b)). A branch office to be headed by one of the
technical directors would be created in Deir ez Zor and staffed with the
necessary supervisory personnel before the start of construction.
44.       The engineering consultants would be responsible for engineering
and design for the new and existing plants, including preparation of detailed
designs and specifications for civil works and equipment and tender documents
and award of contracts by SICVO. For the supervision of construction and
installation they would provide four engineers to be attached to the Technical
Directorate of SICVO. A civil engineer responsible for supervision of con-
struction would be permanently located at Deir ez Zor until provisional
acceptance of civil works. He would make periodic visits to Aleppo and would
be assigned as counterparts the Technical Directors for Aleppo and Deir ez
Zor. An installation, an equipment testing, and an electrical engineer would
be responsible until provisional acceptance of all equipment and electrical
installations prior to factory testing.
45.       A training program for the Deir ez Zor and Aleppo personnel would
be established by SICVO with the assistance of the equipment suppliers and the
engineering consultants. Key personnel would be designated at least one year
before start up of operations and undergo a systematic on-the-job training in



- 15 -
the existing factories in Aleppo. About 10 fellowships for plant and adminis-
trative personnel to oilseed processing plants abroad would also be offered to
complete this training.
46.       During an initial period after testing, operations of the factories
would be supervised by a production engineer (for six months) and five shift
supervisors (for ten months) to be provided by the consultants (Project
Agreement, Section 2.02). In addition, SICVO will appoint one maintenance
engineer each for Aleppo and Deir ez Zor and one chief electrician for each of
the four Project factories not later than the commencement of civil works to
allow sufficient time for training before the scheduled start of operations
(Project Agreement, Section 2.01(b) and (c)).
Management and Staffing of SICVO
47.       SICVO, the largest subsidiary of GOFI, is set up according to the
Syrian Decree 18 of 1974 on General Organizations. It is headed by a general
manager who is the chairman of the Board of Directors. Reporting to him are
directors responsible for Commercial Affairs, Planning, Technical Affairs,
Finance and Work, and Personnel Administration. SICVO has over 1400 employees,
of whom 1100 are working in three production plants, including about 150
seasonal workers. SICVO has a well developed bookkeeping system which follows
the plan of accounts established by the Ministry of Finance. It is also the
only GOFI subsidiary to have introduced a cost accounting system which,
however, would require strengthening to meet international standards. The
Project would finance a consultant acceptable to the Bank who would be hired
not later than two years after effectiveness for a period of at least three
months to this effect (see Project Agreement, Section 3.02). The accounts of
both GOFI and SICVO are audited annually by the Ministry of Finance with main
emphasis on the correct statement of taxable income. Since this is essen-
tially a tax audit, assurances were obtained that SICVO's financial statements
would be audited and certified by an independent auditor acceptable to the
Bank within six months of the end of each fiscal year (Project Agreement,
Section 4.02).
48.       For monitoring Project implementation, quarterly progress reports
would be prepared by SICVO with the assistance of the consultants. Not later
than six months after the completion of the Project, a Project Completion
Report (Project Agreement, Section 2.05(c)) would be submitted to the Bank.
Financial Position of SICVO
49.        In view of the system of centrally administered prices, the finan-
cial analysis of the Project as a whole is of limited value. However, an
analysis of SICVO's present financial situation provides an indication of the
company's financial viability and profitability. During the period 1974 to
1977, the current ratio has deteriorated from 2.9 in 1974 to 1.9 which may,
however, still be considered sufficient. The debt:equity ratio in 1977 stood
at 57:43. Since most of SICVO's non-current debt consists of net opera-
tion surpluses due to GOFI, SICVO has substantial leverage left for borrowing.
During the 1975 to 1977 period, return on sales has averaged 17 percent which



- 16 -
is very satisfactory considering that about 60 percent of the oil produced had
to be sold at "ration prices" (subsidized fixed price, see para. 28 above).
The return on equity decreased from 11.4 percent in 1976 to about 3.9 percent
in 1977 as a result of a capital increase from LS 11.8 million to LS 41.7 mil-
lion ($10.5 million). An analysis for the future shows that if the products
of SICVO were sold at prices close to their "economic price," SICVO would have
sufficient funds to cover debt servicing requirements even in 1983 when the
drain of its financial resources is expected to be the heaviest. In this
respect, while the "ration prices" are kept at their current level, the "free
prices" have already been set starting last May at the average level assumed
to be reached by 1982 for the final product mix of SICVO, in line with the
Government's policy of pricing goods produced by state-owned enterprises
at levels close to their economic prices so as to encourage more efficient
management. However, in order to safeguard the financial viability of the
Project, which is highly dependent on the sales prices fixed by Government,
assurances were obtained that these prices would be reviewed and adjusted
so as to yield a return on sales before taxes and after depreciation and
interest, of at least 15 percent (Lean Agreement, Section 4.02 and Project
Agreement, Sect ion 4.03).  Finally, the Government equity contribution (para.
41 above) has been calculated under the assumption that SICVO's debt:equity
ratio should be held within reasonable limits.
Financial Rate of Return
50.       For the purposes of financial forecasts, the assumption was made
that the current price or the economic price, whichever was higher, would be
charged for outputs by 1982. This is in line with the pricing policy the
Government is proposing to adopt to encourage more efficient management to
state-owned enterprises. On this basis, the financial rate of return for
the Project as a whole was 13 percent; for the Aleppo plants, a financial
return of 20 percent was calculated, while for the Deir ez Zor plant, the
corresponding figure was 10 percent.  The financial rate of return is much
lower than the economic rate of return (para. 55) because of taxes on opera-
tional surpluses of about 60 percent. Because of this taxation the Project's
financial rate of return is not very sensitive to changes in operational sur-
pluses.  If net surpluses decreased by 10 percent or 20 percent because of
lower capacity utilization, taxes would decrease by about the same percentage
rates and the resulting financial rates of return would be 12 percent and 10
percent respectively. If the operating cost increased by 10 percent the rate
of return would decrease to 12 percent, and with sales revenue lowered by 10
percent, the rate of return would decrease to 11 percent.
Marketing
51.       There should be no difficulties in marketing the incremental produc-
tion of the Project as most items are in short supply. The incremental pro-
duction of 15,000 metric tons of vegetable oil would raise total supply from
Syrian mills to 48,000 metric tons against a forecast demand of 55,000 metric
tons in 1985 and 69,000 metric tons in 1990. About three quarters of this oil
would be sold to the General Organization for Consumers (,OC) for distribution



- 17 -
to consumers and the remainder retained within the GOFI group for further pro-
cessing. Oilseed meal pellets would be sold to the General Organization for
Feed (GOF) for sale to farmers and cooperatives as animal feed. Demand is
currently estimated to exceed supply by 30 percent. Cottonseed and sunflower
hulls would also be sold to GOF for sale as livestock feed, particularly for
sheep. Soapstocks would be sold to soap manufacturers in Aleppo, and any
excess mixed back into the cottonseed meal.
Procurement and Disbursement
52.       Contracts for civil works and installation of machinery exceeding
the equivalent of $200,000 and for delivery and installation of equipment
exceeding the equivalent of $50,000 would be tendered under international
competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's guidelines for procurement.
Contracts not exceeding these amounts would be procured through competitive
bidding advertised locally pursuant to procedures acceptable to the Bank or
through international or local shopping where appropriate. Procurement for
civil works would be broken down into four lots, amounting to $8.6 million
equivalent, and for equipment into about ten lots amounting to $19.4 million
equivalent. Equipment tenders would include spare parts for the initial two
years of operation and supervision of the installation and test runs by the
supplier's technicians. Assurances were obtained that the Government would
waive the supervision exemption clause in the public sector legislation for
Syrian public companies bidding for works or goods under the project (Project
Agreement, Schedule A2).
53.       The proposed Bank loan of $21 million would be disbursed over the
period 1979 to 1982 and would finance: 31 percent of the cost of all civil
works contracts representing the estimated foreign exchange component; 100
percent of the cost c.i.f. Syrian port of all imported machinery, equipment
and vehicles, or 70 percent of the cost of locally purchased goods; and 100
percent of the foreign exchange cost of engineering, supervision, training
and technical assistance.
Environmental Effects
54.       The risk of pollution from the oil mills would be very small since
the project utilizes closed circuit systems with air coolants so as to avoid
contamination arising from the discharge of waste water. The minimal amounts
of water that would be discharged into the sewer system would pass through
settling tanks to permit separation and removal of foreign matter carried by
the water. These settling tanks would be regularly checked and analyzed
(Project Agreement, Section 2.01(d)).
Benefits and Risks
55.       At full development, the Project would increase vegetable oil pro-
cessing capacity by about 50,000 metric tons per annum for an incremental
output of about: 14,800 metric tons of refined vegetable oil, of which 13,300
metric tons of cottonseed oil; 9,900 metric tons of high protein meal pellets;
and 22,400 metric tons of hulls. Total incremental production is valued at



- 18 -
$17.4 million annually (using economic prices). Operating and reinvestment
cost savings from the closure of obsolete plants and transportation cost
savings are estimated at $2.1 and $0.7 million annually. The increased pro-
duction of oil and high protein meal is expected to contribute to gross
import savings of $12.4 million annually or an annual net foreign exchange
savings of $5.6 million after allowance for value of exports foregone and
incremental operating costs in foreign exchange. An economic analysis of the
Project on the basis of economic prices projected to 1990 yielded a base rate
of return of 33 percent. A sensitivity analysis showed a substantial rate of
return over a wide range of price, cost and input availability situations:
reducing output prices by 20 percent below efficiency prices, increasing
investment and operating costs by 10 percent while simultaneously reducing
output prices by 10 percent, and maintaining the availability of raw materials
at the average level for 1974-78 yielded economic rates of return of 24, 23
and 18 percent respectively.
56.       Because the Project's main objectives are to rationalize and improve
the technical efficiency of the oilseed processing industry, it has very little
effect on employment opportunities. The closure of inefficient plants could
lead to the loss of 600-700 jobs, many held by employees approaching the man-
datory retirement age. Of the remainder, some are expected to be hired by the
plant at Deir ez Zor where 240 new jobs would be created, while the others
would be provided with alternative jobs in the public sector. This is not
expected to pose serious difficulties as unemployment in manufacturing is low,
averaging 2-3 percent, which contrasts with the average unemployment rate of
about 5 percent prevailing in Syria.
57.       Since the Project operating company is wholly owned by the Govern-
ment, the primary financial benefits would accrue to the Government as trans-
ferred surpluses, depreciation and reserves, or taxes. The increased avail-
ability of vegetable oil would have an impact on a large number of consumers
who, as a result of the Project, would be able to buy increased amounts of
oil, margarine and shortening. The increased availability of meal pellets and
hulls would benefit an estimated 500,000 livestock farmers who would be able
to purchase re'Latively inexpensive feed during the dry season.
58.       The main risk in the Project will be the availability of adequate
supplies of oilseeds to the factories. However, the Project's assumption of
a 3 percent per annum growth in cottonseed production is fairly conservative
given anticipated increases in irrigated land and yields and farmers' prefer-
ence for this traditional crop which is sold at attractive prices. But, even
if there were no increase in the supply of oilseeds for processing, a satis-
factorv economic rate of return of 18 percent would be obtained from the
rationalization effect of the technology. Technical risks are negligible
because all the processes are well proven, and with the envisaged assistance
component, operational expertise will be transferred to Syrian personnel.



- 19 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
59.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Syrian Arab Republic and the
Bank, the draft Project Agreement between SICVO and the Bank and the draft
Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately. Features of the Agreement of special interest are
described in Annex III.
60.       Aside from the ratification of the legal documents by the Govern-
ment, additional conditions of effectiveness are: (i) the availability to
SICVO of a legal title to the construction site in Deir ez Zor; and (ii)
appointment of engineering consultants acceptable to the Bank (Loan Agreement,
Section 6.01(c) and (d)).
61.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
62.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
November 2, 1978
Washington, D.C.






ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
TABLE 3A
SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC                                       /a
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                   - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL             185.2                                                    SAME         SAME     NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL      124.2                                 MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME        INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b       REGION jc   GROUP /d    GROUP /e
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                  260.0        480.0     900.0           1438.5       867.2       1796.4
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      321.0        502.0     477.0            816.7       578.3      1525.0
POPULATION AND VITAI STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION, MID-YEAR
(MILLIONS)                          4.6          6.3       7.9
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OP TOTAL) 37.0          43.5      46.2             45.8        46.2         52.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                        25.0         34.0      43.0             23.2        50.8        27.6
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND      37.0         56.0      64.0            112.4        93.3       116.4
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          46.3         49.3      49.3             46.0        42.9        34.8
15-64 YRS.                          48.9        46.3       46.3             50.6       53.5         56.0
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    4.8          4.4       4.4              3.3         3.5         5.7
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               3.6          3.7       3.3              2.9         2.5          1.6
URBAN                               4.2          5.0       4.5              5.0         4.7         3.4
CRUDE B RTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      46.6         47.6      45.4             45.0        37.8        27.0
CRUDE DlATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      20.1         16.2      15.4             13.7        10.8          9.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               1.4          3.5       3.5              3.4         2.5          1.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..           ..         ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..            ..         ..            14.7        20.0        19.3
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970-100)              98.4        100.0     160.0            107.1       107.3       103.8
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   102.0         98.0     104.0             99.2       105.3       110.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           74.0         70.0      66.7             63.4        63.0        77.7
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        28.0         16.0 /f   21.4             16.4        21.7        22.2
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE         ..         4.1         ..              ..         8.0         1.9
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    46.3          53.0      56.0             53.7        57.2        63.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE
(PER THOUSAND)                   145.8        123.1     112.5             77.7       53.9         38.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..         71.0        ..             59.1       56.8         67.7
URBAN                                ..         98.0        ..             85.9       79.0         83.5
RURAL                                ..         50.0        ..             38.0       31.8         41.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..           ..        ..             64.3       30.9         70.3
URBAN                                ..           ..        ..             94.5       45.4         90.7
RURAL                                ..           ..        ..             27.7       16.1         38.3
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           4600.0       3860.0    3070.0           4271.6     2706.8       1310.8
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON      6660.0       4500.0    5810.0           2077.4     1462.0        849.2
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             900.0       1010.0     980.0            580.2      493.9        275.4
URBAN                                ..           ..        ..            310.0      229.6        129.9
RURAL                                ..           ..        ..               ..     2947.9        965.9
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..         24.0      27.0 /g          22.0       22.1         18.9
HOUS ING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               5.9 /h       5.9        ..              5.4        5.2          3.4
URBAN                               6.0 /h      5.9         ..               ..        5.0
RURAL                               5.9 lh       5.9        ..               ..        5.4
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               2.9           ..        ..               ..        2.0         0.9
URBAN                               2.5           ..        ..              1.8        1.5         0.8
RURAL                               3.2           ..        ..               ..        2.7          1.0
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWFLLINGS)
TOTAL                              38.0 /h     1.1.7        ..            40.3        64.1        59.2
URBAN                              87.7 /h     84.7         ..               ..       67.8        78.0
RURAL                              10.5 lh     10.2         ..            12.2        34.1        12.5



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
TABLE 3A
SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC                                         La
- HOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
SAME         SAME     NEXT HIGHER
'OST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME          INCOME
1960 Lb      1970 Lb ESTIMATE Lb        REGION Ic   GROUP Ld    GROUP /e
EDUCAT ION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:      TOTAL                 65.0         89.0      102.0              80.8         99.8        97.6
FEMALE                39.0         66.0       81.0             61.8          93.3        87.4
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  16.0         39.0       48.0              23.6         33.8        47.8
FEMALE                 7.0         21.0       30.0              18.2         29.8        42.6
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SECONDARY)  6.0            3.4        4.6               6.7         12.8        22.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             46.0          37.0      35.0              31.5         34.9        25.4
SECONDARY                           21.0         22.0       20.0              22.3         22.2        24.9
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)          30.0         40.0        ..              50.1         71.8        96.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           4.0          5.0        7.0              14.5         12.4        32.3
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          57.0        224.0      374.0 /Y          125.8        104.5       201.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           0.2         19.0       31.0              34.5         28.1        97.7
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                      ..           ..       9.0              17.4         45.2        70.9
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  2.0            4.0 /i      ..               1.6          4.6         4.4
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       1100.0 /i   1600.0    1800.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                     9.4         10.5       11.2               9.3         25.7        17.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               47.0          47.8      49.9              42.0         46.2        38.4
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  19.0         20.8
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 28.0          26.6      26.0              26.9         33.8        33.7
MALE                                  49.4          46.3      45.2              46.6         48.1        50.8
FEMALE                                  5.4          5.7       6.0               5.3         17.3        12.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 2.1          2.1        2.2              1.9          1.4         1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   25.0              ..        ..                ..         23.6        20.2
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  49.0              ..        ..                ..         52.3        47.9
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   16.0              ..        ..                ..          4.3         3.2
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.0             ..         ..                ..         13.1        13.7
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..         ..                ..        191.9
RURAL                                  ..          ..      249.0             142.0        193.1       157.9
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..           ..     257.0             236.1        319.8       448.8
RURAL                                 ..           ..      155.0             144.7        197.7       313.1
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..            ..      24.0              21.5         19.8        23.2
RURAL                                  ..           ..      40.0              37.4         35.1        54.5
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1973 and 1977.
/c    North Africa & Middle East;   /d   Intermediate Middle Income (S551-1135 per capita, 1976);   /e  Upper Middle
incomie ($1136-2500 per capita, 1976);   /f  Av. 1964-66;   ai  1972;   /h  1962;   |i  1966;  /1   6 years
and over (Syrian population only).
September, 1978



8   6| .-CF,.C                .rN ONN4,CC0'   <O 
IAe  C                       rO. .CN  *ov I         , _                00                            -2 0-N|    oc       
|~~~-                                                                       00_ V-C                                    N   N lLJrom o, t    u 
KI @ o r  , :x, ,NSCC                    'CN  o C.  N    _oNoC       ANO _|N                                       -   _
O i              :to -              -  o     O ON  ON           4,5  N-                                    SO' -4_ 
_   - Je os       N5004C-NNNNNE                       C'OC-4             0nv            o                                                0 !RR
*   O*VN  S N                    o                                              0h-8Q      
e>>omeSwvN-     S    OCN  Xr4~~>_NC-      1            -0  \
l.N     .5,  CNyOO            0      O.0 0NC-    1 NeN C                No, ^ oNA    _.  N   SAi Oo
_4 N O       G              O O_C=~N   VO           'CNI             NN_CO                                                    N        0
; V ~~~~O 10U N COO .'  N     OGN' '  C   C 0                                        - -  ZO. V| -     
~~~~~                                    .... e5>XZ           = -    .                                                   A 
o ~   ~     ~     S N         00 0 e--N                          4, = gN    : -           :2Wk   Q L                                c  
iS  oL E *X . HX  U  c|  O  8 a-~ oN  UE.e          i oaSOeS  -               a                         N NOcc 
N   _0 440    FmgO-iS'e       1~ .   'm_50i0< i._  AONC_4<   ui
<           7       Ni                                  . .         .                                                ..



ANNEX I
Pase 4 of 5
SYRIA:  bALANCE OP PAYMENTS AND CYTERNAL ASSISTANCE
(Mlin   f US do11ll r; curet prices)
A-tol                                           Esti-ate                      -i
17  1973     1974        1915        1976        1977        1978        19                                  0955 BOtO
A.  SU7MMARY OF bALANCE OF PAYMENTS
L.  Eopront, Lntl. NFS                                    481.4      600.8      1061.4      128I1.       1346,9       1490.4      1603. 5     19l82.6      2814.0      3538.1   4612.1       8538,6
2.  IUports.  inlo.  iFS                                  499.1      687.0      1408.7      1891.5       2268.5       2550.5      2881.6      3390.9       4393.5      5431.7   6658.s    11317.3
3.  Resource balance                                     -117.7      -86.2      -347.4      -639.4    -1221.6        -io60.i    -176.o    -1508.3        -1579,S    -1893.6  -2046.4    -2778.7
4.  Nt factor oervices                                     58.5       46.3         17.1       5l.7         11.3        -16.6       -19.4       -35.9       -102.0       -169.7   -259.1      -487.8
a.  Nec ictoreoc paeonets                              -9.6       -0.1       -45.1                     39.2        -74.7       -86.2      -112.5       -203.7      -304.1   -436.9       -845.4
cr which lotorest on
public M and LT Scene                              -6.8       -8.5       -L.O4       -1I.9       -31 9        -47.7       -68.1       -98.5        -186.9      -289.2   -425.1       -846.7
b.  Nr inestmeot inome                                   - 
c.  IWorkoev  ronitt-cn o    (net)                     68.i       51.4        62.2        5  0        50 5          58.        66 8         76 9        101 7       134.4      177.8      357.6
d.  Other (fnt)                                           -         -           -
..Currect cranesfrer  fet)                             58.0      370.6       424.5       66:i.,       410.7        620.3       620.3       620.3        645.6       696.2      721.5      721.5
a      .  public                                       59.2      370.1       415.9       66 i.7      400.2        569.6       569.6        569.6        s69.6       S69.6      569.6      569.6
h.  Pri8ate                                             5.3        7.5         8.9        10.         10.5         50.6         50.6        50.6         76.0       126.6      151.9      Ibl.9
.. Current accoant halance                                 -1.3      330.7        94.6        7         - 0  799.6   -456.4        675.1 -923.6 -1035.8    -1367.1    1584.0   -2545.0
7.  Prinut  direct ieteent (not)                              -          -           -           -                      20.0        21.6        23.2          26.6        30.4        34.9      48.9
Phlic M1 and LT LTens
R.  Disbursements                                          76.5       88.5       153.7       262.3        .56.9        738.2       868.6       989.1       1349.9      1814,2      2213.2   4025.4
9.  A-orrio-tion                                          -35.3      -38.2       -61.5       -86.9        -96.9       -123.2      -134.7      -160.2       -324.7      -452.0    -624.5  -1442.1
10.  Noet disbhrteentse                                     41.2       50. 3       72.2       175.4       560.0         614.9       733.9       828.0       1025.2      1362.0      1588.8   2583.0
Onher M lnd LT Lnane
11.  Disburneneont                                             -         -           -           -                       15.0        31.4        33.9         38.8        44.5        50.9      71.4
13.  Amortinaccoc                                              -                      _          _            -            -           -         -4.3        -13.9        -24.9      -37.5    -52.8
15.  Not Disbur-semets                                         -          _           _           _           -          18.0        31.6        29.6         24.9         19.6        13.4     18.6
14.  Short-corn  capital (nec)                              17.0      -27.0        17.0        15.3         25.6           -           -           -
I;.  Net use  f IMF resourcs n5.5                                       63 S
16.  Capital or. i.                                        -56.1      -39.5       -25.0      -33.9        -139.0                                                -            -
17.  Change in not rosorves  (-=iocrtsaee                   -7.2    -314.5       -158.7    -236.0         352.9        -196.5      -111.8        42.0        -41.0       -45.1       -b3.0  . -105.9
12.  Level cf nor resnrven  (acnot)                        -54.6      259.9       418.6       387.9         15.2        211.7       323.5       281.4        364.6       450.8       552.7    939.3
19. -e ontt     simporcs                                       -        4.5         3.6         2.4          8.1          1.0         1.3         1.0          1.0         1.0          1.0      1.0
b.  GtLANT ANS  LOAN CORMMITMENTS
1.  Official grants                                         49.2      363.1       415.9       653.1       400.1         569.6
2.  Tool puhblic M - LT Ietns                               119.1     138.3       494.8       844.6       1028.8        720.5
a.  IdRD                                                   -         -         85.O        80.6        St.5          78.5
b.  IDA                                                 13.5       15.0        10.0          -            -            -
c.   Other  ultiletaertl                                   -         -            - _                     -          13.0
d.  Gonrvernment                                        70.0       33.9       299.7       715.6        668.5        525.2
of 00104:
- Centrally plonntd eeonoes                        66.6       33.4       233.2       335.7        IS6.4        162.1
- OECD                                                -          -        01.8         94.2           -        108.1
oPEC                                               2.9         -         12.8      289.7           -         255.1,
o.  Ouppliern'credits                                   35.3       89.3        68.0        45.0         37.9         96g9
T.  C emercial hooks                                      -          -         29.2
S.  Csineonte  n..i.                                       -         -            -          -         241.9          6.9
Other M LT L.onn  (oher- a.eilable)                        -         -            -          -                       30,0
C.  95MO ITEKS91
1. Grant citnont of total coemitmenet  (5i)                 38.7       28.6        34.9        40.4         79.7         63 7
.  Ara- eintorest (9)                                         3.0       4.0         4.3          2.7         5.0          4:2
5.   Average maturity (y-ea)                                 15.1      13.1        18.7        I6.3         10.0         16.7
MNoth 27, 1978
EMENA CP II-C



ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
SYRIA: EXTERNAL DEBT AND CREDITWORTHINESS
Actual                                Estimate
1970       1972       1973       1974       1975       1976        1977
A.  MEDIUM AND LONG TERM DEBT (DISBURSED ONLY)
(in million US dollars)
1.  Total debt outstanding (DOD; end of period)          232.4     335.3      411.2      501.8      655.2        1215.2      1830.1
2.  Including undisbursed                                342.3     521.0      652.9    1109.7    1836.8          2768.7      3366.0
3.  Public debt service                                   36.o       42.0       46.7      71.9       103.8        128.8       170.9
1.  of which interest                                    6.1       6.7        8.5       10.4        16.9         31.9        47.9
4.  Other M + LT debt service                                                                          0.0          0.0         0.0
5.  Total debt service                                                                               103.8        128.8       170.9
B.  DEBT BURDEN
1.  Debt service ratioL                                   10.6       8.7        7.7         6.7        8.3          9.6        11.5
2.  Debt service ratio /                                   9.6        7.6        7.1        6.3        7.9          9.2        11.0
3.  Debt service/GDP                                       -          1.7        1.8        1.7        2.0          2.0         2.3
C.  TERMS
1.  Interest on Total DOD/Total DOD                        3.4        2.9        2.9        3.1        2.6          2.6         2.6
2.  Total debt service/Total DOD                          19.9       18.1       15.9       21.5       15.8         10.6         9.3
0.  DEPENDENCY RATIOS FOR M + LT DEBT
1.  Gross disbursements /imports (incl. NFS)              13.7       12.7       12.8        9.5       13.9         25.6        29.5
2.  Net transfer/ Imports (incl. NFS)                                                                  8.4         20.2        22.8
3.  Net transfer/ Gross disbursenents                                                                 60.4         80.4        77-2
E.  EXPOSURE
1.  IBRD disb./Gross total disb.                                       -          -          _         1.4          3.2         5.5
2.  Bank Group Disb./Gross total disb.                                                                 1.9          4.7         6.2
3.  IBRD DOD/Total DOD                                      -          -          -          _         0.5          2.0         3.5
4.  Bank Group DOD/Total DOD                                                                           2.0          3.6         4.9
5.  IBRD Debt service/Total debt service                    -          -          -          -         0.7          0.9         2.1
6.  Bank Group Debt Service/total debt service                                                         0.9          1.2         2.2
F.  EXTERNAL DEBT (DISBURSED ONLY)                           OUTSTANDING DEC. 31, 1976
(in million US dollars)                                 AMOUNT              PERCENT
1.  IBRD                                                   24.4              2.0
2.  Bank Group                                             43.5              3.5
3.  Other multilateral                                      0.0                -
4.  Governments                                           782.6             64.4
1.  of which centrally planned economies               457.0              37.6
5.  Suppliers                                             117.6               9.6
6.  Financial institutions                                 29.6               2.4
7.  Bonds                                                   0.0                -
8.  Public debt NEI                                       241.9             19.9
9.  Total public M + LT Debt                             1215.2            100.0
10.  Other M + LT Debt                                      -
11.  Total Public Debt (incl. undisbursed)                2768.7            227.8
12.  Total M + LT Debt (incl. undisbursed)                2768.7            227.8
G. DEBT PROFILE
1.  Total debt service 1977-8l/Total DOD End of 1977 = 1.25
/ excluding workers remittances (total debt service)
/ including workers remittances (Public debt service only)
March 27, 1978
EMENA CP II-C



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 5
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SYRIA
A.   Statements of Bank Loans and IDA Credits
(As of September 30, 1978)
US$ Million
Undis-
Number   Year          Borrower               Purpose          Bank    IDA   bursed
Three loans and credits fully disbursed                        25.0   18.5
298     1972   Syrian Arab Republic          Highways                13.8      8.4
401     1973   Syrian Arab Rebublic          Water Supply            15.0      1.9
975     1974   Syrian Arab Republic          Irrigation       63.0            56.4
986-1   1975   Etablissement Public
d'Electricite                Electricity      8.6              3.7
1144     1975   Etablissement Public
d'Electricite                Electricity    72.0              33.6
1241     1976   Syrian Arab Republic          Water Supply   35.0              18.6
1261     1976   Etablissement Public          Telecommuni-
des Telecommunications       cations         28.0             23.1
1311     1976   Syrian Arab Republic          Livestock         5.0             5.0
1312T    1976   Syrian Arab Republic          Livestock        12.5            12.4
1458     1977   Syrian Arab Republic          Water Supply   50.0              49.9
1480     1977   Syrian Arab Republic          Education        20.0            20.0
1531 /1  1978   Etablissement Public
d'Electricite                Electricity    40.0              40.0
1546/1   1978   Syrian Arab Republic          Highways        58.0             58.0
TOTAL                                       417.1   47.3   331.0
of which has been repaid                    0.9      .5
Total now outstanding                       416.2   46.8
Amount sold                                    1.0    0
of which has been repaid                    0.5    0
Total now held by Bank and IDA /2           415.7   46.8
Total undisbursed                           320.7   10.3   331.0
B.   Statements of IFC Investments:  None
/1   Not yet effective.
/2   Prior to exchange adjustments.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 5
C. Project in Execution 1/
Credit 298 - Second Highway Project; US$13.8 million Credit of April 17, 1972;
Date of Effectiveness: February 2, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Project implementation started in 1975 after an initial delay due to
the unfavorable political situation in the region. In July 1975, after several
contracts had been awarded, the Government decided to upgrade the project roads
to four-lane standards which economic studies indicated to be economically
justified. The Association agreed to these charges after reviewing final cost
estimates. Government has called bids for the additional works on the Homs-
Tartous road and is presently negotiating addenda to the contracts with the
contractors for the construction of the Damascus-Lebanese border road.  Agree-
ment for financing the construction of the Damascus-Jordanian border road
has been reached between the Government and USAID. This section has, there-
fore, been deleted from the project. Upon the Government's request to real-
locate IDA funds for the construction of the Damascus-Lebanese border road and
Tall Kalakh section of Homs Tartous road to four-lane standards, an amendment
to the Credit Agreement was prepared and approved by the Executive Directors
on March 23, 1978. The rest of the works will be financed by the Saudi and
Kuwait Funds. A network development study for the northeast was included in
the amended project description.
Credit 401 - Damascus Water Supply Project; US$15 million Credit of June 22,
1973; Date of Effectiveness: February 20, 1974; Closing Date: December 31,
1978
Initial delays in project implementation of about two years were
caused by the unfavorable political situation in the region. A revision of
the project description was required as a result of considerable cost overruns
and was approved by the Executive Directors on May 28, 1975. This permitted
work to proceed on an urgent phase of distribution. Work is now proceeding in
accordance with the contract schedule and is almost completed. The pollution
control studies for Damascus, Homs and Hama will be completed by consultants
in a few months.
Credit 469/Loan 975 - Balikh Irrigation Project; US$10 million Credit and
US$63 million Loan of April 10, 1974; Date of Effectiveness: September 12,
1974; Closing Date:   June 30, 1982
After initial delays during the procurement stage, progress on the
works being implemented by Syrian Government organizations for the development
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution and, in particular, to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 5
of the first 10,000 ha has been slow due to technical and managerial difficul-
ties. Since the Government had not recruited consultants for the supervision
of construction at the date fixed by the Bank, there had been no disbursements
for civil works since February 28, 1978. The Government has decided to post-
pone implementation of the remaining part of the project until completion
of the ongoing revision of the overall Balikh Basin development. The finan-
cing plan for the whole project will be submitted after completion of this
study. Settlement in the Balikh area is still under study by the Government.
Loan 986 - Mehardeh Power Project; US$25 million Loan of May 23, 1974 and
Supplementary Loan of US$8.6 million of June 4, 1975; Dates of Effectiveness:
January 30, 1975 and January 19, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1979
The project consists of the first 150-MW unit of a new steam-electric
power station at Mehardeh; eight 230-kV substations, consultant services and
training. The project is co-financed by a US$33 million loan from Kuwait
Fund, including a second portion of US$15 million to cover the considerable
cost overruns. Although main contracts were awarded about five months late
and a further delay of about two months was caused due to a temporary lack of
cement and transportation difficulties for major equipment, physical progress
is satisfactory and the plant start-up is planned for December 1978. Institu-
tional progress is expected to remain slow due to lack of experienced person-
nel and the time required to train intermediate executive staff.
Loan 1144 - Second Mehardeh Power Project; US$72 million Loan of July 18, 1975;
Date of Effectiveness: January 19, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The project comprises a second 150-MW steam generating unit at
Mehardeh, construction of six and extension of two 230-kV substations, a new
office building, organization and accounting studies and training. Construc-
tion of the power plant is progressing satisfactorily although a delay of about
two months occurred due to a temporary lack of cement and transportation diffi-
culties for major equipment; the final delay is expected to be minimal. Con-
struction of the new head office building has been delayed by about one year
because the Government is reconsidering its size. As in the First Mehardeh
Power Project (Ln. 986) implementation of the training and institutional
building components continues to be slow.
Loan 1241 - Second Damascus Water Supply Project; US$35 million Loan of
June 9, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: January 31, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
The project, which is co-financed by the Arab Fund and USAID,
provides for the supply components of Damascus' water system and for train-
ing. Work is proceeding with a minor delay on the tunnel, underground cutoff
and supply reservoir, which are financed by the Bank. A close coordination
of the works financed by the various donors under this project and of the



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 5
works financed under the first project will be required to permit the timely
link-up of the various components of the supply and distribution system
and to minimize expected delays in implementation of the project components
financed by other donors.
Loan 1261 - Telecommunications Project, US$28 million Loan of June 9, 1976;
Date of Effectiveness: March 15, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1979
The project consists of the most urgent works of the telecommunica-
tions investment program for the period 1976-78, including the installation
of telephone connections, trunk exchanges and teleprinters; expansion of
long distance and international facilities; and a training center. Because
of late deliveries and installation of equipment and civil works, there is an
expected delay of around 18 to 24 months on project works. STE has taken
steps to expedite action and further execution of the project is expected
to proceed satisfactorily. Although the Government's approval of tariff
increases for STE has been delayed, the overall financial position of STE
has remained satisfactory due to the delay in the construction program;
however, tariff increases will be needed shortly.
Loans 1311/1312T - First Livestock Development Project; US$5 million Loan
and US$12.5 million Third Window Loan of July 22, 1976; Date of Effective-
ness: March 20, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project aims at increasing and stabilizing sheep production and
the incomes of nomadic flockowners and sheep fatteners through stabilization
of feed availability and improvement of veterinary services. Financing is
provided for the purchase of animal feed needs of sheep cooperatives,
strengthening of national animal health services, and technical assistance.
After initial delays in recruiting consultants, project implementation got
underway in April 1978. Government decisions on the funding of the National
Feed Revolving Fund and on the interest rates to be applied on project sub-
loans are expected shortly.
Loan 1458 - Aleppo Water Supply Project; US$50 million Loan of June 30, 1977;
Date of Effectiveness: March 2, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project consists of constructing a 75 km transmission line and
associated pumping facilities from Lake Assad to Aleppo, treatment plant
expansion and extension and improvements to the existing trunk distribution
system. Engineering services for improvements of the sewer systems in Aleppo
and Latakia and technical assistance to the State Planning Office and public
construction enterprises are also included in the project. Preparation of
detailed engineering and bidding documents for transmission line has been
completed and tendering is underway. This should permit construction to
commence in early 1979 about 3 months behind schedule.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 5
Loan 1480 - First Education Project; US$20 million Loan of September 14, 1977;
Date of Effectiveness: February 9, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project provides for the construction, furnishing and equipping
of five primary teacher training colleges, an intermediate teacher training
institute, three intermediate technical institutes and two vocational training
complexes. The project also includes the preparation of curricula for the
technical institutes, the establishment of suitable mechanism for coordinating
vocational training and technical education, the development of craft programs
and the provision for 33 man-years of fellowships and overseas training.
Project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily.
Loan 1531 - Regional Electrification Project; US$40 million Loan of May 3,
1978; Limit Date of Effectiveness: October 30, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
The project is the first stage of a ten-year National Rural Electri-
fication Program aimed at providing electricity service to all villages with
a population of at least 100 by 1987. The project would provide electricity
service to 900,000 inhabitants in 11 out of the 14 provinces in Syria,
including about 150,000 rural households for whom adequate supply of elec-
tricity would be made available for the first time. The project would also
serve health care, education and communication centers as well as infrastruc-
ture services such as water supply and industries as part of the Government's
drive to increase agro-industrial activity and to improve the quality of life
in rural Syria.
Loan 1546 - Third Highway Project; US$58 million of May 3, 1978; Limit Date of
Effectiveness: November 30, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project supports the Government's objectives for the development
of the highway network in line with the current investment program. It would
help stimulate the development of agriculture and industry in fertile and
rapidly developing but thinly populated northeastern region in Syria and aim
at further strengthening the Government's long-term planning capabilities in
the sector. Procurement under the project has started and works are expected
to begin early in 1979. Receipt of the legal opinion is expected shortly and
is the only outstanding condition of effectiveness.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 1
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by the country to prepare         19 months
the Project:                                (June 1976 to January 1978)
(b)  The agency which has prepared the            IBRD/FAO Cooperative Program
Project:                                    with the assistance of
consultants
(c)  Date of first presentation to the Bank,
and date of the first Bank mission to
consider the Project:                       June 1976 and June 22, 1977
(d)  Date of departure of appraisal mission:   February 1978
(e)  Date of completion of negotiations:         September 1978
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:              May 31, 1979
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III - Special Conditions
(a) Availability to SICVO of title to construction site for the oil pro-
cessing factory in Deir ez Zor (Condition of Effectiveness, para. 37).
(b) Recruitment of engineering consultants acceptable to the Bank (Condition
of Effectiveness, para. 39).
(c) Government financing arrangements for SICVO (para. 41).
(d) Recruitment of supervisory, technical and maintenance staff (paras. 43
and 46).
(e) Recruitment of a cost accounting consultant (para. 47).
(f) Audit of SICVO's accounts by independent auditor (para. 47).
(g) Progress reporting and Project Completion Report to be prepared by
SICVO (para. 48).
(h) Review and adjustment of prices for Project outputs to generate a
return on sales of at least 15 percent (para. 49).
(i) Periodic checking and analyses of waste waters (para. 54).






TJRjcEO  30                                                                                                 40                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBRD i3562R
l   T u R K E Y  ,     /-~  Ci        se                                                                is                                                              4'0'                                                                         BER1 3 R3K62R
;~~~~~~ e PUBLtc
........1rt7:ioL  . Ad-,                                                                                                                                                         ..
SAUDI ARABIA
-3e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3
v 0 \ < z / Areos 5e alit c r ra n  U d uc  s                                                                    nAa  nad  Processing  Facil ies
Torto.s~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o~3 Olm. rpse   re  rjc
f .) Ji \ \V_ .~~~~~~~~~- . / \~~~ *    Esastiag sinning mulls
-3                                  B  A  N  0   N                                                                                                                                                                                                                 34   OD-N   ==        
/                                                                                                                                          I  *_. L.  <    /   O  rD  assell/@s anglDdSmentonihelevalsSlosofeveneo7orenvdenumeneOr~~~~~~~~~~~~A v e a g e   ai n all in   m   m e e rs
2            0Majorto roads                                                         ctio    an    Po si    Facil
ho~~~~rraar    2~~~~~~~~~0    Oeraa  i~~~~~~~~~~~                               Ku cerars    ~      ~      ~      ~     ~     Wll, maor rjof eedsto p.t
Qq,~~~~~nrrrec3esmme,ricomc0  .~i5immd rre--reonoaOudre
.,ituod0m~~~~~ri uir3Or,m~~~~~3r3iS,tm crpuerirmiobyp--     197/74-19777.  .erbg
f                                                                 .oo.ers,re errors nmmmror                                                                                            cv'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ R A    .int. i,,.le.,.



