Document of
The World Bank   F LE CO  P Y
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 2139-SYR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF THE
OILSEED PROCESSING PROJECT
SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
November 2, 1978
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
Projects Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of November 30, 1977)
Currency Unit                         =         Syrian Pound (LS)
LS  3.95                              =        US$1.00
LS  1.00                              =        US$0.253
LS  1,000,000                         =        US$253,165
us$1,000,000                          =         LS 3,950,000
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 millimeter (mm)                     =        0.0394 inch (in)
1 centimeter Vli)                     =        0.3937 inch (in)
1 square ceAtimeter (cm ) 2                     0.1550 square inch (sq in)
1 meter (m)                           =        3.2808 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)                      =        0.6214 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (km ) 2                     0.3861 square mile (sq mi)
1 liter (1)                           =        0.2642 gallon (gal)
1 kilowatt (kW)                       =        1.3410 horsepower (hp)
1 gram (gram)                         =        0.001 kilogram (kg)
1 kilogram (kg)                       =        2.2046 pounds (lb)
1 metric ton (m ton)                  =        2,204.6225 pounds (lb)
1 hectare (ha)                        -        2.47 acres (ac)
GOVERNMENT OF THE SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY                                                     CONFIDENTIAL
ABBREVIATIONS
ACB            Agricultural Cooperative Bank
CMO            Cotton Marketing Organization
FAO-CP         Food and Agriculture Organization Cooperative Programme
GOC            General Organization for Consumers
GOF            General Organization for Feed
GOFI           General Organization  for Food Industry
ICB            International Competitive Bidding
NFRF           National Feed Revolving Fund
SICVO          Syrian Industrial Company for Vegetable Oils
TAFCO          Foreign Trade Organization for Chemical and Food Stuffs
A
lThis document has a stricted distributioa s  my be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official dutiea Its contents may wt otberwie be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF THE
OILSEED PROCESSING PROJECT
SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.   AGRICULTURAL SECTOR .................................                1
A.   Agricultural Production and Trade ....          ..........     1
B.   Agricultural Policies and Planning ....          .........     2
II.   OILSEED PROCESSING SUBSECTOR AND PROJECT
LOCATION ............................................               5
A.   Prospects for Vegetable Oil Crops ....          ..........     5
B.   Oilseed Processing Industry ....................               7
C.   Marketing and Pricing ..........................              12
D.   Project Location ...............................              15
III.   THE PROJECT .........................................               15
A.   Project B'ackground and Project Objectives    ......          15
B.   Project Description ............................              17
C.   Cost Estimates .................................              20
D.   Financing ......................................              22
E.   Disbursements ..................................              23
F.   Procurement ....................................              23
G.   Environmental Effects ..........................              25
IV.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ..............................               25
A.   Project Entity .................................              25
B.   Organization of Engineering and Design .... .....             26
C.   Supervision of Construction and Installation  ...             27
D.   Training ........         ...............................     27
E.   Operations and Maintenance .....          ................    28
F.   SICVO's Organization and Financial Status    .......          28
G.   Reporting Requirements .........................              30
H.   Implementation Schedule ........................              31
This report is based on the findings of a Bank mission which visited Syria in
February/March 1978, comprising Messrs. J. Duester (Bank). P. Harrison (Con-
sultant) and L. Trabut (Consultant).



Table of Contents (Continued)                                       Page No.
V.   PRODUCTION SPECIFICATION, DEMAND AND MARKET ASPECTS .       31
A.   Production Specifications ......................       31
B.  Marketing   ......................................      33
C.   Prices   .........................................     33
D.   Financial Rate of Return ...........   ;   ...........  35
VI.   BENEFITS AND ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION ....     .............  36
A.   Project Benefits ...............36 ...............     36
B.   Employment Effect ..............................       37
C.   Foreign Exchange Effect ........................      37
D.   Economic Rate of Return, Sensitivity Analysis
and  Risks   ......................................   38
VII.   RECOMMENDATIONS AND LOAN CONDITIONS ....     .............  39
ANNEXES
1.  Location of Cottonseed Production and Processing Assumed for 1981/82
2.  Detailed Project Cost Estimates
A.   Civil Works
B.   Equipment and Machinery
C.   Installation of Equipment
D.   Engineering and Supervision
E.   Technical Assistance and Training
3.   Schedule of Expenditures
4.   Disbursement Schedule
5.  A.  Annual Inputs and Production by Volume
B. Annual Inputs and Production by Volume at Aleppo
6.   Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
MAP
IBRD 13562-R



I. AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
A. Agricultural Production and Trade
Land Use
1.01      Syria's land area totals 18.5 million ha, of which about 6 million
ha are cultivated, the remaining two thirds being too arid. About 530,000 ha
are presently under irrigation but potential exists for doubling this area
because of the availability of irrigation water from the Euphrates Dam.
Annual agricultural production from rainfed lands varies greatly as a result
of the highly erratic amount and monthly distribution of rainfall, most
falling from October through May. Average annual rainfall fluctuates from
about 600 mm along the Mediterranean coast, rising to over 1,000 mm in the
Western mountains, and then falling away towards the east and south to below
250 mm (see Map 13562-R). Cotton and wheat are major crops in the irrigated
areas. Under rainfed cultivation the main crops are cereals, and secondary
crops include olives, fruits and small quantities of oilseeds, e.g., sesame
and sunflower. Livestock (mainly sheep) is an important subsector.
Place of Agriculture in the Economy
1.02      During the period 1966-73 agriculture accounted for one quarter of
GDP, although the annual figures varied between 23% and 36% largely due to the
variability of rainfed production. Since 1973, when the value of petroleum
revenues increased greatly, the share of agriculture in GDP has fallen, and
averaged 19% during the period 1974-76. Even so, agriculture is still a
key sector. In a national population of nearly eight million, it accounts for
just over half of total employment, providing work for 900,000 persons of
whom 700,000 are self-employed and family workers. Unemployment in the
agricultural sector is estimated at 2%, compared with a national unemployment
level of 5%. There is little urban migration from the rural areas.
1.03      Exports.  The relatively low rate of growth in agricultural output
from 1967-74 (2% annually) was reflected in declining agricultural exports.
The share of agriculture in exports, which was two thirds in 1971, fell
sharply to 20% in 1975. This was mostly due to the rapid increase in the
value of petroleum exports. Agricultural exports still account for about 60%
of the value of exports excluding petroleum but they have remained static as
shown below:
Table 1.1: AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS (GOODS ONLY)
Exports                            1963     1971      1975
Total (LS million in current prices)                  720       790    3,440
Agricultural (LS million in current prices)           660       520      710
Agricultural Exports as Percentage of Total            92        66       21



- 2 -
Cotton lint is the single most important agricultural export, accounting
for three quarters of the total by value. About 80% of the cotton produced
is exported and the rest is retained for use by the domestic textile industry.
1.04      Imports.  Agricultural imports have increased.  Wheat is now imported
although during the 1960s it was a major export earner; production is affected
by rainfall and since 1970 imports have averaged 200,000 m tons annually with
sizeable quantities exported only in 1972 which was a favorable rainfall year.
Sugar imports have also increased since the 1960s, and during 1970-76 aver-
aged about 110,000 m tons annually. Cottonseed cake and vegetable oil, which
were exported until the early 1970s, are now entirely consumed locally.
B. Agricultural Policies and Planning
Five-Year Plans
1.05      The overall objective of agricultural policy is self-sufficiency
in food production, without reducing the present level of agricultural
exports. Agricultural policy in Syria is carried out through a system of
laws, controlled prices and institutional arrangements designed to provide
targeted quantities of food and industrial crops. Policy is set out in
the Five-Year Plan. The third Five-Year Plan (1971-75) provided targets
for crop and livestock production, which were largely met as a result of
exceptionally favorable climatic conditions in 1974 and 1975, in spite of
drought and war with Israel in 1973. The main rainfed crops, wheat and
barley, exceeded their planned targets due to the good weather. Performance
in the irrigated sector was disappointing and cotton and sugar beet, both
irrigated crops, failed to meet their targets as discussed below. Investments
achieved were less than half the budget allocation. The fourth Five-Year
Plan (1976-80) was highly optimistic both in terms of investments foreseen
and targets of output growth. With the constraints on resource availability
that have emerged, the Government however has decided not to implement the
Plan fully and in fact to limit its investment program for 1977-80 mainly to
on-going projects. Further revisions of the public investment program for
1978-80 are underway with a view to taking account more appropriately of
financial and other constraints.
Problems in Plan Implementation
1.06      Three broad issues have a major impact in constraining the growth
of Syrian agricultural production: the relationship between physical produc-
tion targets and pricing policy, lack of institutional capability in planning
and implementation, and allocation of investments.
1.07      Physical Targets.  In the agricultural sector, as with other sectors
in Syria, there is a tendency towards centralized control, with production
based on physical targets and quotas. Thus, by the end of the third Plan
period when it was clear that the long-term rate of agricultural growth (2%)
was less than the population growth (3.3%), Government decided to enforce



- 3 -
cropping patterns and cultivation practices so that specified annual production
targets could be met and the gap could be closed. To assist this control, Law
14 of 1975 was passed, which obliges farmers to follow a set cropping pattern,
outlined each year in the detailed Annual Agricultural Production Plan of the
Ministry of Agriculture. The law is enforced through the control of credit and
farmers not submitting to the licensing or not following the rigid cropping
patterns are denied credit. So far the objective of Law 14 has only been
partially achieved since some farmers prefer to go without credit.
1.08      Pricing Policies.  Prices are controlled for most agricultural
commodities including cereals, sugar beet and cotton. The controlled price
system is regarded principally as a tool of social policy for income distri-
bution and subsidy purposes rather than as a means of adjusting agricultural
production. Farmgate prices paid for most crops by the State Monopoly agen-
cies were, until recently, well below the equivalent border price in inter-
national trade, partly as a result of subsidies on certain "vital" foodstuffs
such as bread and sugar, and partly because the prices fixed annually lagged
behind increases in world prices. A notable exception is seed cotton whose
prices have always been in the range of the world market prices. Prices of
some purchased inputs have also been subsidized but their availability has
been limited and the cost increases in other inputs have reduced the financial
incentive for farmers to produce more. Thus, in practice, prices remain the
main incentive or disincentive to increasing production in Syria, and during
the last Five-Year Plan period they have acted generally as a disincentive.
1.09      Lack of Institutional Capability.  Syria does not have sufficient
agricultural data and trained manpower to prepare the detailed operational
production plans so necessary to a successful centrally controlled production
system. As a result, the Five-Year and Annual Agricultural Plans are sometimes
too optimistic. Furthermore, Government should strengthen its capabilities in
the area of agricultural research and implementation. Little information is
available on optimum varieties or fertilizer rates for different crops, e.g.,
soybeans and sunflower, and the agricultural extension service is inefficient.
Although the Agricultural Cooperative Bank (ACB) has been reasonably effective
in providing farm credit, it has been less so in supplying the physical inputs
for which it is also responsible. Marketing of agricultural farm products is
the responsibility of state-owned agencies which frequently lack the required
institutional capabilities; an exception is the Cotton Marketing Organization
(CMO) in Aleppo, which is well managed and has representatives in all cotton
producing areas.
1.10      Allocation of Investments.  During the last decade, Syria concen-
trated its investment efforts in the agricultural sector qn large infra-
structural projects and there has been no causal relationship between the
investment proposed and the production targets to be achieved. Special
emphasis has been placed on major infrastructure in the Euphrates Valley
and too little on the complementary investments needed to obtain full produc-
tion from the new and existing infrastructure. In particular, there has been
a lack of agricultural research and field level trials, so that very little
knowledge is available on such aspects as optimum commercial varieties and
fertilizer rates for different crops under rainfed and irrigated conditions
in different parts of the country.



-4-
Action Proposed by Gove-rnment
1.11      Since the end of 1976, Government has initiated at all levels a
major review of its agricultural policy and planning mechanism, concluding
that:  (i) the a&rizultur_J sector is of fundamental importance in national
development; (ii) the trained manpower resources are not sufficient to permit
detailed physical planning of the economy; and (iii) investments must be
directed to top priorities only. A dialogue has been opened with the farmers
and it is likely that Government will provide positive incentives rather than
physical controls, liberalize the private sector, reorganize agricultural
administration, and reestablish an effective agriculture extension service.
However, this can be achieved more effectively with outside assistance.
Bank's Role in the Agricultural Sector
1.12      The Bank has financed two projects in the agricultural sector:
(i) the Balikh Irrigation and Rural Development Project (Loan No. 975-SYR,
Credit No. 469-SYR) which became effective in September 1974; and (ii) the
First Livestock Development Project (Loan No. 1311-SYR, 1312T-SYR) which
became effective in March 1978.
(a) The aim of the Balikh Project was to provide irrigation
and drainage to about 45,000 ha, together with the
necessary infrastructural facilities and consultants
for design, supervision and the study of a drainage
project in the Lower Euphrates Valley. While works are
now progressing in the first 10,000 ha section, Govern-
ment has postponed awarding new contracts until completion
of an on-going revision of the overall Balikh Basin
Development plan. Further problems are the recruitment of
consultants to supervise construction of the headreach
main canal, organization and settlement of farmers in the
Project area, and the substantial cost overrun of the
Project due to delays in its implementation.
(b) The Livestock Project, which became effective after a long
delay in recruiting consultants, aims at contributing
toward increased sheep production and reducing annual
fluctuations of animal numbers in the arid parts of the
country. This objective is to be reached by financing
about 240,000 m tons animal feed per year through the
National Feed Revolving Fund (NFRF) whose financing is
reimbursable by the Bank at 57% on an annual incremental
basis. Difficulties in Government funding of NFRF coupled
with unsatisfactory lending conditions are hindering
the implementation of the Project.
1.13      The Bank has appraised a third agricultural project in Syria--the
Lower Euphrates Drainage Project--which is designed to arrest the spread of
salinity on about 75,000 ha of alluvial soils presently irrigated in the Lower
Euphrates Valley. It would provide drainage for the Lower Euphrates Valley
to protect an existing productive irrigated area with trained farmers, and



-5-
existing infrastructure from further salinity and risk of abandonment. This
investment would be made at a fraction of the cost of developing new irriga-
tion land. The principal crops grown in the Project area, wheat, sugar beet
and cotton, are the three most important crops at the national level in
relation to potential import substitution and to exports.
1.14      Production in the agricultural sector needs to increase rapidly
during the next decade to provide self-sufficiency in food production for
an increasing population and develop export of industrial crops especially
cotton. Besides reforms in pricing policies, research and extension and
better agricultural inputs, a major inflow of capital and technical expertise
is required in processing and marketing of agricultural commodities.
1.15      The oilseed processing industry is one of the subsectors where
priority investments are required because of the increasing deficit in edible
oil in Syria, when at the same time cotton is one of the major agricultural
commodities produced in the country.
II. OILSEED PROCESSING SUBSECTOR AND PROJECT LOCATION
A. Prospects for Vegetable Oil Crops
2.01      The main raw material sources for vegetable oil in Syria are olives
and cottonseed. Moderate quantities of sesame are produced and potential
exists for development of sunflower, soya and oilseed rape.
2.02      Both the olive production and olive processing industries operate
within a free market system with no price control. Olives are grown mainly
in the west of Syria along the Mediterranean coast. At present, there are
some 16.5 million trees. Production of olives has increased at about 8%
annually since 1968 and is expected to expand further. As a result of high
price levels (olive oil sells for about LS 8.8/kg, equivalent to LS 2.2/kg
for olives) and strong demand, olive tree plantings have been made on a large
scale in recent years.
2.03      Olive oil can be considered independent of other vegetable oils
in Syria. The land used for olive production is normally hilly and rainfed
as opposed to flat and irrigated for other vegetable oil crops. Olive oil
is of high quality, mainly used for salads and uncooked vegetables; vegetable
oil, presently a fraction of olive oil's cost, is used for frying and baking.
Substitutability between these oils is minimal even though consumption of
vegetable oil could eventually increase.
2.04      Cotton production, and hence cottonseed production, expanded
rapidly in the late 1950s and early 1960s. The five-year average increased
from 268,000 m tons of seed cotton per year in 1956-60 to 417,000 m tons in
1961-65. Over the last 15 years, however, cotton production has leveled off
with increases in yield being offset by decreases in the area under production.



From 1970-76 yield increased from 1.6 m ton/ha to 2.3 m ton/ha while the area
of irrigated land for cotton production decreased from 236,000 to 173,000 ha.
This was due to an increase in wheat acreage and the loss of productive land
resulting from the filling of Lake Assad (63,000 ha) and the development of
salinity in the Lower Euphrates Basin. Area under cotton production is now
stabilized and new land coming into production, as a result of the Euphrates
projects, should be planted at least partially to cotton.
2.05      The original planning figures for the Euphrates Basin Development
of 135,000 ha by 1980 were optimistic. A more reasonable estimate is that
additional irrigated land in the area will be developed at a rate of 5,000-
10,000 ha annually.  By 1985, therefore, an additional 50,000 ha of irrigable
land may be in production. Sugar beet will be produced on the bulk of the
increased area as a result of the licensing system but a small proportion
under cotton can also be expected in view of price advantages over other main
crops such as wheat and sugar beet. According to recent calculations 1/ the
net revenue from one hectare of cotton varies from LS 467 for the lowest grade
to LS 1,055 for first grade, as compared with LS 560 for sugar beet harvested
in June-July to LS 1,010 for sugar beet harvested in August-September. How-
ever, since farmers have to adhere to a rigid schedule in delivering their
beets to the mills, and since they have to bear the cost of loss in sugar
content if they do not stick to the schedule, these margins for sugar beet are
probably overestimated. Farmers may try to grow more cotton than they are
supposed to, because, unlike sugar beet, it is a traditional crop and they are
familiar with its production, harvesting and marketing. Moreover, state
control of the sugar beet system is more stringent.
2.06      In addition to an expansion of the area under cotton production,
the yields of cotton are expected to continue increasing as a result of
improved seed varieties and higher inputs levels. This will result in an
overall annual growth of seed cotton production of 3% over the next decade
represent.ing by 1983 a total seed cotton production of about 460,000 m tons
and cottonseed for processing of about 250,000 m tons.
2.07      The main cotton producing areas in Syria are in the east and north.
Production in Hasakeh, Deir ez Zor and Ar Raqqah accounts for about 60% of
the national harvest of this crop. Other major producing areas are Hama and
Aleppo. The locations of cotton production and the locations of the cotton
ginneries are not well matched. Some 60% of the national ginning capacity
(280,000 m tons input) is in Aleppo, which necessitates transporting most of
the seed cotton produced in Hasakeh, Deir ez Zor and Ar Raqqah to Aleppo for
processing.  Plans to expand ginning capacity in the northeastern part of                     a
Syria have been developed. It is intended to install plants of 70,000 m tons
annual input capacity at Hasakeh and to raise the annual intake capacity of
the Deir ez Zor plant from 60,000 to 70,000 m tons. By 1981/82, therefore,
total ginning capacity in the northeast will be 140,000 m tons seed cotton
1/   See IBRD Basic Economic Report, Syrian Arab Republic, Volume II para.
8.79 dated April 28, 1978.



- 7 -
intake per year, but even so all seed cotton produced in Ar Raqqah and some
produced in Hasakeh and Deir ez Zor will still have to be transported to
Aleppo for ginning. Following these changes in ginning capacity, the avail-
ability of cottonseed in the Hasakeh/Deir ez Zor area would increase to about
75,000 m tons annually after allowing for 10% of the cottonseed being reserved
for the following year's planting. The quantities available at the ginneries
for sale to the oil mills would depend on the overall level of production of
cotton. However, on the basis of 460,000 m tons national annual seed cotton
input, probably 130,000 m tons of cottonseed would be available at Aleppo,
33,000 m tons at Hama, 15,000 m tons at Damascus, Homs and Idlib combined, and
75,000 m tons at Deir ez Zor. Annex 1 summarizes by area seed cotton 8rown,
ginning facilities, and cottonseed processing facilities.
2.08      The production of other oilseeds in Syria, with the exception of
sesame, is low. Sesame is processed into a paste, tahini, used for the prep-
aration of local dishes. Limited quantities of both sunflower seeds and soy-
beans have been produced and processed at the Homs factory. The State Plan-
ning Commission and the Ministry of Agriculture have ambitious plans for the
expansion of the area and production of soybeans and sunflower seeds (a total
production of 65,000 m tons of oilseeds other than cottonseed was projected
in the fourth Five-Year Plan). Current production is about 6,500 m tons of
sunflower seeds and a few hundred tons of soybeans annually. In 1978, however,
renewed efforts are being made to encourage production of both these crops by
giving high price incentives (domestic prices of both soybeans and sunflower
seeds are well above world levels) and by providing seed and credit packages
through ACB. While it may be possible to increase substantially both soybean
and sunflower seed production over the next 10-15 years, allowance in this
Project is made for only a small increase because of the uncertainty of the
success of Government programs. About 6,000 m tons of soybeans and 10,000 m
tons of sunflower seeds may be available for processing by 1983. The majority
of the soybean production would be in Hasakeh while the sunflower development
would be around Homs, Hama and the Ghab.
B. Oilseed Processing Industry
Existing Oil Mills
2.09      General.  The processing of cottonseed for the extraction of vege-
table oil requires much higher investments than for olives. Since nationali-
zation in 1964, the small olive oil pressing facilities have remained in
private hands, whereas the large oil mills for cottonseed have been incor-
porated in the public manufacturing sector. Today, the General Organization
for Food Industries (GOFI), controlled by the Ministry of Industry, is the
holding company for the oil mills in Aleppo, Lattakia, Hama and Damascus. One
additional oil mill in Homs is owned by the General Organization for Sugar
Industry because it is part of the sugar factory complex in Homs. All exist-
ing oilseed processing facilities in the public sector were constructed before
1964. Due to different degrees of reinvestment, however, their efficiency
and readiness for operation vary widely. Some of the mills (Damascus, Homs,



-8.
and Lattakia) still  -;-               u  gLle '. e t  e .ginal 15, 'ear old equipment a.ad ;ave
invested only to improve the production process (e.g., soapmaking as a new
product line or automatic oil packing as an improvement of the production
process); other mills (Aleppo and Hama) have tried gradually to replace old
equipment in consideration of technological progress. Total production of all
processing facilities without the proposed Project is currently as follows:
vegetable oil 33,700 m tons, cakes and meals 117,000 m tons, hulls 40,400 m
tons, linters 15,900 m tons and soapstocks 1,800 m tons (Annex 6).
2.10      The Aleppo processing factories are owned by the Syrian Industrial
Company for Vegetable Oils (SICVO), the largest of GOFI's subsidiaries.
Aleppo is located in a significant seed cotton production area (Map 13562-R).
Despite the proposed construction of ginneries (para. 2.07) Aleppo will remain
the largest processing center. SICVO's production is distributed among three
different plants--Liramoun, Ain el Tal and Neirab. The three plants together
have a capacity of about 160,000 m tons cottonseed input, which will grow to
178,500 m tons under the Project. The Aleppo mills process only cottonseed
and all three use the same technological process, which consists of the fol-
lowing lines:
(a) cleaning of cottonseed;
(b)  delinting of cottonseed;
(c)  decortication of cottonseed;
(d)  heat treatment and prepressing of kernels;
(e)  refining of oil including filtration, neutraliza-
tion, deodorization and decolorization;
(f)  packaging of oil; and
(g)  bagging of hulls and cottonseed cakes.
2.11      Some of the equipment dates back to 1963, when the plants were com-
missioned; some, such as pressing and delinting equipment, is less old and in
good operating condition; and some has just been purchased. The recent pur-
chases are linter presses, decorticating machines, steam blocks, an automatic
oil packaging and weighing line, a soapmaking line and an electrolizer for the
production of hydrogen. In 1976, two modern continuous flow refinery lines for
Neirab and Ain el Tal were purchased from two different suppliers for purpose
of comparison. Installation in Neirab is nearly complete and production is
expected to start in 1978. The refinery equipment for Ain el Tal has been
received but not yet installed. The factory at Neirab will also start produc-
tion of shortening and margarine with two new production lines presently being
installed. Annual production is expected to reach 9,000 m tons of shortening
and 3,000 m tons of margarine. In the past, Liramoun and Ain el Tal produced
only oil, and Neirab had equipment to produce 10 m tons daily of hydrogenized
oil which is called vegetamine.



- 9 -
2.12      The technological process outlined in para. 2.10 above employs the
single pressing system which leaves about 7% oil in the cakes after pressing
and has become uneconomical; a chemical solvent extraction process is now
available which extracts all but 0.7% oil from the seed. At present, in the
oil mills using the single pressing system, about 14.6% oil is extracted from
cottonseed as opposed to the 17.43% which would be reached through solvent
extraction.
2.13      The Hama processing factory has a capacity of about 16,000 m tons
cottonseed input per year. Hama is located in the center of a cotton growing
area which produces and gins about 60,000 m tons of seed cotton annually. The
surplus of about 7,000 m tons of cottonseed that cannot be processed in the
Hama oil mill is sent to Damascus or Homs. The production process in Hama is
identical to the Aleppo mills (para. 2.10) with the exception that no decor-
ticating machinery is available and therefore processing is done with the
hulls which leads to a different kind of oil cake. Part of the operating
facilities is old and should be replaced. In general, the status of equipment
in this factory would justify the reinvestments necessary to keep it operating
beyond 1983. Its favorable location would call for enlarging its capacity at
a later date if total cottonseed availability in the country outnumbers total
milling capacity. This possibility would be examined in detail by a study
financed under the Project.
2.14      The Damascus processing factory has an annual production capacity
of about 14,500 m tons of cottonseed input which is seldom fulfilled because
of frequent breakdowns of obsolete machinery. A second reason is the shortage
of cottonseed as raw material, as it has to be transported from the cotton pro-
duction areas to Damascus. In the Damascus province only about 5,000 m tons
seed cotton are produced with a declining production trend which leads to
about 2,800 m tons cottonseed being available in Damascus for processing.
The processing sequence is similar to that of Aleppo but without decortication
equipment and consequently undecorticated cake is sold. Only the soapmaking
line has modern machinery whereas other lines are extremely old and ineffi-
cient. This is the reason GOFI is considering the closure of the factory
which could only be revitalized with substantial reinvestments. Even if
these investments were made, the efficiency could not improve significantly
unless a whole new plant were built. Based on deliveries of soapstock from
other oil mills and on imported palm oil and other materials, the Damascus
plant could continue to manufacture soap of different qualities.
2.15      The Lattakia processing factory is in a similar state of obsoles-
cence as the one in Damascus. It is near the port of Lattakia and Government
has decided to close it down to make way for the port expansion for which
work has already begun. The factory's transfer to another area would not be
advisable because only a few pieces of equipment (the generators and the
delinting machines) appear worth recuperating. The factory's annual capacity
is about 16,000 m tons of cottonseed input. All cottonseed for processing has
to be transported to Lattakia from Idlib and Aleppo because along the Mediter-
ranean coast no cotton is grown. The processing sequence in the Lattakia oil
mill is identical to that of Aleppo.



- 10 -
2.16      The Homs processing factory, which does not belong to GOFI, is the
only factory in Syria which operates a solvent extraction plant in addition to
the single pressing system. This plant, however, works on the batch and not,
as is common today, on the continuous flow system. Total annual capacity of
the plant is about 20,000 m tons cottonseed equivalent. Seed cotton produc-
tion in Homs province is about 10,000 m tons resulting in cottonseed avail-
ability for processing in the Homs mill of 5,500 m tons.  All the rest must be
transported from other provinces, mainly Aleppo and Ar Raqqah. The vegetable
oil extraction by single pressing follows the same sequence as the one used in
Aleppo.  The solvent extraction process is used for processing   sunflower
seed and soybeans when they are available (2,500 m tons and 400 m tons respec-
tively in 1977). The factory was built in 1950 and most of the equipment date
from this time; in view of this, and its location, a closure of the plant will
have to be considered.
2.17      Conclusions.  Because of the difficulties in supplying raw material
to Damascus, Lattakia and Homs and because of their state of obsolescence
which will require substantial investment to keep the factories operating
even at the present low efficiency level, Government is considering phasing
out vegetable oil production from these plants in the foreseeable future.
Because of the limited supply of raw material and high demand for vegetable
oil, higher processing efficiency should be sought by abandoning single
pressing systems and replacing them with the solvent extraction process
presently employed in all modern oil mills elsewhere in the world. It is
expected that total phasing out of the obsolete plants will be completed by
1982. Thereafter, the new and modified facilities constructed under the
Project will make up for the loss of production and would absorb the raw
material left available.
Organization of the Public Sector Oil Industry
2.18      About 90% of the oilseed processing capacities, i.e., all state-
owned oil mills with the exception of the Homs mill, are combined in GOFI
which functions as a holding company. GOFI is one of six General Organiza-
tions operating in the public manufacturing sector, controlled by the Ministry
of Industry. Besides the oilseed processing industry GOFI also controls
factories for canning of fruits and vegetables, milk processing, vegetable
dehydration, peanut processing, grape processing, and manufacture of biscuits
and chocolate. Three more canneries, a pasta factory, and two breweries are
under construction.
2.19      In their present form, the General Organizations were introduced in
1974 by Decree No. 18 (Annex 6) which superseded Decree No. 21 of 1967, the
former one outlining for the first time the responsibilities and objectives
of the nationalized manufacturing sector.  In accordance with Decree No. 18
all General Organizations are organized in the same manner, with their board
consisting of a chairman as Director General appointed by the Prime Minister
upon recommendation of the Minister of Industry, and up to five directors
appointed by the Minister of Industry upon recommendation of the Director
General, and one representative of the workers nominated by the Workers'
Union. The Board of Directors sets policies and objectives of production,



- 11 -
export, marketing, employment, and prices. It prepares detailed plans
to ensure the development of production and enforces strict control upon
resources available to the Organization. It approves the annual plan of
each of its public enterprises and sets norms and performance standards for
the General Organization and the public enterprises. In accordance with
Article I of Decree No. 18 both the General Organizations and the public
enterprise are to be financially and administratively autonomous. Their
actual autonomy however is very limited. All investment decisions, for
instance, have to be approved by the Ministry of Industry and the State
Planning Commission and most prices for production inputs and outputs are
fixed by the Ministry of Supply, thus greatly influencing profitability. For
important budget and project discussions, the Minister of Industry instead of
the Director General assumes chairmanship on the board of directors which
contributes to speeding up decisions at least at the level of the Ministry of
Industry.
2.20      The public enterprises belonging to GOFI are also governed by Decree
No. 18 and are organized in a similar manner. With respect to the degree of
autonomy, GOFI takes the place of the Ministry of Industry. Any decision of
significance but mainly those pertaining to investment financing, production,
planning and procurement must be referred to the General Organization for
approval. Instead of being autonomous, public enterprises are in fact sub-
jected to a very tight control which often delays day-to-day operations and
project approvals. This generally results in diluting accountability of
management and performance in the enterprises. This overcentralization of
management decision is aggravated by a lack of incentive systems for the
workers. The distribution of 25% of a company's profit to the employees was
abolished in 1970 and replaced by a system of family allowances not connected
to the yearly result of the company. All wages and salaries are fixed by
decree. Government is now aware of the weaknesses of this system and has set
up a committee at the beginning of 1978 to examine the introduction of a
financial bonus system connected to performance standards and profitability.
2.21      Section 16 of Decree No. 18 provides that net surpluses, reserves
(except the statutory reserve) and depreciation on fixed assets must be
transferred by the companies to the General Organizations which in turn may
use these resources to finance their annual investment plan as approved by
the State Planning Commission and to cover their expenditures or to transfer
them to the Public Debt Fund (Section 17 of Decree No. 18). In practice,
however, these transfers are only bookkeeping operations because most liquid
funds remain with the companies for investing the following year and help
satisfy their liquidity needs. In the case of GOFI, these resources, consist-
ing of the above-mentioned net surpluses, depreciation and reserves, covered
all of its investments until 1974. Since then, because of growing investment
needs GOFI has experienced investment financing deficits which could no longer
be covered from accumulated surpluses but had to be financed by the Public
Debt Fund as follows:



_ 72 _
Year                  LS '000                   Kind of Loan
1975                    2,326                   long-term /1
12,448                  short-term /2
1976                    2,119                  long-term
5,790                  short-term
1977                    4,400                  long-term
24,250                  short-term
1978                    2,500                  long-term
5,400                  short-term
/1 Usually 10 years duration.
/2 Usually 1 year duration.
These loans were made to finance the construction of new plants such as can-
neries, breweries, etc., but none for investments in the oil milling sector.
C. Marketing and Pricing
2.22      Vegetable oil is considered by Government to be a vital food commod-
ity. It is distributed to the public at a low price in rationed quantities by
a Government monopoly agency, General Organization for Consumers (GOC), which
is controlled by the Ministry of Supply. This agency is responsible for the
distribution of all vegetable oil in the country, including both domestically
produced and imported oil. All Syrian consumers are allocated ration cards
against which vital foods--sugar, rice and vegetable oil--can be purchased at
favorable prices. The ration allowance for oil is 250 grams per person per
month (3 kg/capita/year); it is distributed through GOC to Government and
private shops throughout the country. It is sold to consumers at LS 1.60/kg
unpacked, LS 1.705/kg in 16 kg tins, or LS 1.70 for 900 grams in plastic
bottles (LS 1.89/kg).
2.23      Although Syrians are entitled to 3 kg per capita and per year of
cottonseed oil at ration prices, total consumption of oil at ration prices has
actually been about 80% of theoretical requirements (3 kg per capita multi-
plied by the population).  This is mainly due to administrative problems
within the system (cards issued late, people travelling, and irregularity
of supply availability), although other factors such as package size (four
250 gram coupons are required for a 900 gram bottle) and regional prefer-
ences, particularly in rural olive growing areas, also account for part of
this difference.
2.24      Until May 1978, cottonseed oil not distributed under the ration
scheme has been sold to industrial or commercial users at higher fixed prices



- 13 -
which were meant to correspond roughly to the "free market price." 1/ These
free prices were LS 2.75/kg ex-GOC and LS 2.90/kg ex-shops for bulk oil. For
oil packed ;n 16 kg tins, the prices were LS 2.85 and LS 3.00/kg respectively.
Up until 1977, it had also officially been possible for consumers to buy this
higher priced oil in addition to their ration. At the end of 1977, GOC had
decided to use cottonseed oil solely for ration purposes and to sell only
imported soybean oil which is priced at a higher level (about LS 4.50/kg) to
private, commercial and industrial users. Because of this decision, consumers
wishing to use more than their 250 gram/month ration had to buy additional
quantities on the black market at prices which were usually between LS 3.50/kg
and LS 4.50/kg.
2.25       In May 1978, Government has decided to increase the "free market
price" to LS 4.50/kg, the price at which also imported soybean oil is sold to
private, industrial or commercial users. This decision may have far-reaching
effects on producer revenues since the sales to commercial and industrial
users are made on the basis of "free market prices."
2.26       The vegetable oil produced by the Government-owned oil crushing
plants is either sold to GOC, sold directly to other processing plants within
the GOFI group of companies, or, at Aleppo and Homs, may be hydrogenized
within the plants themselves to produce vegetamine.
2.27      All oil supplied to GOC is initially 2/ invoiced at LS 1.43/kg
including the container. This ex-factory price level corresponds to the
"ration" price after allowing for wholesale and retail marketing margins.
Oil to factories within the GOFI group (less than 10% of total production)
until May 1978 was sold at the wholesale "free" price of LS 2.85/kg. The
vegetamine and other products made by simple hydrogenization of cottonseed
oil at Aleppo and Homs were sold in tins to GOC at LS 2.90/kg and to other
GOFI companies at LS 3.05/kg. In recent years about 60% of the domestic
oil production has been sold at the "ration" price, 15-20% at the "free"
price through GOC, and 20-25% has been further processed in the factories
themselves. When sold as vegetamine, this oil has also realized revenues
equivalent to those offered by the "free" prices. This has in fact led
the companies to build up their own hydrogenization lines. The "free" price
of cottonseed oil charged until May 1978 was about 10% below the estimated
long-run import parity price, while the new "free" price is about 40% above
the long-run import parity price and the "ration" price is about half of it.
2.28      Vegetable oil 3/ consumption in Syria has been static over the
past five years because of unavailability of supplies, and stood at about
1/   The term "free market price" used to refer to the possibility of pur-
chasing additional "free" quantities of vegetable oil beyond the ration
quantity at a fixed price.
2/   If GOC subsequently sells any of this oil at the "free" price, a bonus
payment is made to the factory at about LS 1.30/kg.
3/   In this paragraph vegetable oil is taken to exclude olive oil.



- 14 -
32,000 m tons, including 1,700 m tons of ghee substitute and 5,500 m tons of
hydrogenated oil. This corresponds to a consumption of about 4.1 kg per
capita for vegetable oil excluding olive oil, estimated to amount in itself
to about 5 kg per capita. 1/ Imports are restricted and have amounted to
about 9,500 m tons in 1976, half of which was palm oil mainly used for soap-
making. Total per capita consumption of vegetable oils and fats can there-
fore be estimated to be about 10 kg as compared to the equivalent 15.5 kg
consumption of oil in EEC countries in 1974, not taking into account the
estimated 12.3 kg consumption of butter and margarine.
2.29      Future consumption of oil would clearly depend upon Government's
policy toward prices and supplies (imports). A projection of demand based on
an extrapolation of demand and the growth achieved prior to 1973 when ration-
ing started would bring the total demand for vegetable oil from 33,000 m tons
in 1973 to 45,000 m tons in 1980, 55,000 m tons in 1985, and 69,000 m tons in
1990. 2/ Other factors could increase the rate of growth in demand: (a) the
rate of urbanization, which is greater than population growth; and (b) the
increase in processing capacity for cottonseed oil, particularly the introduc-
tion of a margarine substitute plant at Aleppo which will increase the range
and quality of vegetable oil products available to consumers.
2.30      These consumption demand estimates (which are thought to be conser-
vative) represent 5.1 kg/capita in 1980 and 5.7 kg/capita in 1990. They can
be compared with 4.7 kg/capita in 1973. State Planning Commission estimates
for demand are pitched higher than this at 5.4 kg/capita for 1980 and 6.0 kg/
capita for 1990. Total vegetable oil consumption (including olive oil) will
be highly dependent on the olive supply but may be about 12-14 kg/capita by
1985.
2.31      The major products of the oil crushing plants, besides oil, are
cottonseed cakes, hulls and linters. Cottonseed cakes and hulls are sold
to the General Organization for Feed (GOF) at fixed prices 3/ generally below
long-run export parity. There is a strong demand for these commodities from
the growing livestock industry, and GOF estimates its requirements for 1978
at some 40% above the likely production of the cottonseed crushing factories.
Linters are mainly exported through TAFCO and, in consequence, realize export
parity price--about LS 600/m ton ex-factory.
1/   Olive oil consumption is difficult to estimate because it is mainly
produced and consumed at the farm level.
2/   Growth forecast based on a population growth of 3.3%, a GDP growth of
6% and an unchanging income elasticity of demand for vegetable oils of
0.41.
3/   Ex-factory prices, excluding sacks and loading:  cottonseed hulls
LS 200/m ton; sunflower hulls LS 153/m ton; undecorticated cottonseed
cake LS 400/m ton; decorticated cottonseed cake LS 500/m ton.



- 15 -
D. Project Location
Aleppo
2.32      Aleppo is situated in a large cotton production area and has been
the center for cotton ginning, with a capacity of 280,000 m tons seed cotton
input, and for cottonseed processing, with a capacity of about 162,000 m tons
cottonseed input. The three oil mills at Aleppo combined in SICVO have pro-
cessed cottonseed from the ginneries in Aleppo and Deir ez Zor. Because of
its favorable geographical situation with respect to cotton growing and its
present ginning and cottonseed processing capacity, Aleppo will continue to
be the center for oilseed processing.
Deir ez Zor
2.33      A second oilseed processing center will be established in Deir ez
Zor for several reasons. First, Deir ez Zor is also located in a large cotton
producing area (the Deir ez Zor province produces about 20% of Syria's total
seed cotton). Second, it is located less than 200 km from Hasakeh, the center
of Syria's largest cottonseed production area, where about 24% of all seed
cotton is produced. Until now all seed cotton from the Hasakeh province had
to be transported by truck through Deir ez Zor to Aleppo. Third, Deir ez Zor
already has a ginning capacity of 60,000 m tons annual seed cotton input; it
will be enlarged to 70,000 m tons and transferred adjacent to the selected
Project site because at present its location is not suitable for expansion.
This decision to transfer the ginnery has already been taken independent of
Project considerations. Fourth, a cotton ginnery with annual seed cotton
input capacity of 35,000 m tons is being constructed at Hasakeh and a second
one of the same capacity will be constructed by 1982 enlarging the total
capacity to 70,000 m tons. About 38,500 m tons of cottonseed will then be
transported by truck to the oil mill in Deir ez Zor. Fifth, Hasakeh and Deir
ez Zor provinces together have nearly 800,000 inhabitants consuming about 35%
of the proposed factory's vegetable oil production and also a high percent-
age of its production of meal pellets and hulls for animal feeding. These
products without the new oil mill in Deir ez Zor have to be transported from
Aleppo, if produced there, to the consumption area or from the ports of
Lattakia or Tartous, if imported, over a distance of more than 500 km. There-
fore, the transport savings resulting from locating an additional factory in
Deir ez Zor are considerable (para. 6.01).
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Background and Project Objectives
Background
3.01      In the context of Syria's general development objectives for the
manufacturing industry as set out in the fourth Five-Year Plan (1976-1980),



- 16 -
the Project was identified in June 1976 during an IBRD/FAO CP mission followed
by a preparation mission in January 1977 and technical complementary studies
later in the year. The identification and preparation reports were discussed
with Government in May 1977 following its expressed desire not to proceed with
the procurement of two separate extraction units for the Aleppo factories but
rather to entrust the Bank with making a Project proposal looking at the same
time at the oilseed processing subsector as a whole. The Project was then
appraised by a Bank mission in February/March 1978.
Project Objectives
3.02      The Project aims at rationalization of the state-owned oilseed pro-
cessing industry by improving its technical efficiency and increasing its
total processing capacity. Construction of a new oil mill in Deir ez Zor
and modification of the existing three processing plants in Aleppo will be
included, and a study to assess the oilseed processing industry's expansion
after 1983.
3.03      Efficiency.  Technical efficiency will be improved by introducing
the continuous flow solvent extraction process in a new oil mill at Deir ez
Zor, and at Neirab and Ain el Tal. About 94% of the oilseed processing
capacity will operate with the new solvent extraction process which will
augment the vegetable oil production from 14.6% to 17.43% per unit of cotton-
seed input at Aleppo. The new process will reduce the remaining oil in
cotton cakes from about 7% to 0.7%, leaving however the high protein content
of 42-44% in the cotton meal pellets unchanged. Technical efficiency will
further be increased by gradually closing down the obsolete factories in
Damascus, Homs and Lattakia for which substantial rehabilitation investments
will be needed if they are to be kept operating beyond 1983 (para. 2.17).
3.04      Processing Capacity.  Processing will be increased by adding a new
extraction plant in Deir ez Zor with a total input capacity of 87,000 m tons
cottonseed equivalent. Also the capacity of the Aleppo plants will be in-
creased from a total of about 162,000 m tons to a total of 174,000 m tons
of cottonseed equivalent. After deducting about 52,000 m tons cottonseed
equivalent of processing capacity from the Homs, Lattakia and Damascus facto-
ries, which will be gradually phased out of production, the net total addi-
tion to processing capacity will be about 50,000 m tons of raw material.
3.05      Transport Cost.  Another rationalization effect will be the signif-
icant transport savings. Nearly all of the cottonseed produced by the cotton
ginneries in the Deir ez Zor/Hasakeh area will be processed in the Deir ez Zor
oil mill. Conversely, without the new oil mill in Deir ez Zor, seed cotton
from farms and cottonseed from ginneries will continue to be transported to
Aleppo, a distance of 250-600 km, for processing. Some of the end products
to be consumed in the Deir ez Zor/Hasakeh area, i.e., vegetable oil, cotton-
seed cake and hulls, will have to be transported back to the consumers (para.
6.01). This will result in substantial handling and transportation cost as
well as loss and deterioration of raw material.



- 17 -
B. Project Description
The Deir ez Zor Processing Factory
3.06      This factory will be constructed north of Deir ez Zor on the western
side of the Deir ez Zor/Hasakeh road on a construction site located about 5 km
outside the city boundaries (Map 13562-R). It belongs to a proposed indus-
trial area, which will offer the following advantages and features: it is
near the consumption center, Deir ez Zor adjacent to a wide-gauge all-weather
road, less than 1 km from a 660 kv high tension transformer station and less
than 2 km from a railway station from which a branch track to the plant site
is planned. Its water supply will come from a pumping station under construc-
tion near the Euphrates River at a distance of about 1 km. Also, it will be
connected to a sewer line to carry off waste water, it has an underground
water level at about 10 m which will not cause any problems during construc-
tion, has a low cost of site leveling requiring little site preparation and
good quality soil with a compression resistance of more than 3 kg/cm2. During
negotiations, assurances were obtained that prior to Effectiveness of the
Loan, SICVO will obtain title to this or a comparable site. Assurances were
also obtained that power, water and sewerage connections will be made avail-
able in a timely manner for the construction and operation of the plant.
3.07      The factory will be equipped to process 300 m tons of cottonseed or
150 m tons of soybeans per day. However, the equipment to be installed could
also process other oilseeds, e.g., sunflower seed at 240 m tons per day. At
full development, 75,000 m tons of cottonseed and 6,000 m tons of soybeans
will be processed, resulting in an annual production of about 14,100 m tons
of vegetable oil and 38,500 m tons of cottonseed meal pellets and soybean
meal pellets (para. 5.01).
3.08      CMO has decided to transfer the ginnery of Deir ez Zor to be adja-
cent to the site of the new oil mill. This will be done during construction
of the oil mill. The total cottonseed production of the ginnery, amounting to
about 38,000 m tons, will then be transported by pneumatic conveyors to the
oilseed processing plant. Cottonseed coming in by truck from the ginneries in
Hasakeh will be stored in two sheds of 15,000 m3, each holding approximately
5,000-6,000 m tons. Peak storage demand for cottonseed will be met by open-
air storage under tarpaulins for a period starting beginning of April when the
ginneries stop operations until June of each year. Soybeans will be stored in
four cylindrical silos of 2,000 m3 capacity each.
3.09      The recently developed new type of decorticating machine for cotton-
seed will skip the delinting process which requires expensive equipment and
leads to high electric power consumption. The new process is increasingly
employed in countries that cannot make use of the linters in their own chemical
industry for production of cellulose products, and since the revenues obtained
from exports of linters will not cover their high investment and production
cost. The process proposed for their Deir ez Zor mill will leave the linters
on the hulls which will be sold as animal feed as before.



- 18 -
The Aleppo Processing Factories
3.10      At Aleppo the Project will undertake to modify the three existing
oil mills and install two continuous solvent extraction plants in two of the
three, the Neirab and Ain el Tal factories. The equipment used for solvent
extraction will be identical to that installed in Deir ez Zor, thus substan-
tially reducing the need for storage of spare parts in that only one main
store in Aleppo will be maintained and Deir ez Zor will only store parts
subject to fast wear and tear. The three existing Aleppo factories--Neirab,
Ain el Tal and Liramoun--will be modified to process annual capacities of
about 162,000 m tons of cottonseed and 10,000 m tons of sunflower seed. Pro-
duction will be about 32,000 m tons of vegetable oil, 76,500 m tons of cotton-
seed meal and sunflower meal pellets, and 39,000 m tons of cotton and sunflower
hulls (para. 5.01).
Neirab
3.11      Modification will involve expansion of the cleaning, delinting and
decortication lines from 250 m tons to 300 m tons per day by transferring
existing machinery and modifying the prepressing lines. New equipment and
machinery will be acquired for seed preparation, oil filtration, preparation
of cakes before solvent extraction, solvent extraction and pelletization.
Ain el Tal
3.12      The processing sequence for cotton in the Ain el Tal mill will
include the existing cleaning, delinting and decortication equipment with a
capacity of 150 m tons in 24 hours. Additionally, this mill will receive the
kernels from 150 m tons of cottonseed decorticated daily at Liramoun. The
equipment to be added and the various necessary modifications of the remain-
ing processes will be the same as those for the Neirab factory.
Liramoun
3.13      No new equipment or machinery will be needed for the Liramoun mill
which will only be involved in the cleaning, delinting, and decortication
process. After decortication kernels will be supplied to Ain el Tal for
further processing. The pressing machinery of the Liramoun plant which is
still in good operating condition will be transferred to Deir ez Zor.
3.14      For both the Neirab and the Ain el Tal mills new refinery equipment
is being installed.
3.15      The processing sequence for cottonseed in all oil mills will be as
follows: 1/
1/   Operations in Liramoun involve only the first three lines.



- 19 -
-    seed cleaning;
-    delinting (not proposed for Deir ez Zor);
-    decortication and separation of split hulls and kernels;
-    mechanical preparation of kernels by crushing and heat
treatment;
-    prepressing, with clarification of the crude oil obtained
at this stage;
-    preparation of cakes for extraction;
-    solvent extraction;
-    neutralization of crude oil;
-    refining of neutralized oil;
-    packing of refined oil; and
-    pelletization and bagging of meal.
3.16      For sunflower seed the process will differ slightly from that used
for cottonseed. Delinting and decortication processes will be omitted.
After oil extraction the meal will be sifted to remove most of the hulls and
to obtain a product with a high protein content. It will be preferable to
process sunflower seed only at Neirab because this factory operates indepen-
dently of the others in a complete cycle (para. 3.11).
3.17      Similarly, milling of soybeans will omit delinting and decortication
lines because soybeans can enter the solvent extraction process after cleaning,
crushing, heat treatment and flaking.
Engineering and Design, Supervision of Construction and Start-up Operations
3.18      The Project will finance the necessary engineering and design work
to be undertaken by a qualified engineering consulting firm. The consultants
to be retained by SICVO will be responsible for the final Project design and
will advise SICVO on preparation of tender documents and evaluation of incom-
ing bids. They will also supervise civil works construction and the installa-
tion of equipment to be carried out with the assistance of the equipment sup-
pliers. This work is estimated to require about 150 man-months. Draft terms
of reference for the engineering consultant have been prepared (Annex 6). The
same engineering consultant firm will advise SICVO during the start-up opera-
tions on both the Deir ez Zor and the modified Aleppo plants (para. 4.03).
For this purpose, the firm will provide one chief production engineer and one
chief maintenance engineer for Deir ez Zor, three shift supervisors for Deir
ez Zor, and two shift supervisors for Aleppo, who will stay in Syria for
periods between six and ten months and will undertake on-the-job training of
personnel. A total of 66 man-months will be needed. The Project will also
finance the training of Syrian personnel in key positions in oil processing
plants abroad (para. 4.07). Assurances were obtained during negotiations that
an engineering consultant firm acceptable to the Bank will be appointed prior
to Effectiveness of the Loan since the qualifications and experience of the
firm will have a direct bearing on the execution of the entire Project. The
appointment of such a consulting firm will be made under consideration of its
experience in similar tasks.



- 20 -
3.19      Cost Accounting Adviser.  A qualified cost accounting adviser will
be hired by SICVO for a period of not less than three months to review the
existing bookkeeping and cost accounting systems including the separation
of Project accounts and to make recommendations for their improvement. Assur-
ances with respect to the consultant's appointment not later than two years
after the Effectiveness of the Loan were obtained during negotiations.
3.20      Study of Vegetable Oil Subsector.  By 1981, a qualified consultant
will complete a comprehensive study of the state-owned oilseed processing
industry. This study will examine the past and projected production of oil-
seeds in the various provinces of Syria, as well as the past and projected
consumption of vegetable oils and by-products of the oilseed processing
industry. The study will use a linear programming computer model to make
recommendations as to where and when existing capacities should be enlarged
or new ones built. The study will also assess the need and possibility for
a factory to produce high protein edible cottonseed flour in Syria. As a
result of the study, it will be possible to make the necessary decisions early
enough to accommodate the increased production of oilseeds which will call
for additional processing capacity in project year 6, i.e., 1983-84.
C. Cost Estimates
3.21      The total Project cost is estimated to be LS 173.0 million (US$43.8
million) for both the new oil extraction plant at Deir ez Zor and the modi-
fication of the Aleppo plants. The construction of the Deir ez Zor plant
absorbs 78% of the total Project cost, the remaining 22% being attributed to
Aleppo. Cost estimates for civil works are based on actual cost of similar
works in Syria at the beginning of 1978. Cost estimates for equipment and
machinery are based on informal bids received from equipment suppliers in
1978. Average physical contingencies included in Project estimates are
12% except for technical assistance and working capital where no physical
contingency was added. Price contingencies for local costs including those
for civil works were compounded at annual rates of 16% for 1979, 15% for 1980,
13% for 1981 and 10% for 1982. These rates, although substantially above
international inflation rates, are based on recent experience in Syria; they
are also substantially above the projected increase in wholesale prices (para.
3.24) reflecting the trend of construction prices which, since the early
1970's, have consistently risen about 50% faster than the wholesale price
index. For the foreign costs (mainly equipment) the corresponding rates are
6.5% in 1979, 6.1% in 1980 and 6% for 1981 and 1982. The rapid increase in
construction cost in Syria during the period 1973-75 is expected to taper off
but would still be substantially higher than international inflation rates
in the years to come. The foreign exchange component of the Project is esti-
mated to be LS 96.7 million (US$24.5 million) representing about 56% of total
Project cost. This foreign exchange component includes an indirect foreign
exchange cost of LS 13.8 million (US$3.5 million) representing the foreign
exchange component of interest during construction. A foreign exchange
component of about 31% is estimated for civil works because it is assumed
that Syrian contractors will win civil works contracts since foreign con-
tractors would probably not be interested in contracting for the works



- 21 -
proposed. Taxes and customs duties estimated at LS 3.6 million (US$0.9
million) and representing 2% of total Project cost or 4% of local costs are
included in the total Project cost. Details of cost estimates are given in
Annex 2 and are summarized in the following table, "Project Cost Estimates."
Project Cost Estimates
Local         Foreign         Total          Local          Foreign         Total         Foreign
Item                       ----- (LS'OOO) -----------                _______--- (US$000)  ------                Exchange
Civil works                          15,721          7,073         22,794           3,980                           5,770           31
Equi~pment and machinery
Production                          5,477         35,995         41,472           1,386          9,113          10,499           87
Storage and handling                  850          5,946          6,796             215          1,505            1,720          87
Power supply                          723          5,060          5,783             183          1,281            1,464          87
Miscellaneous                         536          3,749          4,285             136            949            1,085          87
Subtotal                         7.586         50,750                          1,920         12,848           14,768           87
In5tallation of egiipment             8 826           -8,826                        2,234           -               2,234            0
Engineering_and super-
vision                               -             4,850          4,850            -             1,228            1;228         100
Technical assistance
and training                          348          1,628          1,976              88            412              500          82
Working capital                      12,200           -             12,200          3,089            -              3,089            0
Total Project Cost
excluding contingencies          44,681          64,301        108982          11,311          16278           27,589           59
Contingtncies
Physical                            3,857          7,521         11,378             976          1,904            2,880          66
Price                              21,847         11,024         32,871           5,531          2,791            8,322           34
Subtotal contingencies          25,704          18,545         44,249          6,507           4,695          11,202           42
Total Project Cost
including contingencies          70,385          82,846        153,231         17,818          20,973          38,791           54
Interest duri,i construction          5,911         13,833         19,744           1,496          3,502            4,998           70
Grand Total Project Cost             76,96         96,679        1729                            24475 43     ,789                 5b
Note:1_                975 4c37_89 5o
Note: Discrepancies due to rounding.



- 22 -
D. Financing
3.22      The proposed Bank loan of US$21 million will be made to the Govern-
ment of the Syrian Arab Republic and will finance the foreign exchange cost of
the Project with the exception of the indirect foreign exchange cost contained
in the item interest during construction. The financing plan is as follows:
Local      Foreign      Total
-------(US$ million)-------    %
Government equity in GOFI/SICVO         8.8          -          8.8      20
SICVO contribution                     1.5          3.5 /a      5.0      11
Loan of Government's
Public Debt Fund                     9.0           -          9.0      21
IBRD loan                               -         21.0         21.0      48
Total                               19.3        24.5         43.8    100
/a   This is the indirect foreign exchange cost of interest during construc-
tion to be paid in local currency by SICVO to the Syrian Government
which in turn will cover the required foreign exchange.
3.23       The financing plan proposed for this Project is based on SICVO's
ability to mobilize funds to service its debt without incurring excessive
risks as shown in SICVO's cashflow statement (Annex 6). The local currency
costs of the Project will be financed by contributions of Government through
GOFI to SICVO and by SICVO itself. An amount of LS 35 million (US$8.8 mil-
lion) will be in the form of equity capital and an amount of LS 35.8 million
(US$9.0 million) in the form of a long-term loan by the Public Debt Fund.
SICVO, as a direct contribution, would pay the interest, which will be
capitalized during construction.
3.24       The Bank loan will have a duration of 17 years including a 4-year
grace period at an interest rate of 7.35%. The Bank funds will be on-lent to
SICVO at 9% interest with a duration of 17 years including a 4-year grace
period. The 9% on-lending rate is higher than past and projected rates of
inflation as measured through the wholesale price index (1976: 12.4%, 1977:
8.9%, estimated 1978: 8.5%, projected 1979: 8.5%, 1980 and 1981: 8.0%) and is
equal to the interest rate set by Syrian legislation for all Government loans
to state-owned companies. Commitment charges and the exchange risk will be
borne by Government. Thus, Government will have an interest rate spread of
1.65% to compensate at least in part for the foreign exchange risk and the
commitment charge.



- 23 -
E. Disbursements
3.25      The proposed Bank loan of US$21.0 million will be disbursed over a
period of four years, 1979-82. The loan will finance:
Cost
Category                                                      (US$ million)
I       31% of the cost of all civil works contracts
representing the estimated foreign exchange
component                                                2.1
II      100% of foreign expenditures for all imported
machinery, equipment and vehicles; or 70% of
local expenditures for cost of goods purchased
locally                                                 14.8
III     100% of foreign expenditures for engineering and
supervision, training and for technical assistance    1.9
IV      Unallocated                                              2.2
Total               21.0
A schedule of expenditures is in Annex 3 and a schedule of disbursements is
given in Annex 4.
F. Procurement
3.26      Contracts for civil works and installation of machinery exceeding
the equivalent of US$200,000 and for delivery and installation of equipment
exceeding the equivalent of US$50,000 will be tendered under international
competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's guidelines for procurement.
Contracts for civil works and installation of machinery and equipment not
exceeding the value of US$200,000 and contracts for machinery, equipment and
vehicles not exceeding US$50,000 equivalent will be procured on the basis of
competitive bidding advertised locally or on the basis of international or
local shopping. The Deir ez Zor and Aleppo plants will have separate lots
for civil works, but some will be combined for equipment.
3.27      It is estimated that for civil works a total of four contracts will
be let, two each for Deir ez Zor and for Aleppo. They will comprise
(a) site preparation, construction of drainage system, roads,
administrative buildings, slabs for the soybean storage
units, foundations, assembly of steel construction for
industrial buildings including cottonseed storage silos,
external finishing and interior installations of industrial
buildings, painting and thermal insulation, and



- 24 -
(b) supply of steel sectional frames, roofs, sidings and exhaust
ducts for the industrial buildings and the oilseed silos.
The total value of the civil works contracts including physical and price con-
tingencies is estimated to be LS 33.9 million (US$8.6 million).
3.28      For equipment, about ten contracts will be let:  three will be for
Deir ez Zor and Aleppo grouped together where equipment to be procured is
identical, and seven will concern only equipment for Deir ez Zor. The first
category will contain equipment for preparation and prepressing of oilseeds,
crude oil filtration, solvent extraction, meal pelletization and bagging.
The second category will comprise equipment for cleaning, decortication and
storage of oilseeds, oil refining and packaging, steam production and water
treatment. The above contracts for delivery of equipment will in all cases
include the supply of spare parts for the initial two years of operation,
installation assistance by the suppliers' technicians and the presence of
these technicians in Syria during the test runs. The estimated value of
these contracts for equipment including physical and price contingencies
is LS 76.4 million (US$19.4 million).
3.29      From experience gained in bidding for other Bank financed projects,
it is likely that civil works contracts will be won by Syrian nationalized
companies. However, the state-owned construction companies enjoy a number
of advantages by law over private companies both domestic and foreign, such
as import privileges and freedom from bid bonds and performance bonds. These
will be substituted by general Government guarantees covering the validity of
bids and the performance of state-owned construction companies. During nego-
tiations, assurances were obtained that:
(a) SICVO will require the bidders, in order to be qualified
for the award of contracts for civil works, to accept, in
carrying out their obligations under such contracts, normal
supervision by SICVO or the consultants employed by it;
(b) all contracts exceeding thresholds described in para. 3.26
will be procured in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement
under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" dated March 1977;
(c) all contracts not exceeding the thresholds described in
para. 3.26 will be procured on the basis of competitive
bidding advertised locally pursuant to procedures accept-
able to the Borrower and the Bank, or if international or
local shopping is found to be more appropriate on the basis
of such shopping after soliciting quotations from not less
than three reliable suppliers;
(d) contract amendments adding or deleting more than 25% of
a contract will be made only with the prior concurrence
of the Bank;



- 25 -
(e) SICVO will provide to the Bank general notices for procure-
ment of civil works, machinery and equipment under inter-
national competitive bidding for publication in the UN
Development Forum; and
(f) for all contracts to be let under ICB procedures and for
the first contract to be let under procedures consistent
with those described in para. 3.29(c) above, SICVO will
submit to the Bank for its review and comments, prior to
bid evaluation, the tender documents and advertising proce-
dure, and prior to contract award, a detailed report on the
evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together
with the recommendations for award.
G. Environmental Effects
3.30      The risk of pollution from the oil mills financed under the Project
would be very small. The Project is designed to avoid contamination from
discharge of waste water. The volume of such discharge is minimal because
the extraction and refining plants, which require large quantities of water
for the condensers and coolers, operate on a closed circuit system with air
coolants. The amounts of water that will be discharged into the sewer system
from the plants will pass through settling tanks which permit separation
and removal of foreign matter carried by the water. The settling tanks
will constantly be checked by the personnel working in these sections, and
samples will regularly be analyzed in the laboratory. Assurances to this
effect were obtained during negotiations.
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Project Entity
4.01      The Syrian Industrial Company for Vegetable Oils (SICVO) will be
the Project entity, and thus own and operate the new oilseed processing plant
in Deir ez Zor and the three oil mills in Aleppo. Assurances to this effect
were obtained during negotiations. This organizational arrangement was
retained to facilitate implementation of the Project and for the following
reasons:
(a) The SICVO management and staff have wide experience in
the operation of oil mills except for solvent extraction.
Personnel could be transferred from Aleppo to Deir ez Zor,
at least on a temporary basis, without jeopardizing effec-
tive operation of the Aleppo factories.



- 6 -
(b) The Administration, during construction and operation,
will be facilitated by having only one Project entity
with one management.  This holds true for the initiation
and supervision of procurement activities under the
Project.
(c) Better prices may be obtained in purchasing equipment by
grouping similar types.
(d) It will be advantageous to have in-house complementary
production lines which are now only available in the
Aleppo factories but not envisaged for the Deir ez Zor
factory, i.e., soapmaking and production of margarine
and shortening.
(e) The additional equity capital required of LS 35 million
(US$8.9 million) would have been greater, had the Deir
ez Zor plant been created as a separate Project entity.
Under the managerial solution proposed, SICVO will be
expected to finance part of the Deir ez Zor investment
from its own resources.
4.02      SICVO has competent and efficient management, capable of overseeing
the Project work in both locations in cooperation with consultants. For this
purpose their Technical Directorate will be strengthened and, together with
the engineering consultants, will assume responsibility for the construction
of the industrial facilities at Aleppo and Deir ez Zor. SICVO's Technical
Directorate is one of five departments of this company. It is responsible for
all technical affairs in connection with plant modifications and new facili-
ties. At present, seven engineers with university degrees are its members.
A branch office of SICVO's Technical Directorate under a Deputy Director will
be opened in Deir ez Zor before start of construction. During construction,
the technical directors for Aleppo and Deir ez Zor as well as the shift super-
visors, the chief electricians (para. 4.05), and maintenance engineers (para.
4.08) will be part of the Technical Directorate to facilitate coordination of
all works and to centralize training efforts (para. 4.07). Assurances with
respect to the proposed organizational set-up were obtained during negotia-
tions.
B. Organization of Engineering and Design
4.03      The engineering consultants hired by SICVO (para. 3.18) for engi-
neering and design and supervision of works for the new and existing plants
will prepare detailed design and specifications for civil works and equipment
of the facilities, as well as tender documents. They will assist SICVO in
evaluating the bids received and will recommend award of contracts to SICVO.



- 27 -
C. Supervision of Construction and Installation
4.04      The consultants' civil engineer responsible for the supervision of
construction will be permanently on site in Deir ez Zor for the whole period
of construction and will also make periodic visits to the construction sites
in Aleppo. He will leave Syria only after provisional acceptance of civil
works construction and will return for final acceptance procedures about a
year later for a period of three to four weeks.
4.05      Installation of equipment will be supervised by an installation
engineer appointed by the engineering consultants, who will be assisted by
the respective equipment suppliers. The installation engineer will be avail-
able on site in Aleppo and Deir ez Zor whenever deliveries of machinery and
equipment were made. He will coordinate and supervise the work of the tech-
nicians made available by the suppliers and supervise the installation of
all machinery and equipment. His counterparts will be the designated tech-
nical directors for the Aleppo and Deir ez Zor factories. The two technical
directors and 12 shift supervisors for Aleppo and Deir ez Zor will have to be
appointed or confirmed (in the case of Aleppo) not later than by commencement
of civil works construction. Assurances to this respect were obtained during
negotiations. The consultants' installation engineer will be available on
site until provisional acceptance of the equipment following test runs. He
will be assisted by an equipment testing engineer and an electrical engineer.
The equipment testing engineer will be responsible for test runs of the
plants. He will be helped by technicians provided by the various suppliers
and the plant personnel of SICVO. He will be available immediately after
completion of installation of the plant machinery in order to carry out pre-
liminary tests before trial operation of the factories as a whole will begin.
He will leave after provisional acceptance of the plants. The electrical
engineer will check all electrical installations in the two factories at Deir
ez Zor and Aleppo and will be available for the same period of time as the
equipment testing engineer. As counterparts, he will have the designated
chief electricians for Deir ez Zor (one), and for the Aleppo plants (three),
who will be appointed not later than by commencement of civil works construc-
tion. Assurances to this effect were obtained during negotiations.
4.06      The work of the four engineers as described above (civil, instal-
lation, equipment testing and electrical) will be supplemented by short-term
visits of qualified personnel from the consultants' headquarters as and when
required.
D. Training
4.07      A training program for the Deir ez Zor and Aleppo personnel will
be established by SICVO with the ;.ssistance of the engineering consultants
and will be maintained by SICVO in order to maintain and increase the skills
of its employees after Project completion. Key personnel will have to be
recruited and/or designated from the existing personnel in SICVO or other



- 28 -
existing oil processing facLories at least one year before start-up of opera-
tions. They will undergo on-the-job training in the factories at Aleppo. In
the first instance: training will be given by the equipment suppliers and will
be continued by the engineers of the engineering consultants. The personnel
made available by the engineering consultants under the heading "technical
assistance" will supplement the training, after start-up of operations, as
on-the-job training. The Project will also finance about 10 fellowships of
plant and administrative personnel to oilseed processing plants in Europe or
Africa. Assurances to set up a training program as described above were
obtained during negotiations.
E. Operations and Maintenance
4.08      Plant operations in Deir ez Zor and in Aleppo will start about
2-1/2 years after start of engineering, i.e., about November 1981. It is
anticipated that in the first year of operation Deir ez Zor will operate at
about 50% capacity, and Aleppo, with the new solvent extraction procedure,
at about 80% capacity. Initial operations will be supervised by advisory
personnel supplied by the engineering consultants consisting of one produc-
tion engineer for six months and three shift supervisors for ten months each
at Deir ez Zor, and two shift supervisors for ten months each at Aleppo (para.
3.18). SICVO shall appoint one maintenance engineer each for Aleppo and Deir
ez Zor not later than by the time of commencement of civil works construction
to have them available for training well before the test runs. This will
allow sufficient time to give them on-the-job training in Aleppo and other
factories abroad so that they will be available as counterparts of the consul-
tants' chief engineer. Assurances with respect to their timely appointment
were obtained during negotiations.
F. SICVO's Organization and Financial Status
Organization Status
4.09      SICVO, in Aleppo, is the largest of GOFI's subsidiaries.  In accord-
ance with the attachment to Decree 1848, it has a capital of LS 41.67 million
(US$10.5 million). SICVO's organizational set-up is similar to that of the
other GOFI subsidiaries with a general manager as chairman of the Board of
Directors, and under him five directors responsible for Commercial Affairs,
Planning, Technical Affairs, Finance and Work and Personnel Administration.
SICVO's personnel force of more than 1,400, most of them in civil service
status, is distributed in four locations--the main office with 345 employees,
and three production plants (para. 2.10) with about 1,100 employees including
about 150 seasonal workers.
4.10      SICVO has a well developed bookkeeping system following a plan of
accounts recently established by the Ministry of Finance. It is the only
GOFI subsidiary which has introduced a cost accounting system, which however



- 29 -
will need upgrading to international standards. Annual financial statements
are prepared in accordance with the guidelines given in Decree No. 18 (para
2.19).
4.11      SICVO's accounts are audited annually by the audit group of the
Ministry of Finance. Since this audit is only a tax audit with main emphasis
on the correct statement of taxable income, SICVO's financial statement will
be audited and certified additionally by an independent auditor acceptable to
the Bank. Assurances to this end were obtained during negotiations. Separate
Project accounts will be set up. In order to assess in more detail the
quality of SICVO's accounting system and to upgrade their cost accounting
to international standards, assurances were also obtained during negotiations
that a qualified cost accountant will be hired by SICVO not later than two
years after the Effectiveness of the Loan for a period of not less than three
months to review the existing bookkeeping and cost accounting systems and make
appropriate recommendations for their improvement.
Financial Status
4.12      In view of the centrally administered pricing system, the financial
analysis of the Project as a whole is of limited value. While the analysis of
SICVO's present financial situation provides at least some indication of its
creditworthiness and profitability, any projections have to be based on a set
of assumptions that reflects only one of a variety of possible scenarios in
the pricing pattern. Therefore, the financial analysis for the future has a
model character only and its main objective is to demonstrate which price
ranges for the line of products are necessary to obtain sufficient operational
surpluses to cover the debt service.
4.13      A financial analysis of SICVO for the years 1974-77 1/ has been made
(Annex 6). The main financial ratios are the following:
(a) The current ratio has declined from 2.9 in 1974 to 1.9 in 1977
but can still be considered as sufficient.
(b) The debt:equity ratio stands at 57:43 (1:0.8) in 1977. Most
of SICVO's noncurrent debt is to GOFI. It consists mainly
of net operational surpluses of SICVO which were due for
payment to GOFI but left in SICVO. This indicates that
SICVO has substantial leverage left for borrowing.
(c) The inventory turnover as costs of goods sold in relation
to the stocks of production material has been at an average
of 4.1 from 1974-77. Here one should bear in mind that the
oil milling industry has to carry some of the highest invento-
ries, because of the seasonality of oilseed production.
1/   SICVO's financial statements for 1977 were made available in May 1978.
Since no explanations were given by SICVO their figures must be con-
sidered as preliminary.



- 30 -
(d) In the years 1975-77 returns on sales have been 17% on
average, a very satisfactory result given the fact that
60% of the oil produced had to be sold at very low prices.
(e) As reciprocal value of the return on sales the operating
ratio has averaged 83%.
(f) The return on equity has decreased from about 11.4% in
1976 to about 3.9% in 1977 as a result of the capital
increase from LS 11.8 million (US$3.0 million) to LS 41.7
million (US$10.5 million).
With prices close to economic prices chosen for the forecast model (para.
5.10) SICVO would have sufficient funds to cover the debt service starting in
1983. Projections of consolidated balance sheets for SICVO, income statements
for Aleppo and Deir ez Zor and sources and applications of funds have been
made (Annex 6). They are based on the assumptions that the total IBRD loan of
US$21 million (LS 83 million) would be on-lent by Government to SICVO at 9%
interest for 17 years (para. 3.24) and that local costs will be financed by
Government equity of LS 35 million (US$8.8 million), a loan of the Public Debt
Fund of LS 35.8 million (US$9.0 million) at conditions prevailing for similar
loans. The conditions are presently 9% interest per annum for 9.5 years
including 3.5 years of grace. SICVO is also expected to contribute from
its own resources financial charges during construction estimated at LS 19.7
million (US$5.0 million) (para. 3.23). The equity contribution has been
calculated under the assumption that SICVO's debt:equity ratio should be held
within reasonable limits.
4.14       In order to safeguard the financial viability of the Project which
is highly dependent on the sales prices fixed by Government, assurances were
obtained during negotiations that prices will be reviewed and altered in
accordance with necessity if the return on sales (return on gross sales before
taxes, but after depreciation and interest) will be less than 15%.
G. Reporting Requirements
4.15      SICVO will be required to submit quarterly progress reports in which
the progress of all Project activities will be described. They will be
prepared by SICVO management with the assistance of the engineering consultant.
Similarly, SICVO will submit annual reports together with audited financial
statements to the Bank not later than four months after the end of each fiscal
year. Not later than six months after Project completion, SICVO will prepare
and furnish to the Bank a report on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost, the benefits derived and to be derived from it, the perform-
ance of SICVO and of the Bank of their respective obligations under the pro-
posed loan agreement, and the accomplishment of the purposes of the proposed
loan. Assurances to this effect were obtained during negotiations.



- 31 -
H. Implementation Schedule
4.16      The Project will be implemented over a period of 3-1/2 years, from
May 1979 through November 1982. It is estimated that installation of machinery
and equipment will be completed after 26 months in Aleppo and 28 months in
Deir ez Zor. The installaton of the new machinery will be followed by the
transfer of presses from Liramoun to Deir ez Zor which, in turn, will be fol-
lowed by test runs. In November 1981, the plants will be committed and pro-
duction will be started, which in Deir ez Zor will reach about 50% and in
Aleppo about 80% of production at full development. Final acceptance of all
plants and machinery will take place at the end of 42 months.
V. PRODUCTION SPECIFICATION, DEMAND AND MARKET ASPECTS
A. Production Specifications
5.01      The input capacity of all oil mills to be constructed or modified
under the Project has been determined in relation to the projected quantity of
oilseeds available for processing in 1982/83 (para. 2.06). Under considera-
tion of these input capacities, the extractor size has been determined for the
two plants in Aleppo (Neirab and Ain el Tal) and the plant in Deir ez Zor.
The detailed estimated quantities of oilseed input, intermediary products and
final products output are in Annex 5 and are summarized below:



- 32 -
Deir ez Zor         Aleppo
(3 factories)
--------  000 m ton --------
Oilseed input
cottonseed                                 75               161
soybeans                                    6                 -
sunflower seed                              -                10
Intermediary products
cottonseed kernels                         50               106
cottonseed cake /a                         38                81
sunflower seed cake /a                      -                 6
Final products
refined cotton oil                         13                28
refined soya oil                            1                 -
refined sunflower oil                       -                 4
cotton meal pellets                        34                72
soya meal pellets                           5                 -
sunflower meal pellets                      -                 4
cotton hulls                               24 /b             37
sunflower hulls                             -                 2
linter                                      -                14
/a   After prepressing before extraction.
/b   With linter.
5.02      The above out-put quantities are based on 296 working days, including
three days for system adjustment when switching from cottonseed processing.
The output could be slightly reduced or increased by adjusting the number of
working days. The estimated cost for processing one metric ton of cottonseed
(without cost of raw material but including packing materials for final prod-
ucts) will be LS 81 (US$21.5) in Aleppo and LS 67 (US$17) in Deir ez Zor.
Corresponding figures for soybeans are LS 63.5 (US$16.1) and for sunflower
seed LS 106 (US$26.8) (Annex 6).
5.03      At full development the incremental Project output would be 14,800
m tons of refined vegetable oil (13,300 m tons cotton oil, 300 m tons soya oil
and 1,200 m tons sunflower oil), 9,900 m tons of meal pellets with about 42%
protein content (7,800 m tons cotton meal, 1,200 m tons soya meal and 900 m
tons sunflower meal), 22,400 m tons of hulls, and about 600 m tons of soap-
stock. The incremental Project output is calculated under the assumption
that three old oil mills will stop producing (para. 2.17). Total production
of linter will decrease by about 400 m tons because it will not be produced
in the Deir ez Zor factory.



- 33 -
B. Marketing
5.04      Overall there should be no difficulty in marketing the incremental
production of the Project as most items produced are in short supply in Syria.
Vegetable oil will be one of the main products of the Project. Total produc-
tion from all factories including Hama will rise to about 48,000 m tons
annually (15,000 m tons incremental production). This is substantially below
the estimated demand for vegetable oil, excluding olive oil, of 55,000 m tons
for 1985 and 69,000 m tons for 1990 (para. 2.29). Approximately 12,000 m tons
of the vegetable oil produced will be retained at Aleppo for the manufacture
of margarine and shortening. In addition small quantities will be sold to
other companies in the GOFI group for further manufacture. The rest of the
oil--about 35,000 m tons--will be sold to GOC for distribution to individual
consumers and private processors throughout Syria. Vegetable oil will be
sold in a variety of different packages with an estimated 35% in bulk, 40%
in 16 kg tins and 25% in plastic sachets.
5.05      High-protein soya and sunflower meal pellets will be sold to GOF and
will be used in the production of poultry feed at GOF's Aleppo factory. It
is anticipated that Project sales of high protein meals of this kind (8,700 m
tons of which 2,900 m tons are incremental) will only fulfill a small propor-
tion of the national requirements (already 30,000 m tons annually) and sub-
stantial imports will continue.
5.06      Cottonseed meal pellets from Deir ez Zor and Aleppo will be sold
to GOF for distribution to individual farmers and cooperatives. The demand
for cottonseed cake estimated by GOF for the year 1978 is already some 30%
above the likely supply of 118,000 m tons (7,800 m tons incremental) which
will occur under the Project.
5.07      Cottonseed and sunflower hulls will be sold to GOF and distributed
to livestock farmers particularly for feeding to sheep. These will go some
way towards fulfilling the excess demand for cottonseed meal pellets. Some
62,000 m tons of hulls (including Hama) will be produced by the processing
factories, 22,000 m tons of which will be incremental production.
5.08      Most of the soapstocks produced under the Project will be manufac-
tured into soap at Aleppo. Any quantities not required for this purpose will
be mixed in with the cottonseed meal pellets and sold to farmers through GOF.
C. Prices
5.09      The pricing system applied in the vegetable oil industry has to be
seen in the context of the Syrian centrally planned economy where social
rather than economic objectives have been followed by the Ministry of Supplies
in fixing prices for vegetable oil, cotton cakes and cotton hulls (paras. 2.24-
2.28). At present prices paid to the state-owned oilseed processing industry
by the equally state-owned distribution organizations, GOC and GOF, are



- 34 -
generally below economic prices but have in the past been sufficient to
generate modest operating surpluses. The prices paid by the industry to cot-
ton ginneries and to farmers for raw materials and those paid by GOC and GOF
to the industry are summarized in para. 5.10. In the same table a comparison
is made to the economic prices envisaged for 1982 (the year of initial opera-
tion of the Project facilities) in constant 1978 US dollars.
5.10      Under the Project it is assumed that prices for the main products
will continue to be fixed by Government. As part of Government's policy to
encourage more efficient management of state-owned industries, the State
Planning Commission is developing proposals to price goods into and out of
Government manufacturing companies at levels close to their economic prices.
If subsidies are required to keep prices in line with Government social or
agricultural aims, these will be made explicitly rather than by forcing manu-
facturing companies to sell goods at artificially low prices. Revenue from
operating surpluses transferred by the industry can eventually be used, if
necessary, to support subsidies. In forecasting Project financial prices it
is assumed that this policy of fixing the prices of inputs and outputs approx-
imately at the level of economic prices will be in force by Project year 4.
For the purposes of financial analysis, a set of input and output prices which
correspond to this policy have been developed in the table below. These
financial prices are based on forecast world prices for 1982 (Project year 4)
where appropriate. In some cases (soybeans and sunflower seed), however,
levels of present prices had to be maintained since these have been set by
Government at a level that is higher than economic prices as deliberate Gov-
ernment policy to encourage production of the commodities and it is probably
unrealistic to expect Government to reduce these prices to the level of inter-
national prices.



- 35 -
World market        Financial prices        Price paid
prices projected   proposed for 1982 in    in March
for 1982 in        constant   constant         1978
constant 1978          1978        1978          LS/
US$/m ton         US$/m ton  LS/m ton         m ton
Cottonseed                        67              93 /a       368 /a       368 /a
Soybeans                        151              322 /a    1,272 /a    1,855
Sunflower seed                  278              398 /a    1,574 /a    1,574 /a
Cottonseed oil                   853             722        2,850        1,998 /b,/d
Soybean oil                     693              886        3,500        4,500 /c
Sunflower oil                   744              886        3,500          -
Cottonseed meal
pellets (42% protein)         135              134          530          531
Soya meal pellets
(42% protein)                 255              304        1,200        1,200 /c
Sunflower meal pellets
(42% protein)                 266              304        1,200        1,200 /c
Cottonseed hulls                 62               62          245          266
Sunflower hulls                  51               51          200          -
Linters                          150             141          555          555
Soapstock                       127              127          500          500
/a   Including tax on agricultural purchases (about 6%).
7b   Based on sales of 60% at LS 1,430/m ton and 40% at LS 2,850/m ton.
/c   Imported.
/d   LS 2,658/m ton since May 1978 (based on sales of 60% at LS 1,430/m ton
and 40% at LS 4,500/m ton).
D. Financial Rate of Return
5.11      With the price assumptions stated in para. 5.10 the financial rate
of return for the whole Project will be 13%. For the modification of the
Aleppo oil mills alone, it will be 20% and for Deir ez Zor alone, where the
investments are much larger, 10% (Annex 6). Even assuming an equality with
economic prices, the financial rate of return is much lower than the economic
rate of return (para. 6.08) because of the heavy taxation on operational sur-
pluses of about 60%. Because of this taxation the Project's financial rate
of return is not very sensitive to changes in operational surpluses. If net
surpluses decreased by 10% or 20% because of lower capacity utilization, taxes
would decrease by about the same percentage rates and the resulting financial
rates of return would be 12% and 10% respectively. If the operating cost
increased by 10% the rate of return would decrease to 12%, and with sales
revenue lowered by 10%, the rate of return would decrease to 11%.



- 36 -
VI. BENEFITS AND ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION
A. Project Benefits
6.01      The economic benefits of the Project are brought about by four main
factors:
(a)  Under the Project, there will be a net increase in oilseed pro-
cessing capacity of about 50,000 m tons of seeds input per year
depending upon the input mix.
(b)  Solvent extraction will be introduced, thereby raising the tech-
nical performance of the industry as a whole. This will be
mainly manifested through the increased percentage of oil from
the oilseeds processed. Oil extracted from cottonseed, which is
the main input, will increase from an average of 14.5% to 17.2%
for the industry as a whole. Furthermore, in the new Deir ez Zor
plant the variable costs of production will be expected to be
more than 30% lower per unit of input than in the old factories.
The effect will be an increase in oil production in Syria by
14,800 m tons, high protein soya and sunflower meal production by
2,100 m tons, cottonseed meal production by 7,800 m tons and the
production of hulls by 22,400 m tons, at full development. The
estimated value of this incremental production will be LS 68.8
million (US$17.4 million) annually and the incremental margin
over variable costs, LS 41.7 million (US$10.6 million).
(c)  The closure of the obsolete factories at Damascus, Homs and
Lattakia which will be planned for the end of Project year 4,
after the new factory at Deir ez Zor is operating at full pro-
duction, will result in a reduction in overhead costs. Addi-
tionally, reinvestment costs, which will have otherwise been
required to keep the industry from declining, will also be
avoided. Annual overhead costs of the three factories to be
closed down are estimated at some LS 1.8 million (US$0.4 mil-
lion) per year higher than the annual overhead costs at the
factory at Deir ez Zor, which will replace them. Furthermore,
in Project years 5-10 an estimated LS 6.8 million (US$1.7 mil-
lion) per year will be saved by not having to make reinvestment
expenditures in the old plants.
(d)  Due to improved plant locations, particularly with reference to
the availability of cottonseed, transport costs will be reduced.
The total reduction in transport costs between the "with Project"
and the "without Project" situations is estimated at LS 2.3 mil-
lion (US$0.6 million) per year.



- 37 -
6.02      In that the Project operating companies are wholly owned by Govern-
ment,'primary Project financial benefits will flow directly to the Government
either as transferred surpluses, depreciation and reserves, or taxes. These
benefits will be reflected back to the Syrian people through taxation or
Government budgetary allocations, perhaps including consumer subsidies made
possible by the incremental cash flow into the exchequer resulting from the
Project.
6.03      Increased availability of vegetable oil will have an impact on large
numbers of consumers, who, as a result of the Project, will be able to buy
more vegetable oil in the form of oil, margarine, or shortening. Increased
availability of hulls and cottonseed meal pellets at present prices should
benefit thousands of livestock farmers who will be able to purchase relatively
inexpensive fodder for their animals during the dry season. Overall, the
owners of approximately 500,000 sheep will be affected.
B. Employment Effect
6.04      Because the Project's main objectives are to rationalize and improve
the technical efficiency of the cottonseed processing industry, it has very
little effect on employment. Indeed, under the Project the number of people
employed in the oilseed processing industry will fall by about 400. In
Lattakia, Damascus and Homs 600-700 jobs will become defunct (this number will
be reduced if certain departments of the factories will continue operating),
while in Deir ez Zor some 240 jobs will be created. A few of the oilseed
workers from Damascus, Lattakia and Homs might transfer to Deir ez Zor to pro-
vide a nucleus of skilled staff for the new plant. Of the others, many will
have reached retirement age under the new employment laws while the remainder
will need to find manufacturing jobs in the same towns. This should not be a
major problem because all of them are public sector employees protected by
labor law. While overall unemployment in Syria is moderately high, averaging
about 5%, unemployment in manufacturing industry is low, at 2-3%.
C. Foreign Exchange Effect
6.05      The Project will have a considerable foreign exchange effect in that
the incremental production of oil and high protein meals will contribute
import savings of LS 49 million (US$12.4 million) annually. Exports foregone
of cottonseeds, soya and sunflower will amount to LS 25.4 million (US$6.4
million) while the foreign exchange component of incremental operating costs
will be about LS 1.3 million (US$0.3 million). The net annual effect on
foreign exchange at full development will thus be a favorable balance of
about LS 22 million (US$5.6 million), excluding the foreign exchange required
for loan interest and capital repayment. In 1983, the foreign exchange
outflow to finance the Bank loan will be LS 12.0 million (US$3.0 million).
Subsequently, this will taper off to LS 6.5 million (US$1.6 million) in year



- 38 -
17, the last year of repayment. Based on these assumptions the total esti-
mated foreign exchange gain over 20 years will be LS 247 million (US$62.6
million).
D. Economic Rate of Return, Sensitivity Analysis and Risks
6.06      For the calculation of the economic rate of return economic prices
of Project inputs and outputs are calculated on the basis ex-factory and are
tabulated below:
Economic Prices
Projected to 1990
in constant 1978 US$
Cottonseed                                            122
Soybeans                                              267
Sunflower seed                                        299
Cottonseed oil                                        801
Soybean oil                                           647
Sunflower oil                                         724
Cottonseed meal pellets (42% protein)                 209
Soya meal pellets (42% protein)                       402
Sunflower meal pellets (42% protein)                  348
Cottonseed hulls                                       62
Sunflower hulls                                        51
Linters                                               150
Soapstock                                             127
6.07      Oil prices and high protein meal prices have been calculated on the
basis of import parity, while cottonseed cakes and meal pellets which historic-
ally were exported by Syria have conservatively been valued at export parity
price. Linters have been valued at export parity and hulls and soapstock at
domestic market prices (Annex 6). The value of transportation savings is
calculated on the basis of economic transport prices being 30% above financial
prices, i.e., depending on the length of journey, economic prices are US cents
1.8-2.8 per m ton/km for normal loads (Annex 6).
6.08      The estimated economic rate of return of the proposed Project is
33%. Sensitivity analyses have been conducted, varying investment costs,
prices and processing costs. These are summarized below.



- 39 -
Economic
Rate of Return
Basic project rate of return                           33
Raw material availability
(remains at 1974-78 level)                            18
Investment costs
(increased by 20%)                                    28
Prices of all outputs
(decreased by 20%)                                    24
Variable costs /a
(increased by 20%)                                    29
"With Project" overheads
(increased by 20%)                                    29
Investments increased by 10%
Output prices fall by 10%
Variable costs /a increased by 10%                    23
/a   Includes costs of raw materials input.
From the economic rate of return figures it can be seen that the Project shows
a substantial rate of return over a wide range of price, cost and input avail-
ability situations. This confirms the fact that it is economically very sound.
6.09      The main risk involved in the Project will be in the supply of oil-
seeds to the factories. But even in the unlikely event of there being no
expansion in the availability of cottonseed and other oilseeds for proces-
sing, the Project will still show an internal rate of return of 18% resulting
solely from the rationalization effect of the new technical processing system
to be introduced. Technical risks are negligible because all technical pro-
cesses proposed are well proven, and with the envisaged technical assistance
component the operational expertise will be transferred to Syrian personnel.
VII. RECOMMENDATIONS AND LOAN CONDITIONS
7.01      During negotiations the following main assurances were obtained:
(a)  SICVO will be the Project entity for both the new oil mill in
Deir ez Zor and for the modification of the three oil mills in
Aleppo (para. 4.01).
(b)  Not later than three months after the Effectiveness of the
Loan, SICVO will set up a training program for the training of
plant personnel to be carried out with the assistance of the
engineering consultant to satisfy all training needs during
the period of Project execution and thereafter for such period
as will be required for the efficient operation of SICVO's
factories (para. 4.07).



- 40 -
(c)  Not later than two years after the Effectiveness of the Loan,
SICVO will hire a cost accounting consultant with qualifica-
tions acceptable to the Bank to upgrade the existing cost
accounting system to international standards (para. 4.11).
(d)  Government will enter into Subsidiary Loan Arrangements specifying
that:
(i)  the Bank loan of US$21 million will be on-lent to SICVO
as a long-term loan with 4 years' grace period for a
total duration of 17 years including the grace period,
and at an interest rate of 9% per annum (para. 3.24);
(ii)  the Government through GOFI will make availabe to SICVO
an amount of LS 35 million (US$8.8 million) as equity
to cover the local costs of Project implementation (para.
3.23); and
(iii)  the Government's Public Debt Fund will make available
additional funds as long-term loan as and when needed
to cover the remaining local costs of Project implementa-
tion at conditions prevailing for similar loans of the
Public Debt Fund (para. 3.23).
7.02      Effectiveness of the Loan will be conditional on:
(a)  the execution of the Project Agreement on behalf of SICVO
and its authorization and ratification by all necessary
corporate and governmental action;
(b)  the execution of the Subsidiary Loan Arrangements on
behalf of the Borrower and of SICVO respectively through
suitable legal instruments;
(c)  the availability and legal title transfer to SICVO of a con-
struction site in Deir ez Zor (para. 3.06);
(d)  the appointment of engineering consultants acceptable to
the Bank (para. 3.18).
7.03      With the above assurances and agreements the proposed Project is
suitable for a Bank loan of US$21 million to the Syrian Arab Republic for a
term of 17 years including 4 years of grace.
November 2, 1978



- 41-                          ANNEX 1
SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
OILSEED PROCESSING PROJECT
Location of Cottonseed Production and Processing
Assumed for 1981/82
Location     Cotton Grown              Ginning                  Processing
/a With      Without
Capacity   Cotton  Cottonseed  Project   Project
-___________   __   -   ('000 m ton)------- ----- ----  ----------
Hasakeh               110       70.0 /b   70.0/b    38.5                  -
Deir ez Zor           100      70.0       70.0      38.5       75.0/c
Ar Raqqah              85       -         -          -                    -
Aleppo                 80     280.0     235.0      129.2     161.5/d   162.5
Idlib                 10       15.0      10.0        5.5       -          -
Hama                   60      80.0      60.0       33.0      16.5       16.5
Homs                   10      15.0      10.0        5.5                  -
Damascus                5      10.0       5.0        2.8                 14.5
Lattakia                -       -                    -                   16.0
Export                                                                   43.5
Total              460      540.0     460.0      253.0     253.0      253.0
/a After deduction of 10% for seeding purposes.
/b  35,000 m tons under construction and 35,000 m tons planned for 1981.
/c  Plus capacity for 6,000 m tons soybeans or the cottonseed equivalent.
/d  Plus capacity for 10,000 m tons sunflowerseed or the cottonseed equivalent.
May 1978



ANNEX 2
-42 -                                                     Page 1
SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
OILSEED PROCESSING PROJECT
Detailed Project Cost Estimates
A. Civil Works
Foreign
Local   Foreign   Total    Local  Foreign  Total    Exchange
--------(LS '000) ------    ------(US$ '000)-----
Deir ez Zor
Preparation of site, drainage, loading
and parking areas and roads, boundary fencing              1,025      -25    1,050       260        6     266         2
Surfacing of roads and parking and
loading areas                                              1,250     -       1,250       316       -      316        -
Administrative bldge., offices, locker rooms,
infirmary, lab, guards' room & weighbridge station         1,000     350    1,350        253      89      342        26
Two silos for cottonseed storage                            1,500   1,500    3,000        380      380     760        50
Concrete platforms for storage units for
soybeans & other oilseeds.                                   120     -         120        30      -        30        -
Industrial buildings                                        7,050   3,800   10,850    1,785       962   2,747         35
Miscellaneous: foundations for tanks, water
tower, weighbridge, tower coolers,
discharge hopper, and various pits                         1,405      25    1,430        356        6     362         2
Subtotal                                               13,350   5,700   19,050    3,380   1,443   4,823            30
Ocean freight                                             -        855       855     -         216      216       100
Subtotal                                             13,350   6,555   19,905    3,380   1,659   5,039           33
Customs (5.6x)                                             367     -         367        93      -        93        -
Domestic transport                                         570     -         570       144      -       144        -
Total without contingencies                          14,287   6,555   20,842    3,617   1,659   5,276           31
Physical contingencies (12%)                          1,714      787    2,501       434      199      633       31
Total Deir ez Zor                                  16,001   7,342   232343    4,051   1.858   5,909           31
Aleppo
Buildings for extractors, pellet units & flour
mills, drains & various pits in existing work
shops, estimated costs for the two factories              1,350      450    1,800       342      114     456        25
Ocean freight                                               -          68        68      -         17       17      100
Subtotal                                                 1,350      518    1,868       342      131     473        28
Customs (7.6%)                                              39      -          39       10       -        10       -
Domestic transport                                           45     -          45       11       -        11       -
Total without contingencies                            1,434      518    1,952       363      131     494        27
Physical contingencies (12x)                             172       62      234        43       16      59        27
Total Aleppo                                         1,606      580    2,186       406      147     S535       27
GRAND TOTAL DErR EZ ZOR & ALEPPO                    17,607   7,922   25,529    4,457   2,005   6,462           31
(continued)



- 43 -                                                  ANNEX 2
Page 2
SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
OILSEED PROCESSBNG PIOJECT
Detailed Project Cost Estimates
B. Equipment and Machinery
Foreign
Local   Fojrein    Ttl    Local  Foreian   Total   Esrchnhe
------- (LS '000) ------    -----(US '000)------
Production
Deir ez Zor
Seed cleaning & decortication, equipment
consisting of a 1-day storage silo, 1 seed
weighbridge, 4 seed cleaners, 5 de-hullers,
handling equiment, etc.                            -       3,800    3,800       -        962     962       100
Seed preparation & pressing, consisting of
roller-flakers, cooking & oil filtering
equipment, handling equipment for solids
& liquids, including new worm shaft for
the presses transferred from Liramoun              -       3,600    3,600       -       911      911       100
Continuous solvent extraction equipment
comprising feeder extractor, miacella
distillation, desolventizer-toaster,
solvent recovery section, pneumatic
neal conveyor, etc.                                -       3,800    3,800       -        962     962       100
Pellet meal units & flour mills including
sifter pellet mill, cooler, weighing &
bagging machines, etc.                             -       1,000    1,000       -        253     253       100
Continuous crude oil refining plant,
comprising centrifugal separator,
malaxator, drier, vacuum units, etc.               -       1,700    1,700       -        430     430       100
Equipment for bleaching & deodorizing
including bleacher, filters, deodorizer,
cooler, vacuum equipment, etc.                     -       1,800    1,800       -       456      456       100
Miscellaneous equipment such as oil meter,
explosive ball presses, gas indicator for
hulls, portable conveyors for storing
sacks & loading trucks, sewing machine. etc.       -       1,200    1,200       -       304      304      100
Subtotal                                         -      16,900   16,900       -     4,278   4,278       100
Ocean freight                                    -       2,535    2,535       -       642      642      100
Subtotal                                       -     19,435   19,435        -     4,920   4,920       100
Customs (5.62)                                 1,088       -      1,088       275     -        275        -
Domestic transport                             1,690       -      1,690       428     -        428       -
Total without contingencies                  2,778   19,435   22,213        703   4,920   5,623        87
Physical contingencies                         334    2,332    2,666         85     590      675       87
Total Deir ez Zor                          3,112   21.767   24,879        788   5,510   6,298        87
Aleppo (Neirab and Ain el Tal factories)-a
Solvent extraction plant as for Deir ez Zor         -       7,600    7,600       -     1,924   1,924       100
Pellet meal units as for Deir es  Zor               -       2,000    2,000       -       506      506      100
Mills for sifting sunflower meal including
hammer mills, sifters, pneumatic neal &
hull conveyor, neal & hull bagging
device, etc.                                       -       1,400    1,400       -       354      354      100
Filtering equipment to replace existing
equipment                                          -         600      600       -       152      152      100
Tower cooler                                        -         500      500       -       126      126      100
New worm shaft & modification of
existing presses                                   -       1,300    1,300      -        330      330      100
Miscellaneous accessory equipment (tanks,
MF wiring, and lights)                             -       1,000    1,000       -       254      254      100
Total for both factories (Neirab and Ain el Tal) -       14,400   14,400        -     3,646   3,646       100
Ocean freight                                     -      2,160    2,160       -        547     547       100
Total                                           -     16,560   16,560       -      4,193   4,193       100
Customs (7.6%)                                  1,259       -      1,259      319      -        319       -
Domestic transport                              1,440       -      1,440      364      -       364        -
Total without contingencies                   2,699   16,560   19,259       683   4,193   4,876         86
Physical contingencies (122)                    324    1,987    2,311        82      503     585        86
Total Aleppo                                3,023   18,547   21,570       765   4,696   5,461         86
GRAND TOTAL DEIR EZ ZOR & ALEPPO            6,135   40,314   46,449    1.553  10,206  11,759          87
la  Cost for one factory is LS 7,200 (US$1,823).                                        (continued)



-44-                                                    ANNEX 2
Page 3
SYRIN ARAB REPUBLIC
OILSEED PROCESSING PROJECT
Detailed Proiect Cost Estimates
B. Equipment and Machinery
(continued)
Foreign
Local   Foreign  Total      Local  Foreign  Total    Exchange
------(LS '000)I--=--=      -- S   '000)------           %
Storage & Handling
Deir ez Zor
4 cylindrical storage units 2,000 n3 capacity
each for uitorage of soybeans or oilseeds
other than cottonseed. Steel construction
with handling equipment for filling & emptying        -       1,800   1,800        -       456      456      100
Oil storagt tanks                                      -         900     900        -       228      228       100
Various tanLks for vorkshops (pressing, extrac-
tion, refining, packing of oil, boiler room, etc)   -           540     540        -       137      137      100
One 15 a weighbridge, 40 ton capacity                  -         140     140        -        35       35      100
Equipment for oilseed delivery: 1 unloading
hopper & necessary handling equipment for
filling a emptying the 2 cottonseed silos
(spiral conveyors, elevators, chain
conveyors, etc.)                                      -       1,320   1,320        -       334      334      100
2 forklifts for handling of material in workshops    -           160     160        -        40       40      100
2 front end loaders for piling bulk cottonseed
in storage silos                                      -         160     160        -        40       40      100
One 54/14 truck with tarpaulin                         -          70      70        -        18       18      100
2 light pickups                                        -          50      50        -        13       13      100
1 passenger car                                        -          30      30        -         8        8      100
Subtotal                                             -       5,170   5,170        -     1,309   1,309       100
Ocean freight                                        -         776     776        -       196      196      100
Subtotal                                          -      5,946   5,946         -     1,505   1,505       100
Customs (5.6X)                                      333        -       333        84      -         84       -
Domestic transport                                  517        -       517       131      -        131       -
Total without contingencies                       850      5,946   6,796       215    1,505   1,720        87
Physical contingencies                            102        714     816        26      181      207       87
Total                                           952     6,660   7,612       241    1,686   1,927         87
Power Supply
Deir ez Zor
2 heavy fuel sonoblock boilers, unit capacity
17,500 kg/h of stea, at 18 bars pressure.
Equipped with modulating burner, tunnel &
control cabinet                                       -         500     500        -       126      126      100
Water treatment plant: filters, softeners,
dosing puzps, thermal degassing unit, etc.            -         200     200        -        50       50       100
Tower coolers for water in the condenser units
for extractors for non-polluted water in the
refinery & for water from the deodorization
process                                               -         275     275        -         70      70      100
Various pumps for water & oil                          -         275     275        -         70      70       100
1 emergency generating  et of about 600 kw             -         600     600        -       152      152       100
HV & LV electric switch cabinets & electric
power distribution system                              -      1,650   1,650        -        418     418       100
Lighting system inside & outside buildings              -        900      900       -        228     228       100
Subtotal                                             -       4,400   4,400        -     1,114   1,114        100
Ocean freight                                        -         660     660        -       167      167       100
Subtotal                                           -       5,060   5,060        -     1,281   1,281       100
Customs (5.61)                                      283        -       283        72      -         72        -
Domestic transport                                  440        -        440      111       -       111        -
Total without contingencies                       723      5,060   5,783       183    1,281   1,464         87
Physical contingencies                             87        607      694       22       154     176        87
Total                                           810      5.667   6,477       205    1,435   1,640        87
(continued)



-45-                                                     ANNEX 2
Page 4
SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
OILSEED PROCESSING PROJECT
Detailed Project Cost Estimates
B. Equipment and Machinery
(continued)
Foreign
Local   Foreign  Total       Local  Foreign  Total    Exchange
-----(LS '000)----          ----(US$ '000)------         X
Miscellaneous
Deir ez Zor
Oil packaging equipment: 1 production line for
tinplate containers, unit capacity 16 kg; 1
extruder to manufacture polyethylene bottles,
1 automatic filler for plastic containers, 1
filling-weighing machine for the 16 kg con-
tainers, 1 roller-conveyor for handling con-
tainers (empty & full) & plastic packing
cartons                                                -       1,200   1,200        -       304      304       100
1 compressor set to supply the compressed air
system used in different plant shops                   -          22      22        -         5        5       100
Maintenance shop equipment:one 250 hp lathe for
pieces up to 1500 mm, one 32 mm column drill, 1
sensitive drill, 1 milling or I shaping
machine, 1 mechanical saw, 1 sharpening
lathe, hand tools, accessories for machine tools       -         550     550        -       139      139       100
Laboratory equipment                                    -          88       88       -        23        23      100
Internal distribution system for the different
fluids including valves & fittings for: water,
steam, compressed air, diesel oil, fuel oil,
condensates, etc.                                      -       1,320   1,320        -       334      334       100
Fire protection: extinguishers of all types             -          80      80        -        20       20       100
Subtotal                                              -      3,260   3,260         -      825       825       100
Ocean freight                                         -         489     489        -       124      124       100
Total                                               -      3,749   3,749         -      949       949       100
Customs (5.6%)                                       210        -       210        53      -         53        -
Domestic transport                                   326        -       326        83      -         83        -
Total without contingencies                        536      3,749   4,285       136      949    1,085        87
Physical contingencies 12%                          64        450     514        16      114      130        88
Total                                            600     4,199   4,799        152   1,063    1,215         87



- 46 -                              ANNEX 2
Page 5
SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
OILSEED PROCESSING PROJECT
Detailed Project Cost Estimates
C. Installation of Equipment
Local                    Local
(LS '000)                (US$ '000)
Deir.ez Zor
20% of FOB value of
equipment and machinery
(LS 29,730,000)                           5,946                     1,505
12% physical contingency                       714                      181
Total Deir ez Zor                          6,660                    1,686
Aleppo
20% of FOB value of
equipment and machinery
(LS 14,400,000)                           2,880                       729
12% physical contingency                       346                       87
Total Aleppo                              3,226                       816
Grand total Deir ez Zor & Aleppo          9,886                     2,502



- 47-                                 ANNEX 2
Page 6
SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
OILSEED PROCESSING PROJECT
Detailed Project Cost Estimates
D. Engineering and Supervision
Foreign                  Foreign
(LS '000)                (US$ '000)
Deir ez Zor
7% on civil works
(LS 19,050,000)                           1,334                      338
4% on FOB value of
equipment and machinery
(LS 29,730,000)                           1,189                      301
3% on civil works, equipment
and machinery, for overhead
and management travel
(LS 48,780,000)                           1,463                      370
Total without contingencies               3,986                    1,009
12% physical contingency                    478                      121
Total Deir ez Zor                       4,464                    1,130
Al1epp
7% on civil works
(LS 1,800,000)                              126                       32
4% on FOB value of
equipment and machinery
(LS 14,400,000)                             576                      146
1% on civil works, equipment
and machinery, for overhead
and management travel
(LS 16,200,000)                             162                       41
Total without contingencies                 864                      219
12% physical contingency                    104                       26
Total Aleppo                              968                      245
Grand total Deir ez Zor & Aleppo        5,432                    1,375



- 48 -                                    ANNEX 2
Page 7
SYPRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
OILSEED PROCESSING PROJECT
Detailed Project Cost Estimates
E. Technical Assistance and Training /a
Foreign
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total   Exchange
-------(LS '000)--          --(US$ '000)------          %
Supervision of initial
production and on-the-job
training of personnel
1 chief engineer production
Deir ez Zor, 10 months              47     190      237       12      48       60       80
1 chief engineer maintenance
Deir ez Zor, 6 months               28     115      143        7      29       36       80
3 shift supervisors Deir
ez Zor, 10 months each            119      474      593       30    120       150       80
2 shift supervisors
Aleppo, 10 months each              79     316      395       20      80      100       80
273   1,095   1,368        69    277       346       80
Cost accounting
1 cost accountant for
SICVO, 3 months                     12       47      59        3      12        15      80
Training abroad of local staff
Approximately 10 trips,
Damascus-Europe or Africa           16      63       79        4      16       20       80
Study of vegetable oil
subsector
Expatriate consultancy,
12 man-months                      -       285      285        -     72        72      100
Local data collection,
24 man-months                       47      -        47       12     -         12       -
Computer cost and overhead            -       138     138        -      35        35     100
.
47     423      470       12    107       119       90
Grand  total                       348   1,628   1,976        88    412       500       82
/a Combined for Deir ez Zor and Aleppo.
Note: Discrepancies due to rounding.
May 1978



- 49 -                                                     ANNEX 3
SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
OILSEED PROCESSING PROJECT
Schedule of Expenditures
(LS '000)
Total                     1979             1980             1981              1982
Component                         Foreign   Total           Foreign  Total  Foreign  Total   Foreign  Total   Foreign  $otal
,,       Civil works
Deir ez Zor                       6,555   20,842            -        -       4,284  13,222    1,714   5,715       557    1,905
Aleppo                              518    :,952            -        -         473   1,772        45     180      -        -
Subtotal                        7,073   22,794            -        -       4,757  14,994    1,759   5,895      557    1,905
Contingencies
Physical                          849    2,735            -        -         571   1,799       211     708       67      228
Price                           1,253    8,414            -        -         693   4,523       388   2,737      172    1,154
Subtotal                        2,102   11,149            -        -       1,264   6,322       599   3,445      239    1,382
Total                         9,175   33,943            -       -        6,021  21,316    2,358   9,340      796    3,287
Equipment and machinery
Deir ez Zor                      34,190   39,077           2,973   2,973   20,811  25,698    7,433   7,433   2,973    2,973
Aleppo                           16,560   19,259           3,600   3,600   10,080  12,779    1,440   1,440   1,440    1,440
Subtotal                       50,750   58,336           6,573   6,573   30,891  38,477    8,873   8,873   4,413    4,413
Contingencies
Physical                        6,090    7,001             789      789    3,706   4,617    1,065   1,065       530      530
Price                           8,059   11,102             478      478    4,498   6 941    1,958   1,958   1,725    1,725
Subtotal                       14,74    18,103           1,267   1,267    8,204              3,023   3,023   2,255    2,255
Total                        65,499   76,439           7,840   7,840   39,095  50,035   11,896  11,896   6.668    6,668
Installation of equipment
and machinery
Deir ez Zor                        -        5,946           -        -        -       1,189     -      4,757    -         -
Aleppo                             -        2,880           -        -        -         576     -      2,304    -         -
Subtotal                         -        8,826           -        -        -      1,765      -      7,061    -         -
Contingencies
Physical                         -        1,060           -        -        -        212      -        848    -         -
Price                            _       4,670            -        -        -        660      -      4,010    -         -
Subtotal                                  5,730           -        -        -        872      -      4,858    -         -
Total                          -      14,556            -        -        -      2,637      -     11,919    -         -
Engineering & Supervision
Deir ez Zor                       3,986    3,986           1,034   1,034    1,821   1,821        879     879      252      252
Aleppo                              864       864            351      351      365      365       78      78       70       70
Subtotal                        4,850    4,850           1,385   1,385    2,186   2,186        957     957      322      322
Contingencies
Physical                          582       582            165      165      263      263      114     114       40       40
Price                             727       727            101      101      318     318       211     211       97       97
Subtotal                        1,309    1,309             266      266      581     581       325     325      137      137
Total                         6,159    6,159           1,651   1,651    2,767   2,767    1,282   1,282       459       459
Technical Assistance                1,628    1,976            -        -        -        -         735     861      893    1,115
Price contingency                   385       595           -        -        -        -         145     208      240      387
Total                         2,013    2,571            -        -        -       -          880   1,069   1.133    1.502
Working capital                      -       12,200           -        -        -        -        -      4,400    -        7,800
Price contingencies                -        7.363           -        -        -        -        -      2,231    -        5,132
Total                          -      19.563            -        -        -        -        -                -      12,932
Interest during construction       13,833   19,744              292     355    2,757   3,379    4,962   6,551   5,822    9,459
Total project cost                96,679  172,975           9,783   9,846   50,640  80,134   21,378  48,688  14,878   34,307
Note:  Discrepancies due to rounding.
October 1978



- 50 -                            ANNEX 4
SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
OILSEED PROCESSING PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule
IBRD Fiscal Year                        Cummulative Disbursements
and Quarter                               at End of Quarter
------US$ million--------
1979
June 30, 1979                                     0.2
1980
September 30, 1979                                1.4
December 31, 1979                                 2.4
March 31, 1980                                    4.6
June 30, 1980                                     7.7
1981
September 30, 1980                               11.2
December 31, 1980                                14.5
March 31, 1981                                   16.2
June 30, 1981                                    16.6
1982
September 30, 1981                               16.8
December 31, 1981                                18.7
March 31, 1982                                   19.2
June 30, 1982                                    19.7
1983
September 30, 1982                               20.3
December 31, 1982                                21.0
May 1978



51 -                           ANNEX 5
Page 1
SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
OILSEED PROCESSING PROJECT
A. Annual Inputs and Production by Volume
(m ton)
Aleppo /a
Deir ez Zor   (3 factories)
Cottonseed
Cottonseed received                                        75,000          160,400
Linted hulls                                               24,000            -
Linters                                                      -              14,436
Delinted hulls                                               -              36,892
Kernels                                                    49,500          105,864
Cakes containing 16% oil *                                 38,025           81,323
Meal containing 0.7% oil                                   33,638           71,940
Refined oil                                                13,072           27,958
Soybeans
Seed containing 18% oil *                                   6,000
Meal containing 0.7% oil lb                                 4,870
Refined oil                                                   999             -
Sunflower seed /c
Seed containing 42% oil                                      -             10,000
Cake containing 16% oil *                                    -              6,430
Meal containing 0.7% oil                                     -               3,945
Refined oil                                                  -              4,050
Hulls                                                        -              1,750
*Annual volume of products entering extractor                44,025          87,753
Working days based on
150 m ton/day
Cottonseed                                     253              271
Soybeans                                        40              v
Sunflower seed                                  -                22
Cleaning the systems                             3                3
Total                                        296             296
/a For breakdown see next page.
/b Weight includes soapstock.
Ic Omitting decortication but including sifting of the meal.
May 1978



- 52 -
ANNEX 5
Page 2
SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
OILSEED PROCESSING PROJECT
B. Annual Inputs and Production by Volume at Aleppo
(m ton)
Ain el                Total
Neirab     Tal      Liramoun    Aleppo
Cottonseed
Cottonseed received              73,858    43,271      43,271     160,400
Linters                           6,648      3,894      3,894      14,436
Delinted hulls                   16,986      9,953      9,953      36,892
Kernels                          48,746    28,559      28,559     105,864
Cakes containing 16% oil*        37,446    43,877         -        81,323
Meal containing 0.7% oil         33,126    38,814         -        71,940
Refined oil                      12,874    15,084         -        27,958
Sunflower seed
Seed containing 42Z oil          10,000      -            -        10,000
Cake containing 16% oil*          6,430       -           -         6,430
Meal containing 0.7% oil          3,945       -           -         3,945
Refined oil                       4,050       -           -         4,050
Hulls                             1,750      -            -         1,750
*Annual*volume of products
entering extractor               43,876    43,877         -        87,753
Working days based on 150 a ton/day
Cottonseed                  250       293         293         293
Sunflower seed               43        -          -            43
May 1978



- 53 -
ANNEX 6
SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
OILSEED PROCESSING PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A.   Selected Reports and Studies on the Agricultural Sector and Agro-
Industries Subsector in Syria
Syria - Basic Economic Report. IBRD, April 1978.
B.   Selected Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
Programme de Restructuration de l'Industrie des Huiles Alimentaires.
Project Report Prepared by Compagnie Francaise pour le Developpement
des Fibres Textiles (C.F.D.T.), March/April 1977.
Draft Report of the Syria Cotton Oilseed Factories Project Preparation
Mission. Preparation Mission FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program, Report No.
38/77, August 1977.
C.   Selected Working Papers, Tables and Maps Prepared by Bank Staff or its
Consultants, Including Materials Needed for Implementation.
Appendix
Cl. Detailed Data on Production, Distribution and Import
of  Vegetable  Oil   ......................................  1
C2.  Detailed Data on Current Prices of Oil Mill Products ....     2
C3.  Detailed Data on Cotton Production and Ginning Capacity .      3
C4.  Economic Price Calculations .............................     4
C5. Detailed Tables on Oilseed Processing with and without
Project   ...............................................    5
C6. Detailed Tables on Distribution of Oil under Project
and  Transport  Savings   .................................  6
C7.  Detailed Tables on Economic Costs and Benefits ... .......     7
C8.  Detailed Financial Tables of SICVO ......................      8
C9.  Terms of Reference for Consultants ......................      9
CIO. Legal Information on General Organizations and
Procurement by Public Enterprises ....     .................    10






IBRD13562R
[~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                              ~~                               ~~~~~~~  u  R _K  E Y  '-                          - |
D ANI                                                                              o /   A.  p /  torRQoos                                                                                            T, Ob n / 7
IB.b~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~v
!p                                                                                                                                                                          I* R   AQ< C t J / z Y a > _ t.N'.  .   R  A
Sea
/   /   \_   TO  Am   \   g   2   tJ  O   R  D    A    N            or the dfls  or ehe rez/t ts whjch           Areas  of  Seed  Cotton   Produchon .a_d   Processing  Facidities
I  {  T n  .-.   -  /  ;> i                           3d-         h;#lvres. iu =bdJ/Juru D!d3rh=nre orarndowe e?ts                                                  42-     _~~YLOSee ctto prdotio, y poolce I9~/4- 97778oveag
Po].y ~ ~   ~     ~              A    Q        ~       T'<Ptnro  nol
L E B A N 0 N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Eitn Olsl
A Oil rn IIprpoed olden pr.deC-
'~~~~~~~~T B.h.                                                   ObEnitn  ilffl sills
N.-                                             *   N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ew innIng oill.1
Aveil  rainfall in modfe lmndtrpre
o~r500
350
00   40   113   80   100   ~20   if0   1~00           n  200
K                                                               0         20        40        00         30        00               Major roads~~~~~~~~~~~~~K et
RA  E L                                                                                     0         20 8t                                   IOD  Kdvv5 tod
vAr--n   031                                                                                                                                 --.-M.l0r railway
Thaeseaaealre.ri.3o0~ 'i,iBaooaesenr.iw,ta,.on,iisen-Prov-ncia  b-adosie
J1    0    Ri D   A                                                                                -ia' vvva.101-oev,Or.nOS.1 Iv  ovdovor-i
Isvemnias~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~42



