Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
CREDIT NUMBER 4316 - PAK 
 
Program Agreement 
 
(Second North West Frontier Province Development Policy Credit) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
and 
 
NORTH WEST FRONTIER PROVINCE 
 
Dated June 7, 2007 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 4316-PAK 
 
PROGRAM AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated June 7, 2007, entered into between INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (Association) and NORTH WEST FRONTIER 
PROVINCE acting by its Governor (NWFP or the Program Implementing Entity) (the 
Program Agreement) in connection with the Financing Agreement of same date between 
Islamic Republic of Pakistan (the Recipient) and the Association (the Financing 
Agreement). The Association and the Program Implementing Entity hereby agree as 
follows: 
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to the Financing 
Agreement) constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Program 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the Financing Agreement or 
the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE II - PROGRAM
 
2.01. 
NWFP declares its commitment to the objectives of the Program. To this end: 
(a) 
the Association and NWFP shall from time to time, at the request of 
either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program; 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, NWFP shall cause to be furnished 
to the Association for its review and comment a report on the progress 
achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Association 
shall reasonably request; and 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this 
Section, NWFP shall exchange views with the Association on any 
proposed action to be taken after the disbursement of the Credit which 
would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the 
Program, or any action taken under the Program including any action 
specified in the Schedule to the Program Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
–
TERMINATION 
3.01. 
For purposes of Section 8.05(c) of the General Conditions, the date on which the 
provisions of this Agreement shall terminate is twenty years after the date of this 
Agreement. 
Page  3
-
2
-
ARTICLE IV 
–
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 
4.01. NWFP
’s Representative is the Secretary, Finance Department, NWFP.  
 
4.02. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
 Washington, 
D.C. 
64145(MCI) 
 
4.03. 
NWFP’s Address is: 
 
Planning and Development Department 
Government of North West Frontier Province 
 
Peshawar, Pakistan 
 
Cable: 
  
  
Facsimile: 
 
 
DEVELOPMENT 
   091-9210354 
 Peshawar, 
Pakistan 
Page  4
-
3
-
AGREED at the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day 
and year first above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Yusupha B. Crookes 
 
Country Director 
Pakistan 
 
NORTH WEST FRONTIER PROVINCE 
 
By /s/ Abdul Wajid Rana 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  5
-
4
-
SCHEDULE 
 
Actions Taken by NWFP under the Program 
 
1. 
From Fiscal Year 2007, NWFP will make available stipends for girl students 
enrolled in grades six through ten in seven districts where the middle and 
secondary enrollment rates for girls are below 12 percent. 
 
2. 
The provincial government of NWFP has executed partnership agreements 
regarding education sector reforms with at least 50 percent of the district 
governments in NWFP. 
 
3. 
NWFP has notified a policy framework for the professional development of 
teachers within the province. 
 
4. 
NWFP has issued revised guidelines for parent teachers associations to utilize 
their development budgets and to undertake capacity-building activities. 
 
5. 
NWFP has notified and made budgetary allocations for an education sector 
reform unit with planning and monitoring functions under its Department of 
Education. 
 
6. 
The provincial government of NWFP has executed partnership agreements with 
at least five district governments and a Designated Non-governmental 
Organization in the province to implement certain management innovations. 
 
7. 
NWFP has entered into consultancy contracts to carry out baseline studies of 
quality-of-care assessments in primary and secondary health-care facilities at the 
district level. 
 
8. 
NWFP’s fiscal budget for the Fiscal Year 2007 is: (a) consistent with the 
province’s medium term budgetary framework and (b) reflects accepted 
devolution principles by transferring salary budgets for district governments to 
designated district accounts in accordance with the Provincial Finance 
Commission’s award. 
 
9. 
NWFP has ensured that at least 20 District Finance Offices and 20 District 
Accounts Offices within the province have: (i) achieved operational connectivity 
and productivity in information technology and (ii) introduced uniform charts of 
accounts under a New Accounting Model. 
 
10. 
NWFP has implemented the third phase of a procurement action plan to ensure 
that its procurement practices are able to conform to international standards. To 
this end, NWFP has identified areas of improvements in its government 
Page  6
-
5
-
procurement rules and taken action to adopt current market rates in place of a 
composite schedule of rates for government contracts. 
 
11. 
NWFP has established and made operational a single-window investment 
facilitation center coordinated by the private sector and corresponding line 
agencies within the provincial government.
 
