Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB3006 
Operation Name 
Pakistan NWFP Development Policy Credit Two 
Region 
SOUTH ASIA 
Sector 
General education sector (30%);Health (30%);Primary education 
(15%);Secondary education (15%);Other social services (10%) 
Project ID 
P097471 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF PAKISTAN 
Implementing Agency 
NORTH-WEST FRONTIER PROVINCE 
Date PID Prepared 
March 5, 2007 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
March 20, 2007 
Date of Board Approval 
June 7, 2007 
1.  Country and Sector Background 
 
Pakistan 
 
A
number of policy initiatives have been launched by the Federal Government of 
Pakistan to improve human development and reduce poverty and vulnerability. 
The 
Government of Pakistan’s Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) provides strategic directions 
for reforms both at the Federal and Provincial levels. The PRSP’s targets are fully aligned with 
the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). As such, the national strategy emphasizes the 
importance of achieving universal primary education, promoting gender parity for women, 
reducing child mortality, improving maternal health, combating major diseases, and eradicating 
extreme poverty and hunger. In addition, the PRSP goes beyond the basic MDG agenda in some 
sectors, such as education, where expanding access to secondary and tertiary education, as well 
improving the quality of education at all levels, are seen as important national priorities.  
 
Pakistan is benefiting from a period of relative stability that has contributed to 
deepening of reform and, following the second local government election in 2005 (the first 
was held in 2001), has led to the institutionalization of the new local government system. 
Fiscal Year 06 ended in June 2006 with generally good economic outcomes. GDP growth was a 
robust 6.6 percent, exports grew by 14 percent, and average inflation decelerated from 9.3 percent 
in FY05 to 7.9 percent in FY06. Growth in recent years has been broad-based with all key sectors 
of the economy making a significant contribution.  
 
Prospects for continued rapid growth over the next 3 years are good
,
provided that 
political and macroeconomic stability are maintained, structural reforms and investments to 
reduce business transactions costs continue, and domestic savings and investment increase. The 
key challenge to macroeconomic stability is to arrest the widening account deficit. Imports have 
been growing rapidly, and the current account deficit has risen to $5 billion in FY06. The main 
reason for this has been strong import demand, fueled partly by healthy economic growth and 
higher oil prices, but also by loose monetary policy and an appreciating rupee over the past few 
years.  
 
Page  2
North-West Frontier Province  
 
The NWFP has made good progress in implementing human development reforms 
in recent years
.
During the period from 2002 onwards the NWFP introduced a range of policy 
reforms to expand primary school attendance, especially among girls, and to improve access to 
primary health care. In education, these policies included providing tuition free education and 
free textbooks to primary school children (subsequently expanded up to secondary school); 
expanding essential primary school facilities, such as classrooms, sanitation and boundary walls 
for security; and increasing the number of teachers. In health, the key policies were focused on 
widening access to important preventive services, such as Tuberculosis (TB) Daily Observation 
Therapy Sessions (DOTS), Maternal and Child Health (MCH) services, and Family Planning.  
 
The combination of policy reforms and higher investment has enabled the NWFP to 
raise human development outcomes considerably in recent years, especially among girls and 
women
.
In education, according to household survey data, the net female primary enrolment ratio 
increased from 33 percent in 2001/2 to 40 percent in 2004/5, while the net male primary 
enrolment ratio rose from 48 percent to 53 percent over the same period. In health, the 
immunization rate for children aged 12-23 months increased from 57 percent in 2001/2 to 76 
percent in 2004/5, the coverage of Lady Health Workers for MCH and FP services expanded 
from 50 percent to 60 percent, and the ante-natal coverage of pregnant women by health 
professionals increased from 34 percent to 39 percent, during the same period. Economic growth 
also helped reduce poverty, from 43 percent to 41 percent of the population. 
 
Growth in the province was slightly slower than in the rest of the country in 2005/6, 
mainly due to the Earthquake, but reforms in provincial finances have helped in creating fiscal 
space and maintaining a sustainable fiscal position. During the last six years (i.e., since reforms 
started) the NWFP economy has grown at a slightly slower pace (4.5 percent p.a. on average) 
than that of Pakistan (4.7 percent).
1
In FY05/06 the province was hit by a devastating earthquake 
which in addition to a very large number of casualties, homeless and injured, also caused 
extensive damage to other public infrastructure and to private property. The loss in employment 
and output in the affected districts of the province is estimated to be as high as 25 percent and the 
overall impact on provincial GDP (PGDP) in 2005/06 about 3.6 percent. Real GDP growth in 
005/06 is estimated to about 3.8 percent.  
The overall outlook for FY06/07 shows a fiscal strengthening beyond that planned 
in the Budget approved by the Provincial Assembly and points to a fully sustainable path
.
The overall fiscal deficit is projected to decline from 1.7 percent of GDP in FY05/06 to 0.7 
percent of GDP (Rs 5.7 billion) this year (Table 6), as against a projected deficit of 1.2 percent of 
GDP in the original Budget. The main drivers for this improvement are substantial increases in 
federal tax assignment (NFC award) and federal grants and transfers, reflecting the realignment of 
federal-provincial resource distribution that took effect this year. Going beyond the budgeted 
increase, overall transfers from the federal government to the province are now projected to be Rs 
5
billion higher than Budget. Own revenue collection is projected to grow in line with provincial 
GDP. Both current and development spending are expected to come in slightly below budget. In 
the case of development spending the main reason for the slight under-expenditure is inflated 
projections for Foreign Project Assistance in the Budget.  
 
1
The PGDP estimates are unofficial and prepared by the World Bank for the NWFP Economic Report 
(2005). There are no official provincial GDP estimates in Pakistan. 
 
Page  3
Future Policy Challenges and Development Needs  
 
Despite progress in recent years, the low initial conditions of human development in 
the NWFP mean that substantial challenges remain
.
According to the latest PSLM 2004-05, 
education, health and poverty indicators for the NWFP continue below the Pakistan average. The 
NWFP net primary enrolment rates of 40 percent for girls and 53 percent for boys are both below 
the Pakistan averages of 48 percent (girls) and 56 percent (boys), respectively (Table 1). The 
NWFP female literacy rate of 26 percent is also considerably below the national average of 40 
percent. In health, the pre-natal consultation rate for women is 39 percent, below the national 
average of 50 percent; while the post-natal consultation rate for women is 21 percent, less than 
the Pakistan average of 23 percent. Similarly, poverty rates, though reduced, remain much higher 
than the country as a whole. These challenges are not unrelated. Addressing hunger poverty and 
vulnerability allows households to invest in human capital; improvements in health and nutrition 
contribute to improvements in learning outcomes; and investment in education itself helps reduce 
long term poverty.  
The NWFP government fully recognizes the critical importance of human development in a 
modern economy. Ongoing Bank dialogue with the Government of the NWFP during policy 
based lending operations, and analytical work, has resulted in a consensus that to improve human 
development outcomes and tackle poverty effectively, economic growth and social service 
delivery has to be inclusive. The resultant provincial development strategy is thus clearly focused 
on structural policy reforms to substantially improve education and health indicators in the 
province, especially targeted gender, socio-economic and regional disparities. This has required 
setting out a vision for human development, and aligning reform and budget priorities to realize 
this vision. A strategy document summarizing the Government’s program, Provincial Reform 
Program II, 2005/06 – 2007/08 (PRP II), was issued in May 2006. The preparation of DPC 2 is 
aimed at supporting NWFP’s reform agenda as set out in the PRP II document.  
The NWFP government’s future reform program in PRP II focuses on accelerating human 
development and fostering inclusive growth to reduce poverty. The Provincial Development 
Strategy, as set out in the PRP II document, consists of four pillars which are briefly summarized 
below:  
 • 
Accelerating human development 
to reduce poverty and raise the quality and standard 
of life of the people. Improvement in the coverage and quality of education, health and 
social protection services, is critical for sustained and inclusive economic growth.  
 • 
Improving fiscal stability and public expenditure management 
to strengthen and 
sustain investment to support the medium-term reform program. The low level of human 
development in the province will require sustained public investment over many years, 
and the government needs to manage its fiscal resources prudently to ensure that its 
reform program is financially sustainable.  
 • 
Strengthening governance 
by
improving accountability, especially in financial 
management and procurement.  
 • 
Promoting private sector development 
to raise incomes and reduce poverty, and to 
increase employment opportunities in productive and sustainable economic activities 
within the province.  
2
The two SAC’s did support reforms in health and education, but had a priority focus on fiscal, 
expenditure management and growth reform
 
Page  4
2. Operation Objectives 
 
The proposed North-West Frontier Province second Development Policy Credit 
(NWFP DPC 2) for US$130 million is the middle operation of a series of three 
development policy credits designed to assist the NWFP policy reform program
.
The 
current NWFP program builds on the experience of previous reforms, from 2000/01 
onwards, that were supported by the World Bank through two structural adjustment 
credits (SACs) in 2002 and 2004, and the first development policy credit (DPC 1) in 
2006. The two SACs emphasized fiscal, expenditure management and growth reforms,
2
while DPC 1 was a transition operation between the expenditure and growth focused SACs and a 
future series of operations that will emphasize human development. The DPC series recognizes 
that for sustained human development improvement it is critically important for the budget 
process and governance structures to make adequate resources available, and that these resources 
are spent prudently. Further, economic growth is vital because it creates better paying 
employment opportunities for healthy and educated workers, and thus constitutes a key incentive 
for public and private investment in human development. Also, strong economic growth helps 
generate revenues for sustained increase in human development expenditure. Recognizing this 
inter-connectedness, DPC1 helped deepen the fiscal and growth accelerating components of the 
overall reform program. DPC2, while continuing to support the fiscal, governance and growth 
components, has a clear strategic focus on accelerating human development in the NWFP.  
 
The NWFP DPC 2 assists the NWFP government to broaden and deepen human 
development reforms, while also sustaining and building upon the momentum of reforms in 
fiscal and public expenditure management, governance and growth
.
The operation supports 
the government's comprehensive reform program that emphasizes the interconnectedness of 
human development, fiscal strengthening, governance and economic growth. DPC 2 is organized 
according to four pillars: (a) accelerating human development; (b) improving fiscal stability and 
public expenditure management; (c) strengthening governance; and (d) promoting economic 
growth through private sector development. Under the first pillar, the scope of the human 
development reform program has been substantially expanded to address challenges related to 
coverage, quality and service delivery. In education, where previous reforms focused mainly on 
increasing access to primary education, the scope has been broadened to cover secondary 
education as well. The education reform program has also been deepened to address key issues 
related to: (i) education quality, such as teacher development and the skills and competencies of 
school heads; and (ii) education governance, such as institutional strengthening of the Ministry of 
Education, empowerment of local school communities, and the development of a sound 
monitoring and evaluation system. While in DPC 2 the deepest reforms are in education, in health 
the reform program has been broadened beyond primary health to include access to secondary 
and tertiary level health care. The health reform program has also been deepened to improve the 
quality of health services; and to strengthen governance and stewardship functions, such as 
contracting out management of primary health care facilities (PHC) to NGOs, and developing a 
strategic plan to promote the private sector. The human development program has also been 
strengthened through the preparation of a social protection strategy for the province, with a key 
focus on reducing the adverse impacts of risk and vulnerability on the poor. Under the second 
pillar, the fiscal sustainability of the reform program has been improved by consolidating 
expenditures within the medium-term budget framework, and promoting own revenue generation. 
Page  5
Under the third pillar, the governance framework has been strengthened through the 
establishment of a new accounting model down to the district level, and through actions to bring  
 
procurement practices to international standards. Under the fourth pillar, the climate to promote 
economic growth through private sector development has been improved, especially through 
actions that lower administrative barriers and reduce the transactions costs of commencing and 
expanding commercial and industrial activities in the province.  
3.  Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
Rationale for Bank Involvement  
 
The NWFP has demonstrated capability to successfully implement wide ranging policy 
reforms in the past
.
The NWFP implemented a broad policy reform program from 2001-2005, 
containing reforms in several areas: fiscal, public financial management and accountability, 
human development, governance and civil service, and private sector development and growth. 
The reform program focused on creating a sound fiscal framework for private sector led 
economic growth. The program was largely successful. The debt service burden declined from 
1.8 percent of provincial GDP (PGDP) in 2000/01 to 0.9 percent in 2004/05. The fiscal deficit fell 
to under 1 percent of PGDP. The composition of public spending improved, with substantial 
increases in development spending and the share of the budget allocated to priority sectors such 
as education and health. The NWFP economy grew at about 4.5 percent per year during the 
period 2000-2005, which was in line with the growth of the national Pakistan economy of 4.7 
percent per year during this period. Positive progress was also made on improving human 
development levels. Policies to provide free public education and textbooks to school children 
were adopted. Following these reforms, the gross female primary enrolment ratio increased from 
55 percent in 2001/02 to 65 percent in 2004/05, while the gross male primary enrolment ratio rose 
from 77 percent to 80 percent over the same period. In health, policies were instituted to increase 
the health budget and expand primary health care provision. After the reforms were implemented, 
during 2001/02 to 2004/5, the immunization rate for children aged 12-23 months rose from 57 
percent to 76 percent, the immunization coverage of pregnant women increased from 34 percent 
to 45 percent, and the detection of TB rose from 20 percent to 58 percent.  
 
The proposed NWFP DPC 2 is fully consistent with, and follows the principles of 
engagement set out in, the FY06-09 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS). 
The CAS, approved 
by the Board in June 2006, proposes to increase lending with a focus on areas of the Pakistan 
government’s program that are critically important to promote economic growth and poverty 
reduction, including human development. The Bank’s strategy to assist provincial reform 
programs are based on the use of DPCs to support policy and systemic reforms in priority sectors. 
The proposed DPC2 is based on the ability of the NWFP to meet the strategic engagement 
principles set out in the CAS: (i) “ client pull “ through evidence of committed champions of 
reform, and demonstrated ability and willingness to implement required reforms; (ii) “ strategic 
selectivity “ that seeks to replicate or scale up approaches that have already been effective; (iii) 
greater focus on performance, guided by the CAS results framework and associated integration of 
monitoring and evaluation into the design; and (iv) the use of a programmatic approach to ensure 
sustained, flexible and predictable support to reforms over the medium-term.  
 
4. Financing 
 
The credit will make available USD130 million in a single tranche. 
 
Page  6
5.  Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
 
Implementation 
 
The reforms are being implemented by the Department of Finance, Department of 
Planning and National Development, and the various sector departments, including the 
Departments of Schools and Literacy, College Education, Health and Social Welfare. A Reform 
Support Unit (RSU) in the Department of Finance assists the coordination of the reform program. 
The key departments and the RSU all have considerable experience of implementing policy 
reforms, and of Bank operations to support such reforms, due to the experience of earlier reform 
programs that were supported through the IDA financed SAC 1 (2002), SAC 2 (2004) and DPC 1 
(2006). The RSU will be further strengthened, through the recruitment of senior and experienced 
staff, and capacity building of the existing office, to coordinate the future series of DPC’s, 
commencing with DPC 3.  
 
Monitoring and Evaluation 
 
The NWFP reform program contains a strong emphasis on monitoring and 
evaluation
.
The monitoring and evaluation of the program will be under the oversight of the 
Department of Finance, including the Reform Support Unit (RSU). In addition, within the key 
sectors, health and education, the existing Health Sector Reform Support Unit and the Education 
Sector Reform Support Unit that is to be established as part of the reforms will play major roles in 
monitoring the program. The Health Management Information System (HMIS) and the Education 
Management Information System (EMIS) will provide administrative data and management 
information for the key human development sectors.  
 
Several measures are being supported as part of the reform program to improve 
monitoring and evaluation. These include:  
(a) strengthening the information base on human development through the improvement of 
education and health information management systems in the Departments of Schools and 
Literacy, College Education and Health;  
(b) capacity building of the Departments of Schools and Literacy, College Education and Health 
to collect, process and utilize policy relevant information for planning, management and 
monitoring purposes;  
(c) contracting out third party validations of data to external parties, including research agencies 
and consulting firms; and  
(d) reliable, transparent, timely, and comprehensive decision-oriented financial and fiscal 
information generated across the province and posted on the government website.  
 
Surveys and censuses carried out by the Federal Government, such as the biannual CWIQ 
surveys, triannual Multiple Indicator Cluster Surveys and triannual Pakistan Integrated 
Household Surveys, add to the information base on the NWFP. These surveys and censuses can 
be used for analysis and monitoring of time trends of key outcomes, including poverty rates, 
school enrolment, and mortality and morbidity rates. In education, the Federal government is 
undertaking a census of schools, including private schools, which can feed into the NWFP 
education management information system (EMIS). There is also the national assessment of 
learning outcomes that will provide evidence of cognitive achievement levels in the province. The 
MOH has also commissioned an in-depth assessment of vertical programs to identify options for 
further decentralization of vertical national programs.  
 
Page  7
6.  Benefits and Risks 
 
The proposed operation has the potential to yield several complementary benefits
.
Benefits 
 
The NWFP DPC 2 will provide resources to suppor
t
the NWFP’s new medium-term 
reform program, with a particular emphasis on improving human development outcomes
.
Human development levels in Pakistan lag below most other developing countries at comparable 
levels of per capita income, and the NWFP performs below the national average in human 
development. Gender, economic and regional disparities in human development are also sharp in 
the NWFP. The operation, by assisting the province to increase human development levels, 
especially among girls and women, among poor households, and in under-developed districts, has 
the potential to generate substantial benefits in terms of improved gender, economic and regional 
equity.  
Within human development, the reform program will cover each sector, education, 
health and eventually social protection fully
,
whereas in the past only sub-sets of each sector, 
such as primary education or primary health care, were included. The sector wide focus of DPC 2 
on education, health and social protection will enable the government to address the full range of 
challenges facing each sector by focusing on both demand and supply side policies, and exploit 
economies of scale and scope in the design and implementation of development strategies in each 
sector.  
DPC 2 enables the Bank to integrate support around a mutually consistent, multi-
sectoral reform agenda, and exploit synergy between policies to improve human 
development, sustain fiscal stability, strengthen governance and promote economic growth. 
Hence, in addition to the strategic fo
cus on human development, the NWFP’s overall 
development program will be assisted through this operation.  
DPC 2 facilitates the dialogue between the government, the Bank and other 
development partners to coordinate all external assistance under the NWFP’s medium-term 
policy reform program
.
At least one other major donor, the European Commission (EC), is 
planning to provide parallel or co-financing for DPC 2. Other donors, such as DFID and GTZ, are 
organizing technical assistance to the pillars of the reform program linked to Bank support. A 
future DPC 3 will offer a further vehicle for donors to harmonize their financial support to the 
government.  
The design of DPC 2 increases ownership and commitment within the government, 
as Bank support is targeted to the overall reform program developed by the NWFP
.
This 
also increases coordination of reform policies within government, as the development plans of 
each sector has to be agreed with the Ministries of Finance, and Planning and Development, and 
included within the overall government budget.  
The proposed operation will also assist the province to stimulate private sector 
investment by reducing transactions costs to market entry and facilitating commercial 
operations
.
Higher private sector investment can increase growth and reduce poverty, and create 
employment opportunities for educated young people in the future.  
Page  8
Risks 
 
The reform program and proposed operation face several key risks. 
Table 1 below provides a 
description of these risks, and mitigation measures. The Bank team assesses the overall risks as moderate, 
and propose that the previous commitment and performance of the NWFP government, as well as the 
strong potential benefits of the DPC series, justify the processing of the DPC 2 operation.  
 
Table 1. Risk Assessment and Mitigation Measures.  
Risks  
Mitigation Measures  
Risks After 
Mitgation  
Fiscal.  
A
budget support operation such 
as DPC 2 runs the risk that 
adequate resources may not be 
allocated to priority sectors, such 
as education and health, to 
support the broadening and 
deepening of the human 
development reform program.  
The provision of adequate 
budgets for key sectors, 
including education and 
health, and alignment of these 
budgets within the overall 
medium-term budget 
framework of the government, 
constitute a key up-front 
policy action for the sequence 
of DPCs. This helps to ensure 
that adequate policy attention 
is paid to the budgets of 
priority sectors to implement 
the key reforms of the 
program.  
M
Page  9
Political. The NWFP is currently 
engaged in the process of 
decentralization, and two tiers of 
government, at the provincial 
level and the district level, are 
involved. There is a risk that the 
implementation of the reform 
program at these two levels may 
not be adequately aligned. This is 
especially a risk for the social 
sectors, where district 
governments play an important 
role in service delivery.  
The NWFP has developed 
terms of partnership 
agreement, between the 
provincial government and 
districts governments, in the 
education sector, to ensure 
alignment between the two 
tiers of government. Such a 
model has been successfully 
implemented for education in 
the Punjab, and the NWFP 
has adapting this model to 
make it suitable for the 
NWFP. In the health sector, 
too, terms of partnership 
agreements have been signed 
between the Provincial and 
District tiers of government to 
implement management 
innovations. Development 
partners, such as DFID and 
the EC, are also in the process 
of strengthening the capacity 
of district governments to 
plan, budget and monitor 
programs, which will make it 
easier for the districts to 
develop rational programs 
over the medium-term.  
H
Fiduciary. NWFP is implementing province-wide, 
and on a fast track basis, the PIFRA project 
which serves as the key thrust of the financial 
management and accountability platform in the 
country. There is an attendant risk of information 
overload amidst weak human resource capacity in 
the province. In addition, the risk of achieving a 
slower rate of implementation of the procurement 
reforms across the province is present.  
The introduction of the district 
functionality, as well as the 
training of budget preparation, 
accounting, and auditing 
personnel on all facets of the new 
paradigm under the PIFRA 
project, will negate instances of 
under-capacity and information 
overload. Also, with the IDF 
grant recently approved for the 
NWFP to support its 
procurement reform agenda, the 
requisite impetus to fasten 
reforms in the area of public 
procurement will be generated.  
M
Page  10
Implementation capacity. 
The wide-ranging reform 
program may overload the 
implementation capacity of 
the provincial and district 
governments.  
The reforms have been carefully sequenced 
to minimize the risk of overload the technical 
and administrative capacity of the 
government. The operation also supports 
capacity building in key sectors, including 
education and health, as an integral part of 
the reform program. Further, other 
development partners, such as the EC, GTZ 
and DFID, have promised significant 
technical assistance to increase the capacity 
of the government.  
S
External shocks. Exogenous 
shocks, such as natural 
disasters and developments 
in the global economy, are 
difficult to anticipate, but 
are inevitable risks.  
The NWFP government has recent 
experience of handling natural disasters, 
after the earthquake which damaged the 
province in October 2005. This includes both 
the provision of emergency relief, and long-
term reconstruction and rehabilitation. The 
NWFP can draw on this relief, and 
reconstruction and rehabilitation experience, 
if any natural disasters occur during the 
future implementation of the reform 
program.  
M
Overall risk rating  
M  
H
=
High, S = Substantial, M = Modest, N = Negligible  
 
7.  Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
 
Poverty and Social Impacts 
 
In NWFP, one of Pakistan’s poorest provinces, poverty is strongly associated with lack of 
access to critical education and health services
.
Where such services are available, lack of household 
demand for such services has been a key deterrent for children, especially girl children, taking advantage 
of available schools and advancing their own education. The DPC 2 is designed to address these concerns, 
and by doing so, it supports the Government’s PRSP objectives. The basic underlying motivation behind 
the proposed reforms in human development are three-fold: to ensure that (a) the access to human 
development services in education, health and social protection are equitable (across income groups, and 
by gender and by rural-urban location, (b) systemic reforms in both education and health contribute to 
correcting failures on the supply side, and (c) on the demand side, promising new interventions are piloted 
to promote especially girls’ schooling. By correcting deficiencies in service delivery in rural areas and by 
relaxing demand side constraints of poor families, the operation will significantly advance the main PRSP 
objectives of ensuring that the benefits of growth are widely shared and that opportunities for human 
capital accumulation are enjoyed by all socio-economic groups.  
Page  11
The operation is strengthening linkages between the provincial and district levels of government, as 
well as relationships between the government, private sector and civil society
.
The education and 
health reform programs are based on partnerships, developed through a process of consultation, between 
the provincial and district governments. The education reform program also empowers local school 
communities, such as parent-teacher associations, to contribute to the management of government 
schools, including utilizing development and recurrent budgets. The health reform program empowers 
NGO’s to manage health facilities. The role of the private sector in economic activities is also 
strengthened in the reform program, including private-public partnerships in infrastructure provision, and 
space for the private sector to be represented in government authorities, such as the one-window investor 
facilitation center and the Health Foundation.  
 
Environmental Aspects 
 
The country’s policies in education, health, social protection, fiscal stability and public 
expenditure management, and governance, supported by the proposed credit do not entail 
significant negative effects on Pakistan’s environment, forests, or other natural resources
.
The 
policies will not result in any significant commitment of such resources. Although some minor negative 
effects are possible, the net balance of all effects is likely to be either positive or benign. For example, 
increased health care service delivery can impact the environment through three channels: (i) scale 
effects, (ii) composition effects, and (iii) changes in techniques/technology. Scale effects, meaning overall 
increases of infrastructure associated with health care and wastes generated in the provision of health care 
services, should not be significant. Composition effects refer to the growth or decline of more versus less-
polluting health centers. These effects are not likely to significantly affect the environment since the 
credit supports mainly relatively non-polluting health centers. Finally, changes in techniques refer to more 
efficient (and hence less polluting) technologies or processes that are introduced through improved health 
care services. While these changes are difficult to quantify precisely, the adoption of such technologies is 
expected to have positive environmental effects.  
 
The Bank’s Strategic Country Environmental Assessment (SCEA) provides a broad 
overview of Pakistan’s environmental policies and institutions. 
The SCEA concludes that the 
legislative framework for environmental management is largely in place and the country has made 
progress in establishing regulatory institutions for environmental management. However, implementation 
of policies has evidenced substantial variations across the country, mainly due to the binding constraints 
of insufficient resources and inadequate compliance incentives. Recognizing these problems, the Medium 
Term Development Framework 2005-2010, which was adopted in mid-2005, recommends a significant 
increase in the budget allocated for environmental management to support implementation of the 
legislative framework.  
 
Simultaneously, Pakistan has adopted environmental safeguards aimed at offsetting and 
minimizing potential environmental risks associated with the North West Frontier Province 
Development Policy Credit
.
The Pakistan legal framework contains provisions to strengthen 
enforcement of environmental regulations. Additionally, there is a high level of environmental awareness 
in the Province, ev
idenced by the government’s decision to respond to environmental pressures by 
introducing the Sarhad Provincial Conservation Strategy (SPCS), which aims to promote conservation 
and sustainable development. Unmatched elsewhere in Pakistan, three districts in NWFP have integrated 
the SPCS into their development agenda. Furthermore, environmental management within the province is 
guided by the Pakistan Environmental Protection Act 1997, which requires EPA approval for the 
execution of large public and private projects. NWFP EPA has three zonal offices in the province and has 
established an Environment Impact Assessment (EIA) training center in Peshawar.  
 
Although the Bank-supported policies aimed at accelerating human development, 
improving fiscal stability and public expenditure management, and strengthening governance, are 
Page  12
expected to have only minor negative environmental effects, Pakistan recognizes the importance of 
proper environmental policies and proactive government monitoring within an adequate 
environmental regulatory framework
.
To address such concerns, Pakistan has adopted a National 
Environmental Policy (NEP), aimed at promoting sustainable development. As part of Pakistan’s NEP, 
the government is interested in strengthening its country environmental systems, particularly for 
effectively identifying and addressing environmental problems and priorities and taking into account the 
concerns of multiple stakeholders (including the most vulnerable groups). Pakistan’s NEP also embodies 
processes to monitor and evaluate progress to overcome the identified environmental priority problems.  
The DPC’s focus on assisting the NWFP government to broaden and deepen human 
development reforms, while providing continued support to strengthen governance, is expected to 
have positive environmental effects over the long-term
.
Improvements in human capital are aimed at 
reducing poverty, and are consequently anticipated to reduce the current over-
dependence on “depletable” 
natural resources (e.g., biomass for fuelwood), as the work force becomes increasingly literate. Fiscal 
reforms are consistent with the Medium Term Development Framework 2005-2010, as they include 
recommendations to increase resources allocated to environmental agencies. Finally, to the extent that 
governance reforms encompass the environmental agencies, the DPC series is expected to enhance the 
authority’s capacity to enforce environmental regulations.  
 
Reforms aimed at accelerating economic growth through private sector development might 
induce potential positive and negative environmental effects. 
While it is extremely difficult to quantify 
these impacts precisely, these reforms might eventually yield net environmental benefits. Private sector 
activity is to be stimulated by lowering administrative barriers and the transactions costs of investment. 
Given the structure of the Province’s industry, it is anticipated that the bulk of industrial development will 
entail broad based growth of light industries, with a modest environmental footprint and low pollution 
intensity.  
The Bank is undertaking a sectoral environmental analysis aimed at assessing the 
borrower’s systems for reducing potential negative environmental effects linked with private sector 
development, particularly in the mining and infrastructure sectors. 
As a follow-up to the SCEA, the 
Bank has initiated an institutions-based strategic environmental assessment of the policy reforms 
associated with the North West Frontier Province Development Policy Credits. The assessment has been 
designed to ide
ntify and address existing institutional gaps that may hinder the government’s capacity to 
anticipate and respond to potential adverse environmental impacts. Moreover, the timely completion of 
the assessment will ensure the incorporation of environmental considerations in the design and 
implementation of Bank-supported policies.  
Contact Point 
 
Harsha Aturupane, Senior Economist, SASHD.  
Tel: 94-11-5561306.  
Fax: 94-11-2440357  
Email:Daturupane@worldbank.org  
For more information contact: 
 
The InfoShop 
 
The World Bank 
 
1818 H Street, NW 
 
Washington D.C. 20433 
 
Telephone: (202) 458-5454 
 
Fax: (202) 522-1500 
 
(Web: 
http://www.worldbank.org/infosho
Page  13
8. Contact point 
Contact: Harsha Aturupane 
Title: Senior Economist 
Tel: 5723+306 
Fax:  
Email: Daturupane@worldbank.org 
Location: Colombo, Sri Lanka (IBRD) 
 
9.  For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
