Dmeiimt of
Tbe World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Reprt No. P-6138-PE
REPORT AND RECOMKENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED ELECTRICITY PRIVATIZATION ADJUSTMENT LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$150 MIlLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF PERU
OCTOBER 27, 1994
1IT r C     AP 1IotX
Ty;:e: P9
This document has a restritd distributon and may be used by recipients only in the perfornmae of
their offiecia duts. Its contents may not otherws he dilosed without World Bank autrbiation.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of October 27, 1994)
Currency Unit = Sol
US$1.00 =S./2.25
1 Sol = US$0.4444
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
GW                -      Gigawatt (1 million kW)
kW                -     Kilowatt
kWh               -     Kilowatt-hour
kVA               -     Kilovolt-Ampere
Mt                -      Metric ton
MW                -     Megawatt
TWh               -     Terawatt-hour
CEPRI             -      Special Privatization Committee
COES              -     Committee for Economic Operation of the
nterconnected System
COPRI             -      Commission for Promotion of Private
Investment
CTE               -      Electricity Tariff Commission
DGE               -     General Electricity Directorate
Electrolima       -      Lima Electricity Company
Electroperu       -     Peru Electricity Company
EMTAL             -      Energy and Mining Technical Assistance Loan
ETECEN            -     Enterprise for Electricity Transmission in the
Central Northern Interconnected System
INDECOPI          -      National Institute for the Defense of Competition
and Protection of Intellectual Property
MENI              -      Ministry of Energy and Mines
OTERG             -     Tecbnical Office of Energy



FM OURCIL USe OMY
mu
ELECTRICITY PRlVAMIZM  ADlUIME    LON
Table o Contents
Loan and Program Summary          .............        .    .     .     .    .*   I
1.     Electricity  Sector    ......................................          .  1
A. Background ...................................   1
B. Goverment Sectoral Objectives and Strategy  .  ..............   2
C. Reform Program to be Supported by the Loan       . . .    3
(a) Macroeconomic Framework ...........   3
(b) Legal, Regulatory, and Institutional Reforms ...........   3
(c) Electricity Pricing ............  S
(d) Privatization of Electricity Holdings  ....    ............. 7
Environmental Aspects ...........   9
Social Impact............. 10
u. The Propose Loan ........... 10
Description .............                                        10
Proposed Loan Conditions  ...........  10
Technical Assistnce ................  11
Monitoring and Reporting ............                            11
Procurement, Disbursement, Audit, and Administation  ........... 11
Benefits ............ 13
Risks ............ 13
m. Recommendation ............ 14
ANNEXES
I   Relationship Among Bank Adjustment Operations
2    Projections of Key Economic Indicators
3    Policy Matrix
4    Policy Letter
S    New Legal/Regulaory Framework for the Electricity Sector
6    Assets of Electrolima and Elect u
7   Energy Sector Strategies and Policies
8    Supplementary Loan Data Sheet
9    Status of Bank Group Operations in Peru
This douent has a resicted dist   oa and may be used by redpients only In the peormance o
I their offlcdl duties. Its contents may not othew  be didosed without World Bak authorizton 



PERU
ELECTRICITY PRIVATIZATION ADJUSTM                 LOAN
Loan and Program Sunmmary
Bornower:           Republic of Peru
Excuting Agencies:  Ministry of Energy and Mines; Conmission for Promotion of Private Investment
Amount:             US$150.0 niillion equivalent
Terms:              Repayment in 17 years, including five years of grace, at the standard variable interest
rate.
Loan Objectives:    The proposed loan would support the Government's electricity privatization program
and related legal/regulatory and institutional reforms. The program is designed to
promote adequate and environmentally sustainable electricity sapplies and to enhance
economic efficiency through competition and private sector involvement.
Loan Descripdon:    The reform program to be supported by the proposed loan includes four components:
(a) maintenance of a satisfactory macroeconomic program and financing plan; (b)
implementation of legal, regulatory, and institutional reforms in the electricity sector
to promote ompetition and facilitate privatization; (c) application of electricity pricing
based on economic costs; and (d) privatization of the electricity sector.
Benefits:           Privatization and related regulatory reform are expected to result in: (a) improved
service reliability and responsiveness to demand; (b) increased efficiency through
pricing reform, improved management, and introduction of coetition, (c) private
investment; and (d) fiscal benefits through the elimination of subsidies and increased
tax revenue from more profitable sector companies.
Risks:              There is a risk that the macroeconomic and sectoral adjustment will be weakened, and
that the reform process would not be permanent. Election-year pressures might bring
about some backsliding in the Government's program. Nevertheless, the Government
is expected to achieve its program targets, given its adherence to sound
macroeconomic policies and its commitment to sustaining the stabilization and
structural reform program, as evidenced by its agreement with the Bank and IMF on a
macroeconomic program and financing plan for 1993-95. Maintenance of a
macroeconomic policy framework and financing plan consistent with the objectives of
the overall stuctural reform program supported by the Bank is a condition for all
tranche releases of this loan. With respect to electricity privatizaion, the main risks
are that: (a) the Government will face difficulties in attracting private companies; and
(b) Government intervention in the tariff-setting process wil resume. The new
legal/regulatory regime and the tariff system are designed to enhance incentives,
increase competition, and ensure economic and financial viability for the sector, which
ought to stimulate private investment. There has thus far been strong investor interest
in ongoing privatizations in the electricity sector. To address the risk of political



- ii -
intervention in tariff setiag, the 1992 Electricity Law establishes the authority of the
Electricity Tariff Commission and the automaticity of tariff adjustnents. Their
effective maitenance are conditions of all tranche releases.
EanatedDisbursemets:   Bank FY           1995  1996
Aual:                              IOG.O  50.0
Cumulative:                        100.0  150.0
Disbursements will be made upon fulfillment of conditions of effectiveness, second
tranche release, and third tranche release, respecti ely.
E        _ WClassi catn: B
Povert Category: Not Applicable



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
ELECTRICITY PRIVATIZATION ADJUSTMENT LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF PERU
1.    I submit the following report and recommnendation on a proposed losn to the Republic of Peru
for the equivalent of US$150 million. The proposed loan would support the privatization of the
Government's electricity holdings and implementation of related policy and regulatory reforms in the
sector. The loan would be repayable over 17 years on a fixed amortization schedule, including five
years of grace, at the Bank's standard variable interest rate.
2.    This report is being accompamed by a separate document on the Country Assistance Strategy
(CAS) for Peru, which analyzes the current position and proanects of the economy and the Bank's
strat-gy to assist in the development process. The previous CAS was presented to the Board on April
20, 1993. The Bank's long-term objectives, as outlined in the CAS, are to assist the Govemment in:
(a) infrastructure development; (b) poverty alleviation/income dtribution; (c) institution building; and
(d) macroeconomic sustainability. By supporting privatization and regulatory reform in the electricity
sector, the proposed Loan contributes to the objective of assisting the Goverunent to improve the
performance of infrastructure services. The Government expects that privatization will not only
enhance the efficiency of existing assets, but also attract additional private investment to the electricity
sector. By supporting the maintenance of a satisfactory macroeconomic framework, the Loan
contibutes to the strategy of ensuring economic sustainabiity. The proposed operation is, therefore,
consistent with the Bank's assistance strategy for Peru.
I. TIE ELECTRICITY SECTOR
A.    Background
3.    Regulatory reform and privatization in the electricity sector are critical components of the
Government's structural reform program. Over extended periods, the sector was adversely af1ected
by inappropriate policies and institutional weaknesses at the government level, and
managerialoperational deficiencies and a critical financial situation at the enterprise level associted
with inadequate pricing and high indebtedness. Electricity supplies continue to be hampered by low
reliability and high losses. Installed generation capacity has fallen behind demand: only 1,062 MW
were added in 1980-93, compared to about 1,400 MW of increased demand over the same period.
Transmission and distribution networks are in poor condition. Drought-inflicted shortages of
hydropower in 1992 and major maintenance requirements in 1994 made extensive electricity rationing
necessary.
4.    Since nationalization in the early 1970s, public electricity service has been provided
exclusively by goverment-owned utilities. These include: (a) Electropeu, a nation-wide generation
and transmission utility, which sells entirely in bulk to other utilities; (b) Electrolima, the second-
largest generation company and the largest distribution company, serving the greater Lima region, and



2
(c) nine smaller regional utilities'. As part of institutional reform and in preparation for
privatization, Electrolima's and Electroperu's transmission assets were transferred in early 1994 to a
separate transmission company for the central-northern grid (Empresa de Transmisi6n El6ctrica
Centro Norte; ETECEN S.A.), whereas Electrolima was segmented into one generation and two
distribution companies. Installed generating capacity in the public system in 1993 totalled 2,897 MW
(hydro accouwts for 75 % in the overall public system, and for 91 % in the interconnected Central-
Northern Systemn), and generation, 10.9 TWh. In the same year, self-generatmig capacity largely in
mining and manufacturing ainunted to some 1,300 MW and generation, to 3.6 TWh. During 1980
92, public system generation incre:1 by 3.8% annually to 9.6 TWh, while growth of sales averaged
only 2.7% annually because of t'ie elec,ricity system's own consumption plus technical and
adnunistr.t ive losses, which have increased from 13% to 22%. The composition of sales in 1993 was
as follows. 45% were made to industrial customers, 36% to residential customers, 5% to commercial
customers, and 14% to others (including Government).
5.     The Ministry of Energy and Mines (MEM) is responsible for formulating sector policies and,
through its General Electricity Directoate (DOE), for normative regulation, especially supervising the
sector enterprises. The autonomous Electricity Tariff Commission (CTE) is charged with economic
iegulation, primarily the setting of tariffs.
B.    Government Sectoral Objectives and Staeg
6.    The Government became aware soon after taking office in mid-1990 that, in order to obtain
adequate and efficient electricity supplies without draining public resources, far-reaching policy and
Institutional reforms in the sector were needed, with competition and privatization as " ,ir
centerpiece. These reforms were to be achieved by allowing market forces to exert their allocative
function through (a) deregulation of activities where competition is feasible, combined with arm's-
length regulation of natural monopolies; and (b) privatizaeon of state-owned enterprises, with future
expansion to be undertaken primarily by private investors. As a consequence of this approach, the
role of the state in the electricity sector has been redefined, clearly separating its policy and
regulatory role from its subsidiary - and transitional - role as owner of public enterprises. For this
purpose, the Govermnent under the US$300 million Structural Adjustment Loan (Loan No. 3452-PE;
Board Approval on March 26, 1992) outlined a new sector development strategy, including a specific,
time-bound agenda for legal/regulatory reforms, as part of its overall privatization strategy. These
reforms will be implemented under the proposed Loan. In combination with similar reforms for the
hydrocarbons sector being implemented under the US$250 million Privatization Adjustment Loan
(Loan No. 3595-PE; Board Approval on April 20, 1993), the energy sector in its entirety is expected
to become more competitive and efficient. Annex 1 sets out the linkages among Bank adjustment
operations in the area of privatization and reguatory reform.
1. Electro Norte, Electro Nor-Oeste, Electro Norte-Medio (formerly Hidroandina). Electro
Centro, Electro Sur-Medio, Electro Sur-Este, Sociad El5ctrica del Sur-Oeste, Electro
Oriente, and Electro Sur.



3
C.    Reform Program to be Supported by the Loan
7.    Deficient electricity supplies have been a major consttaint to the development of Peru's
economy. Therefore, reform of the electricity sector is an integral part of the Goverunent's global
program of economic adjustment and restructuring. This reform aims at ensuring adequate and
envinrmnentally sustainable electricity supplies required by the growing economy, enhancing
operational efficiency, and eliminating the fiscal burden caused by electricity operations. These aims
are to be achieved through decentralization, competition, and maximum reliance on the private sector.
The program to be supported by the Loan has four components: (a) maintaining a satisfactory
macroeconomic program and financing plan, consistent with the objectives of sectoral reform; (b)
implementing legal/regulatory and institutional reforms in the electricity sector; (c) implementing
electricity pricing reform; and (d) privatizing the Government's holdings in the sector.
(a) Macroeconomic Framework
8.    In order to successfully implement the Government's privatization program, both in the
electricity sector and throughout the economy, satisfactory macroeconomic policies and performance
need to be sustained and structural reforms need to be nmaintained and deepened. Following the
successful completion of the debt workout program in early 1993, agreement was reached on a three-
year macroeconomic program and financing plan for 1993-95. This program is being supported by
the IMF through a three-year Extended Fund Facility, and by the Bank through its adjustment
lending. To ensure continued satisfactory macroeconomic policies and performance, maintenance of
a macroeconomic policy framework and financing plan consistent with the objecdves of the
overall structural reform program supported by the Bank and satisfactory progress in
implemeneting the electicity sector reform progrm set oet in the Policy Letter, are conditions of
effectveness and of second and third ranche releases for this operation. During negotiations,
agreement has been reached with the Government on specific macroeconomic targets to be monitored
during this operation. These targets, which for 1994-95 are consistent with the IMP program, would
be as follows: (a) Central Government current revenue approaching 12.5 percent in 1994 and 14.2
percent in 1995; (b) primary fiscal balance of 1.1 percent of GDP in 1994 and 1.4 percent in 1995;
and (c) inflation declinmg to 20 percent in 1994 and 12 percent in 1995.
9.    Progress in the overall reform program has been good. However, one feature of the
macroeconomic program, specifically in the area of financial sector reform supported through the
US$400 million Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (Loan No. 3489-PE; Board Approval on June 17,
1992), has lagged. This concerns the reform of the state-owned Banco de la Naci6n and disposal of
the assets of the development banks. The Government has made progress in undertaking the
necessary restructuring measures, and reiterated its commitment to completing these reforms.
(b) Legal, Regulatory, and Institutonal Reforms
10.   Following the nationalization of the electricity sector in the early 1970s, inadequacies in the
sectoral legal/regulatory framework, organization, and policies have stifled efficiency. Past
governments cansidered the sector more as a vehicle to extend subsidies, control inflation, and create
employment, ttan as a productive activity. After 1985, CTE lost its authority to set tariffs.
Government interference and financial constraints weakened sector management, impeded corporate
efficiency, and worsened employment conditions, which militated against attracting and retaining
qualified personnel.



4
11.   The 1982 General Law for Electricity aimed at establishing a decentralized institutional
structure for the sector while maintaining public ownership and management. Nine regional utilities
were created, for which Electroperu was to act as a holding company. However, fronm 1985 onward,
ownership of these utilities was transferred to the regional governments. Because of ambiguities in
ownership caused by contradictory legislation and conflicts between Electroperu and the regional
governments over the division of assets and liabilities, the regionalization process created confusion to
the point of jeopardizing the efficient operation of the inter-regional systems. In an effort to resolve
these issues, MEM in 1992 assumed control of the shares of the regional utilities.
12.   Government Action. In order to provide a cohesive framework for electricity sector reform
and ensure consistency between the sector structure and the legal/regulatory system, the Govermnent
has adopted market-oriented concepts that have been sLccessfully applied in Chile and Argentina.
They are based on the principles of decentralization, competition, deregulation where competition is
feasible, and arms-length regilation oi natural monopolies. The Government enacted in 1992 the new
Law on Electricity Concessions and in early 1993, the corresponding regulations covering the public
system, which redefine the role of public institutions in policy making, sector entry and exit, pricing,
investments, and quality of service. They establish that (a) generation will be decentralized,
deregulated, and made subject to market forces through competition; (b) transmission will provide
third-party access to all suppliers with an adequately regulated toll scheme; and (c) distribution will
continue as a natural monopoly, with fully regulated rights and duties of suppliers and consumers,
including the obligation to provide service of adequate quality.
13.   Integrated enterprises have been segmented into independent companies at the generation,
transmission, and distribution levels. Equity participation by generation or distribution enterprises in
primary transmission is disallowed, and limits in cross-shareholdings are being determined, so as to
establish clear accountability and prevent the emergence of monopolistic conditions. The new
Electricity Law and regulations also stipulate the formation of supply pools by generation and
transmission companies (Committees for Economic Operation of the Interconnected System - COES)
to manage load dispatrh. The COES will be responsible for calculating short-run marginal costs and
node prices and developing the least-cost dispatch program for system operation, for review by CTE
and as basis for tariff setting. The formation of COES has been completed for the Central-Northern
System and is pending for the two southern systems, awaiting their interconnection. The new
structure of the electricity sector ensures open access to all stages of the grid and free contracting
between producers and distributors and major consumers. Large-volume consumers (in excess of
1,000 kW, accounting for about 40 percent of total sales) will be allowed to negotiate contracts
directly with generation and distribution companies. Small-volume consumers will be protected
through tariff regulation based on marginal cost pricing. Finally, transactions between generating
companies will be self-regulated by the COES (see Annex 5 for a description of the new legal/
regulatory framework).
14.   The Government, with support from the US$11.8 million Energy and Mining Technical
Assistance Loan (EMTAL; Loan No.3610-PE; Board Approval on June 1, 1993), has taken steps to
strengthen MEM and other public entities in their policy and regulatory functions. MEM, through
DGE, will be responsible for normative regulation, which includes granting concessions and
authorizations, approving contracts, setting technical standards, supervising service quality,
monitoring compliance by the enterprises with their new obligations, administering the sector
information system, and providing access to technical and financial information on utility operations.
The Ministry's Technical Office for Energy (OTERG) will be responsible for evaluating options for



5
overall energy deveiopment and for preparing an integrated energy strategy, and is to act as an
advisory entity for sector strategies and policies. OTREG will also maintain an indicative expansion
plan for electricity generation and transmission which will be available to interested investors and
operators to assist them in planning new projects. CTE will continue to be responsible for tariff
setting for regulated consumers, as defined by the 1992 Electricity Law. The 1992 Law also specifies
revenue sources for CTE, independent of the Government.
15.   For the market-based scheme in the sector to be viable, open accee  ) the transmission
network for generation and distribution co'upanies is essential. This in t. n requires that
transmission systems be separated from Electroperu and Electrolima. ETECkN, the transmission
company for the Central-Northern network, was legally established in 1993. Electroperu's and
Electrolima's transmission assets we 'ransferred to ETECEN in January 1994, based on an
agreement between the parties on the value of transmission assets so transferred.
16.   Further Refonns to be Supported by the Loan. Sector reforms are well advanced with the
enactment of the 1992 Electricity Law and attendant regulations. However, subsequeni to the
enactment of the Law, the Government, concerned at the impact of electricity price increases on
inflation, created in late 1992 a Technical Commission of COPRI (the Privatization Commission,
consisting of representatives of the Economic Cabinet) with authority over public utility pricing
including electricity. With the creation of this Commission, CTE's authority in tariff setting, as
established in the 1992 Electricity Law, was restricted. The Government has communicated to the
Bank its decision to eliminate, by November 1994, the authority of COPRI's Technical Commission
over electricity pricing. Maintenance of CTE's full autonomy is a condition of second and third
tranche releases.
17.   While the 1992 Electricity Law promotes market-based schemes, additional measures are
required to buttress competition in the electricity sector post-privatization. This includes antitrust
measures, since the existing economy-wide competition legislation does not specifically address issues
that could arise from the abuse of market power in the electricity secter, such as through cross-
ownership between generation and distribution. Additional measures also comprise fair trade rules in
regard to concession contracts, rules on COES supplemented by settlement arrangements to ensure
commercial confidentiality, obligations to provide third-party access to the transmission system, and
company charters that place limitations on cross-shareholdings. MEM and the National Institute for
the Defense of Competition and Protection of Intellectual Property (INDECOPI) have prepared a draft
Supreme Decree containg antimonopoly regulations for the electric.y sector. During negotiations,
agreement was reached between the Government and the Bank on this draft Supreme Decree.
Offciad publication of antitrust rules for electricity sector enterprises, and provision to the Bank
of final model concession contracts for electricity trans ion and distribution assuing third-
party access and use of, respectively, the htanmsion and distribution systems, are conditions of
second tranche release.
(c) Electricity Pricing
18.   Tariff inadequacies in terms of both levels and structure have persisted over many years.
Real tariffs during 1985-89 declined by 60 percent, to 18 percent of their economic cost overall and
2.3 percent for residential consumption. Country-wide uniform tariffs added to distortions, and cross-
subsidization of the high-cost utilities undermined efficiency incentives. Taxes and surcharges on
electricity consumption increased in number and complexity.



6
19.   Government Action. The Government's reform program involved major increases in
electricity tariffs, together with changes in the tariff structure and the process of tariff setting.
Electricity tariffs were increased s:ibstaiitially from August 1990 onward. They averaged in October
1994 98.6 vercent of economic costs2 overall anJ 94 percent for residential consumption of less than
151 Kwh/uilonth. On a disaggregated basis, cost coverage for residential consumption of less than
151 kWh/month was 96% in the Lima systems and 88% in the remaining systems. Tariffs for all
other customer categories cover 100 percent of their economic costs. Because of these advan-.es, the
gap between rates and economic costs for consumption below 150 Kwh/month i as been significantly
reduced, given that the mear. residential consumption is about 200 Kwh/month and the median
roughly 175 Kwh/month.
20.   In parallel, a far-reaching tariff reform has been implemented, which cmanged the basis for
tariff setting from accounting to economic costs. Country-wide unified tariffs and the associated
system of regional cross-suibsidization have been abolished, and distortions amnong and within different
tariff categories have been eliminated. CTE devised a system of tar,ff regulation based on short-run
marginal costs consisting of (i) tariffs at the generation through high-voltage transmission level, (ii)
tansmission charges, and (iii) distribution tariffs to final consumers. Distribution tariffs have been
consolidated into three categories according to voltage level (i.e., for low, medium, and high
voltage), which reflect the cost of supply more appropriately than the previous distinction based on
economic sectors. Residential consumers will be incorporated into the general low-voltage category
once their tariffs reach economic costs. Under the new regulatory framework, regulated tariffs are
not to deviate by more than 10% from the average of the freely negotiated prices for electricity sales
to large consumers. Tariff options offered to end-users reflect fairly accurately the resource cost of
meeting these users' demands. While tariff regulation is essentially based on cost of service, it does
contain significant efficiency incentives because standard costs, not actual costs, are used for tariff
setting.
21.   Taxation on electricity consumption has been simplified through incorporating selective
consumption taxes into the rate base, increasing the general consumption tax on electricity to 18%
(i.e., its economy-wide rate) and extending its coverage, and removing discretionary surcharges that
distort price signals. A municipal surcharge, which had been collected by the electric utilities on
behalf of the municipalities, was incorporated into the low-voltage tariff in early 1994, thus
terminating the practice of collecting municipal revenues through electricity bills. All electricity
companies have been made subject to corporate income tax at the standard rate, irrespective of their
ownership. The Govermnent also plans to revoke the enterprises' exemption from specific fuel taxes.
22.   Further Reforms to be Supported by the Loan. Electricity tariffs that cover economic
costs are a prerequisite for economic efficiency and for a:-racting private investors to the sector.
While non-residential tariffs and residential tariffs for consumption above 150 Kwh/month are at their
economic cost, residential tariffs for consumption of less than 150 Kwh/month are still below it. As
a condition of second tranche release, all tariffs are to be set at 100% of economic cost.
Maintenance of non-residentil and residential tariffs at 100% of economic cost is a condition of
third tranche release.
2. Economic costs in the Peruvian tariff system are defined as short-run marginal costs
averaged over the following 48 months.



7
(d) Privation of Mectridty Holdig
23.   Following its nationalization in the early 1970s, the electricity sector became the largest
segment of the state-owned sector in the economy, with assets estimated at roughly US $3 billion,
consisting of Electroperu (US$2.1 billion), Electrolima (US$0.7 billion) and the nine regional utilities
(US$0.2 billion). This represents roughly 40% of assets of state-owned enterprises, which total
US$7.5 billion.
24.   Goverment Action. In preparation for privaizing its electricity holdings, the Govermnent
has reorganized the sector. Ietroperu, Electrolima, and the larger regional utilities have been
segmented into independent companies for generation, transmission, and distribution, in order to
make their corporate structure consistent with the new reguatory principles.
25.   The privatization of the electricity holdings is being carried out within the context of the
Gc;.ernment's broad privatization program. The legal/instituional framework for privatization was
laid out in the 1991 Decree Law 674, which established an inter-ministerial commission (COPRI) to
oversee the program. The technical preparatory work, at the enterprise level, is the responsibility of
Special Privatization Committees (CEPRIs) which are designated by COPRI to prepare and implement
privatizions for either one or a group of state-owned entprises. CEPRIs have been formed for
both Electroperu and Electrolima, and are in the process of being brimed for the major regional
utilities.
26.   The Government has decided to privatize Electrolima and Electropern in segments, consistent
with its objective to promote competition in the sector. Technical consultaL analyzed the structural
options for segmenting and privatizing the e ps. Following the consultants' recommendation,
Electrolima's metropolitan distribution network has been separated into two roughly equivalent
companies (Edelnor for Lima North; Edelsur for Lima South). This allows the regulator to measure
comparative performance through bencbmark competition, notwithstanding that distribution remains a
natural monopoly. Subsequent to the preparation of the sales memorandum and bidding documents
including pre-qualification criteria for privatization of the two distribution companies by financial
advisors, majority interests in Edelnor and Edelsur amounting to 60 percent in each company were
sold in July 1994 to consortia of Peruvian and international investors (for US$176 million and
US$212 million, respectively, considerably exceeding the base price that had beeu set by the
Government at about US$130 milion). Electrolima also has minor distribution operations in two
areas outside Lima, which will be transferred to existng regional utilities and privatized together with
those enterprises. In addition to distnbution, Electrolima has seven generation plants (six hydro and
one thermal), which account for 689 MW of insalled capacity (635 MW of effective capacity,
representing one-third of the total effective capacity of Electrolima and Electroperu combined). T;- e
will be sold as one unit.
27.   Electroperu manages 1,864 MW of installed capacity (including a new 200 MW gas turbine
plant at Ventanilla) and an effective capacity of 1,428 MW. Its system consists of 10 generation
plants (7 hydro and 3 thermal). It is dominated by the Mantaro-Restituci6n hydro complex, which
accounts for 1,014 MWIV of installed capacity (40 percent of total generation capacity) and 779 MW of
effective capacity (38 percent). Consultants evaluated Electropeu's generation plants and analyzed
the segmentation options for privatization. It is expected that Electroperu will be segmented into six
units for privatization purposes, including the Mantaro-Restituci6n scheme which is planned to be



8
privatized last. Electroperu's financial advisors submitted their report in Septemnber 1994.
Electroperu's units are expected to be privatized in late 1994/early 1995.
28.   The transmission assets/operations of Electroperu and Electrolima have been transferred to
two newly formed transmission companies (for the interconnected central-northern and southern
systems), which will operate separately and provide regulated open access. The transmission
companies probably will be the last components of the sector to be privatized, for both economic/
finaial and physical security reasons.
29.   The privatization of the regional utilities is expected to get underway in 1995, starting with
those in regions where support for privatization is strong.
30.   Further Refonns to be Supported by the Loan. This operation will support the privatization
of Electrolima and Electroperu, which account for over 90 percent of sector assets (as defined in
Arnex 6). The proposed tranche conditions have been structured to reflect the degree of importance
of the different assets of the electricity sector, as well as the expected segmentation, timing, and
sequencing of the privatizations. During negotiations, a strategy for the privatization of Electrolima
and Electroperu was agreed upon (Annex 4). The major elements of this strategy have been
incorporated into the Govenment's Policy Letter for this operation. The proposed conditions provide
flexibility, while ensuring sustained momentum of the privatization process. The conditions &ae:
by second trandie relea: offer for sale of a majority interest In (a) each of the
Etectrolhma distribution utilities for metropoltan Uima, and (b) Electlas and
Electroperu's generating utilities whose combined assets represent not les than 12
percent of total assets to be privatized in the sector; and
by third tranche: offer for sale of a majority interest in the generating utilities whose
assets represent at least 52 percent of totd privatization assets to be prvatized in the
sector; and actual sale of a majority interest in the utffies whose combined assets
represent at least 25 percent of total assets to be privatimed in the sector.
31.   Achievement of the tranche condition "offer for sale' requires the completion of technical
studies, issuance of bidding documents, and public bidding for sale of the assets or shares. While the
third ache also requires the actual sale of a portion of total assets, it does not require the sale of
any specifc unit or company, and therefore will not influence the bidding process nor compel the
Govermment to accept unatractive offers. This approach recognizes, however, that if few of the
initial offers for sale were successful, it might not be worthwhile to contimue with additional offers for
sale and third tranche release. This is consistent with the approach foIlowed under the preceding
Privatzaton Adjustme  Loan.
32.   Since both Electrolima and Electroperu will be sold in segments, it is necessary to establish
"reference values" for each segment for purposes of setting the privatization targets and measurng
progress against these targets. In this manner, units can be credited against the tranche release targets
as they are offered for sale and sold. As the sales prices of the generating units are currenty
unavailable, a method has been developed to measure ex-ante the "value" of each generation unit to
be privatized based on its contribution to production, including its effective capacity, firm energy and
secondary energy (Annex 6). This method is preferable to using the book values of the units, which
in many cases are inflated as a result of excessive construction costs. On that basis, the Mantaro-



9
Restituci6n bydroelectric complex represents 48.7 percent of total Electrolima/Electroperu generation.
It has been estimated that metropolitan Lima distribution accounts for 20 percent of
Electroperu/Elestrolima assets. Neither the regional utilities nor the transmission assets of
Electroperu and Electrolima have been included in the privatization targets, as these units are
expected to be privatized in a second round.
33.   To ensure cosistency and transparency in the process, all privatizations in the electricity
sector follow COPRI's operational guidelines to the special privatization committees. These
guidelines have been agreed with the Bank earlier under the Privatizon Adjustment Loan and
address such inplementation issues as: public announcements of companies or assets to be privatzedd
issuance of preliminary and final biddiDg documents; communication with interested bidders;
valuation and pricing (including the process for setting and antiouncing the base ptice); public
bidding; employee participation; and use of consultants. The Bank will monitor compliance with
these guidelines. Any privatization not following these guidelines will not be counted toward the
tranche release tart ets.
34. It is Government policy to leave all major investments to the new owners of privatized firms.
In the electricity sector, public investments will be limited to the expenditures needed for maintaining
the current system in an operative state. Since the transmission system is expected to be the last to be
privatized, some investments such as load dispatch facilities needed for operating the decentized
system and interconnectng the two southern systems may be justified prior to privatization.
35.   Environmental Aspects. Measures are necessary to remove or reduce adverse en ir
impacts from electricity operations, notwithstanding that these impacts are comparatively limited
(except for installing new hydro generating plants and operatng thermal plants if their emissions are
inadequaly controlled). General enviromnental legislation is adequate and is complemented by
detailed sector regulations, norms, and standards for the electricity sector acceptable to the Bank, over
and above the stipulations in the 1992 Electricity Law. Environmeal regulations including specfic
norms and standards acceptable to the Bank for the electricity sector have been issued. These are to
ensure that electricity operations adequately take into account, and internalize, envirnmtal costs,
and that cost-effective measures are taken to remove or reduce any adverse impacts. Potential
investors thus will know which specific envirmental requiments exist in the sector before they
commit themselves to major expenditures. The Bank through EMTAL has financed assistance for
preparing environmental regulations and norms for the electicity sector.
36.   The Government will ensure that environmental audits are carried out on all thermal power
plants and other facilities, as appropriate, subject to privatization under this Loan, as required under
the enviomental regulations for electricity-related activities. The Government will coordinate with
the Bank on the TORs of such audits. These audits will determine (i) liabilities associated with past
and current operating practices and with design features of the relevant facilities, and (ii) mitigatory
measures, along with their capital and current costs, so that operations will comply with current
standards. The environmental laws and regulations in Peru, the Bank's Eniwonmel Guidelines and
Occupational Health and Safety Guidelines, and other international guidelines as appropriate will form
the basis for conducting these audits. The audits will serve to clarify environental risks and
liabilities for potental investors, and to identify the mitigatory measures to be undertaken by the new
owners within a specified schedule. Privatized firms will be subject to the same environmental laws
and standards as other companies. The Bank will monitor the adherence to these policies and
procedures, as part of its review of the satisfactory progress of the privadzadon process, including for



10
the preparation of the bidding documents for individual privatizations, prior to counting the latter
toward the tranche release targets.
37.   Sodal Impact. The Goverunent has reduced excess employment in the sector by about
5,300 (42%) since August 1990. These layoffs have occurred mainly through voluntary acceptance of
severance packages, and have been financed by the enterprises themselves. Severance payments to
employees made redundant are the legal obligation of the enterprises, and the Govermment has
ensured that these payments are made. The Government has also started retraining programs to
facilitate the reintegration into the labor force of those employees displaced through the restructuring
of enterprises slated for privatization.
H. THE PROPOSED LOAN
38.   Description. The US$150 million loan would be disbursed in three tranches of US $50
million each. The first tranche would become available on effectiveness and the second and third
tranches on meeting specific conditions for tranche release. The Policy Matrix (Annex 3) summazs
the reform program to be supported by the Loan and the proposed tranche release conditions. A
oicy Leettr (Annex 4), which was finalized during negotiations, has been signed jointly by the
Minister of Economy and Finance and the Minister of Energy and Mines.
39.   Proposed Loan Conditions. The proposed loan conditions are sunmmaized below:
Conditions of Loan Effectiveness:
(i)    Maintenance of a macroeconomic policy framework and financing plan consistent with
the objectives of the overall structural reform program supported by the Bank (para.
8);
(ii)   Satisfactory progress in implementing the electricity sector reform program set out in
the Policy Letter (para 8);
Conditions of Second Tranche Release:
(i)    Maintenance of a macroeconomic policy framework and financing plan consistent with
the objectives of the overall structural reform program supported by the Bank (para.
8);
(ii)   Satisfactory progress in implementing the electricity sector reform program set out in
the Policy Letter (para. 8);
(iii)   Maintenance of full autonomy of the Electricity Tariff Commission (para. 16);
(iv)   All electricity tariffs to be set at 100 percent of economic cost (para. 22);
(v)    Official publication of antitrust rules for electricity sector enterprises, and provision to
the Bank of final model concession conas for electricity transmission and



11
distribution, assuring third-party access and use, respectively, of the transmission and
distribution systems (para. 17);
(vi)   Offer for sale of a majority interest in: (a) each of the Electrolima distribution utilities
for metropolitan Lima, and (b) Electrolima's and Electroperu's generating utilities
whose combined assets represent at least 12 percent of total assets to be privatized in
the sector (para. 30);
Conditions of Third Tranche Release:
(i)    Maintenance of a macroeconomc policy framework and financing plan consistent with
the objectives of the overall structural reform program supported by the Bank (para.
8);
(ii)    Maintenance of full autonomy of the Electricity Tariff Commission (para. 16);
(iii)   Maintenance of all tariffs at 100 percent of economic cost (para. 22);
(iv)   Offer for sale of a majority interest in the generating utilities whose assets represent at
least 52 percent of total assets to be privatized in the sector (para. 30);
(v)    Actual sale of a majority interest in the utilites whose combined assets represent at
least 25 percent of total assets to be privatized in the sector (para. 30).
40.   Technical Assitanc. Substantial technical assistance has been provided for preparing and
implementing electricity privadzation and regulatory reform, through: (a) a Japanese grant for the
energy sector (US$750,000 equivalent), which has financed consultants to develop the new legal/
regulatory regimes for electricity and hydrocarbons; (b) the US$30 million Privatization T.A. Loan
(Loan No. 3540-PE; approved by the Board on December 10, 1992) for financing consulting services
to assist with privadzation in all sectors, including electricity; (c) a Japanese grant for electricity
privaizadon (US$855,000 equivalent) to assist the Government in preparing the program to be
supported by this operation; and (d) the EMTAL, which is financing institutional development at
MEM and related entities and the preparation of firther regulatory reforms, including for
environmtl regulation and norms, in the electricity, hydrocarbons, and mining sectors.
41.   Monitoring and Reporting. Prior to second and third tranche release, the Government will
submit to the Bank a report on the overall progress in implementing the reform program set out in the
Policy Letter.
42.   Procurement, Disburement, Audit, and Ad tron. The proposed loan would finance
100 percent of the c.i.f. costs of general imports not contained in a negative list. Ineligible imports
include: goods financed by other Bank loans or loans from official multi- or bilateral sources; alcohol,
tobacco, luxury and environentally hazardous goods; and goods for military use. Retroactive
financing in the amount of US$30 million (20 percent of the loan amount) would be available to
finance eligible expenditures incurred less than four months prior to the date of expected loan signing.
It is expected that the Borrower will have met all loan conditions by June 30, 1996, and will have
acmulated sufficient documentation for full disbursement. The closing date for the loan would be
December 31, 1996.



12
43.   A Country Procurement Assessment Report prepared by the Bank in 1991 noted that the laws
and decrees governing the procurement procedures followed by both public and private sector
importers were in broad conformity with Bank Procurement Guidelines. The findings of this Report
continue to be valid. In addition, the annual budget law provides that goods and works financed by
international financial institutions will be procured in accordance with the requirements of these
institutions.
44.   Trade policy reform since August 1990 - consisting of large-scale reduction of tariff and non-
tariff barriers, elimination of fiscal preferences, removal of controls on foreign-exchange transactions,
and customs reforms - has strengthened the competitive environment in which private purchasing
decisions are made.
45.   In view of these reforms, procurement procedures under this Loan will be consistent with
Bank guidelines, as follows:
(a)    Contracts for the procurement of imports made by public and private importers valued
at or exceeding US$5.0 million would be procured under simplified ICB procedures in
accordance with Bank Procurement Guidelines. Petroleum products and agricultural
commodities would be imported under ICB procedures acceptable to the Bank. In
addition, direct contracting would be acceptable if it is in accordance with the
provisions of para. 3.5 of the Procurement Guidelines. Contracts below US$5,000
would not be eligible for Bank financing. The Bank's Standard Bidding Documents
will be used for ICB procurement of goods.
(b)   Public sector imports valued at below US$5.0 million and above US$5,0OYv would be
procured in accordance with public procurement procedures which have been assessed
as acceptable to the Bank in the 1991 Country Procurement Assessment Report. The
findings of this report continue to be valid.
(c)   Import conras by private importers below US$5.0 million and above US$5,000
would be awarded in accordance with established commercial practices, which are
acceptable to the Bank. These practices generally consist of vitming more than one
quotation, except for importers of small amounts of consumer goods, who generally
buy from traditional sources using direct negotiation.
46. Disbursements for contracts under US $5.0 million would be made against Statements of
Expenditure, for which the customs certificate documentation would be kept locally for supervision by
Bank staff in the field and for auditors whose terms of reference for auditing would be acceptable to
the Bank.
47.   The Mnistry of Economy and Finance will administer the loan and will be responsible for
submitting the relevant documentation for disbursement. A Coordination Unit has been established
within the Ministry for administering prior adjustment loans, to ensure compliance with loan
conditions, prepare disbursement requests, and meet reporting requirements to the Bank. This Unit
will have similar responsibilities for this operation.



13
48.   The Ministry of Economy and Finance and the Central Bank, in conjunction with the Customs
Administration, has created a Special Procurement Unit responsible for the collection of relevant
procuremen documentation, ensuring that only eligible and correctly procured imports are included in
withdrawal applications. This unit has carried out these functions for prior adjustment loans and witl
carry out the same tasks for this operation. Documentation would be retained for review by the Bank
and the project auditors, as required. Audits will be prepared not later than six months after each
tranche disbursement and year-end, whichever comes first.
49.   Benefit. Regulatory reform and privatization in the electricity sector are expected to resut
in a strengthening of the sector's position and thus, in major economic benefits. These include: (a)
improved service reliability and responsiveness to demand through policy and legal/regulatory
reforms; (b) increasd efficiency through pricing reform, improved management of the utilities, and
introduction of competition; (c) new private investment, as a result of an improved incentive
frmework; and (d) strengthened fiscal position through the elimination of subsidies and increased tax
revenue from more profitable sector companies.
50.   Risks. The macroeconomic situation is stitl fragile. Because of the lack of solid socio-
economic underpigs, especially the prevailing divisions within Peruvian society, there is a risk
that the adjustment will be weakened and that the reform process in its current form is not
sustainable. Domestic pressures might bring about some backsliding in the Government's program,
thereby underming economic recovery. There are already some indications of a slowdown in the
overali reform process as new elections draw near. Institutional weaknesses, especially the lack of an
effective civil service, compound these uncertaintes and could delay the adjustment process once the
structural reforms are enacted. Thus, other scenarios are possible where the economy moves into a
path of high inflation and low growth. Nevertheless, the Government is expected to achieve its
program targets, given its adherence to sound macroeconomic policies since mid-1990 under difficult
circumstances and its commitment to sustining the stabilization and structural reform program, as
evidenced by its agreement with the Bank and IMF on a macroeconomic program and financing plan
for the 1993-95 period. To address the risk of adjustment slowdown or reversal, maintenae of a
satisfactory macroeconomic policy framework, financing plan, and structural reform program is a
condition for aU tranche releases of the proposed Loan.
51.     With respect to the privatization of the    icity sector, there are two main risks: (a) that
the Government will face difficulties in attracing  - ate investors and operators for the sector; and
(b) that there will be renewed government intervention in the tariff-setting process. To address the
first risk, the new legal/regulatory regime and tariff system are designed to enbance the incentive
framework, increase competition, and ensure economic and financial viability for the sector. This
should stimulate private investment. Overall, the favorable record of the privatization program to
date and promotional campaigns to attract foreign investment are expected to generate sustained
investor interest in Peru's electricity sector. There has thus far been strong investor interest in
ongoing privatizations in the electricity sector. To address the risk of possible political intervention in
tariff setting, the 1992 Electricity Law establishes the authority of CTE and the automaticity of tariff
adjustments. CTE's efective autonomy in tariff setting has been reestablished, and maininig this
autonomy is a condition of second and third tranche release.



14
III. RECOMMNDATION
52.   I am satisfied that the Loan would comply with the Articles of Agreement, and recommend
that the Executive Directors approve it.
Lewis T. Preston
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
October 27, 1994



15
Annex I
PERU
ELECTRICIY PRIVATIZATION ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Relationshii Amoni Bank Adjustment Oneios
Bank          Privaization and Regulatory
Operation     Reform Obiectives          Conditions                    Fulfillment of Conditions
(i) Establish general policy,                            Fully disbursed.
legal, and institutional
framework for privatization   Overall         The        Overall privatization: lTe
and private sector         Government will establish the  Government has set up
development.              institutional framework for    the inter-ministerial
privatzation, set out in      privatization commission
Privatization Law 674.        (COPRI) and appointed
special privatization
committees for each
sector/major company.
(ii) Establish sectoral    Electricity Sector: The       Electricity Sector: The
privaization strategies for    Government will develop a  Government in June 1992
banking, fisheries, mining,   policy frmnework, including an   submitted a detailed
hydrocarbons, electricity,    implementation schedule for  strategy/implementation
telecommunications,        private sector participation In    timetable for electricity
transport, water, and      power generation, transmission,  privatization and
industry.                  and distribution by June 30,  regulatory reform.
1992.
P    rivadzation   Implenumentv pzation  lTanche conditions linked to   Second tanche disbursed.
A4buIment   strategies and regulatory    progress in  i                Final tranche pending.
Low (PAL    reform in minig,             privatization and regulatory  Substantial progress
telecommunications,        reform in mining, telecom,    towards 2nd trche
hydrocaons, water, and     hydrocabons, water and        conditions re: further
fisheries.                 fisheries.                    privatzation and new
laws/regulations for
hydrocarbons, telecom,
water and fisheries.
EBlectricitv    Implemenlt privaization  Tranche conditions linked to
strategy and new legal/    progress in im nIH
AdMM=nt   reguatory fIrmework and    privaization and legall
tariff regime for electricity   regulatory (including tariff
(UPAL)        sector.                    reforms in electricity sector (see
Policy Matix - Annex Im).



16                                            kA;DIFX  2
Page  1 of 4
Peru* Key Econom  hdicators
Acat                        Estiae            Projected
lIdiator                        1989    1990      1991     .992       1993       1994       1995       1996
Natlonal accounts (% of GDP at current prices)
Gross domestic product
Agriculture                                       13.3     12.7     12.6     12.2       12.1       12.2       12.4        12.4
Industry at                                       34.3     34.4     34.2    33.2        34.1       3S.1       35.4       35.6
Serv -s b/                                        52.3    52.9    53.2       54.6       53.7       52.7       52.2       52.0
Total Consumption                                   77.8     83.9    85.3       87.1       84.7       82.9       83.2       83.4
Gross domestic fixed investment                      19.1     16.8     16.8     16.3       18.6       19.9       20.0       20.0
Government investment                              3.6      2.7      4.7      4.2        3.8        4.3        4.0        4.0
Private investmt                                  15.5     14.1     12.0    12.1        14.8       15.6       16.0        16.0
Exports GNFS                                         18.4     13.2     9.8      10.4       10.4        9.7        9.9       10.4
!mports GNFS                                         15.3     13.9     11.8     13.7       13.6       12.5       13.1       13.8
Gross domesfic savings                              22.2      16.1     14.7     12.9       15.3       17.1       16.8       16.6
Gross national savings Cl                            16.4     12.0    11.8      10.2       12.7       14.2       14.0       14.0
Memondum items
Gross domestic product (US $ m) d/                 24249    32080   42672    41918       41232      46854       48370      49043
GNP per capita (Atal US)                            1660     1006     1466     1708       1898        1955       1941       1961
Real annal growth rates
(%, calculated from 1989 prices) e/
Gross domestic product at market prces           -11.8    -4.4       2.7    -2.8         6.5       10.0        6.0        6.0
ross domesc income                               -13.6    -9.1       0.8     -5.3        6.0        4.4        4.7        5.6
Real annual per capita growth rates
(%, calculed from 1989 prices) el
Gross domestic product at madet prices           -13.5    -6.2       0.6     -4.7        4.4        7.8        3.9        3.9
Total consumpdon                                 -13.5      1.1      2.4     -2.7        2.0        0.8        3.2        4.2
Privat consmption                                -13.3      2.7      2.8     -3.1        2.2        1.0        3.4        4.4
(CUinged)



A'JNEX 2
17                                                     Page  2 of 4
Peru - Ky Economic E nsator
(Continued)
Actual                      Esimee            Projected
Indicator                       1989     1990r   1991      1992        1993       J994        1995       1996
lnce of paymens (s$
Exponts (ONFS)                                       4470     4248     4165     4345        4273       4529       4801        5089
Merchandie f.o.b.                                 3488     3231     3329     3484        3433       3585       3853        4174
IMPOts (ONFS)                                        3721     4467     5054     5762        5623       5861       6334        6755
Merchandise f.o.b.                                2291     2885     3494     4051        3995       4133       4510        4906
Resource balince                                      749     -219     -889    -1417       -1350      -1332       -1533      -1666
Net currnt tranudrs                                 -1207    -1288    -1310    -1072       -1265      -1267        -994      -1053
Curent account balance                               -458    -1507    -2199    -2489       -2615      -2599       -2527      -2719
Net foreig privaft direct invesmant                    59       34       -7      127         537       3050 f      650         750
Long term loans (net)                                 635      416      712      485         500        172        -703         23
Offcil                                             247       88      356        6         567        337        211        -130
Privae                                             388      328      356      479         -67       -165        -914 g      153
OGtercapial (net, including erors and onissions)      627     1193     2745     2369        2078       1334        1466       2157
Coange in esrves b                                   -863     -136    -1251      -492       -500      -1957       1114        -211
Memrandm  items
Resource balne (% of GDP)                             3.1     -0.7      -2.1     -3.4       -3.3       -2.8        -3.2       -3.4
Read annu powt rates
Merchandise expors (lo.b)                         22.8    -12.1       1.1      3.7       -4.3         1.4        4.3        5.2
primary                                         22.3    -12.9       1.3      2.9       -9.4        -1.3        3.0        4.3
Manmnes                                         24.1      -5.6     -4.2      5.5        9.0         6.8        6.8        6.8
Merchandise imos (c.i.f.)                        -22.2      19.5     18.8     14.9       -4.3        0.4         5.9        5.6
(Q sr..ed)



ANNEX 2
18                                             Paee  3 of 4
Perau- Key Ronmic hitaors
(Cond)
Actua                        Emate             Projected
Indicator                        1989     1990     1991     1992        1993       1994        1995       1996
Public fi       (% of GDP at curen prices) V
Curent revenues                                        7.1      9.5       9.5     10.6        10.5       12.5        14.2       14.8
Current expenditures                                  10.5     11.8       9.0      9.7        9.5        11.0        13.4 g     12.5
Current account surplus/deficit                       -3.4     -2.3       0.5      0.9         1.0        1.5        0.8         2.3
Privatization proceeds                                 0.0      0.0       0.0      0.5        0.7         5.1 f      2.1         0.6
Capital expendite                                      2.3      1.4       1.4      2.1        2.0         3.2        3.4         3.8
Foreign financtog                                      1.7      1.9       1.9      0.8         1.1        1.2         1.2        0.9
Montay ndiatos
M2/GDP (at current market prices)                     21.5      17.7     12.8     14.6        15.7
Growth of M2 (%)                                    2116.9   4924.8    269.1      81.4       68.5
Private setorcreditgrowth/totalct Aitgrwth(%)         74.5     79.4   :68.2    133.6         132.7
price Idces (198- 100)
Merchandise export price index                       100.0    104.4      94.8     96.6       89.5        92.2       95.6       100.9
Merchandise iport price indx                         100.0    106.4    108.5    111.5        112.1      115.9       119.3      122.8
Merchandise terms of trade index                     100.0     98.3      87.4     86.6       79.9        79.6        80.3       82.2
Real exchange rate jl                                100.0    103.9    128.4    137.4        127.2
Real interest rates (%) kl                           -18.6    -40.4      15.5     40.1       34.2
Consumer price index (e.o.p. X growth rate)         2775.0   7649.6    139.2      56.7       39.5        20.0        12.0       10.0
GDP deflator (% growthiate)                         2670.3   6142.3    421.1      72.4       47.9        20.4        12.2       10.0
Notes:
a/ Includes fishing, mmiing. and manufactuing.
b/ Inludes constucdon, government, commerce, and other.
c/ Includes net unrequited transfrs excuding offcidal capital grams.
d/ Calculated using average nomial exchange ates.
e/ Calculated from GDP in domestic currency.
f Includes US$ 2.4 billion of privatization proceeds.
g/ Includes projected use of US$ I billion to pay for unfunded liabiltes.
h/ Includes use of IMF resources. A negative change ndicates an increase In reserves.
i/ Central gove  t
j/ An increase in the index denotes appreciation.
k/ Real interest rate in domestic currency. Credit in domestic currency represented 22 percent of total credit in December of 1993.



19                                                 ANMEY 2
Page  4 of 4
Peru - Ke Exposur Indicators
AcMWl                       Estinate          Projected
Indicator                       1989     1990     1991     1992        1993       1994       1995        1996
Total debt outstanding and disbursed (MDO) (US$m) a/  18583    20068    20720    20297     21170      21742      21867       24047
Net disbursements (US$m) a/                           .28      128      208      336         185       1171        774         785
Total debt service (TDS) (US$m)                       407      476     1153      1033       5492 b    2764        3080 c      2060
Debt and debt service indicators (%)
TDO/XGS d/                                       415.7    472.4    497.5    467.1       495.4      480.1       455.5      472.5
TDO/GDP e/                                        76.6     62.6      48.6     48.4       51.3       46.4        45.2        -.0
TDStXGS d/                                         9.1      11.2     27.7     23.8      128.5       61.0        64.2       40.5
Concessional/TDO                                    1.2      1.1      1.1       1.1        1.0        1.0         1.0        0.9
IBRD exposure indicators (%)
IBRD DS/public DS                                  0.0      0.0      16.7     20.2       58.2       25.3        31.1       12.0
Preferred creditor DS/public DS                   17.4      12.8     62.4     42.1       64.4       56.9        67.7       27.7
IBRD DS/XGS d/                                     0.0      0.0       4.2      4.5       21.9        4.0         4.2        4.2
IBRD portfolio share                               1.4       1.3      1.2      0.9        1.4         1.4        1.4        1.4
IFC (US$m)
Loans                                               NA       NA       0.0     87.0       76.0       89.0         NA          NA
Equity and quasieqiity f/                           NA       NA       0.0     13.0       24.0        11.0        NA          NA
MIGA
MIGA guarantees (US$m)                              NA       NA       0.0      0.0        0.0        38.0        NA          NA
Notes:
a/ Includes public and pubLiy guranteed debt, private n ated. use of IMF credits, and net short term capital.
b/Inc ldes bridge loans to pay arrears to TERD and IMP. It also nitludes arrears paid to IBRD and IMP.
c/ Includes US$ I bilion to pay for unfunded liabilities.
d/ XGS denotes exports of goods and sewrvices, including workers' renittance
el GDP in US$ calculated using average nominal exchange rates.
/ Includes equit and quas-equity pes of both loan and equity insms.



PERU
ELECTRICITY PRIVATIZATION ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Policy Matrix
BY SECOND             BY THR
REFORMS                 ACTIONS TO DATE                                 BY EFFECTIVENESS        TRANCHE                TRANCHE
A. Macroeonomc          Since August 1990, the Govermnent has been      Maintnance of a         Maintenance of a       Maitenance of
Polcies and           iplementing stabilization and struchta reform  macroeconomic policy    macroeconomic policy   a macro-
Performance          programs. During a debt workout period, these  fiamework and financing   framework and         economic policy
programs were supported by the Bank (SAL, TPRL,   plan, consistent with the   finan^ing plan,  framework and
FSAL), IMP (Rights Acumulation Program), and   objectives of the overal    consistent with the  fmancing plan,
]DB. Peru cleared its arrears with the Bank and  structural reform      objectives of the     consistnt widh
IME in March 1993. Agreement was reached on a   program supported by the  overall structural  the objectives
macroeconomic program and financing plan for   Bank.                    reform program        of overall
1993-95, to be suppo.ted by an BeM Extended Fund                        supported by the Bank.  structural
Facilty and further Bank adjustment loans (i.e., the                                          reform program
Privatization Adjustment Loan approved in April                                               supported by
1993, and this Loan). A draft letter of intent has                                            the Bank.
been signed with the IMD for 1994.
B. Policy Letter        The Policy Letter sets out the electicity sector  Satisfactory progess in    Satisfactory progress in  Satisfactory
reform program being implemented under the     implementing the        implementing the       progress in
proposed Loan, including the program objectives and   electricity sector reform    elecricity sector  implementing
rationale. The draft Letter has been discussed with    program set out in the  reform program set out  the electricity
the Government and has been fialzed during     Policy Letter.          in the Policy Letter.    sector reform
negodatons.                                                                                   program set out
in the Policy
Letter.
m 4
-h
U"f



PERU
ELECTRICITY PRIVATIZATION ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Policy Matrix
REFORMS                  ACTIONS TO DATE                                  BY   ECTIVENESS   BY SECOND                      BY THIRD
TRANCHE                 RACHE
C. Electricity Tariffs
The Governmeat has intodud a new tariff system           -                 All tariffs to be set at    Main nance of
for regulated cutomers comprising: (a) tarMs at the                        100% of their          tariffs at 100%
generation plus high voltage transmission level,                           economic costs.        of their
based on short-tem marginal costs (averaging over                                                 econmic costs.
48 months); (b) transmission charges; and (c) tariffs
at the distribution level. In paralel, the Govenmment
has inreased tariffs for all non-residenkial
consumption and for resdti cnmptio above
150 Kwh/month to 100% of economic costs and
those for residential consumption below 150
Kwh/month to an average of 94% of their economic
costs. The Government plns that a tariffs will
cover economic costs by end-November 1994.
o n
b1
4- 



PERU
ELECTRICITY PRIVATIZATION ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Policy Matrix
BY SECOND             BY THMRD
REPORMS                 ACTIONS TO DATE                                 BY EFFECTIVEN            TRANCHE                TRANCHE
D. Legal/Regulp.ory     The Government enacted a new Electricity Law in  -                       Maintenance of full    Maintenance of
Framework            November 1992, issued corresponding regulations in                       autonomy of CTE.       full autonomy
Februaty 1993, and appointed a new Directorate to                                              of CTE.
the Electricity Tariff Commission. The new
legislation establishes the principles of: (a) separation                Offrcial publication of
of generadon, tranission, and distribution, to be                        andirust rules for
carried out by independent companies, with no                            electricity sector
shareholdings by generaton and distribution                              enterprises. Submission
companies in tranmission permitted and cross-                           to the Bank of fnal
shareholdings between generation and distribution                        model concession
companies restricted; (b) free contracting between                       contracts for electricity
generation companies and large-volume consumers:                         transmission and
and (c) tariff regulation through the autonomous                         distribution, assuring
Eklctrity Tariff Commission (CTE) and technkal                           third-party access and
regulation through the General Electricity Directorate                   use of, respectively,
of the Ministry of Energy and Mines.                                    the transmission and
distribution system.
0
o% I
tn 



PERU
ELECTRICITY PRIVATI7ATION ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Policv Matrix
BY SECOND              BY THIRD
REFORMS                 ACTIONS TODATE                                    BY EFFECTIB NS                                  TRANCHE
E. Privtiaton            The Government has launched a program to privatize    -                   Offer for sale of a    Offer for sale
its holdings in the electricity sector. The                               majority interest in: (a)  of a majority
Government has (a) separated generation,                                  each of the two        interest in the
transmission, and distribution into independent units;                    distnbution utilities for  generating
and (b) appointed special committees to                                   metropolitan Lima; and  utilities whose
prepare/implement the privatization of Electrolima                        (b) the generating     combined assets
and Eectropern. Consultants have assessed the                             utilities whose        represent at
structural and fnacal options for privatizmg                              combined assets       least 52 percent
Electrolima and Electopern. Electrolima's two                             represent not less than   of total assets to
distribution unis have been privatized in July 1994.                      12 percent of total    be privatized in
Electrolima's generaion unit and Electroperu's                            assets to be privatized   the ekctricity
generation units are to be privatized by end-1994.                        in the electric sector  sector.
Acual sale of a
majority
interest in the
utilities whose
combined assets
represent at
east 25 perceat
of total assets to
be privatized in            I
the electricity            0
sector. 
o >e
in W



PERU
ELECTRICITY PRIVATIZATION ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Policy Matrix
BY SECOND             BY THIRD
REFORMS                 ACTONS TODATE                                   BYEPFECIIVESS           TRANCHE                TRANCB
P. Environment          The Government has (a) established a General        -
Enviromnental Directorate within the Ministry of
Energy and Mines to foanldate environmental
policies for the electricity, hydrocarbons, and mining
sectors; and (b) issued Envirounental Regultions
for electricity-relted activities. The General                                                                              N
Ekctricity Directoate will be responsible for
monitoring and enforcing electricity-related
envionmnt policies.
The Policy Letter for this Loan includes
commitments that: (a) environmental audits will be
undertaken, in accordance with the Environmental
Regulations for electricty-related activiies. for all
thermal plants (and other istallations, as
appropriate) subject to privatization under this loan,
to idendty environmental problems and costs of
clamwprovement.
00
0
eqA
'nw



25                                      ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 3
UINZSTERIO 0E LNEMxIA  Y MI
OFFICIAL NO-TE N 599--24EM-SG                            uLma. II 9   LAJ. 1994
Mr. Lewis T. Preston
President
The World Bank
Washington, DC
U.S.A
Dear Mr. Preston,
This Policy Letter sets out the Govemments program of legal/regulatoiy and Institutional reforms and
prvatzation in the eleoicity sector. This program, to be implemented under the EJectricity Privatizaton
Adjustment Loan. Is an Integral part of the Govemmenra oveall development strategy, which is aimed
at llberalizing the economy and enhancing responsiveness to market forces.
A.    Macroeconomic Stabilzation Policies and Structural Reforms
Upon taking office In August 1090, the Government launched a major reform program to correct
fundamental problems In the economy. Key elements of the Initial package involved trade, price and
exchanae rate liberalization, together with fiscal and monetary measures to reduce the fIscai deficit and
inflation. The initial measures were reinforced from 1991 onward by economy-wide and sector-specific
structural reforms aimed at furer strengthening public finances, promoting competitiveness, and
deregulating economic activity to promote private sector Investment Agreement was reached In 1993 with
the multilateral agencies and the Support Group on a medium-term macroenomic program and
financing plan. The Government is committed to continuing its macroeconomic policies and to mnaintning
and deepening the reform program.
s.    Ehectridty Sector
Over the pest two years the Governent has Implemented major reforms In the electity sector. These
reforms, and the agenda of fUrther measures to be Implemented under the Electdty Prvatizadon
Adjustment Loan, are outined below.
LegalJRegulatory and Institutional Reform. Our objectves for the electricity sector are to secure
adequate and environmentally sustainable supplies. irnprove efficiency, and eliminate the burden of the
sector on fiscal rsources. This is to be achieved through deregulation of activies where competition Is
feasible, combined with arms-length regulation of natural nmonpolis and enhanced partcipation by
private investors. to allow market forces to exert thek aoceative functon.
The new legal framework - the Law on Eectricity Concessions enacted in 1992 and corresponding
regulatons covering the public electricity system Issued In early 1993 - redefines the role of public
situtions In policy making: sector ontry and exdt; pricing; investments; and quality of servIe. The now
Law and regulations establish hat (a) generation will be decentralized, deregulated, and made subject
to competifion; (b) the transnission network wIll provide third-party sccess to al suppliers and purchasers
with an adequately regulated toll scheme: and (c) distribuion as natural monopoly wM be regulated, fuly
establishing the nghts and duties of supptiems and customers and regulating prices based on marginal
costs. Integrated entepnises have been separated into Independent companies at the generation,



26                                     AMNEX 4
Page 2 of 3
INISTi       D        MOA  " ti
transmission. and distribution stages. Cross-shareholdings wiJI be strictly lmited so as to establish clear
accountability and prevent the emergence of market doml:.ation. WhUle protecting saler-volume
consumers through reguladon, the new system leaves to market forces the purchases by lavrevolume
consumers (mor than 1 MW. represntng 4060% of tol ales) whose negodating capacity Is deemed
suffiint Finally. in areas f t counby currendy wihout electriit d t Govenment wii encouage now
distribution firms and wil promte economically viable nral elecifiation schemes.
In additon to the new reguletoy fSwTwBOrk for *ebc, new projecXt in the sector will to subjet to
economy-wide regulai  such as tho for compeiton, taxation. environmental protction, health and
occupadonal safety, and urban pluuang. The Elcrcity Law and spedlcf regulati  Irnorporate antit
safeguards and principle; for environmental prtecton. In order to reinfrs conmption, we wHi introduce
specifie antitrust measures for th  loctricty   r. The Govemment will also give high prIrity to the
effectv operation of the Commitltes for Economic Opetion d the Intercnected Systms (COES) In
the interconnected grids, in view of their importance for latco load dispatch in a decentralized and
increasingly privatized system
In order to carry out the envisaed reforms, the Govemment has taken steps to strngthen the Minist
of Energy and Mines and othr relevnt public enties In their polky and regulatory functons, assisted
through the Wold BanWs Enew and Mining Technical Assisance Loan (SMTAL). The Elecricity Tar
Commission (CTE) wil continue to be in charge of sconoml/fnancl regulation especially related to
tarift, and its auorty In rgard to tariff mtts Is fulL We are commited to preserving fth Commision's
autonomy, ensuring Its Independent nding. prvat sector partipatio In Is Board. and adequate tenure
of its Board mrnebers as specied In the 1092 Law of Electricity Concessions. At the Ministry of Energy
and Mines, the Gen"ral Directorate of Electricity (DGE) will be responsible for technical regulaton,
whereas the Technical Unit on Energy (OTERG) wil maintain an indicaive plan for generation and
transmission expansion, and will advise on energy sectr strtgies and polices. Informaton on this
Indicative plan and on electri utility operations will be available at OTERG and OGE, as information is a
key element for market eMcency.
Electeiity Priing. In the past tar Inadequacies both In terms of ls and structure have been a
primary cause for ft weakness of the electricity sector. As a key component of deecricity sector reform,
tariff have been increase sInc August 1990 toward theireconomic cost Country-wide uniform tariff
and the associated system of rgionai cross-subsidizaton have been abolafhed. A fr-reaching reform
of the tariff system was completed In 1993. Tarifs for consrumtion exceeding 150 kVVhlnonth have 
sarady reachd their economic cost Further Increases In real terms for smaller-valume residental
consumpton have been scheduled, so that all tarffs will cover thir corsponding economic cost by
November 1994. Tarff wil be maintained theafter at feir econamic levels. Taxation of electricity
consumption has been consolidatd by eliminatn surcharges hat distot price signals, and applying the
general sales tax (VAT) to all levels of elecity consumption at Its economy-wide rate.
PrlvatzUaon of ElectrIlty Holdings. Since natlonsUzation of the eecticity sector In the early 1970s,
over-centralzaton and heavy state intevention have been largely responsible for the sectors low
efficiency. Our first prlority is the prhatizatfon of Electrolimr and Elctroparu, which account for about
90% of the sectors assets (by book value). Electomlmns ditrbution system for metropolitan Uma has
been segmented Into two comparies. These have been prnvated In July 1994, to be followed by
Eletollma's and Electroperu's generation units In late 1914/eary 1995. We plan to segment North-
Central Interconnected System's geneation assets Into at least four companies, in order to ensure
competiton In generation. The prfWatizaton of the regional uWit_es end of the transvission companies is
planned to get underway In 1005. We expect to aain fult privtization of th above-mentioned companies



ANNEX 4
27                                   Page 3 of 3
MIIASWUO DE INUOIAU Y MINAS
by end-1995. Future expansion oa the electricity secto wll be undertan mainly by the private sector,
vwth the State playing only a subsidlay role.
The privatization of the elecicity setcw will bs undertken within the context . Ihe polcies. eglislon,
and procedures govening the cvraml prvazaon prgmm. as stablshed thmugh the 1091 Legislave
Decre #674, and the operatonal guldelines lued by COPRI to the PrvatizaSon Commdttees (CEPRis).
Each company willinnialy be offeed far sale through public bidding. Since our objecive Is to atowth
now private operats to adjust t hecilies and operations in accordance with their business strategies.
the Govemment does not innd to undertke any nvestments in the companies prior to priatation, wffh
the posible excepton of minimal essntia expenditus.
SocWal bIpac As part of their efdicy  pxrovment program the eicity enterprises have educed
tr staff by 42% snc August 1990. Sevnce payrmnts to emp oyees made redundant are the legal
obliggaon of the nterp . The Govenment has ensured that thes payments have been made. The
Govement wi also strt retbaining porams, as needed, to cilibte the reintgration into the labor foe
of those employees displaced through th rstucwing of entepdses slated for privatization.
EnvIronmental Impact Vhilo electricity opeations cause comparatively few environmental problems.
the Govenment wil ensure that the necessay measures atrekn to reduce any negative Impact of
existng ad  iturm Instlatons. Envirnmnt regulatons for the elecrity sector issued in June 1994,
which estabish the relevant nomrs n procedurs, vAi nsure that elctcity operatons adequately take
Into accounk and intenize, envnmenbl co" and that cost-effeve measures are taken to remve
or reduce any advere Irpacts. The Goverhment wi ensure that the sector enterpises will comply with
their obigation to cay outi environmental sudits (PAMA). as indicated in the above-mentioned Regulation,
on all thermal plants (and other failtes as appropria) subject to privaiaton under this Loan. As
specified In the envkonmental Regulation for the lectricity sector, fte environmental laws and rgulatons
of Peu. The Wtrld Ban*s Environmental Guidelines and Occupational Health and Safaty Guiderines, and
other intemnetonal guidellnes as appropiate wvAi form the basis for conducting these audits. In all cases,
privatized fims wiN be subject to the same environmental obigations as other companies.
Jorge Camet Dickmann                          Daniel Hokama To
Minister of Economy and Finance               Minister of Energy and Mines



28
ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 9
PERU
ELECTRICITY PRIVATIZATION ADJUSTMENT LOAN
New LeWal/Regulatorv Framework for the Electrcity Sector
Introduction and SuMMar,
1.    As agreed under the SAL, the Government of Peru enacted a new Law of Electricity
Concessions (November 1992), corresponding regulations (February 1993), and a reformed electricity
tariff system (April-November 1993). This famework for managing the sector is based on the
principles of decentralization, competition, deregulation where competion is feasible, and market-
based, arms-length regulation of natural monopolies in transmission and distribution. It incorporates
advanced practices successfully applied in Argentina and Chile. The Law detmines the institutional
set-up and the rights and obligations of electicity suppliers and users, whereas the regulations define
n greater detail the procedures for applying the Law. The tariff system specifies tariff structures and
levels resulting from studies conducted in compliance with the Law ad reguations.
2.    The new legal/regulatory framework, which covers public and private service, deals with the
following issues:
(a) Sector institutions: The Ministry of Energy and Mines (MEM) is the principal government
authority responsible for enforcing compliance with electricity legislation. The public
Electricity Tariff Commission (CTE) is responsible for economic/financial regulation. The
sector's Committees for Economic System Operation (COES) are to ensure least-cost load
dispatch and to calculate short-run marginal costs, as the basis for tariff setting;
(b) Public electricity system: Distribution concessionaires are obliged to provide supphies of
adequate quantity and quality. They must conclude contracts ensuring supplies fcr at least
two years. The transmission system has to provide open access to all generating and
distribution companies, which, in turn, must not carry out any activities related to primary
transmission. The owners of primary transmission systems must not trade in electitcity on
their own account;
(c) Electricity pricing: Tariff regulation is applied for (a) node prices (comprising generation
and primary and secondary transmission) for transactions between genemrating and distribution
enterprises in respect to regulated end-users, based on the average of short-run marginal costs
over the following 48 months, due to be revised every six months for generation and every 12
months for transmission, respectively; (b) prices to (regulated) end-users, to be revised every
four years, but adjusted on indexes set forth in the Law and regulations; and (c) transactions
between generating and transmission enterprises, whose charges are set yearly by CMh and
which incorporate a variable (tariff revenue) and fixed (connection charge) element.
Transactions between generating enterprises are self-regulated by the COES, which set



29                                  ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 9
payments among the enterprises based on instantaneous marginal cost. Electricity pricing is
based on cost-of-service regulation. However, it contains elemen  of incentive regulation as
well as standard costs of - efficiendy operated - model enterprises and not actually incurred
costs are recognized for transmission and distrbution, as a means to restrict market power
emanating from natural monopoly conditioJns. Regulated prices are not to diverge by more
than 10% from freely negotiated prices. qhe latter apply to sales to non-regulated customers
and to transactions of capacity and energy oetween generating companies.)
3.    The Law and regulations cover regulated and non-regulated electricity service, with emphasis
on regulating those operations involving monopoly power. They define the obligations of the
concessionaires for public service, the pricing system for regulated segments of the electricity sector,
and the supervision of sector operations by regulatory agencies. Non-regulated consumers are those
exceeding 1,000 kW contracted capacity, or 20% of maxim   demand in systems whose max
demand is less than 5,000 kW. Regulated (public-service) consumers receive regular supplies for
collective use, normally from distribution companies operating under conditions of natural monopoly.
Their maximum demand is less than that established for non-regulated customers. Concessions are
required for hydro and geothermal generation above 10 MW installed capacity; transmission; and
public service distribution for demand above 500 kW. Authorizations are required for all other
operations, i.e. thermal generation exceeding 500 kW and hydro and geothermal generation between
500 kW and 10 MW. Concession holders of transmission and distrbution system  are obliged to
provide open access to third parties, which is essential for attending non-regulated clients.
Electricity Sector Institutions
4.     The Mnistry of En        and Mes (MEM) exerts the authority to ensure compliance with
the Law and to issue concessions.
5.    The Electricity Tarff Commisson (Comisi6n de Tarifas El6ctricas; CTE) is a decentralized
public entity with economic, technical, and adn ve autonomy in setting electricity tariffs, in
accordance with the criteria established in the Law. CTE consists of a Bo_rd composed of five
Commissioners - including one each representing the generating and distribufting companies -
approved by MEM and confirmed by the Council of Ministers, for tariff decisions and resolving
tariff-related disputes, and a Technical Secriat to carry out technical analysis through tariff studies
and prepare proposals for tariff setting. The Commissioners are nominated for five years, and this
period can be extended. The Law contains provisions to ensure that the Commissioners are
nominated in accordance with strictly technical criteria and that they cannot be arbitrarily removed
from office.
6.    Committa  for Economic System OperaioDn (Comit6s de Operaci6n Econ6mica del
Sistena; COES) are formed by the generation and transmission enterprises within the interconected
systems, with the objective to coordinate operations at least cost, ensure supplies, and improve the
utilization of energy resources. Their principal functions are to (a) determine and monitor least-cost
generation and transmission operations in the int  systems, (b) calculate short-run marginal
costs and firm capacity and energy in these systems, and (c) guarantee purchases and sales of
contracted capacity and energy between generating enterprises, up to the limit of firm energy and
capacity, at prices set by the COES and based on intantnes short-mn marginal cost.



30                                        ANNEX s
Page 3 of 9
Electricty Pricing
Principles
7.     Operations in the public service system are subject to price regulation based on short-run
marginal costs for generation and average costs for transmission and distribution. These operations
comprise (a) transfer of capacity and energy - as determined by COES - among generating
enterprises, (b) transformation and transmission, (c) energy sales by generating enterprises to public
service distribution enterprises, and (d) sales to final electricity users in the public service. While
price regulation is based on cost of service, it contains elements of incentive regulation since standard
costs, not actually incurred costs, are used as yardstick for tariff setting. CTE determines the node
prices (tarifas de barra) for transactions between generating and distribution enterprises every six
months in regard to generation and every twelve months in regard to transmission, and costs of
distribution every four years. In the interim, both prices can be adjusted monthly for inflation and
currency devaluation, according to indexes reflecting changes in the most important cost components.
The reformed tariff structures reflect fairly closely the resource costs of supplying electricity to the
various end-user groups.
8.     Electricity to non-regulated consumers is supplied under conditions of competition, subject to
negotiations between buyers and sellers. Therefore, the prices of these transactions are not
controlled.'
Maximum Prices of Sales by GeneraIng to Distribution        rises
9.     Sales by generating to distnbution enterprises for serving regulated customers are undertaken
at node prices at the primary transmission level. These prices are based (i) for energy, on the
weighted average of short-run marginal costs for an optimized (i.e., least-cost) system projected over
the following four yearsY to even out fluctuations that may result from seasonal consumption
pattern, changes in hydrology, or commissioning of new  eeratig plants;t and (ii) for capacity,
the ammualized cost of an economically optimal peaking unit (e.g., gas turbine).
10.    COES is responsible for calculating node prices and definig their underlying assumptions,
for subsequent analysis and approval by CTE. The calculations comprise:
(a) demand projecdons over the following 48 months, as basis of an expansion program for
that period (including projects identified by the indicative expansion plan prepared by MEMl);
1/   As of March 1994, there have been about 230 non-regultd electicy consumer accounting for 34% of oal
consumption, mainly under one-year tm conacts. As non-plated consm    curenly pay reltively higher
prces for electriciy, they tend to shift ward ceaper off-pea supplies.
2/ These costs can be related to hourly supply blocks.
3/   The use of average SRMC over the following four years (which intoduces dens of LRMC) intead of
_smnunww SRMC (as basis for freely negotated prices) was also chosn bause he Peruvian electrcy system is
not yet optimined mndtus, resul from applyiog bs _ SRMC would not be representate. Nevertheess,
this approacb, which tak es   em  plans over the next four years ino account (so th geneatng entrpris
would cover costs of expansion), ought to provide fairly accurate signals to inveso.



31                                        ANNEX 5
Page 4 of 9
(b) a least-cost program of operations, including the economic cost of expected outages for the
period under consideration;
(c) short-nm marginal costs of energy for hourly supply blocks established by CTE;
(d) base price of energy for hourly blocks (as product of the weighted average of marginal
cost and projected demand, both duly discounted);
(e) annualzed capital cost of the least-cost peaking unit;
(t) base price of capacity, based on (e) and augmented by a factor reflecting the theoretical
unavailability of the system;
(g) transmission losses of capacity and energy; and
(h) node prices of capacity and of energy, respectively, at each node of the system.4
11.    Tariffs set by CrE must not diverge by more than 10% from the weighted average of freely
negotiated prices among generating enterprises (or in the absence of these prices, the average of
prices that would prevail in an optimized system as determined by CME). CTE also sets tariffs for
isolated systems, based on the same criteria as established for interconnected networks. Should
energy rationing become necessary because of generation shortfalls, the generating enterprises have to
compensae the regulated electricity users for such deficits.
Maximum Prices for Transmission
12.    Within the primary and secondary tranission systems as defined by MEM, the generating
enterprises can trade capacity and energy at any node. Primary transmission comprises that part of the
system where it is difficult to identify the exact extent of the system's use by specific generating or
distrbuting companies. Seondary systems are those required by specific generatng enterprises to
deliver energy to the primary system and/or to extract energy from that system for delivery to their
customers. The Electricity Law prohibits ownership of primary transmission systems by generating
and/or distnbuting companies, so as to rule out monopolistic abuses.
13.    Primarv Transmission Systems. The costs of trsmission are composed of annuaized
invs_tent cost plus the s    d  cost of operaons and                (including marginal
transmission lasses of an economically optimized system, so as to account for the effect of voltage
and distance on transmission costs). The total cost of transmission is paid monthly through two
charges, i.e.,
(a) tariff revenue (ingreso tarifario), a variable element, based on the actual use of the system
(i.e., the difference in volume of capacity and energy delivered and withdrawn at various
4/  The node price of sait is calculaed by multiplying the base price of capacW by the factor of capacity losses,
adding to it the connecdon charge for the tansmision system. The node price of   is obained by muiplying
the base prce of energy for each corspondg block by the respectve factor of enerW losses. The loss factors for
capachy and energy are caulaed based on maginal tansmission losses of peaking capacity and energy in an
y optimized system.



32                                    ANNEX S
Page 5 of 9
nodes and valued at prices correponding to these nodes), which is to cover the marginal
transmission cost;Y' and
(b) connection charge (peaje de conexi6n), a fixed element which is to cover the cost of
investment of the transformaion and transmission capacity on the system and ensure grid
viability, and which is prorated according to the generatig enterprises' firm capacity. This
charge corresponds to the difference between the annualized investm  and operating cost of
the transmission system and the tariff revenue based on marginal transmission cost. (It is to
cover the difference between average and marginal transmission cost in those cases where the
transmission tariff is based on the former).
CTE revises annually the tariff revenue and connection charge and the adjustment formulae for both.
14.   Secondary Transmission Systems. Payments for the use of secondary transmission (and
distribution) systems to wheel electricity are to be negotiated between owners and users of those
systems, based on costs of systems operated at average efficiency. They are paid by the generatng
enterprises that use these systems to transmit energy to their customers as required under supply
contracts, and are integrated into the respective node price. Connection charges are calcuated the
same way as for primary transmission (i.e., as the difference between the anmualized cost of
investment plus operating and maintenance costs and the tariff revemne). No payments are due for
energy transmission moving opposite to the prevailing direction of electricity flows.
Maximm Prices of Distribution
15.   Prices to final users are the sum of node prices as defined above and   aate distribution
values. The latter represent the cost within the distribution system of making capacity and energy
available to clients. They are based on operations of an efficient model enterprise within an
optimized distribution system. They include:
(a) standard costs of investment, maintenance, and operations in distribution, per unit of
capacity distributed;
(b) standard distribution losses for capacity and energy (expressed as a percentage of node
prices for energy and capacity at medium voltage level); and
(c) overheads caused by final users irrespctive of their actual demand for capacity and
energy.
16.   To define an efficient model enterprise, two factors are to be taken into account, i.e., (i)
adaptation to an efficient system (e.g., not recognizing over-investment; application of appropriate
technology), and (ii) replacement values for installations and equipment ensurng service of the same
quality, at prevailing technology and cost. Aggregate distribution values are calculated for each
concessionaire and approved by CTE, for a period of four years. For their calcuation, three model
distribution sectors (i.e., high-, medium-, low-density sectors) have been established by MEM on
I/  Dhe marginal transmission cost is equivalent to the cost of marginal losses of energy and capacity on the truansmsion
system.



33                                      ANNEX 5
Page 6 of 9
CTE's recommendation    Appropriate weights of the respective parameters are applied to each
distribution concessiin. In contrast with generation costs, aggregate distribution values are based on
average costs because in distribution, the capital and labor components are relatively rigid (there are
relatively few economies of scale in expanding distribution systems), which would render short-mn
marginal costs volatile and difficult to determine.
17.   CTE calculates the internal rate of return for all distribution concessionaires, applying a
period of analysis of 25 years, thereby taking into consideration
(a) revenues that would have been received if all supplies would have been valued at base
prices in the immediately preceding period;
(b) costs of operations (including sta&xdard losses') and maintenance for the distribution
system in question in the immediately preceding period; and
(c) the replacement value of each enterprise's installations, assuming a residual value of zero.
18.    The resulting rate must not differ by more than four percentage points from the discountr
(set at 12% in real terms).
19. CTE sets distribution tariffs and automatic adjustment formulae for a period of four years.
These can be recalculated only during this period if intermitt  adjustments result in an increase of
the initial tariff level by at least 100%. Distribution tariffs are diffentated according to
technical/economic criteria of enduse (e.g., voltage levels) irrespective of the economic and social
category of the end-users. A significant nmiber of tariff options has been offered to electricity
conumers aording to consumption pattern (peak; off-peak) and masurmen (one or two eneWy
and capacity measurements, respectively), in order to provide tarff stability and stngthe resistnce
against pressures for subsidies.
OthMr
20.    The annualized investment cost is based on the   va lue (valor nuevo de reemplazo)
for installations as set and anmnally adjusted by CTE. The replacement value represens the cost of
renewing installations that provide identical service for required demand, to be met with curent
technology and at prevailing prices. These costs include (a) financial charges during the constuction
period, at a rate of interest not exceeding the discount rate; (b) expenditu   and compensions for
establishing right-of-ways; and (c) expendius on project studies and supeision. The replacement
value is calculated based on the illations' useful economic life (30 years) and a       of
12% in real terms to determine the capital recovery factor. CTE up-dates every four years the
replacement values for transmission and distnbution installations, baaed on information provided by
the enterprises. Standard costs of investment are calculated based on annalzed replacement values
for an economically optimized system. The discount rate can be modified only by MEM, based on a
A/  Pamets for defing te sectors are as follows: i) aveage per-client consumption of ener; (li) ined
subsion capacit per medium-volage distrbuti  n  (VAIm); and (ffl) exmnsin of low-vollage dhbn
system per client (metesclient).
21   Transtori, 1his includes 50 peren of whe excess of acual over standard loses, to be grdually reduced to zero over
ree four-year periods.



34                                  ANNEX 5
Page 7 of 9
study commissioned by CTE which needs to demonstrate that (i) underlying economic parameters
have significantly changed, and (ii) the discount rate differs significantly from the prevailing financial
rate plus risk premium. The new discount rate must not deviate from the existing one by more than
two percentage points. Adjusment dx  incorporate changes in the exchange rate, import duties,
wholesale prices, the international copper price, and wage costs (the latter two parameters in respect
to distribution tariffs only).
21.   CTE is obliged to maintain and make available all information related to tariff setting,
especially in regard to node prices, aggregate distribution values, and freely negotiated prices.
Follow-Up
22.   Subsequent to the setting of preliminary tariffs in May 1993, CME completed the reform of
the electricity tariff system in November 1993 when node prices were revised and aggregate
distribution values were finalized. This included the following refinements:
(a) Setting new node prices, based on refined parameters in regard to optimized generation
and transmission;W
(b) Finalizing the formulae for distribution tariffs for the following four years, including the
weights to be used for intermittent adjustments.
23.   These measures were based on studies comprising: (i) for generation, revision of optimizaion
models, updating of operating costs and costs of rationing, and revision of models of isolated systems;
(ii) for transmission, establishing replacement values for installations; and (iii) for distribution,
refining the criteria for the three typical system modules especialy aggregate distribution values for
rural systems, and their weights in individual systems. Distribution-related studies included
determining replacement values, determining energy and capacity balances for the individual
distribution systems, and updatng the coincidence factors of capacities demanded for the different
categories of users, to finalize the basis for setting tariffs to final users.
24.    gmaWg Tasks. CTE will complete studies in 1994 required to refine the parameters related
to price setting for generation and transmission. These include: (i) for generation, cost of rationing,
overall system reserve margin, sf"'ndard    mal plants' outage rates and efficiencies, and evaluation
of freely negotiated prices; and Xt for transmission, operating and maintenance costs and investments
for optimized systems. In addition, model concession contracts for supplying distribution
concessionaires as well as non-regulated end-users and for generation and transmission need to be
prepared by MEM. For distribution, the next revision of tariff regulation is due by October 1997.
Public Electricity System
25.   Distribution concessionaires are obliged to provide electricity supplies of adequate quantity
and quality, in exchange for an exclusive franchise in a specified service area. But they are entitled
to contributions from final users for financing the extension of existng systems. These contibutions
are repayable to the users by means of shares, bonds, and other fi- 2cial insuments, at the users'
discretion. Distribution companies must conclude contacts with generating companies ensuring
supplies for at least two years, so as to meet their service requiements vis-a-vis end-users. In the
I/  Freely negotiate prices for customers above 500 kW are expecled to be applied from mid-1994 onwards.



ANNEX 5
35                                   Page 8 of 9
case of interruptions in supplies of energy exceeding four hours, and in the case of scheduled outages
due to shortage of energy at the generation level, the concessionaire must compensate the users for
the cost of capacity and energy not supplied.
26.   The owners of primary transmission systems are barred from trading in electricity on their
own account.
27.   Electricity users are not allowed to exceed the contracted demand, lest they will be liable to
supply disconnection and payment of fines. Service will be immediately disconnected in cases of (a)
non-payment for electricity service for more than two months, (b) unauthorized consumption, or
consumption violating the conditions of the supply contract, and (c) deficient installations posing a
safety hazard.
28.   The distribution concessionaire is responsible to provide public lighting. The municipalities
are resnonsible for paying the electricity consumed, as well as for any cest of instlltions exceeding
standards set in the concession contract. Basic costs of developing and maintning public lighting
systems are incorporated into the aggregate distribution values for low voltage, thus allowing the
distribution companies to cover these costs through revenues from all customers.
Control of Operations
29.   MEM is responsible for ensuring compliance with electricity legislation/regulations, in
particular the compliance by concessionaires with their obligations. The municipalities inform MEM
about any infractions or other service inadequacies in their concession areas.
30.   A fee is payable to the State for the use of hydro and geothermal resources for electricity
generation. This fee is not to exceed one percent of the average price of energy at the generation
level.
Investment Guarantees
31.   Concession contracts, once recorded in the Public Register, have the force of Law between
the contracting parties. Cancellation of a concession, for reasons other than specified in this Law,
gives rise to the right of indemnities. Concessionaires and other enterprises conducting electricity
generation, transmission, and distribution are entitled to the same legal, fiscal, and foreign exchange
guarantees listed in Legislative Decrees Nos. 662, 668, and 757, as any other national and foreign
investors.
Rights-of-Way
32.   MEM through administrative resolution establishes rights-of-way to the use of public and
private property required for electricity operations, against v-yment of a fee by the concessionaire to
the owner(s) of said property. Rights-of-way expire when tue holder does not carry out the required
works within the agreed period, fails to use the rights-of way for twelve consecutive months, or is
using them for different purposes than those stated in the contract, or the purpose for which they were
originally granted ceases to exist.
33.   To the extent necessary, arrangements will be made to allow the multi-purpose use of
hydrological resources.



3                                       sANNEX5
Page 9 of 9
Other Conditions 
34.   Electricity generation, primary transmission, and distribution cannot be carried out by the
same enterprise, except in cases specifically permitted under this Law. Antitrust reguladons and other
measures butressing competition in the electricity sector are being prepared by MEM and
INDECOPI.
35.   Non-regulated supply contracts, as well as purchase and sale of energy between generation
and distribution enterprises, have to be adapted to meet the   m ents established in this Law,
within 120 days of its enactment. (Model concession contracts for generation, transmission, and
distribution of electricity are being prepared by MEM's General Electricity Directorate.) Likewise,
distribution enterprises providing public service need to renew and finalize their concessions within
360 days of enactment of the Eaw. The integrated enterprises providing public service for electricity
distribution in the in onncted central-northern, south-western, and south-eastern systems have
separated their generation, transmission, and distnbution activities into independent enterprises, based
on conditions established by MEM.



PEW
ELECTRICITY PRIVATIZATION ADJUSTYENT LOAU
ISICATOUS TO MEAStME PROWESS IN THE PRIVATIZATION P10CESSe
Effective     Fim   Secondary   Production          Age of          Age    Corrected   Participation
Capacity   Ener        Enry         Factor   Installation   Correction   Prodiction       in Sector
(1W)    (QWh)       (61h)   (USS M/Y)         (Yeers)       Factor       Factor         Assets
(Percent)
A. - ELECTRUINA
Al.- UENRATION
Hulnco                          240       743         214         63.3             28         0.78         49.6            5.2
Matucans                         115      632          57         4.0              22         0.86         39.3            4.1
Callehumca                       61       428          59         30.5             35         0.70         21.4            2.2
IbYOpaq26                        60       446          49         31.3             42         0.62         19.3            2.0
tbMpnl                           19       138          15          9.7             33         0.72          7.0            0.7
Santa Rose                       140      245                     23.1             10         1.00         23.1            2.4
A2.- OISTRIBUTItO
Lime Nrth                                                                                                                 10.0
Lima South                                                                                                                10.0
8.- ELECTROPEIN (1)
I1.- CENTRAL-NCTNERN SYSTEM
Nantro-testituclan              7T9    6,178          269        422.8             20          0.9        372.1           39.1
cruqso                           75    1.402          102         30.7              5          1.0         30.7            3.2
Canon del Pato                   101      936          75         63.7             18          0.9         57.6            6.1                   w
CdAhu                            34       276          22         19.0             20          0.9         16.8            1.8
Ventanitll                      200       350                     33.0              1          1.0         33.0            3.5
TruiJilo                         24        42                      4.0            Is           0.9          3.7            0.4
Chidiote                         45        79                      7.4             15          0.9          7.0            0.7
12.- SCUTI SYSTEM
ArScote                          33        66                      5.7             15          0.9          5.6            0.6
TOTAL BOTM UTILITIES                                                  790.5                                   686.1            92.1
C. - OT   SYSTENS
Charcani V                       S8       369         206         29.7             10          1.0         29.7            3.1
NItc-Piechu                      79       712          4          48.4             15          0.9         45.5            4.8
TOTAL SECTOR                                                         868.6                                    761.3           100.0
AssumptiSos    Each vtit's participation in the sector assets depends on Its firm cepncity and
ffr ard secondry energy prodhictfon.
These parmaters have been valued as follows:
Ci) firm energy: 60 US410/; (if) Secondary Energy: 20 USS&/Wh;
(iii) capacity cost: 6US$/U-year; (iv) age correction factor: (1-0.012*AGE) for any ACE
in excess of ten years.
*  Transmission facilities are not included
Sour: Electrothm; Electroperu; mission estimates.



ANNEX 7
39                                   Page 1 of 15
PERU
ELECTRICITY PRIVATIZATION ADJUSTMENT LOAN
ENERGY SECTOR STRATEGIES AND POLICIES
Energy Sector Structure
1.           Ener=  Resources. Pera's energy resources are considerable, but mostly distant frm
the coastal consumption centers and cosdy to develop. The kx4rpwe potential estimated at 74,000
MW- compared to an installed capacity of less than 2,900 MW- is largely located east of the Andes,
while sites west of the Andes are susceptible to droughts. Proven reserves of hvdrocarbons are
estimated at 400mn b of crude oil (8.8 years of 1993 output), concentrated in the Amazon and Talara
basins, and 6.5tr cf of natural gas, without fully including the Camisea gas reserves. With 18
potendally hydrocarbon-bearing basins covering about 84,000 sq.km, less than 20% of the country
has been explored to-ate. Proven reserves of minmal coal are relatively minor and dispersed. They
are estmated at 56mn mt, mainly anthracite, not all of which are economically minable. Biornmass
resrces are abundant. Forests cover about 60% of the national territory, but more than 95% are
located in the thindy populated Selva region, and their exploitation needs to be restricted to conserve
resources. Agricultural residues are widely used for meeting rural energy requiments. Geo
and solar resources in the Sierra region and -vnd resources along the southern coast are potentially
significant for localized water pumping and small-scale electricity generation. Their use would
depend among others on a more adequate assessment of their potential.
2.           EnerM  in the Economy. Comnercial energy supplies composed of hydrcarbons,
electricity, and coal accounted in the late 1980s/early 1990s for nearly 7% of GDP. Energy
consumption has been a significant source of fiscal revenue: it generated nearly 25% of cetral
government tax receipts in 1992, with taxes on energy production from Petroperu accounting for
another 3-5%. While there were significan' petroleum exports during 1978-87 (peaking in 1982 at
US$685mn, or 17% of foreign exchange earnings), Peru subsequetly shifted to net petroleum
imports, which in 1993 absorbed US$135mn (equivalent to 4.5% of foreign exchange earnings) after
US$188mn in 1992. Investment in the energy sector, estimated at US$250mn equivalent in 1992,
accounts for about 4% of gross fixed investment. In contrast, direct employment probably is not
much morethan 1% of the total labor force.
3.           Ener_y SuJWly - Demand Balance. Gross energy supply/demand in 1992 totalled
11.5mn toe (654 toe per US$1mn of GDP) and final energy consumption, lOmn toe, which is only
slightly above that in 1985. Petroleum products and natural gas combined met 49% of 1992 final
energy consumptin (natural gas consumption is confined to field operations and some use as refinery
fuel), biomass including charoal, 39%, and electricity, 9%, with coal and coke accounting for the
remainder. The residential and commercial sectors absorb the largest portion of final energy
consumption (45% combined), followed by transport (24%), and industry and mining (21%
combined). Close to two-thirds of commercl energy is consumed in the Lima region. The ural



ANNEX 7
3                                     Page 2 of 15
sector accounts for the bulk of biomass consumption, as little commerci; ' energy reaches rural
consumers.1
4.            Reflecting depressed economic activity and following declines in 1988-89, net
consumption of electricity in the public system grew at only 2.6% p.a. in 1990-91 to 12.1 TWh,
with above-average increases for residential and industrial use. Consumption declined in 1992 when a
severe drought affected generation in the largely hydro-based system (which lacks multi-annual
storage), aggravatig the intrruptions in power supplies due to terrorism. Output of crude oil
declined from its 1982 peak of 195,000 b/d at 6% p.a., to 112,000 b/d in 1992. But it has
rebounded since then as result of increased private company activities, reachiog 126,000 b/d by end-
1993, and is expected to increase further in 1994. Rfnigcapacit totals 189,000 b/d, concentrated
in the coastal region at Pampilla (82,000 b/d) and Talara (54,000 b/d), and is about 80% utilized.
(Custom refining for foreign clients was initiated in 1992.) Refineries are ill-equipped for treating
some of the heavy local crude - which has to be blended with lighter local or imported crudes - and
for secondary conversion. Consumption of petroleum products has fluctuated around 110,000 b/d in
recent years, primarily in transport (46%), followed by industry (29%), and the residentiall
commercial sectors (21% combined). Consumption has shifted toward middle distillates and lighter
products, which has to be met through imports. Conversely, fuel oil in excess of domestic demand
needs to be exported at relatively low prices. While there are prospects that natural gas especially for
electricity generation may reduce petroleum's share in primary energy supplies, Peru will remain
heavily dependent on petroleum for meeting its energy needs in the foreseeable future. Thus, policies
to increase petroleum reserves and output and to enhance energy efflciency are critical to
stregthening the overall energy position of the economy. In contrast, should petroleum output
resume its decline and domestic demand continue to grow at its historical rate of about 3.6% p.a.,
imports by the late 1990s could exceed US$350400mn (current prices). Consumption of mineral
coa largely in industry has stagnated at less than 0.2mn mt p.a., but imports have increased and are
substituting for domestically produced fuel oil as well as coal.
Ener  Sector Organizaton
5.           The Ministry of Energy and Mines (MEM) is responsible for formulating policies and
for supervising the electricity and ydwcarbons sectors through its General Directorates for
Electricity (Direccion General de Electricidad; DGE) and Hydrocarbons (Direccion General de
Hidrocarburos; DGH). The autonomous Electricity Tariff Commission (Comisi6n de Tarifas
El6ctricas; CTE), which is composed of representatives of Government and electtic utilities, is
charged with setting bulk electricity tariffs. PeunMetro S.A. operating under the Law of private
companies, was created in 1993 for promoting exploration, negotiating and supervising exploration
and production contracts (including those previously concluded by Peteru), administering taxes and
royalties, and handling the Government's output share from previous service contracts. Perupetro
also administers the information base on oil and gas exploration and development, including the sale
of data packages to potential investors. Its organization has been strongly influenced by recently
completed regulations for the hydrocarbons sector and license contracts to be concluded with
operating companies.
1/   This consumpton pattern has been largely the result of pnce distortions over extensive periods, both m absolute and
relative terms. Results may have been different witD economic pricng of energy. Restricto  in electricity suppies
in some years (as in 1989 and 1992-93) also have affected the outcome.



ANNEX 7
40                                   Page 3 of 15
6.            Electricity service in the 3,100 MW public system since the early 1970s has been
provided by the national utility Electricidad del Perd (Electroperum, Electrolima, and nine regional
utilities2. Electroperu, Electrolima, and Electro Norte-Medio account for thequarters of electricity
sales and income and for more than 90% of estimated sector assets. Electroperu is the largest
generating company, accounting for two-thirds of sector investment, and selling entirely in bulk to the
other companies. These resell electricity to final consumers, besides generating some electricity of
their own. Electrolima following its segmentation in 1993 comprises the second-largest generating
company and the two largest distribution companies, i.e., Edelnor and Edelsur (both for metropolitan
Lina), accounting for 25% of generating capacity and 60% of retail sales in the public system.
ETECEN has recently been created as transmission company for the interconnected central-northern
system, and has acquired Electrolima's and Electroperu's trmsmission assets. Self-generation is
significant among the larger mining and manufacturing enterprises. Their installed capacity totals
about 1,300 MW (1,000 MW of which is thermal) and some enterprises supply electricity to the
public system.
7.            Hydrocarbons operations for extended periods were controlled by the state-owned
company Petr6leos del Perb (Petroperu), including its affiliates Petromar for of'shore production,
Petrolera Transoceanica for maritime transport, Serpetro for drilling services, and Solgas for bottled
gas marketing. Petroperu until 1991 had a virtual monopoly over the entire range of hydrocarbons
operations, as well as the production of petrochemicals. Petropem's foreign trade monopoly was
abolished, and its service station network and subsidiaries were privatized in 1992-93. But the enti
still accounts for just under one-half of crude production and is the sole owner of the pipeline system
(i.e., the 0.2mn b/d Northern Peru oil line and northern branch oil line), refining, marine terminal,
storage, and wholesale distribution systems. Private oil companies until very recently could explore
and produce only under service contracts with Petroperu, but the 1993 Hydrocarbons Law permits
private companies to operate under license contracts. There are currently 23 private firms with active
exploration contracts (both service and license contracts), but only two are producing under
previously concluded operations contracts.
Energy Sector Issues
8.            The energy sector is striving to overcome the effects of past adverse policies, which
were evidenced by government ownership, strongly centralized decision making, and disregard of
sound sector finances. Sector performance under previous governments was impaired by a blurred
division of the State's normative and entrepreneurial functions, the monopoly position of the state
enterprises which also exercised regulatory functions vis-a-vis other enterprises, and inadequate
monitoring by the Government. At the same time, corporate dynamics were stifled by the lack of
managerial autonomy as govemment interference and financial constraints affected operations and
worsened employment conditions in particular. Past govemnments regarded energy operations a
vehicle to extend subsidies and to control inflation, and not an economic activity. Serious financial
problems resulted from inadequate energy prices in the face of severe inflation, non-transparent debt
relationships between the Government and the enterprises, and delays in collecting energy biUls,
especially from government agencies. Energy development was stymied by the lack of economic
criteria and of transparent procedures for determining prices, taxes, and subsidies for petroleum
products. Prices were set much below economic costs, which led to waste and misallocation of
21   These are: Electro Norte, Electro Nor-Oeste, Electro Norte-Medio (formerly Hidroandina), Electro Centro, Electro
Sur-Medio, Electro Sur-Este, Electro Oriente, Electro Sur, and Electro Sur-Oeste.



41                                     ANNEX 7
Page 4 of 15
energy resources and financial paralysis at the enterprises. Sector finances were also weakenci by the
lack of financial expertise, outdated financial systems, and inadequate control and auditing
mechanisms at the enterprises. This situation was aggravated by government policies in other areas:
energy enterprises (a) were not allowed to streamline their workforce to match declining output or to
pay competitive salaries; (b) over-invested in certain equipment as government procurement rules
disallowed the hiring of equipment and services, resulting in high equipment-related fixed costs when
activities declined; (c) were unable to optimize investment because of uncertain budget allocations
from the Government; and (d) had to carry the expenditure of government regulation and even of
some core government services.
9.           Immediately after assuming office, the present Government started to taclde the most
pressing problems in the energy sector. The Government became aware that for achieving lasting
efficiency inprovements, allowing market forces to pla their allocative role, and alleviating the
financial burden of energy enterprises on public finances, far-reaching policy and institutional reforms
were necessary, as well as large-scale investments in rehabilitation and expansion. In pursuit of these
objectives, the Goverment has created a new legal/regulatory/insftiutional framework for the energy
sector. Electricity and petroleum products prices were raised at rates substantialy above domestic
inflation, in order to correct unsustainable finamial losses at the enterprises, reduce the fiscal burden
of subsidies, and increase fiscal revenues. Electricity tariffs in October 1994 averaged 98.6% of
economic costs (97% for residential consumers; 100% for industrial and commercal consumers).
Prices of petroleum products were decontrolled in November 1993. Energy taxation has been
rationalized throigh shifting from multiple-rate levies, often earmarked for different authorities,
toward more evenly-structured consumer and enterprise taxes. Overstang has been significantly
reduced. The sector enterprises have been restructured to increase their efficiency. The Govermnent
is implementing a program for retuctuing and privatizing the sector, for which it has established a
new sector development strategy, policies to implement this strategy, and an agenda of specific
actions.
Elecricity
10.          Electricity services continue to be affected by a weak supply base and high losses.
Increases in installed capacity were not sufficient to meet demand: in 1980-89, only 736 MW of
generating capacity was added to the public system, compared to 1,000 MW of increased peak
demand. Transmission and distribution networks are in poor condition, pardy due to terrorist attacks.
The systems have become vulnerable to contingencies such as droughts. Notwihstanding progress
over the past two years or so, the enterprises' management information and accounting systems are
inadequate and productivity is low, largely becase of inefficient deployment of labor. The system's
own consumption and losses increased from 11% of gross energy available in 1979 to 22% (nearly
2,000 GWh) in 1990-92. However, Electroperu managed to reduce collection arrears from 235 days
in 1991 to 89 days in 1993, primarily because of improved payments by the regional utilides made
possible by more adequate tariffs.
11.            The sector sustained financial losses during 1985-91, which peaked in 1989 at nearly
US$460mn equivalent. Positive net income was attained startng in 1992 (i.e., US$80nm equivalent),
but operating and maintenance costs absorbed 68% of opeaing revenue in that year, compared to
52% in 1985. Depreciation is understated because depreciation periods are excessively long. The
debt service coverage and self-financing ratios declined during 1978489 from 3.7 to -1.3 and fom
78% to -159%, respectively. The sector relied excessively on goverment contributions and etal
borrowing, most of which was contracted by Elecuroperu, in part on behalf of the regional utiLities.



42                                   ANNEX 7
Page 5 of 15
Delays in servicing external debt in the face of financing needs came to a crisis point in 1987, when
the Govenmment assumed a significant portion of the enterprises' unpaid debt and started to make
transfers to cover their debt service and to finance investment.
12.          CTE's autonomy in tariff matters during 1985-90 was all but eliminated. Tariffs in
constant prices declined by nearly 90% between 1985 and mid-1990, when they averaged only about
US cents 1.8/kWh, 40% of unit operating costs. The sector's return deteriorated over 1979-90 from
5% to -8%, but improved to 1.3% in 1992 following tariff increases. Nevertheless, some regional
utilities still incur losses. Taxes and surcharges on electricity consumption increased in number and
complexity over the years. By 1991, they included selective consumption taxes (85% of the receipts
from those taxes was returned to the utilities), municipal charges, and contributions earmarked for the
expansion of electricity services. Following the recent consolidation of taxation, only general sales
tax (impuesto general de ventas; IGV) is being applied amounting to 18% of the final price. The tariff
structure does not yet fully reflect the relative costs of supplying electricity to different user groups.
There are subsidies for residential consumption below 150 kWh/month (these tariffs, which cover
29% of residential consumption, are now equivalent to about 94% of their economic costs). The
Government continues to undertake transfers to cover the enterprises' debt service.
Hydrocarbons
13.          Exploration has been insufficient to maintain crude reserves at levels that ensure
adequate output over the medium to longer term. Nationalization in 1968, uncompetitive contract
terms to private operators, and unilateral contract revisions curbed inflows of investment capital and
modern technology, whereas Petroperu because of its weak financial position left large tracts of
potentially hydrocarbon-bearing areas unexplored. Because of low investment and disappointing
exploration results, reserves by 1993 had declined to just 73% of waeir 1982 levels. (In contrast,
natural gas reserves increased considerably in the wake of Shell's large-scale Camisea discovery.)
Following the abrogation of investment incentives in 1985 and ensuing conactual disputes with
private companies, exploration activity fell off to US$30mn in 1992, compared to a peak of
US$600mn in 1974. In many fields, the bulk of recoverable reserves has been produced. The
decline in reserves and hnadequate maintenance affected the o     of crude. Because of the lack of
operating equipment, increasing volumes of natural gas were lost through burning and flaring and gas
reinjection was reduced, which in turn contributed to the decline in crude output. Refineries and
adjacent facilities have become outdated and high-cost. Maiteance requirments are urgent for
economic/financial as well as security reasons.
14.          Because of inadequate prices, high debt service, and operational inefficiencies,
Petroperu and most of its affiliates made losses over extended periods. (However, in 1992-93,
Petroperu attained profits of US$29mn and US$120mn, respectively.) Prices realized by Petroperu
lumped together what was needed to run its production operations, which generated large economic
rents, and downstream operations, which produced losses.
15.          Traditionally, taxation of fuel consumption had been used to balance the failure to tax
the resource rent which otherwise would have accrued to consumers if the under-pricing of crude at
the refinery stage would have been extended to products at the wholesale and retail stages. The
structure and levels of fuel taxes have been changed several times in recent years to make them more
consistent with fiscal revenue objectives and with the overall tax regime. Currently, petroleum



ANNEX 7
43                                   Page 6 of 15
products consumption bears (i) selective consumption taxes 3, (ii) specific levies on gasoline, in lieu
of a road user charge (8% of ex-depot prices), and (iii) general sales tax imposed since Jamuary 1993
(15% of ex-depot-prices). In addition, a 2% tax on gross assets and a 15% import duty on crue and
petroleum products are levied on all petroleum operators. Taxation of different petroleum products
thus has become highly discriminatory. Thus, even after deregulation, relative prices to final
consumers do not yet reflect international price relationships. For industrial and social policy
reasons, diesel and kerosene are taxed at lower rates, with the intention to limit their impact on the
cost of living (the consumer price of diesel amounts to only 72% and that of kerosene, 76% of the
price of gasoline). Fuels for electricity generation have been supplied tax-free. The misaligmnent in
relative prces has led to distortions in the consumption pattern and resource misallocation, notably a
high consumption of diesel which has to be imported.
Sector Reform Requreumnts, Objectves, and Strateg
16.          The reforms to transform the energy sector to a market-based system are about to be
completed. Enry prces have been substantially increased and now cover their economic costs (for
petroleum products) or are close to recovenng economic cost (for electicity). A least-cost expansion
framework for the electricity sector has been developed, as a guide for private investment. Energy
activities are being made environmentally sustainable. However, the managerial, financial, and
operational performance at the enterprses needs to be further improved. This makes it necessary to
(i) privatize the sector enterprises, freeing them from political interference and intervention in day-to-
day operations but committing them to clear managerial objectives, and (ii) establish clear rules for
commercial transwations between the enterprises through antitrust regulations and other measures.
17.          The principles of the Government's reform program in the energy sector are:
(a)   redefining the role of the State, separating its policy and regulatory role from its role
as owner of natural resources and of - soon to be privatized - public enterprises;
(b)    allowing maximum feasible competition through decentralaon, and privatization of
state-owned enterprises, and promoting private investment in new facilities;
(c)   recognizing that energy enterprises need to be financially and economically viable
and, therefore, commercially oriented; and
(d)    allowing prices to reach levels that cover economic cost, which implies (i)
decontrolling energy prices in competitive markets, and (ii) where monopoly
conditions exist, establishing price regulation that reflects economic costs.
18.          In creating an effective legal/regulatory framework for implementing energy sector
reform, the Government has enacted a new Law of Electricity Concessions and attendant regulatio
for the public system, which incorporate modern concepts successfully applied in other Lain
American countries, and a new Hydrocarbons Law. Legislation to promote rural electrification is
being prepared. The new laws and regulations define the roles of public institutions in policy maldng
3    in tms of ex-refinery prices plus wholesale margm, slective consumption taxes as of September 1994 amount to
21% for kerosene, 35% for LPG, 47% for diesel, 65% for fuel oil, and 96-118% for gasolines.



44                                      ANNEX 7
Page 7 of 15
and the principles governing sector entry and exit, competition, investments, pricing, and quality of
service. Restictions on private participation in energy operations have been removed. Competition
in the energy sector is to be Leinforced through antitrust regulations, concessions and other conactual
obligadons, and support to developing local financial markets. The Govermnent seeks to ensure
coherence between the legal/regulatory system and the corporate structure of the enterprises. For this
purpose, the integrated electricity monopolies have been segmented into independent companies for
generation, transmission, and distribution to impede renewed horizontal and vertical concentration,4
and are now being prepared for privatization. In the hydrocarbons sector, the Govermment bas
privatied all Petroperu subsidiaries and is in the process of privatizing Petroperu's core operations.
International specialists have advised on the privatization process, ensuring a consistent approach to
privatization and guiding the Goverment on sector strategies as well as on each project, in regard to
the degree of restructuring, configuration of units/companies to be sold, resulting financial structure,
and method of sale. The Government is initially offering 60% of the enterprises' shares are offered
to prinal operators that have to be technically competent and financially solvent. The remaining
shares are planmed to be sold expeditiously to a wide group of local and foreign investors, including
entise  employees, as a means to develop the local capital market. To promote competition, the
Largest feasible number of independent units is to be created, while ensuring that these units are
economically viable so as to attract quality investors. To encourage private sector activity, the
corporate tax system has been streamlined and simplified.
19.   The Govermnent's objectives for the electricity sector are to promote decentralization,
competition, and private operation including for small and isolated rural systems, and to extend
sWpplies to the 45% of the population currently without electricity. The new framework as defined in
the 1992 Law and corresponding regulations is aimed at fostering efficiency through open access to
all stages of the electricity system, and free negotiations between producers and distributors and major
conumers. The Law incorporates antitrust safeguards and principles for environmental protection.
Under the new legal/regulatory framework, (a) generation has been deregulated and made subject to
competition; (b) the transmission network provides third-party access to all suppliers and purchasers
with an adequately regulated toll scheme; and (c) distribution continues as a natural monopoly, with
ifuly regulated rights and duties of suppliers and consumers, including the obligation to provide
service of adequate quality. Cross-shareholdings will be strictly limited. Tariff regulation based on
margina  costs has been established for natral monopolies (through node prices in the transmission
system and distnbution tariffis to final consumers), as the closest surrogate for an equilibrium price
under competition. Sales to large-volume consumers and transactions between generation enterprises
take place at freely negotiated prices, which will be the basis for setting regulated tariffs from
November 1994 onward.
4'   Blectrolima-Generadon, Electrolima-DstributionlNorh and /South, and the transmission company for the central-
nordhern   conected system ETECEN ae the most importa new enterprises. In addiion, the followmg
enteprs have been formed: (i) Arequipa-CGeneaon, consisig of Electoperu and Electro Sur Oeste unts
(acani and Chm hydro plants); (u) Machupicchu-Generadon, consisting of Elecfroperu and Electro Sur Este
unbs (Maowuc  hydro plant; Dolotespata, JuGaca, and Puno therml plans); ('I) Ventanilla - Generaton,
cotutd by the recently completed thermal plant rrently managed by Elecute; and (iv) the tranission
co_my for the two southern sysm, yet to be interconnected.



4 5                                       ANNEX 7
Page 8 of 15
20.            The Government is in the process of privatizing the publicly-owned utilities during
1994-95. Electrolima and Electroperu have formed companies/units offered for sale to the private
sector as going concerns, and have transferred their transmission assets to newly-formed transmission
companies. Special privatization committees (CEPRIs), answerable to COPRI, are responsible for
implementing this program.5 The process of privatization has started with Electrolima's metropolitan
distribution units.6 It is to be continued with Electrolima's and Electroperu's generation units and in
a second round, the regional utilities and the transmission companies. Electroperu and the regional
governments will sell their shares in the regional utilities to the private sector, and new distribution
concessions will be granted where the regional utilities are unable to provide adequate service.
Hydrocarbons
21.            Increases in sector activity, and increases in reserves in particular, hinge on a legal
framework that guarantees contract stability, provides incentives commensurate with those in other
hydrocarbon-producing countries, and thus, encourages private companies to enter into risk
investments. Output from existing fields can be increased through improved maintenance and repairs,
in-fill drilling, and secondary recovery especially at Talara. However, operations of marginal fields
and secondary recovery are costly and risky, requiring considerable new investment as well as
sustained maintenance and highly skilled supervision. Nevertheless, some marginal fields could be
economic for private operators who are not affected by high fixed costs and low flexibility.
22.            The Government's objectives in the hydrocarbons sector are to increase efficiency and
output through creating competitive markets for all hydrocarbon-related activities. For this purpose,
the Government aims at (i) attracting investors and modem technology; (ii) increasing hydrocarbons
reserves and output tlrough sustained exploration, especially in the Amazon fields; (iii) maintaining
adequate refining and marketing capacity to meet domestic demand; and (iv) enhancing competition,
and privatizing Petroperu. Aware of the foreign companies' importance in this endeavor, the
Government undertook a series of measures to attract these back to Peru. First, outstanding claims
from previous nationalizations were settled, through a US$185mn agreement on compensation for the
1986 Belco nationalization. Second, terms and conditions for exploration and field development were
made more attractive. With Legislative Decree No. 655 in 1991, the periods for service and
production sharing contracts were extended; restrictions on profit remittances were removed; currency
convertibility for payments to contractors was guaranteed; private producers were allowed to export
crude beyond those volumes required to meet domestic demand and to cover tax liabilities; and
procedures for investment approvals were simplified. Third, Petroperu's monopoly for imports,
refining, and marketing was abolished. Fourth, Petroperu surrendered all areas not under production,
thus releasing 78% of its north coast fields and nearly 90% of the Amazon area for exploration.
5'   These are: (i) CEPRI-Electrolima, for the two distribution companies and the generation company succeeding
Electrolima; (ii) CEPRI-Generation, for Electroperu's generation facilites including Arequipa, Machupicchu, and
Venranilla; (iii) CEPRI-Transmission, for the central-northern (ETECEN) and southern (ETESUR) transmission
systems; and (iv) CEPRI-Distribution, for the regional utilities country-wide.
s    60% of Electrolima Distrilbtion North and South were sold in July 1994 to consortia of Peruvian and international
investors for US$176mn and US$212mn, respectively, considerably above the base price that had been set by the
Government (i.e., about US$130mn for each company). Ownership was officially transferred in August 1994.



46                                   ANNEX 7
Page 9 of 15
Fifth, Petroperu's subsidiaries and service station network were sold. Petromar has been liquidated
and its operations handed over to Petrotech International for a 20-year service contract.'
23.          The 1993 Hydrocarbons Law has consolidated these advances and has established a
liberalized licensing and contracting regime for all upstream and downstream activities. The Law
ensures equal treatment for domestic and foreign tnvestors, and permits ownership (instead of mere
contractorship) of hydrocarbons, to be obtained through licenses against payment of a royalty. The
policy and regulatory finctions previously carried out by Petroperu were transferred back to the
Government. The Law detennines the Govermnent's policy and regulatory role, while leaving to
private companies all operational responsibilities. In line with international practice, the new Law
provides more contrac flexibility, including international arbitration; allows free domestic sales and
foreign trade of crude and petroleum products, at the companies' discretion; provides for protection
from changes in taxation during the contract period and for payment of taxes in cash istead of in
Lknd; guarantees the availability of foreign exchange for profit and capital remittances; and improves
the flow of information. The tax and royalty regime is identical for all companies, including
Petroperu.8 Private investors will conclude agreements with the Government under the same terms
and conditions as Petroperu. Private companies are to have unhindered access to investment and
operaion in exploration and production, pipeline transport, refining, and storage.
24.          Regulations to the Hydrocarbons Law issued in 1994 incorporate technical, economic,
and legal norms and qualifications for contractors, including for transport, crude pipeline operations
(which is to be regulated to ensure third-party access), pipeline tariffs, storage, and processing of
hydrocarbons. The need for tighter environmental protection is being addressed in a consistent
mamer, and envirnmental audits are mandated pnor to exploration and production activities. A new
model license contract defines the level of royalties and other charges and the form of payment by
Petoperu following price liberalization. Companies that previously operated under service contacts
are in the process of changing to license contracts, under the new Law. In addition, Peru has ratified
the International Convention for the Settlement of Investment Disputes, and concluded agreements
with MIGA and OPIC, which establish mechanisms for companies to go to arbitration. Perupetro's
orgization has been strongly influenced by regulations and license contracts to be concluded with
the operating companies. As result of these reforms, substantial new investment in the hydrocarbons
sector is expected. (To date, 23 upstream contracts have been signed, and 15 additional applications
are pending, largely for the Amazon basin.)
25.          Petroperu has been changed into a full-fledged commercial company, having an arms-
length relationship with the Government similar to that of any other concessionaire. Petroperu has
concluded an operations contract with Perupetro covering ongoing crude production operations. The
Govermment plans to initiate Petroperu's privatizaion by end-1994. For this purpose, it has
undertaken the following steps: (i) evaluation of reserves and physical condition of surface facilities;
(ii) valuation and configuration of Petroperu's business units; (iii) evaluation of options for offering
these business units to the industry; and (iv) distribution of an Information Memorandum to potential
investors. The Government has decided to segment the company's upsteam and downsteam
operations into key units to create discrete businesses prone to attract serious investors, and to make
71  This contact grants Petrotech righs to develop proven reserves of 86 mn b and the permission to dri five
eplorty wels in the next seven years and 40 developme wells by 1996, under ihe required minnmm US$65mn
program aimed at hncreasing output from 20,000 bld to 30,000 b/d.
u  Ryalties sa at 15% of producton and inmrease in line with the prsetvity of dte area.



47                                         ANNEX 7
Page 10 of 15
offers more acceptable to prospective buyers! Competitive operating conditions are to be established
by limiting single ownership of competing properties. Refineries will be sold first, whereas
concession-, to private operators will be offered for the northern pipeline. The Government also
intends to privatize storage facilities in a manner that promotes competitive markets for petroleum
products. However, Petroperu will be maintained as a - non-integrated - company, among others to
act as a passive shareholder for the Government's share in the privatized oilfields.
26.           Petroperu is continuing its efforts to increase efficiency through reducing costs,
streamlining operations, and stabilizing output. Measures taken include well work-overs, auctioning
off drilling rigs and other equipment, leasing refining capaci.y to foreign firms, closing down
unprofitable petrochemical and fertilizer operations, and red-cing its workforce by nearly 40% since
mid-1990, to about 5,700 by mid-1994. As a result, in 1993, Petroperu reduced operating expenses
by 17% while raising production by 15%. MWny of Petroperu's operations were decentralized in
early 1994. Further staff reductions (to about 4,500) and other efficiency measures are planned,
especially for the north-western operations.
ergy Pridig and Taxation
27.           The principles and procedures for determining electricity and petroleum products
prices have been brought into line with a market-based system. The major elements of the reforms
were as follows:
28.           Electricity. As result of their 1993 reform, electricity tariffs will reflect economic
costs and market conditions, as regulated tariffs are to be closely aligned to freely negotiated prices
(which eventually will cover about 40% of bulk sales). First, the basis for tariff setting has been
changed from accournting to economic costs; cost differences in providing service to different regions
have been reflected in tariffs; and subsidies are to be eliminated for all consumer groups. The
Government is committed to supporting, free from political considerations, the decisions of CTE as
the autonomous technical body solely responsible for tariff setting, in accordance with the criteria
established in the Law and regulations. Second, distortions among and within consumer categories
are being corrected. Tariffs have been unified according to voltage level, and tariff categories have
been consolidated into three - i.e., for low, medium, and high voltage - irrespective of consumer
category. Third, taxation of electricity consumption has been consolidated by incorporating a 68%
surtax into the rate base and extending the application of the general sales tax to all consumer groups.
(The combined effect on fiscal revenue of these measures has been largely neutral). Discretionary
surcharges that distort price signals are being removed. A municipal charge (arbitrio) on electricity
consumption has been incorporated into the tariff base, thus discontinuing the prctice of collectin
revenues for different fiscal authorities through the electricity bill.
29.           Petroleum Products. With the deregulation of petroleum products prices in November
1993, consistent with the new Hydrocarbons Law, a key condition for restmcturing the sector has
been met. Deregulation of pricing:
(a)    is indispensable for liberalizing refining, foreign trade, and domestic marketing of
petroleum products and thus, for facilitating private sector participation;
9w   Separate busmess units are to be established for exploration and producton (for four upstream producton blocks),
crude oil pipelie ansport, refining, terminals and sales plants, and gas gathenng including gas-fired power plas.



ANNEX 7
48                               Page 11 of 15
(b)   links domestic prices automatically to the movements of international prices,
preventing the former from falling out of line with economic costs; and
(c)    reduces inflationary expectations and avoids the political costs associated with
government-decreed price adjustments, which are perceived to be discretionary and
arbitrary.
30.          Eliminating discriminatory pricing of petroleum products requires that taxaton will be
simplified and unified through levying broadly similar taxes. The Government is committed to
rationalizing fuel taxation, under the constraints imposed by the aim of reducing inflation and
mainning fiscal revenues. Petroleum products in 1993 became liable to general sales tax, whose
burden on fuels used for commercial purposes (industrial and agriculuWral production; commercial
transport) will be shifted to the final consumer of goods and services that incorporate those fuels.
The Govermment is considering a reduction of specific taxes to maintain the overall tax burden on
petroleum products and to compensate for any price increases as result of price liberalization.
Specific taxes on fuels provide more revenue stability but less elasticity and responsiveness to
changing market conditions, especially in an inflationary environment. In case that the 8% tax on
gasoline is maintained as a separate levy, consideration should be given to extending this tax to other
transport fuels, notably diesel, and to bringing the level of taxes on substiutes closer to those of
gasoline and diesel, so as to ensure neutrality of fuel taxation.
31.            The 1993 Law stipulates that any subsidies on fuel consumption are to be provided
through the government budget only. Until there is effective competition in the sector, Petroperu's
ex-refinery prices will be based on import parity prices. For effective competition to happen, a
lcense contract covering Petroperu's operations needs to be concluded.
32.            Consumption taxation of petroleum products is intertwined with resource rent
taxation, which will have to be revamped as the sector is liberalized. Under the new Law, the sector
enterprises including Petroperu will be subject to a sliding royalty on crude production10 and
corporate income taxation, as the principal means to transfer the resource rent back to the Nation.
Coomanty, taxes oxi hydrocarbons production will be reduced, and taxes and duties on
hydrocarbons exports will be eliminated. Stability of company taxation throughout the contract period
will be guateed.
Instttional Refonns
33.          MEM remains the principal institution for policy decisions in the energy sector. Its
Technical Office on Energy (OTERG) is to become more active in evaluating energy development
options and providing policy advise. Investment projects in electricity generation and transmission
are to be evaluated by OTERG within the framework of an indicative plan, notwithstanding that all
investments are to be the sole responsibility of the enterprises. DGE and DGH, respectively, will be
responsible for granting concessions and licenses, settling disputes, setting techical standards, and
supervising service quality. They will maintain their regulatory functions to ensure competitive
markets once all energy prces are fully deregulated and all energy enterprses are prvatized. CTE
w   M The mimmimn royal established by the Hydrcabos Law is 15%. Perupetro normally negodates for higher
perentages, based on the prosectiveness    accessibit of explortion tr.



ANNEX 7
49                                Page 12 of 15
will be fully in charge of electricity tariff regulation, but the sector's Conunittees for Economic
System Operation (COES) will be responsible for calculating tariffs.
34.          The Ministry of Economy and Finance plans to continue to monitor developments
related to energy pricing and investment, in order to ensure their consistency with the Govermment's
macroeconomic strategy. The Government requires that sector investment projects follow not only
the regulations specifically related to electricity and hydrocarbons, but also those established for
competition, taxation, enviromnental protection, health and occupational safety, and urban planning.
Enviromental Issues
35.          Resource degradation and pollution resulting from energy activities are recognized as
a major national problem. There is concern about the water quality of Peru's principal river systems,
and about air and coastal pollution from energy-related activities. The extent of environmental
damage resulting from specific sources has not been assessed, nor have mitigating measures been
prioritized. However, the evaluation of the available information indicates serious degradation of the
country's water resources.
36.          A number of governmental and non-governmental institutions are involved in
enviromnental matters, but there is little coordination between them. MEM's recently formed
General Directorate of Environmental Matters (Direcci6n General de Asuntos Ambientales; DGAA) is
responsible for dealing with environmental issues in energy and mining. Other institutions involved
include the Ministries of Health; Housing; Agriculture; and Lands.
37.          Implementing an environmental strategy for the energy sector requires an adequate
legal/regulatory framework, effective institutions to enforce laws and regulations, and an appropriate
information base for policy setting. The Government has taken measures to strengthen the policy
framework and to tackle the environmentalproblems caused by energy-related activities. Furither
measures are needed to remove or reduce the institutional and policy obstacles to addressing risks to
public health and sensitive ecosystems, and to arrest the decline in productivity of agriculture and
fisheries. These efforts need to focus on specific priorities for which benefits and solutions can be
readily demonstrated, and on least-cost options to attain the stated aims, with a view to expanding
these efforts once the relevant institutions gain experience. In dealing with investors, the Government
needs to insist that all energy-related projects internalize the corresponding environmenWal costs, and
that negative environmental impacts of existing installations are addressed. Environmental regulations
for the electricity sector prepared by DGAA have been issued in June 1994. They require that for all
electricity-relted operations, environmental audits are to be prepared within 18 months specifying the
required extent, capital and operating costs, and schedule of alleviating past problems and of
improving operations to comply with environmental standards.
Agenda for Action
38.          The Government has set mid-1995 as the deadline to achieve its sector reform
objectives. Approximate intermediate targets to monitor the privatiaon process are as follows:



5n1                                ANNEX 7
Page 13 of 15
Eleetricity Sector
November 3, 1994              Electrolima's generation unit will be sold.
November 30, 1994             Tariffs for all residential consumers will reach
100% of economic cost.
Antitrust regulations will be issued.
December 2, 1994              Electroperu's Cahua generation unit will be sold.
January 31, 1995               At least 30% of government holdings in the
electricity sector will be offered for sale.
March 31, 1995                 At least three regional utilities will be offered for
sale.
June 30, 1995                  At least 60% of government holdings in the
electricity sector will be offered for sale.
At least six regional utilities will be offered for
sale.
At least 25% of combined generation and
distribution assets of Electrolima and Electroperu
will be sold.
Hydrocarbons Sector
November 30, 1994              Submission of bids for Petroperu's Talara and La
Pampilla refineries.
December 31, 1994             Sale of above refineries.
May 31, 1995                  Issuance of concession for north Peruvian pipeline
and sale of storage capacities.
June 30, 1995                  Completion of Petroperu privatization.
lnvesent RequHrments
39.          Throughout the 1980s, investment was insufficient to maintain the productive capacity
of the energy sector, let alone expand it. Projects were selected largely on political grounds and were
poorly implemented. Major expenditures are needed both for rehabilitation and expansion. The
fiuture selection and implementation of projects in the energy sector will be determined by the
privatization process, in particular the progress in forming new private companies. Nevertheless, the
Govermnent will have a guiding role in the near term through its inventory of projects, including the
indicative expansion plan for the electricity sector, and in the medium to longer term through setting
strategic priorities for energy development.



ANNEX 7
51                                  Page 14 of 15
40.          Electricity. The immediate requirement is for increasing the availability and
reliability of supply, through :ehabilitating the systems, reducing losses, and adding new generating
capacity. Since current dispatch facilities are inadequate for efficient market-oriented operations in
interconnected grids, there is neeA to (a) establish a National Center for Coordination and Supervision
to ensure proper management of the electricity system, and (b) adopt Electrolima's
generation/distribution control center to the operations under the new regulatory framework. In view
of the drought-induced energy shortages in recent years, 200 MW of thermal (gas turbine) capacity
were installed in 1993 in the central-northern system and additional 100 MW of thermal capacity will
be installed in the following years. The two southern systems will be inerconnected trough a 200-
km transmission line, financed through a US$45mn IDB loan. Medium-term investment requirements
for generation and transmission in the central-northern and southern interconnected systems are
outlined in the 1993 indicative expansion plan prepared by OTERG and Electroperu. This plan is
based on assumptions of moderate economic growth throughout the 1990sel and of electricity
demand growth in the range of 3-4.5% p.a. during 1994-96 and 3 4-4.2% p.a. during 1997-2000.
Accordingly, generation expansion requirements for 1994-2000 would total 600 MW, consistent with
a loss-of-load probability of 24hrs/year, with an enhanced share of gas turbine plant and restricted
hydropower expansion. Investment requirm    during 1994-2000 are projected to approach 1993
US$1.5bn (95% for generation;2 5% for transmission). Nearly 80% of it would be for the cental-
northern system where new capacity to meet peak demand will be required after 1997. In additon,
there will be requirements for generating capacity outside the interconnected systems, for distrbution,
major rehabilitation, and environment-related expendtu.
41.          Hydrocarbons. Because of severe financial constaits, Petroperu in recent years has
hardly ever carried out more than 40% of its budgeted investment. As an indication of the success
since 1991 in attracting outside companies to petroleum exploration and field development, Petroperu
meanwhile accounts for just about one-half of petroleum-related investment overall and even less
upstream, where the bulk is carried out by private firms. It is likely that Petroperu in future will
invest even less as more companies are being attracted to Peru and its own activities are being scaled
back. In the short term, expenitu  of at least US$80-100mn p.a. are needed to rehabilitate existg
productive capacity. Petroperu projects its own investment to average 1993 US$110mn p.a.,
including for rehabilitatng existng fields and surface installations for which IDB and CAF financing
has been obtained, and for adding conversion capacity to refineries. However, the feasibility of
installing conversion facilities to mitigate the domestic supply-demand imbalance for petroleum
products, especially middle distillates, depends on the economics of the alternative option to increase
products imports, in the light of future domestic crude production.
42.          As part of private sector activity, Occidental Co. plans to increase production through
a US$40mn outlay for horizontal wells and water injection scheme in its Capahuari Sur field. US
Maple Gas has concluded a US$150mn development contract for: (i) the Maqufa and Agua Caliente
crude oil deposits aimed at doubling output; (ii) the Aguaytia gas and condensa   field in the cetal
jungle for localized use (including for a gas-fired electricity generating plant to be constucted); and
(iii) a rental contract for the Pucallpa refinery and fuel sales terminal. Among the majors, Arco,
Mobil, Shell, and Total are considering investng in exploration, primarily in the Amazon and Madre
"'  i.e., GDP growth in the range of 3.54.5% p.a. for 1995-2000 and of 34% p.a. for 2001-07. This is lower tham
GDP growth projected by the Bank (5% p.a. in 199495. 6% p.a. in 1996-2000).
t21  This includes expendite for capacity which will come on stream afker the year 2000.



ANNEX 7
52                                  Page 15 of 15
de Dios regions. Development drilling is expected to take place largely in the older fields along the
northern coast.
43.          As potentially a very important scheme, the Goverment for some years has promoted
the Camisea natural gas deposit whose recoverable reserves are estimated at nearly 1 ltr cf of gas and
725mn b of condensates. Earlier schemes envisaged a first-stage net output of about 300mn cf/d (an
additional 700mn cf/d would be reinjected) and 60,000 b/d of liquids and their transmission to Limna
and Cuzco for electricity generation and industrial use. Project implementation is assumed to take
five years. Capital costs for appraisal drilling, field development, pipelines, and gas treatment
facilities are preliminarily estinated at 1993 US$1.5bn (over and above US$200mn already spent by
Shell on exploration). Alternatively, electricity could be generated near Camisea and transmitted to
Lima. Perupetro and Shell International Petroleum in March 1994 agreed to evaluate the commercial
potential of the deposit. Shell currently is undertaking mnarket studies focusing on supplying gas and
condensates for sale in Peru and abroad. Provided the results indicate a viable project, Shell has until
end-1995 to negotiate a contract to develop Camisea. The development strategy for electricity will be
strongly influenced by the success of the Camisea scheme, the same way as the expansion of thermal
generation is key to developing Peru's natural gas resources.
Technical Assstance  equrements
44.          In order to assist the Government in accelerating sector rehabilitation and reform and
in strengthening energy sector institutions, the Bank since late 1990 has extended technical assistance
in preparing new legislation for the electricity and hydrocarbons sectors, reforming the electricity
tariff system, deregulating petroleum markets and prices, and privatizing the electricity and
hydrocarbons sectors. To enable MEM and its agencies to contribute adequately to the Government's
deregulation and privatization efforts, the Bank is providing further assistance through its Energy and
Mining Technical Assistance Loan (EMTAL) for completing the reform process, especially for
strengthening MEM as the principal policy making and regulatory institution.'f The Government
has been assisted in (a) completing legal/regulatory reforms of the energy sector, including
environmental regulations; (b) implementing sector strategies and policies, especially
demonopolization and privatization of government enterprises; and (c) strengthening the capabilities
of MEM and the regulatory agencies especially DGE, CTE, DGH, Perupetro, and DGAA to
implement sector reforms and to regulate and monitor the sector enterprises.
45.          EMTAL gives high priority to hydrocarbons exploration promotion, in cooperation
with the private sector. The Loan also finances technical assistance for developing an environmental
policy and institutional framework in the electricity and hydrocarbons sectors, so that operational
practices can be adjusted in the light of new information, especially on pollution impacts. DGAA will
be strengthened in its implementation capacity and will be assisted in acquiring expertise in
environmental assessments, auditing, and administration and management procedures, including
through the identification of independent financing sources.
13'  Blesides energy, EMTAL addresses MEM's technical assistance requiements m the ming sector.



ANNEX 8
53                               Page 1 of 2
PERU
ELECTRICITY PRIVATIZATION ADJUSTMENT LOAN
SUPPLEMENTARY LOAN DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Kev Events
(a) Time taken to prepare:    12 months
(b) Program prepared by:      Ministry of Economy and Finance; Ministry of
Energy and Mines; COPRI
(c) Appraisal mission departre:  August 1993
(d) Completion of negotiations:  19 July, 1994
(e) Planned date of effectiveness: December 1994
Section II: Special Bank Imnlementadon Actions
None
Section Ell: Special Conditions
1.    The conditions of effectiveness are:
(a) maintnance of a macroeconomic policy framework and a financing plan
consistent with the objectives of the overall stucunal reform program supported
by the Bank;
(b) satisfactory progress in implementing the electricity sector reform program as set
out in the Policy Letter;
2.    The conditions of second tranche release are:
(a) maintenance of a macroeconomic policy framework and a financing plan
consistent with the objectives of the overal struuctl reform program   pported
by the Bank;



ANNEX 8
54                                         Page 2 of 2
(b) satisfactory progress in implementing the electricity sector reform program as set
out in the Policy Letter;
(c) setting of all electricity tariffs at 100% of their economic costs;
(d) maintenance of full autonomy of Electricity Tariff Commission;
(e) official publication of antitrust rules for electricity sector enterprises;
(g) offer for sale of a majority interest in: (a) each of Electrolima distribution
utilities for metropolitan Lima, and (b) the generating utilities whose combined
assets represent not less than 12 percent of total assets to be privatized in the
electricity sector;
3.    The conditions of third tranche release are:
(a) maintenance of a macroeconomic policy framework and a financing plan
consistent with the objectives of the overall structural reform program supported
by the Bank;
(b) satisfactory progress in implemenfting the electricity sector reform program as set
out in the Policy Letter;
(c) maintenance of all electricity tariffs at 100% of their economic costs;
(d) maintenance of full autonomy of Electricity Tariff Commission;
(e) offer for sale of a majority interest in the generating utilities whose assets
represent at least 52 percent of total assets to be privatized in the electricity
sector;
(f) actual sale of a majority interest in the utilities whose combined assets represent
at least 25 percent of total assets to be privatized in the electricity sector.



55                                     ANlNEX 9
Amount in US$ Million
LnWCr     Fiscal                                           (less cancellations)  Undis-
Number    Year Borrower          Purpose                     Bank      IDA       bursed
64 Loan (s) closed                                            1,801.69
of which SALs and SECALs
L34520-PE    1992 PERU   SAL                       300.00
L34370-PE    1992 PERU   Trade Policy              300.00
L34521-PE    1993 PERU   SAL
L34890-PE(S)  1992 PERU   Financial Sector Reform               400.00            100.00
L35400-PE    1993 PERU   Privatization T.A.                      30.00             27.06
L35950-PE(S)  1993 PERU   Privatization Adj.                    250.00            100.00
L36100-PE    1993 PERU   Energy/Mining T.A.                      11.80             10.85
L36840-PE    1994 PERU   Social Development Fund                100.00            85.73
L37010-PE    1994 PERU   Basic Health/Nutrition                  34.00             33.00
L37170-PE    1994 PERU   Transp. Rehabilitation                 150.00            144.64
975.80           601.28
TOTAL                                      2,777.49
Of which repaid                             978.87
Total held by Bank & IDA                   1,798.62
Amount sold                                   18.31
Of which repaid                              18.31
Total undisbursed                                             501.28
Loan     Equity   Total
(in US$ Million)
Total Gross Commitments                                      149.90    33.50   183.40
Less cancellations, terminations, exchange adjustments,      105.10     1.63    106.73
repayments, writeoffs, and sales
Total Commitments now held by IFC                             44.80     31.87   76.67
Total Undisbursed IFC                                         15.00     23.19   38.19
(S) Indicates SAL/SECAL Loans and Credits



