Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 19441
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PERU
ELECTRICITY PRIVATIZATION ADJUSTMENT LOAN (EPAL)
(LOAN 3810 - PE)
June 15, 1999
Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure Sector Unit
Bolivia, Paraguay and Peru Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
June 15, 1999
Currency Unit = Nuevo Sol (S/.)
US$l=S/3.34
S/i=US$0.30
FISCAL YEAR
January 1- December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CEPRI        Special Privatization Committee
COES         Committee for Economic (Electricity) System Operation
COPRI        Committee for Private Sector Investment
CTE          Electricity Tariff Commission
EDEGEL       Lima Electricity Generation Enterprise
EGASA        Arequipa Electricity Generation Enterprise
ETECEN       Transmission Enterprise for the Central-Northern
Interconnected System
ICR          Implementation Completion Report
IDB          Inter-American Development Bank
IMF          International Monetary Fund
INDECOPOI Government Competition and Consumer Protection Agency
MEF          Ministry of Economy and Finance
MEM          Ministry of Energy and Mines
OSINERG    Supervisory Agency for Investments in Energy
SICN         Interconnected Central-Northern Electricity System
SOEs         State-owned Enterprises
Vice-President:           Shahid Javed Burki
Country Director:        Isabel Guerrero
Sector Director:          Danny Leipziger
Task Manager:             Joerg Uwe Richter



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE ........................................................................................
EVALUATION SUMMARY ................................................                         11
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Background .............................................;                  .....I
B. Project Objectives and Design ............................................        3
C. Achievement of Objectives ............................................          5
D. Major Factors Affecting the Project           ........................ .. 10
E. Project Sustainability ..........................1 
F. Bank Performance ..........................                                    12
G. Borrower Performance                ..........................                 13
H. Assessment of Outcome                ............................. ..... 14
I. Operational Plan .........................................                     15
J. Key Lessons Learned .........................................                  17
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments .........................................   .....19
Table 2: Related Bank Loans - Preceding Loans .             .......................... ..... 20
Table 3: Project Timetable             .............................  ..... 21
Table 4: Loan Disbursements - Tranche Releases .             ................................ 21
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation .          ............................. 22
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation ................. . ........... ..... 22
Table 7: Studies Included in the Project          ....................... ..... 23
Table 8A: Project Costs              ................................ .....23
Table 8B: Project Financing             ............................. .....23
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits             ............................. 23
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants           ......................... ..... 24
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements                 . .    25
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ...................................... ..... 26
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions             ............................... 27
APPENDICES
A. Summary of Loan Objectives and Achievements ........................ .... 28
B. ICR Mission Aide-Memoire ..........................................           29
C. Project Review from Borrower's Perspective .................................. 35
D. Proposed Operational Plan ..........................................          45
Map
IBRD No.30256- Peru Electricity Sector Map
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PERU
ELECTRICITY PRIVATIZATION ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(LOAN No. 3810-PE)
PREFACE
This Implementation Completion Report (ICR) deals with the Electricity Privatization
Adjustment Loan (EPAL) for Peru, in the amount of US$150.0 million, which was
approved and made effective on November 22, 1994.
Following two extensions on December 31, 1996 and December 31, 1997 for twelve
months each, the Loan was closed on December 31, 1998. Two out of three tranches
arnounting to 66.7% of the full loan amount were disbursed. The last disbursement
took place on November 21, 1995.
The ICR was prepared by Messrs. Joerg-Uwe Richter of the Finance, Private Sector,
and Infrastructure Department of the Latin America and Caribbean Office (LCSFP)
and Stephen Ettinger (Consultant). The Report was reviewed by Mines. Susan G.
Goldmark, Maria-Victoria Lister, and Noriko Iwase (LCC6C). The Report is based,
inter alia, on the Memorandum of the President; reports by the Borrower's Project
Coordination Unit; supervision reports; correspondence between the Bank and the
Borrower's implementing agency; Bank internal memoranda; Borrower's progress
reports; and discussions between the Borrower and Bank staff. Preparation of the [CR
began during the Bank's project completion mission during March 1-12, 1999. The
Borrower contributed to this ICR by preparing an evaluation of the Project's
implementation and results (Appendix C) and by commenting on the Bank's draft ICR.



ii
PERU
ELECTRICITY PRIVATIZATION ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(LOAN No. 3810-PE)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
1. Introduction. This Implementation Completion Report (ICR) deals with the
Electricity Privatization Adjustment Loan (EPAL) of US$150mn equivalent. The
Loan, approved and signed on November 22, 1994, was the last of five adjustment
loans made to assist Peru to overcome its economic crisis and restructure its economy.
The first US$50mn tranche was disbursed immediately after loan signing, and the
second tranche one year later, but the final tranche was cancelled when the loan was
closed on December 31, 1998, two years after the original closing date.
2. Background. Upon assuming office in 1990, the Fujimori Government faced a
social and economic crisis of huge dimensions. One contributing factor was the poor
perforrnance of the state-owned enterprises (SOEs), which had become inefficient and
politicized, faced low and controlled prices, were losing about $2.5bn/year, and lacked
resources for essential investments. Electricity was by far the largest segment of the
SOEs, representing 40% of the $7.5bn in SOE assets (at book value). The sector was
dominated by ElectroPeru (the nationwide generation and transmission company) and
ElectroLima (the generation, transmission, and distribution company for the greater
Lima area), along with nine smaller regional companies.
3. As part of the overall restructuring program and in preparation for privatization,
the Government carried out major reforms in the electricity sector during 1992-94.
ElectroLima was segmented into one generation and two distribution companies, while
ElectroLima's and ElectroPeru's transmission assets were combined into a new
company, ETECEN. The 1992 Law on Electricity Concessions and the 1993
regulations under it provided the basis for a new system of competitive generation,
common-carrier transmission, and regulated-monopoly distribution to small
consumers, with larger consumers (over 1,000 kW) able to purchase directly from
generators in a free market. The Electricity Tariff Commission (CTE), that
traditionally had been subject to political pressure, was given regulatory autonomy, and
tariffs were to be set based on economic costs.
4.  Project Objectives and Scope. The Project was to support the Government's
electricity privatization program and related legal/regulatory/institutional reforms, with
the twin objectives of (a) promoting adequate and environmentally sustainable
electricity supplies and (b) enhancing economic efficiency through competition and
private sector participation. The objectives were to be achieved through both sector
reform (economic pricing and a sound legal/regulatory/institutional system) and
privatization. Maintenance of a satisfactory macroeconomic policy framework and
financing plan was a condition for effectiveness and for each tranche release, as was



satisfactory progress in implementing the agreed sector reform program. For the
second and third tranches, maintenance of full autonomy for CTE and setting/keeping
tariffs at full economic cost were required. The second tranche also required the
publication of antitrust rules for the sector and of model concession contracts for
transmission and distribution, assuring third-party access and use. These objectives
were appropriate and in full accord with the Government's program.
5.  The privatization requirements were, for the second tranche, offer for sale of a
majority interest in (a) metropolitan Lima distribution, and (b) ElectroLima's and part
of ElectroPeru's generation assets with combined value of at least 12% of total sector
assets. For the third tranche, offer for sale of a majority interest had to cover
generating units with assets of at least 52% of total assets to be privatized. This
implied that the 1,008MW (installed capacity) Mantaro hydro generation scheme, the
largest on the system, had to be included. In addition, to attain critical mass of private
participation, actual sale was required of at least 25% of total assets to be privatized.
While these objectives were appropriate, the privatization of the regional utilities
should have been included in the conditionality, given their importance for a
comprehensive sectoral development focus, especially the social need to improve
electricity supplies to consumers outside Lima.
6. Achievement of Objectives. The Government met all macroeconomic and
sectoral reform conditions, and the sector by and large is functioning well. Foreign
investors view Peru as having one of the more receptive Latin American electricity
sectors in which to invest. CTE remains autonomous, although there are indications
that the Government may still be trying to influence it. Tariffs have been kept at what
is calculated as 100% of economic cost. But because of the definition of the
incremental generating unit - based on natural gas from Camisea whose timing is
uncertain -, marginal costs as basis for tariff setting have declined. Also, distribution
firms challenged ir court some of CTE's rulings. The legal/regulatory/institutional
framework establishes competition between generators de jure, but there are questions
about how much competition exists de facto. The Govermnent has been changing the
allocation of firm capacity payments between thermal and hydro generators, initially to
favor the former (so as to induce immediate investments with short gestation periods)
and now to favor the latter (so as to give improved signals for future hydro
investments) which raises questions of both fairness and future stability of operating
conditions overall. These issues appear to result primarily from the newness and
complexity of the legal/regulatory and pricing regimes. The authorities recognize
these issues, but fixing them is not easy, especially when it involves changing the rules
of the game under which private firms operate, as well as the culture of governance.
7. ElectroLima's generation and distribution and most of ElectroPeru's generation
plants excluding Mantaro were offered for sale (which fulfilled the second tranche
conditions) and were privatized. To date, 48% of sector assets has been sold, far more
than 25% required as a third tranche condition. Sales revenues have totalled about
$1.5bn. Privatizations were carried out transparently, and there were winning bidders



iv
of high repute from Chile, Argentina, Spain, the U.S., Canada, and Peru itself. But the
Government has not offered the Mantaro hydro complex for sale and, therefore, was
not able to meet the third tranche condition of offering for sale generation facilifies
with a combined value of 52% of the sector assets to be privatized. (This was
considered important by the Government and the Bank as sector-wide efficiency
improvements through enhanced private participation were deemed not to be fully
attainable if the largest generating scheme on the system were to remain in public
ownership.) The Loan's closing date was extended for two years in expectation of
progress on Mantaro, but without success. The Government provided a variety of
reasons which changed over the lifetime of the Loan, i.e., uncertainties about the
condition of the Mantaro water injection tunnel; Mantaro's dominant market position;
weaknesses in the regulatory/pricing system; efficiency improvements at Mantaro
achieved under public enterprise management, obviating privatization for efficiency
reasons; inability to use the sales revenues immediately due to IMF-imposed
restrictions; and political resistance to privatizing a major asset in the public domain.
8.  Sustainability. One reason why privatization is such a critical reform element is
that it is difficult to reverse for a variety of legal, economic, political, and practical
reasons. Furthermore, the overall economic success of the current Government makes
any general assault on Peru's economic reforms unlikely. The fact that privatizations
were on the whole successful, in terms of prices received, the high quality of the firms
attracted, and the transparency of the process, should further ensure that they will not
be reversed. Nevertheless, popular support for privatization has dropped steadily, and
there is sentiment in favor of re-nationalizing the electricity and telecommunications
sectors.' The reasons - perceived or real - are: (a) reduction in employment in the
companies being privatized; (b) increases in utility tariffs in the move to economic
pricing which accompanied the privatizations; (c) dominance in the electricity sector of
companies from Chile and Spain, with whom Peru has had a contentious relationship;
and (d) poor public communications efforts by these companies (although this is
improving). There is also a lack of public understanding of and hence confidence in
the regulatory system. Declining popular support has made privatization a convenient
target for the Government's opponents. At the same time, the Government has failed to
counter these criticisms with a communications effort in support of privatization, and
has even issued statements questioning whether key remaining SOEs, such as Mantaro,
should be privatized. Nevertheless, the privatization program is slowly moving ahead.
The Government also continues to invite private participation in the sector by granting
concessions for the construction and operation of new transmission lines.
9.    Bank Performance. The Bank did a creditable job in project design,
especially at the identification stage when it advised key officials and financed the
preparation of the legal/regulatory and pricing systems. The Bank's insistence on the
According to the May 1999 results of a permanent survey undertaken by the socio-economic research
institute APOYO, in Lima the support for privatization has declined to less than 30% from 65% in mid-
1992, and 72% of Lima residents would like to see their electricity and telecommunications utilities re-
nationalized.



v
privatization of Mantaro as a third tranche condition was appropriate, given the
scheme's importance for sector reform and efficiency improvement and for setting the
investment climate throughout the economy. The decision to twice extend the loan
closing date was reasonable, as this preserved an incentive for the Government to
privatize Mantaro and allowed the dialogue to continue. When it became clear in late
1998 that no progress toward privatization had been made and was not likely in near
future, the decision to close the Loan was also appropriate. But there are a number of
areas in which the Bank could have done better: (a) the President's Report was not
sufficiently explicit about the complexity of the Mantaro issue and its centrality for
third tranche disbursement; (b) the project timetable and closing date were too
optimistic; (c) the privatization conditionality excluded the regional companies; and
(d) due to financial and human resource constraints, the Bank in later years did not
systematically monitor sectoral performance indicators, and did not sufficiciently
involve sector specialists in project supervision (even though the 1998 QAG review
considered project supervision to be satisfactory). In particular, project
implementation would have benefitted from a fuller analysis of the complexities
surrounding the privatization of Mantaro.
10. Government Performance. The Government successfully met seven of eight
second and third tranche disbursement conditions. It established a modern legal/
regulatory/institutional framework and tariff system for the electricity sector, and has
continued to improve that system, although a number of issues remain. In
privatization, the Government initially moved quickly, overcame considerable
difficulties in privatizing all of ElectroLima and a large part of ElectroPeru, and
undertook the privatizations transparently and efficiently. But progress slowed down
considerably after 1995. Regarding Mantaro, it would have been preferable if the
Government had delivered a clearer message about the obstacles to privatization, so
that there could have been a more productive dialogue with the Bank. In addition, the
Government did not follow up on its November 1997 agreement with the Bank to hold
a workshop on the alternatives for private participation in Mantaro.
11. Assessment of Project Outcome. The outcome of the Project is satisfactory,
the cancellation of the third EPAL tranche notwithstanding. The sector has made
substantial progress during the project implementation period, meeting, in large part,
the underlying objectives: (a) supply interruptions due to shortage of capacity have
ended, and anticipated investments will ensure adequate supply in coming years; (b)
service has expanded rapidly, especially to poorer consumers, increasing coverage
during 1993-98 from 53% to nearly 70% of the population; (c) over the same period,
production efficiency has improved, indicated by an increase in the customers/
employee ratio of 316 to 520 and a decline in transmission and distribution losses from
21.8% to 12.4%; (d) over the 1990-98 period, the sector has shifted from a US$302mn
loss to an operating profit of US$3 18mn, and hence from being a drain on the public
treasury to a source of fiscal income; and (e) the culture of receiving highly subsidized
energy has been broken.



vi
12.  Future Operation. Although $1.5bn has already been obtained from electricity
privatizations to date (not counting investment commitments), an even larger amount
is still government-owned, comprising the largest share of the remaining privatization
agenda. Given the need for the overall economy to attract external financing, the
privatization of Mantaro is particularly important because it would: (a) show the
Government's commitment to the separation between entrepreneurship and the
Government's regulatory and enforcement role, and its own confidence in the
legal/regulatory system it has established; (b) ensure that the Government cannot be
accused of making policy decisions which favor the enterprises it owns; (c) leave
major future investments for Mantaro up to a private company that has the resources
and can be expected to invest them efficiently; (d) support the development of a spot
market; and (e) provide greater fiscal resources in the near term, when they are needed
urgently.
13. On sectoral policies, the Government needs to: (a) maintain CTE's autonomy,
and gain greater appreciation of the meaning and benefits of that autonomy; (b)
strengthen the judicial system to deal with disputes in the sector; (c) monitor the
performance of the free market, among others through improved information on
contracts, and propose remedies if there appears to be inadequate competition; and (d)
protect ("grandfather") existing investments in the sector against sudden changes in
operational norms and conditions.
14. Key Lessons Learned. The Government should be aware that: (i) a complete
reform of the electricity sector is a long-term proposition, calling for a firm focus on
fundamental requirements rather than short-term expediency; (ii) at the same time, a
flexible legal/regulatory framework is needed, so that modifications can be made based
on experience; (iii) the Government needs to retain high-quality staff familiar with
the private sector and as competent as the private-sector staff with whom they deal, to
avoid regulatory capture; (iv) maintaining the autonomy of regulatory agencies is a
constant struggle that requires not only adequate laws but also continuing political
support, growing understanding of the nature of regulation, and adequate financing; (v)
when privatizing, it is important to move quickly, because resistance always develops;
(vi) close coordination between the key agencies is required for successful reform
and privatization; (vii) tariff increases should be made before privatization
commences, so that the public does not confound the two; and (viii) the effects of
privatization need to be properly evaluated and communicated to the public. The
Bank, when supporting sectoral reform, should (i) include all major parts of the
sector(s); (ii) devote adequate resources to supervision; and (iii) when a major
roadblock is encountered, devote resources to understanding the source of the problem
and, on that basis, having a dialogue with the Government on the issue, rather than
mainly focussing on legal and administrative aspects of project implementation.
Combining adjustment lending with technical assistance provides an effective way of
ensuring that the Government has the funds with which to carry out the necessary
preparations in support of reforms.



PERU
ELECTRICITY PRIVATIZATION ADJUSTMENT LOAN (EPAL)
(LOAN No. 3810-PE)
PART I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. BACKGROUND
1.  Economic Crisis. When President Fujimori assumed office in August 1990,
Peru was in deep crisis. The economy was in shambles, a cholera epidemic was
threatening, and terrorist movements were expanding their grip from rural areas to
Lima. Peru had accumulated an external debt of US$22bn, two-thirds of which w_s n
arrears, and was in default to the IMF, the World Bank, and IDB. Inflation had
reached an annualized rate of 36,000%. Per capita income had dropped to the leve.' 3-
thirty years earlier, 75% of the labor force in Lima was unemployed or underem2.1l - O
and real wages had fallen by 60% over five years.
2.  Impact of State-owned Enterprises (SOEs). One of the contributing factors to
the economic decline was the poor performance of the SOEs. These were largely the
product of nationalizations of foreign-owned finns by Peru's military regimes during
the 1 960s and 1 970s, dominating the banking, telecommunications, water, electricity,
hydrocarbons, mining, and steel sectors. They had become increasingly inefficient and
politicized, and were hampered by government interference and low, controlled prices.
By 1990, they were losing about $2.5bn/year, much of which had to be covered by the
government budget. Their inability to modernize and expand basic infrastructure,
especially telecommunications and electricity, were constraining development in the
rest of the economy.
3.  Electricity Sector. Electricity was by far the largest segment of the SOEs,
representing 40% of their $7.5bn assets at book value. The sector consisted of (a)
ElectroPeru, the nationwide generation and transmission company, which sold entirely
in bulk to distributors; (b) ElectroLima, the second largest generation and transmission
company and largest distribution company, serving the greater Lima area; and (c) nine
smaller regional utilities whose ownership was a mixture of ElectroPeru and local
governments. The combination of state ownership and economic crisis had seriously
weakened this sector. Sales during 1980-92 had grown by only 2.7% p.a. because of
increasing losses (from 13% to 22% of gross generation) and inability to make
adequate new investments. The financial condition of the enterprises deteriorated even
more, as average tariffs fell to 18% of economic cost in 1989. There were frequent



2
blackouts, brownouts, and rationing, and concern that once the economy recovered,
electricity shortages would become much more pronounced because of the long lead
time on increasing electricity generation.
4.  Economic Reforms. President Fujimori was not elected on an economic reform
program, but once in office he took strong and comprehensive measures to reverse the
country's slide. A series of stabilization measures in the areas of taxation, public
expenditures, and interest and exchange rate policies lowered inflation dramatically.
For the longer term, structural reforms were introduced which initially emphased trade
liberalization and financial sector reform but quickly spread to specific sectoral
changes in energy, industry, agriculture, infrastructure, and social services.
5.   Motivation for Privatization. Within its first year in office, the Government
had grown convinced of the need to launch a comprehensive privatization program.
Central to this was the recognition that Peru lacked the resources to make necessary
investments in the SOEs, especially in energy and telecommunications where massive
expenditure would be needed to attain regional standards. While many key officials
supported privatization on grounds related to the proper roles of the public and private
sectors, others endorsed it on more limited pragmatic grounds. But in initial phases,
this distinction was not important operationally. Peru was in crisis, radical measures
were needed, and all major elements of Government were in favor of privatization.
6.  Launching the Privatization Program. Legislative Decree 674, the "Law for
Promotion of Private Investment in State Enterprises," of September 1991, established
the legal and institutional framework for privatization. The Minister-level Committee
for Private Sector Investment (COPRI) was created as privatization agency, with a
Secretariat headed by an Executive Secretary in charge of day-to-day management.
COPRI then established a series of Special Privatization Committees (CEPRIs), in
charge of individual enterprises or sectors being privatized. For the electricity sector,
CEPRIs were established for ElectroPeru and ElectroLima, respectively. (The more
politically complex privatization of the regional companies was left for later).
7.  Reform of the Electricity Sector. As part of the overall reform program, and in
preparation for privatization, the Government in 1992-94 carried out major reforms of
the electricity sector. On the institutional side, ElectroLima was segmented into one
generation company and two distribution companies, while its and ElectroPeru's
transmission assets were combined into a new company, ETECEN, covering the
central-northern interconnected system (SICN). The establishment of a separate
transmission company, operating as a common carrier, was recognized as essential for
permitting competition in generation. A new 1992 Law on Electricity Concessions,
and the 1993 regulations under it, provided the basis for a new system of competitive
generation, common-carrier transmission, and regulated-monopoly distribution to
small consumers, with larger consumers (above 1,000 kW) able to purchase directly
from generators in a non-regulated free market. The Electricity Tariff Commission
(CTE), which traditionally had been subject to strong government interference, was



3
given regulatory autonomy, and tariffs were to be set based on economic costs.
Overall, the reform of the sector was modelled on Chile's, which at that time had been
the most successful and thoroughgoing in Latin America.
8. Bank Adjustment Lending. Meanwhile, the Bank, IMF, and IDB developed a
joint strategy to enable Peru to clear its arrears with them and obtain new funds to
support the ambitious reform agenda. The Bank, for its part, approved in I992-93 four
adjustment loans prior to EPAL. The US$300mn Trade Policy Reform Loan and
US$450mn Structural Adjustment Loan were disbursed in a single tranche in March
1993, in conjunction with the arrears clearance. The first disbursement of the
Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (FSAL) was made then as well. The US$250mn
Privatization Adjustment Loan (PAL) was the fourth of these adjustment loans. FSAL,
PAL, and EPAL were conditioned on an ambitious action program to be taken in their
respective sectors, with privatization of SOEs a central element in all three operations.
The US$30mn Privatization Technical Assistance Loan (PTAL) was designed to
support PAL, and the US$11.8mn Energy and Mining Technical Assistance Loan
(EMTAL) to support EPAL and the mining and hydrocarbons components of PAL. (It
was considered to be more efficient to extend all relevant technical assistance to the
Ministry of Energy and Mines through a single project).
B. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESIGN
9. Objectives. EPAL was aimed at supporting the Government's electricity
privatization program and related legalVregulatory/institutional reforms, with the twin
objectives of (a) promoting adequate and environmentally sustainable supplies and (b)
enhancing economic efficiency through competition and private sector participation.
The US$150mn loan, approved and made effective on November 22, 1994, was to be
disbursed in three equal tranches. A separate loan for the electricity sector was
considered justified because electricity represented a large proportion of the SOEs, and
was in such dire straits. These objectives were to be achieved through both sector
reform (economic pricing and modernization of the legal/regulatory/institutional
framework) and privatization. EPAL was to contribute to this endeavor by (a)
providing resources to ease the country's economic transition, (b) assisting the design
of the reforms through dialogue, and (c) strengthening the Government's commitment
to promoting reforms, by providing incentives to meet the disbursement conditions.
10. Sector Reform Design and Conditionality. Maintainance of a satisfactory
macroeconomic policy framework and financing plan and satisfactory progress in
implementing the agreed electricity sector reform program were conditions for loan
effectiveness and for each tranche disbursement. In addition, for the second and third
tranches, maintenance of full autonomy for the Electricity Tariff Commission and
setting/ keeping tariffs at full economic cost were required. The second tranche also
required publication of antitrust rules for the sector and model concession contracts
for transmission and distribution, assuring third-party access and use. These specific



4
requirements were limited in scope because the major reforms were already well
underway. The objectives were appropriate and in full accord with the Government's
program. The requirement to set and maintain tariffs at economic cost was easy to
meet, because by that time, the most highly subsidized tariffs (for residential
consumers outside of Lima who used no more than 150 kWh/month) had already
reached 88% of economic cost, and tariffs on average covered 98.6% of economic
cost.
11.  Privatization Design and Conditionality. The privatization requirements for
the second tranche were offer for sale of a majority interest in (a) ElectroLima's
metropolitan distribution assets, and (b) ElectroLima's and ElectroPeru's generation
assets, with combined value of at least 12% of total sector assets to be privatized. For
the third tranche, as a demonstration of seriousness of the Government's commitment,
the offer for sale of a majority interest had to cover generating units with assets of at
least 52% of total sector assets to be privatized, including the Mantaro scheme. In
addition, in order to attain critical mass of private participation, actual sale of at least
25% of total assets to be privatized was required.
12. The privatization objectives were modeled after those of the preceding PAL,
which required actual sales by the third tranche, as well as a larger offer for sale.
However, two points should be noted. First, the transmission system and regional
utilities were excluded from the Project, because, according to the President's Report,
they were "expected to be privatized in a second round," which was "expected to get
underway in 1995, starting with those in regions where support for privatization is
strong." The Government and the Bank considered that with full privatization of
ElectroLima and ElectroPeru, private ownership in the sector would be firmly
established. The exclusion of transmission was reasonable, as the potential
stranglehold position of a private monopoly, and the difficulty in determining prices
adequate to induce a private company to optimize investment in new lines, would
make this the most difficult part of the electricity system to privatize. However, in
regard to the regional utilities, the argument is not compelling for leaving out an
important part of the system, especially as 1995 was not so distant for a loan approved
in November 1994. Its effect was to limit the Bank's sectoral dialogue and forego a
tranche-disbursement incentive to move quickly with the privatization of the regional
utilities.2 There was concern that the regional utilities could not be privatized on the
projected - excessively optimistic - schedule, which anticipated fast privatization of
ElectroPeru and full disbursements before the end of FY96.
13. A more complicated issue, technically and politically, which was implied but not
elaborated on in the President's Report, was related to the dominance of the Mantaro
hydro generation scheme, whose assets totaled 39% of total sector assets to be
privatized. Offer for sale of this plant was required for third tranche disbursement.
This was considered important by the Government and the Bank as sector-wide
2 Privatization of these utilities did not begin until 1997 and has yet to be completed.



5
efficiency imnprovements through enhanced private participation were deemed not to
be attainable if the largest generating scheme on the system were to remain in public
ownership. Mantaro thus became the principal issue of project implementation. While
the requirement for privatization of Mantaro was appropriate, given its centrality in
Peru's electricity system and its importance for demonstrating the Government's
commitment to private investment, the Bank should have realized earlier its
complexity, elaborated on the risks involved, adjusted the timetable accordingly, and
involved senior management more in this issue.
14. Cost and Implementation Schedule. The Loan was for US$150mn, with three
tranches of US$50mn each. The first two US$50mn tranches were projected to be
disbursed in FY95, i.e. within eight months after loan approval, and the third tranche,
in FY96. The closing date was set at December 31, 1996. This tight schedule was
agreed with Government officials who wished to use it as a lever to accelerate the
privatization process, and their optimism was due in large part to the impressive
progress Peru had already made in overall reform and privatization in the other sectors.
Nevertheless, the Bank should have appreciated how difficult the Mantaro
privatization was likely to be and should have analyzed more fully the complexities
surrounding this issue, in the interest of a more realistic project implementation
schedule.
C. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
Macroeconomic Reform
15.   While the macroeconomic adjustment and reform program and Bank financing
for it were conceived in a period of significant fiscal and external deficits, Peru has
since adhered to this program, with excellent results. GDP growth averaged 7% p.a. in
1992-97, the highest rate in Latin America, and inflation by 1997 was down to 6.5%,
the lowest rate in the past quarter century. Investment during 1993-97 rose from
18.6% of GDP to 24.7%, the second highest ratio in Latin America. The public sector
deficit was reduced to zero, even excluding privatization revenues, and net
international reserves passed US$10bn. 1998 was a difficult year because of the El
Niflo climatic phenomenon and the loss of investor confidence in developing countries
in general. But Peru continues to meet the targets under its third consecutive three-
year Extended Fund Facility with the IMF.
Electricity Sector Reform
16.   All sector reform conditions were complied with, and the sector by and large is
functioning well. However, a number of issues remain to be addressed, which result
primarily from the novelty and complexity of the legal/regulatory/institutional
framework and pricing regime. The authorities recognize these issues, but fixing them
is not easy, especially when it involves changing fundamental rules of the game under



6
which private firms operate, or changing the modus operandi of the Government at
large.
17. Autonomy of the Electricity Tariff Commission (CTE). 3 While CTE remains
an autonomous agency, the concept of autonomy is not yet fully understood and
appreciated, even within some public institutions. Regulators must balance the
protection of consumers with incentives to investors and operators and thus, steer a
difficult course between regulatory capture by the sector enterprises and retrogression
to being a tool of short-run government policy. There are recent indications that Peru's
course may be tending toward the latter, such as:
(a) Tighter budgetary control by MEF over CTE and OSINERG (the agency
for the entire energy sector, established in 1997, to enforce faithful application
by the enterprises of sector laws and regulations, including CTE-set electricity
prices). CTE is not being allowed to spend all of the funds obtained from its
0.26% levy on energy sales, and is subject to MEF's review of salary scales and
hiring of consultants. There is nothing inherently wrong with CTE being
subject to such oversight, provided it is not used to influence CTE's decisions
(of which, to date, there is no evidence);
(b) Recent legislation which made CTE's Board entirely government-
nominated (previously, three of the five board members were to represent the
Government). In fact, all incumbents were retained. (In many countries, the
regulatory bodies are entirely government-nominated, but the change indicates
the Government's inclination toward tightening control); and
(c) Government's stated concerns about keeping down electricity prices to
consumers, which the private sector interprets as an attempt to put pressure on
CTE. The Government seems not yet to fully appreciate the benefits of not
being responsible for utility price movements.
18.  Economic Tariffs. CTE has retained tariffs at what it calculates as 100% of
economic cost, in accordance with sector laws and regulations. Some generating
companies have shown concern that because of CTE's definition of the incremental
unit - i.e., based on natural gas from Camisea, which is beset with uncertainties - the
resulting marginal cost as basis for tariff setting are significantly below their short-run
marginal cost. Also, distribution companies complained that CTE did not properly
estimate replacement costs in calculating economic cost, and initiated legal
proceedings against CTE. But all parties seem to agree that the law courts lack the
technical expertise to handle such cases effectively.
3 Subsequent to the ICR mission, CTE was transformed into the Energy Tariff Comnmission, with
responsibility to regulate pipeline tariffs and prices of natural gas, -in addition to electricity tariffs. (Law
No. 27116 of May 17, 1999.)



7
19. Anti-Trust Legislation. Peru in 1997 instituted special anti-trust legislation for
the electricity sector, which aims to (a) prevent vertical integration, by not pernitting
generators to buy distributors, and vice versa; (b) maximize competition in generation,
by not letting any company with more than 15% of total generation capacity buy any
other generating company without special approval from the Government's
competition agency INDECOPI; and (c) impose a 5% limit on vertical integration.
There was concern that an intensifying alliance between ENERSIS of Chile and
ENDESA of Spain, both of which are major investors in Peru's electricity sector,
would violate at least the spirit of those restrictions, without being covered by
Peruvian legislation.4
20.   Third-Party Access to transmission and distribution networks was recognized
as essential if there was to be competition among generators. While this was achieved
de jure, there has not always been sufficient competition de facto. On the free market,
the largest electricity users (e.g., mining companies) have been able to get competitive
bids from generators. But this has often not been the case for smaller electricity users,
especially those within existing distribution grids, who have invariably remained with
their current distributors (upon whom, in any case, they remain dependent for
distribution connections and hence for uninterrupted service). Such users may lack
both knowledge and market power to obtain fair deals, and reportedly many were
induced to sign long-term contracts at high prices. (This is less the case with newer
contracts, as consumers have been learning to call for competitive bids). Free market
prices have generally been above regulated prices, which is not what one would expect
in a fully competitive market. The Bank recommends that INDECOPI interview a
sample of electricity users to learn of their experience, to determine whether there have
been abuses and, if so, to propose remedies.
21. Other Legal/Regulatory/Tariff Concerns. There have been issues in several
other areas as well, which have not yet been resolved:
(a) The initial tariff structure, through the way its payments for firm
capacity were calculated, was modified in 1994 so as to increase the incentive
to invest in thermal as opposed to hydro generation, as the cheapest and fastest
way of meeting the capacity shortage. But demand did not grow as fast as
anticipated in 1997-98, due to the economnic slowdown, and there is now an
excess of thermal capacity. The capacity charge has been modified to give
hydro plants a larger share of capacity payments. This probably is
economically correct, by providing the signals for new least-cost investment,
but the change is bound to have an adverse impact on firms that under the old
rules had invested substantially in thermal capacity. Also, some companies are
concerned that this could be the start of a trend in government-enterprise
relationships resulting in sudden modifications of other operational norms and
conditions. While the need to give the correct signals for new investment is
4 This occurrence also stalled government initiatives toward privatization of Mantaro.



8
appreciated, consideration should be given to clearly and meaningfully
"grandfather" past investments, so that the Government cannot be accused
of "bait and switch".
(b) The decision referred to in (a) above, was made by the Committee for
Economic (Electricity) System Operation (COES), on the basis of majority
vote among its nine members.5 COES is a body with a technical mandate, but
its recent voting record has raised questions about both fairness and stability of
the outcomes, which are essential issues for investors. In addition, as some of
its decisions can affect distributors and free-market users as well, a mechanism
for the latters' involvement in COES where relevant should be found.
(c) Distribution companies are required to conclude multi-year contracts with
generators for the full estimated demand of the regulated market, but generators
are under no such obligation. As free market prices generally have exceeded
those in the regulated market, distribution companies have at times had
difficulty meeting their legal requirement. Until recently, the Government had
to use its ownership of Mantaro to help to meet that requirement, which is
obviously not how the system is supposed to work. Recent changes in capacity
payments to generators have added an incentive to sign such long-term
contracts, but a more comprehensive examination of contracting requirements
is desirable.
Privatization
22.  ElectroLima Distribution. The first electricity sector privatizations were the
two Lima distribution companies in July 1994, both carved out of ElectroLima. A
sound decision was made to divide the Lima market in two, so that there could be
benchmark competition.
23.  ElectroLima Generation. The sale of ElectroLima's generation capacity -
consolidated into a new company, EDEGEL - was completed in October 1995, which
fulfilled the second tranche conditionality. The main issue was whether to sell the
generating plants separately or as one unit. While the Bank tried to make the case that
selling them separately would increase competion, the opposite arguments prevailed,
i.e., (i) the main hydro plants were on the same river, so coordination of the water flow
would be easier within a single company; (ii) the relatively small and old thermal
plants would not be attractive by themselves, but could be used by the owner of the
hydro plants to balance production; and (iii) selling the facilities together would
attract a strong company, which could then compete effectively against Mantaro and
5 The eight major generating companies and the transmission company are members of COES. The
recent key decision affecting the division of revenue from capacity payments between thermal and hydro
generators was made by a five-four vote (the three state-owned enterprises voted en block with the
majority). Two weeks later there was another vote on which one of the private generators switched
sides.



9
other large generators. In a case like this, there is no clear right or wrong, and thus no
grounds to criticize the final decision.
24. ElectroPeru Generation (excluding Mantaro). Privatization of the smaller
ElectroPeru facilities took much longer than expected and was not concluded until
end- 1997. This did not affect tranche disbursements (and hence the Bank had no
leverage) because it was neither necessary nor sufficient for the third tranche.
25.  Mantaro. To meet the third tranche condition, it was necessary to privatize
Mantaro. This process was started and stopped at various times, and government plans
conveyed to the Bank as basis for closing-date extensions were not implemented. In
recent years, this became a major issue between the Bank and Peru. While it is not
known exactly on what grounds decisions at the highest levels were made at various
points not to privatize Mantaro, the following arguments against privatization were put
forward:
(a) It would be problematical to sell Mantaro before the technical uncertainties
about the condition of its water injection tunnel were resolved. This was an
important issue during the early phase of EPAL. But after ElectroPeru was not
able to examine the tunnel, despite obtaining expert international consultancy,
it was no longer raised as a major impediment. In fact, as ElectroPeru has not
been able to resolve this issue after many years, it would seem best to let new
owners decide how they wish to handle it.
(b) Mantaro plays a central role in the electricity system, so whoever buys it
would be in a strong market position. But Mantaro's relative importance is
declining as other companies develop new generating capacity, and Mantaro
will soon not be much larger than EDEGEL, once the latter completes its
ongoing expansion program. The transmission line being built to connect the
central and southern systems will further increase competition for Mantaro.
The risk of cartelization can be protected against through INDECOPI and
other legal/regulatory mechanisms, and by ensuring, in accordance with Peru's
electricity antitrust legislation, that the purchasers of Mantaro are not linked to
any of the larger existing generating companies in Peru.
(c) The regulatory/pricing system has not worked optimally, and private
investors have allegedly engaged in abusive practices, so the Government has
had to use its ownership of Mantaro to offset these distortions (e.g., by selling
more electricity on long-term contracts to distributors; maximizing production
so as to keep down the spot price; using its vote on COES to affect key
decisions). However, recent legal/regulatory/ changes, such as the anti-trust
law for electricity and incentives to sign long-term contracts, have eliminated
the need for the Government to use Mantaro in this way.



10
(d) Mantaro is now run efficiently and produces high operating profits (in the
order of US$80mn equivalent in 1998) so the Government would gain little
financially by privatizing it. However, there still appears to be room for
improving operational efficiency and, more importantly, there could be
substantial efficiency gains in future investments, such as a second tunnel,
without the need for Government funds as this would be carried out by private
investors.
(e) The Government can now use all of Mantaro's profits in the year in which
they are earned, but, under IMF guidelines, would not be able to quickly use
all of the privatization revenue as some of this revenue would have to be set
aside for external debt repayments. Thus, the Government would not be able to
spend all of the one-time sales revenue as if it were recurrent income. But the
Government would still be able to spend more of it in the first year than that
year's profits from Mantaro, and the unspent portion would reduce the public
debt and improve Peru's creditworthiness.
(f) It is politically difficult to privatize Mantaro, because (i) it stands as the
monumental legacy of public sector investment to Peru, (ii) it might be bought
by foreign (especially Chilean or Spanish) investors, who already have a strong
hold on Peru's utilities, and (iii) public support for privatization in general is at
an all-time low. Notwithstanding these issues, it is worth noting that (i) certain
forms of privatizing operations raise fewer political objections (e.g., selling a
minority share but with operational control; long-term concessions); (ii) the
political objections might be diminished if the Government made a concerted
effort to explain to the population the benefits which privatization has
produced in Peru; and (iii) by applying existing laws, companies which
already have a significant share in the Peruvian electricity market would be
barred from purchasing Mantaro.
D. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
26.  The slow-down of the overall privatization process was the main reason for
the slower than anticipated privatization in electricity. This program got off to a rapid
start largely because Congress had given the executive branch the power to undertake
individual sales without referring back to Congress. When a new Congress was
elected in 1993, the pro-Government majority strongly supported privatization. Sales
revenues were relatively limited in 1992-93, as smaller, more easily saleable
companies were disposed of first to get the program off to a solid start, while the
process took longer for the larger SOEs. The US$2bn sale of the telephone company
in 1994 boosted the total, as did the $0.5bn sale of ElectroLima's distribution assets.
In the run-up to the 1995 presidential elections, privatization was slowed down for
political reasons. The program picked up after the elections, but growing political



11
criticism of it has since slowed down the pace of progress even more. The impact of
these developments can be seen in the following table:
,a,,00Year  ValuetSS0    , W   of Pivtitin
1992                  209
1993                  344
1994                 3,233
1995                 1,225
1996                 2,669
1997                  684
1998                  3006
Although, to some extent, the reduced transactions since 1997 reflect the reduced
number and value of companies left to be sold, there is still about $2bn of government
holdings in the electricity sector alone, of which Mantaro is estimated to account for
nearly one-half.
E. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
27.   Difficulty in Reversing Privatizations. One reason that privatization is such
a critical element of economic reform is that it is difficult to reverse, for a variety of
legal, economic, political, and practical reasons. Although Latin America suffered
waves of nationalizations during earlier decades, repetition of this in the current global
context is hardly imaginable, where country after country is following the same general
route of economic liberalization. Furthermore, the overall economic success of the
current Government, in contrast with the disastrous results of its predecessors, makes
any general assault on Peru's economic reforms unlikely. The fact that privatizations
in Peru were on the whole successful, in terms of prices and investment commitments
received, high-quality firms attracted, and the absence of even a hint of scandal, should
further ensure the sustainability of this program. Finally, the "Citizens' Participation"
program, under which some 40,000 lower-income citizens have bought shares in some
privatized companies on soft credit terms, makes reversal even more unlikely.
28. Growing Public Opposition. Nevertheless, there is cause for concern, because
of the increasingly negative public perception in Peru of privatization. According to a
permanent survey undertaken by the socio-economic research institute APOYO, public
support in Lima (the only location surveyed) has dropped from about 65% in mid-1992
to below 30% in May 1999. Even more disturbing is a poll that showed that 72% of
Lima residents would like to see their electricity and telecommunications utilities re-
nationalized. The main reasons given to explain these results are (i) reduction in
employment (estimated at 94,000) in the privatized companies; (ii) increases in public
6 Estimated.



12
utility tariffs in the move to economic pricing which preceded the privatizations, (iii)
dominance in the electricity sector of companies from Chile and Spain, with whom
Peru has long had a contentious relationship; and (iv) poor public relations efforts of
these companies. This is accompanied by a lack of public understanding of and hence
confidence in the regulatory systems for electricity and telecommunications. Declining
popular support has made privatizations a convenient target for the Government's
opponents. There has been some improvement during the last year, in the wake of
major public relations campaigns by the Lima distribution companies.
29. Government Attitude. At the same time, the Government has failed to counter
these criticisms with a communication effort in support of privatization, and has even
issued statements questioning whether key remaining SOEs, such as Mantaro, should
be privatized. Its weakening support for privatization appears to reflect not only
shifting public sentiment but also (a) the departure from Government of key decision
makers who were the most active proponents of privatization, (b) the end of a sense of
crisis which had made even radical and unpopular economic reforms palatable, and (c)
the absence of clear short-term linkages between privatization and the Government's
top priority of poverty reduction, given restrictions under the IMF program on the
Government's ability to spend privatization revenues. Nevertheless, the privatization
program continues to move ahead slowly. The Government continues to invite private
participation in electricity and has offered concessions for construction and operation
of new transmission lines, particularly the link betwen the central-northern and
southern networks. Also, the COPRI Board appointed in January 1999 may be more
proactive than its predecessor in promoting private participation in the electricity
sector.
F. BANK PERFORMANCE
30.   The Bank did a creditable job in project design and supervision. Its
contribution was particularly useful at the project identification stage, when it
advised key officials on the overall design of the legal/regulatory/institutional
framework and pricing system, and financed consultants who did much of the detailed
work. The Bank was correct to insist on the privatization of Mantaro as a third tranche
condition, given the importance of the scheme for sector reform and efficiency
improvement, and the need to attract external financing to the overall economy. The
decision to twice extend the closing date appears reasonable, as this kept some
incentive to privatize Mantaro (although rather little, considering that Mantaro is worth
about 20 times the size of the cancelled tranche) and allowed some dialogue to
continue. When it became clear in late 1998 that no progress toward privatization had
been made and was not likely to be made in near future, the decision to close EPAL
was also appropriate.
31.   But there are a number of areas in which the Bank's performance could have
been better:



13
(a) The President's Report was not explicit enough about the complexity of
the Mantaro issue, and did not mention this as a specific project risk. Bank
management did not give the matter the needed attention, or raise it at an
earlier stage with senior government officials.
(b) Project timetable and closing date were too optimistic, even considering
that this timetable was part of a strategy agreed with the Government so as to
accelerate privatization. The Bank should have recognized at an earlier stage
the legal, political, economic, and technical complexities of privatizing
Mantaro.
(c) The privatization conditions essentially were related to ElectroLima and
Mantaro only, which kept the Bank from being involved in other privatizations,
especially the regional distribution and generation companies (which were
omitted primarily because they were considered relatively unimportant
compared to ElectroLima's and ElectroPeru's core holdings, and did not fit
into the tight privatization schedule). This limited the effectiveness of the
dialogue on sector reform and privatization, as well as on addressing the social
needs of expanding electricity supplies to populations outside Lima.
(d) Because of financial and human resource constraints, the Bank in later
years did not systematically monitor sectoral performance. This weakened
its ability to demonstrate the benefits from privatization, and to strengthen its
arguments in favor of privatizing Mantaro.
(e) The Bank in later years did not devote sufficient resources to involving
sector specialists in project supervision.' Coupled with the Government's
shifting position on Mantaro, this resulted in an inadequate dialogue on this
important issue, and coupled with (c) and (d) above, in reduced dialogue on
other key issues as well. The Bank decided not to undertake a mid-term
review even though this would have been very useful in this regard. Although
the Bank continued to impress upon the Government the need to proceed with
the Mantaro privatization, it did not early enough and fully appreciate the
reasons for the Government's reluctance to take this important decision.
G. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
32.   The Government successfully met seven of the eight second- and third-tranche
disbursement conditions, i.e., maintenance of the appropriate macroeconomic policy
framework and corresponding financing plan; tariffs covering economic costs;
7 This notwithstanding, the August 1999 QAG project review considered the supervision of EPAL to
be satisfactory.



14
autonomy of CTE; model concession contracts ensuring third-party access to
transmission and distribution networks; sectoral anti-trust rules; offer for sale of both
Lima distribution companies and of generation companies corresponding to at least
12% of selected sectoral assets; and actual sale of at least 25% of selected sectoral
assets. The Government established a modem legal/regulatory/institutional
framework and tariff system for the sector, with competent regulatory institutions,
and has continued to improve on that system, although a number of issues remain
(paras. 17-21).
33.   Privatization. The Government initially moved quickly and overcame
considerable obstacles in privatizing all of ElectroLima and a large part of ElectroPeru,
carrying out the process transparently and efficiently. The decision to establish several
large companies by selling ElectroLima's and ElectroPeru's generation assets (except
Mantaro) en bloc appears reasonable, as this created strong companies able to compete
with Mantaro and (potentially) generation based on natural gas from Camisea. But
progress slowed down considerably after 1995 as the sense of economic urgency
diminished, key proponents of privatization left the Government, and political
opposition developed. However, the process never stopped completely and there are
indications that the new COPRI leadership may revitalize it. Regarding Mantaro, it
would have been preferable if the Government had communicated more clearly to the
Bank the reasons that impeded privatization, so that there could have been a more
productive dialogue, and perhaps a resolution of the dispute (through one side
convincing the other, or through a compromise solution). Also, the Government did
not follow up on its November 1997 agreement with the Bank to hold a workshop on
the alternatives for private participation in Mantaro.
34.   Coordination among the key Borrower agencies was excellent at first but
slackened in later stages, which blurred responsibility within Government for matters
pertaining to EPAL. MEF, MEM, and COPRI had difficulty reaching agreement on
Mantaro and differed on other issues as well, exacerbated by the shift in responsibility
from MEM to MEF for budget oversight on ElectroPeru (Mantaro) and CTE.
H. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
35.   Achievements. Overall, the Project's outcome is assessed as satisfactory. The
electricity sector has made substantial progress during the period of EPAL, largely
meeting the underlying objectives:
(a) Supply interruptions due to capacity shortages have ended, and anticipated
investments will ensure adequate supply in coming years.
(b) Service coverage has expanded rapidly (especially to the poorer strata of
the population) from 53% in 1993 to nearly 70% in 1998, and service quality
has improved.



15
(c) Production efficiency has improved substantially, with reduction in
transmission and distribution losses in 1993-98 from 21.8% to 12.4% and
improvement in the customers/employee ratio from 316 to 520 over the same
period.
(d) The sector has shifted from being a major drain on the public treasury
(incurring a US$0.3bn loss in 1990) to a source of fiscal income, generating
US$0.3bn of operating profits in 1998.
(e) The culture of expecting to receive highly subsidized electricity has been
broken.
36.   These benefits are the direct result of the sectoral reforms and privatizations.
Economic prices provide adequate income to the sector, giving it the resources to
invest and freeing it from dependence upon the national budget. The legal/regulatory
framework provides reasonable stability and predictability of prices and service
standards, enabling private enterprise to invest with confidence. The pricing
structure provides incentives to smooth out demand across the day, permitting more
efficient capacity utilization. The private firms operate more efficiently than their
govemnment-owned predecessors, trying to gain and retain customers through attractive
prices and service.
I. OPERATIONAL PLAN
37.   Remaining Privatization Agenda. Electricity was the largest component of
the SOE sector by far, and its privatization has proven to be particularly complicated.
Although about US$1.5bn has been obtained to date from electricity privatizations to
date (not counting investment commitments), an even larger share remains in
government ownership and comprises the largest portion of Peru's remaining
privatization agenda. For electricity, this agenda is as follows:
(a) Mantaro, for which a CEPRI is being reestablished. Privatization of
Mantaro is important, as it would (i) show the Government's commitment to
the separation between entrepreneurship and the Government's normative/
regulatory role, and its confidence in the legal/regulatory/institutional system it
itself has established; (ii) ensure that the Government cannot be accused of
making policy decisions in favor the enterprises it owns; (iii) leave any
future investment (e.g., construction of a second tunnel) up to a private
company that has the resources and can be expected to invest efficiently; and
(iv) provide greater fiscal resources and external fmancing to the overall
economy, which are urgently needed in the near term. The Government is
considering a more complicated option of transferring control of Mantaro, by
setting up and then selling a new company that would own not the physical



16
assets but only the right to operate and receive the income from them. Prima
facie, this option does not appear to be advisable as it would complicate sector
management, have less appeal to potential purchasers, and not resolve any
issues relating to the IMF expenditure restrictions.
(b) Regional generating companies, i.e., Empresa de Generaci6n Electrica
Machu Picchu and EGASA, for whom the process has been slow and
politically complicated. The construction of the Mantaro-Socobaya
transmission line, linking the central and southern systems, should make it
easier to privatize these companies: once they are part of the larger grid, there
should no longer be concerns about their regional quasi-monopoly position.
(c) Regional distribution companies, which are slowly being privatized
under "Promoci6n Empresarial," requiring at least 60% Peruvian ownership
and providing cheap (LIBOR plus 2%), long-term (12 years) loans for up to
90% of the purchase price. While the rationale for requiring Peruvian control
is understood, it does go against the grain of overall privatization policy, tends
to exclude the most efficient potential operators, and results in relatively few
qualified bidders. In addition, the use of subsidized credit makes bid prices
somewhat artificial, and with 90% financing, there is a risk of moral hazard and
later default.
(d) The Government's remaining minority position in most privatized firms
(only its minority participation in Luz de Sur, one of the Lima distribution
companies, has been sold). Plans for selling its remaining shares in other
companies have been postponed due to the depressed state of the Lima stock
exchange, limited international receptivity to Latin American shares at present,
and reluctance of Peruvians to buy because those who earlier bought shares of
Luz de Sur and Telefonica de Peru have seen the prices of these companies'
shares plummet. Nevertheless, the Government is looking for an opportune
time to resume the process, with a limited offering of other electricity
companies' shares.
(e) the generation assets of the state-owned mining company CENTROMIN,
whose privatization is complicated both by that company's need for the funds it
generates so as to pay for environmental clean-ups, and by the ongoing
construction of the Juncan hydro plant (as it is considered difficult to privatize
a major project still under construction).
38.  Remaining Reform Agenda. With the transition phase of electricity sector
reform nearly completed, the Government has shown willingness to adjust the legal/
regulatory/institutional framework for the sector in response to new developments and
lessons learned, which is necessary given the sector's complexity and the paucity of
proven models. Now that the private sector has made and continues to make large



17
investments, it is also necessary that the rules not be changed in ways which would
undermine private sector confidence. This requires that the Government:
(a) maintain the autonomy of CTE and OS1NERG, and gain greater
appreciation of the meaning and benefits of that autonomy;
(b) strengthen the way the judicial system deals with inevitable disputes in the
sector;
(c) monitor the performance of the free market among others through
improved information on contracts, and propose remedies if there appears to be
inadequate competition;
(d) support the development of a spot market;
(e) protect ("grandfather") existing investments against sudden changes in
norms and conditions affecting sector operations;
(f) move from COES (probably to CTE) the authority to make policy (as
opposed to technical) decisions affecting the division of revenue among its
members, and broaden the representation in COES by including distribution
companies; and
(g) reexamine the obligation for distribution companies to sign multi-year
supply contracts with generators.
39.   Communications. As the Government has not yet mounted serious efforts to
communicate to the population the benefits of the privatization program, a number of
actions appear necessary. Results of analyses on the effects of privatization (which
have all come to positive conclusions) should be disseminated, seminars organized,
and academic institutions encouraged to undertake case studies. Some of COPRI's
income from electricity privatizations could be allocated for this purpose.
J. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
40.   The Project conveys the following lessons:
For the Government:
(a) A complete reform of the electricity sector is a long-term proposition,
calling for a firm focus on fundamental requirements instead of short-term
expediency. At the same time, a flexible legal/regulatory/institutional
framework is needed so that modifications can be made based on experience,
preferably by means of regulations, so as to minimize the need to go back to



18
Congress each time. Amending the laws and regulations is often harder than
enacting them initially, because it affects the interests of private firms which
have made decisions based on the existing rules of the game. The amendment
process is easier when there is an adequate level of trust between public and
private institutions, which is not yet the case in Peru's electricity sector.
(b) As private enterprise enters and develops, the Government needs to retain
high-quality staff familiar with private enterprise and as competent as the
private sector staff with whom they deal, so as to avoid regulatory capture.
(c) Maintaining the autonomy of regulatory agencies is a constant struggle
that requires not only adequate laws and regulations but also continuing
political support, growing understanding of the nature of regulation, and
adequate financing.
(d) When privatizing, it is important to move quickly, because resistance
always develops, even when privatizations have been transparent and generally
successful as in Peru. Competent personnel, with incentives to sell as fast as
possible, is required for this.
(e) Close coordination between the key agencies (in this case MEF, MEM,
and COPRI) is required for successful privatization and reform. In Peru, this
was excellent at first, but weakened in later phases of the process.
(f) Tariff increases should be made well before privatization commences, so
that the public does not confound the two.
(g) The Government needs to carry out studies of the effects of privatization
and adequately communicate the results, so that the public is not misled (e.g.,
into thinking that there has been a net job loss due to privatization).
For the World Bank:
(h) When making sectoral reform loans, the Bank should (i) include all major
components of the sector, (ii) give supervision appropriate priority, and (iii)
when major obstacles are encountered, devote resources to understanding the
source of the problem and, on that basis, conduct a dialogue on the issue, rather
than mainly focussing on disbursement conditions, closing date extensions, and
other legal and administrative aspects of project implementation.
(i) Combining adjustrnent lending with technical assistance provides an
effective way of ensuring that the Government has the funds with which to
carry out the necessary preparations for reforms.



19
Part II
Statistical Tables
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Project Objectives
Assesment Categories       Substantial       Partial        Negligible     Not Applicable
Macroeconomic policies          X
Sector Policies                 X
Financial objectives            X
Institutional development       X
Physical objectives             X
Poverty reduction                               X
Gender issues                                                                    X
Other social objectives                                   .                      X
Environmental objectives        X
Public sector management        X
Private sector management                       X
Other                        _________                                           X
B. Project Sustainability
Likely            _          Uncertain                      Unlikely
x
C . Bank Performance
Stage of Project Cycle    Highly Satisfactory     Satisfactory          Unsatisfactory
Identification                  X
Preparation                     X
Appraisal                                              X
Supervision                                            X
D. Borrower Performance
Stage of Project Cycle  Highly Satisfactory       Satisfactory          Unsatisfactory
Preparation                                            X
Implementation                                         X
Covenant Compliance                                                  .         X
E. Assessment of Outcome
Highly Satisfactory               Satisfactory                  Unsatisfactory
x



20
Table 2: Related Bank LoanslPreceding Loans
Loan title                Purpose            Year of approval  Amount    Status
(US$
Million)
SAL - 34520, 3452S    Support Government's medium-       1992          300       Closed
term program of macroeconomic
stabilization and broad-based
structural reforms.
Privatization TA -   Assist Govemment in preparation     1992           30       Closed
3540A. 3540S, 35400   and implementation of its
privatization program and related
sectoral, policy, legal and
regulatory reforms.
Prvatization Adj. -  Support Government's                1993          250       Closed
3595A, 3595S, 35950   privatization program and related
sectoral policy, legal and
regulatory reforms. Promote
competition and private
investment, and improve
economic efficiency and fiscal
performance.
Energy/Mining TA -   Assist Government in institutional  1993          11.8      Closed
3610A, 3610S, 36100   development of the Ministry of
Energy and Mines (MEM)._



21
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle                                       Date Planned                              Date Actual
Identification                                                                           Apr-92
Preparation                                              --                       12 months
Appraisal                                  Aug-93                                  Aug-93
........................ ...........................I...................................... ......................  ......................................................  .........................  .......................................
Negotiations                                      Jul-94                                  Jul-94
.. ......... ........................................ ........I........ ........................................    ...............I............................   ............. ..   .................. ...........................................................
Letter of Development Policy                                                 Aug-94                                  Aug-94
............. ....................................................................................................   ............................. .............................. .    ...    .....a........................ .  .....
Board Presentation                                           Nov-94                                  Nov-94
.Signing                                   Nov-94                                  Nov-94
.... ........................I............... ... ..................................,........  ...................................... ..............  .......... ............
Effectiveness                                     Dec-94                                  Nov-94
First Tranche Release                                          12/31/94                                11/22/94
................................................. ........................................................... ....    .. ...................... ..................................... ....   ............. .......... ................................. .......
Second Tranche Release                                                 6/30/95                               11/21/95
Third Tranche Release                                              6/30/96
Project Corpletion                                          6i30/96                               12131198
..........................    ..............................  .................,,, ....... .,  ..,...........    , ,.....................................................
Loan Closing                                   12/31/96                                12/31/98
Table 4: Loan Disbursements -Tranche Releases
(US$ millions)
Estimated                                  Actual
Date   Amount  Date   Amount   Actual as % of
Estimate
First Tranche   12/31/94                                50.0  11/22/94                          50.0                                  100.0
Second Tranche    6/30/95                                    50.0  11/21/95                          50.0                                    100.0
........................ ............    .......... .........................    - -   - - - - - - - - -        -   -    -   -    -    -   -    -
Third Tranche    6/30/96                                 50.0                                          --                               100.0
Total                                   150.0                                   100.0                                66.71%
Undisbursed                                                --                                  50.0                               33.31%



22
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation - A
Tranche Releases Conditions                 Estimated Completion        Actual
Completion
Maintenance of a macroeconomic policy framework and a financing   Ongoing.             Ongoing -
plan consistent with the objectives of the overall structural reform                 complied with.
program supported by the Bank.
Satisfactory progress in implementing the electricity sector reform  Ongoing.          Ongoing -
program as set out in the Policy Letter.                                             complied with.
Setting of all electricity tariffs at 100% of their economic costs.  By second tranche release.   October 95.
Maintenance of all electricity tariffs at 100% of their economic  By third tranche release.  Ongoing -
costs.                                                                               complied with.
Maintenance of full autonomy of Electricity Tariff Commission.    Ongoing.             Ongoing -
complied with.
Official publication of antitrust rules for electricity sector enterprises. By second tranche release.   October 95.
Offer for sale of a majority interest in: (a) each of Electrolima  By second tranche release.  (a) July 94; (b)
distribution utilities for metropolitan Lima, and (b) the generating                  October 95.
utilities whose combined assets represent not less than 12 percent
of total assets to be privatized in the electricity sector.
Offer for sale a majority interest in the generating utilities whose  By third tranche release.    Not complied
assets represent at least 52 percent of total assets to be privatized                    with.
in the electricity sector.
Actual sale of a majority interest in the utilities whose combined  By third tranche release.  End-1997.
assets represent at least 25 percent of total assets to be privatized
in the electricity sector.
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation-B
Key implementation indicators         Starti g Date            Completion Date
Estimated     Actual      Estimated      Actual
Progress in demonopolization and       N.D"         1994         N.D.        Ongoing
privatization of state-owned enterprises
Submission to Congress of relevant     N.D.         1992         N.D.         1996
laws and issuance of relevant
regulations
Capability of MEM to recruit qualified  N.D.        1996         N.D.        Ongoing
staff and perform all tasks adequately
Monitoring of enterprise performance   1994         1995         1995         1996
indicators
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
[NOT APPLICABLE]
8 N.D.=Not Defined



23
Table 7: Studies Included in the Project
Study                    Purpose as defined at|                        Status                        Impact of study
___ ___        appraisal/redefined
No studies were included in this Project.
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal                Actual/Latest
Estimate                   Estimate
(US$ million)              (US$ million)
First Tranche                           50.0                        50.0
............ .......... .... ........... ..............  ............................................................  . ............. ............. .............. ..
Second Tranche                              50.0                         50.0
.............................................................................  . ..................... . .................................  ... ........ ............... . ................ .     .....
Third Tranche                            50.0                         50.0
TOTAL                         150.0                       150.0
Table 8B: Project Financing
Source                        Appraisal                Actual/Latest
Estimate                (US$ million)
(US$ million)
IBRD                       150.0                       150.0
TOTAL                         150.0                        150.0
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
[NOT APPLICABLE]



24
Table 10: Status of Legal Convenants
Agreement/    Covenant      Present status     Original    Revised   Covenant description       Comments
Section        type                         fulfillment  fulfillment
date        date
LAW2.03        Other       Complied with       12/31196    12/31/98    Closing date         Closing date was
extended twice, each
time by one year (i.e. to
December 31, 1997
and December 31,
1998)
LA/3.01 (a)    Management Complied with                                Borrower and Bank
aspects                                                 shall exchange views
on the progress
achieved in carrying
out the program.
LA/3.01 (b)    Monitoring &  Complied with                             Borrower to fumish to
reporting                                               Bank a progress report
on carrying out the
________ __  _____ ___    ____ ___ __ _  Program.
LA/302         Management Complied with                                Procurement of goods
aspects                                                 in accordance with
___________    __________________                       Bank  guidelines.
LAW3.03(a)     Financial    Complied with                              Borrower to maintain
performance                                             financial records of the
project in accordance
with sound and
consistently maintained
accounting practices.
LAW3.03(b)     Financial    Complied with                              Borrower to have      Received in March
performance                                             project accounts     1996. In the following,
audited by independent summary accounts
auditors acceptable to  only were submitted,
the Bank, and to     due to absence of
fumish its audited   disbursements.
report to the Bank not
later than six months
after the end of each
fiscal year or six
months after last
withdrawal from loan
account.
LA/3.03(c)     Financial    Complied with                              Borrower to (i) maintain Received in March
performance                                             and retain audited   1996. In the following,
records of the loan  summary accounts
account, (ii) enabbe the only were submitted,
Bank's representatives  due to absence of
to examine such      disbursements.
records, and (iii)
include such records
and accounts in the
audits.
LA/5.01       Implementati Complied with       Ongoing                 Borrower to maintain   Complied with, as
on                                                      macro-economic policy confirmed in
frame- work and      successive IMF
financing plan       reviews.
consistent with the
objectives of the
Structural Reform
Program.
LAW4A(1), 4B(1)  Implementati Complied with    Ongoing                 Maintenance of full    Complied with,
on                                                      autonomy of the      although budgetary
Electricity Tariff   autonomy was
.____________ __________       _________               Commission.          restricted in Dec. 1997.



25
LAW4A(2)       Implementati Complied wth       Second                  a) Provision to the  Complied with in
on                              Tranche                 Bank of concession    October 95
Release                 contracts for
transmission and
distribution b)
Publication of anti-trust
.__ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   rules
LAW4A(2), 4A(3)  Implementati Complied with    Second                  Setting of all electricity  Attained in Oct. 1995.
on                              Tranche                 tariffs at 100% of
Release                 economic cost.
LAW4A(4)       Implementati Complied with      Second                  Offering for sale of a   Attained a) July 1994
on                              Tranche                 majority interest in a)   and b) October 1995.
Release                the two Lima
distribution utilities, and
b) generating utilities
whose combined
assets represent at
least 12% of total
privatmation assets.
LAI4B(3)       Implementati Not complied with    Third                 Offering for sale of a   Not complied wih. The
on                              Tranche                 majority interest in  Mantaro hydropower
Release                 generating utilities  plant was not offered
whose assets        for sale, nor did the
represent at least 52%  Govemment prepare
of total privatization    proposals for
assets.              concessions.
LW4B(4)        Implementati Complied with      Third                    Actual sale of a    Achieved by end-1 997
on                              Tranche                 majority interest in  with the sale of
Release                 utilities whose      ElectroPeru's
combined assets      generation plants.
represent at least 25%
of total privatization
_  assets.           I
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
(NOT APPLICABLE]



26
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Estimated         Actual
Stage of Project Cycle        Staff    US$    Staff     US$
Weeks            Weeks
Preparation to Appraisal  INA    NIA   129.67  286,617
Appraisal      NIA    N/A    33.69   99,476
Negotiations through Board Approval  N/A    N/A    33.51  101,507
Supervision      N/A   /IIA    22.77   73,134
Completion      NVA    N/A    8647   25,284
TOTAL                      228.11  586,018



27
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Stage of project cycle   Monthtyear   Number of   Days in        Performance                            Types of problems
persons       field         rating
Implementation    Development
status          objectives
Through appraisal
Appraisal through                                                                                  Agreement on schedule for tariff
Board approval                                                                                     increases
Supervision                   Feb-95             1                     S                 S               In view of the Presidential
elections and the conflict with
Ecuador, Govemment has
postponed until after the
elections (a) increase of
electricity tariffs to 100% of
economic costs and (b) offer for
sale of assets in electricity
generation equivalent to at least
12% of total privatizable assets
in the sector.
Dec-95             1                     S                 S                  implementation delays,
particulariy in connection to the
offer for sale of Mantaro, the
system's largest generation
............................... .............                                       ... .... ..... ..I. .......................... ,-schem e
Dec-96             1                     S                 S              Due to privatization delays,
closing date needed to be
extended to December 97.
_   _       _      .............~~~~.............  ..... ...........             ..............................................
May-97 -           1          7          S                 S                 Privatization of Mantaro-
Restitucion generation scheme
has been repeatedly postponed.
The Bank has impressed upon
the Govemment the need to
reemphasize privatization of
Mantaro-Restitucion, under
conditions acceptable to the
Bank, in order to meet the third
tranche release condition by the
extended closing date of
===_........................ ..........                                                                      December 31 I1997.
Nov-97             1          8          S                 S           The Government is unlikely to
meet the Mantaro-related
conditionality within the specified
period and requested a second
one-year extension, until
December 31, 1998.
Completion                                                             S                 S         Dissatisfaction of private
companies with application of
legal/regulatory framework.
Reluctance of Government to
I__________________.  _  _   _                                              revive privatization process.



28
Appendix A
SUMMARY OF LOAN OBJECTIVES AND ACUTEVEMEENTS
Loan Objectives            Loan            Achievement by Loan Closing
I Conditionality
Maintenance of a macroeconomic    Schedule  Complied with. Peru observed the
policy framework and financing    1, 4(a)   commitments under Extemal Fund Facilities
plan consistent with the objectives         concluded with IMF
of the structural reform program
Satisfactory progress in         Schedule  Complied with
implementing the electricity      1, 4(a)
reform program set out in the
policy letter
Maintenance of full autonomy of    Schedule  Maintained in regard to operational matters;
the Electricity Tariff Commission   4, A, 1; B, CTE budget is subject to Finance Ministry
I  __approval
Provision to Bank of final model    Schedule  Submitted to Bank in October 1995
concession contracts for electricity    4, A, 2
transmission and distribution,
assuring third-party access and use
of these systems and publication of
antitrust rules for electricity
enterprises                             .
Setting of all tariffs at 100% of  Schedule  Attained October 1995
economic cost                     4, A,3;
B,2
Offering for sale of a majority  Schedule  Attained October 1995
interest in: (a) each of the two  4, A, 4
distribution utilities for
metropolitan Lima; and (b) the
generating utilities whose
combined assets represent not less
than 12% of the total privatization
assets
Offering for sale of a majority  Schedule  Not complied with, due to failure to include
interest in the generating utilities  4, B, 3    Mantaro in the groups of state enterprises
whose assets represent at least 52%         offered for privatization
of the total privatization assets
Actual sale to the private sector of   Schedule  Attained October 1997 (with privatization of
a majority interest in the utilities  4, B, 4   Egenor)
whose combined assets represent at
least 25% of the total privatization
assets



29
APPENDIX B
PERU
Electricity Privatization Adjustment Loan No. 3810-PE
Final Supervision and ICR Preparation Mission, March 2-9, 1999
Aide Memoire
1. Introduction. This aide memoire summarizes the main findings of our visit to Peru
from March 2-9, 1999, and the next steps needed to produce the Implementation
Completion Report (ICR). It represents only the personal and preliminary views of the
mission, and has not yet been reviewed by the Bank. We met with (a) the Ministries of
Economy & Finance and Mines & Energy, (b) the 2 Lima distribution companies and 4
largest generation companies, (c) the Electricity Tariff Commission, OSINERG and
COES, (d) COPRI and relevant CEPRIs, (e) APOYO, and (e former officials who played
key roles earlier in the project. We wish to thank all these people for the time they gave
us and the frankness with which they discussed the EPAL and the power sector.
2. The EPAL. The loan, approved in November 1994, was for $150 million, to be
disbursed in three equal tranches. The loan objectives were both the refonn of the sector
(through economic pricing and a sound legal, regulatory and institutional system) and its
privatization. EPAL was to contribute to this by (a) providing resources to ease the
country's economic transition, (b) assisting the design of the reforms through dialogue,
and (c) strengthening the hand of those in Peru promoting the reforms, by providing
incentives to meet the disbursement conditions. EPAL was one of a series of related
loans: in particular, the Privatization Adjustment Loan (PAL) supported overall
privatization, while the Energy and Mining Technical Assistance Loan (EMTAL)
financed consultants who did studies needed for the electricity-sector reforms. The first
$50 million from the EPAL was disbursed at loan effectiveness in December 1994, and
the second in November 1995, after the relevant conditions had been met. The third
tranche, which required, inter alia, the privatization of the Mantaro-Restitucion
hydroelectric complex, was ultimately cancelled at the end of 1998, after two extensions
of the original December 31, 1996 closing date. Government had been very reluctant to
have the tranche cancelled, as that broke its perfect record with respect to tranches from
both World Bank and Inter-American Bank adjustment loans.
3. Achievements. Overall, it is clear that the electric power sector has made enormous
progress during the period of the EPAL, meeting, in large part, the underlying objectives.
a) Supply interruptions due to shortage of capacity have ended, and anticipated
investments will ensure adequate supply in coming years.
b) Service has expanded rapidly (especially to the poorer sections of the population),
and service quality has improved.
c) Production efficiency has improved substantially, with both technical and non-
technical losses cut sharply, and output/worker and capacity utilization increased.
d) The sector has shifted from being a major drain on the public treasury to a source of
fiscal income.
e) The culture of getting free or highly-subsidized energy has been broken.
4. These benefits are the direct result of the sectoral reforms and privatizations.
Economic prices provide adequate income to the sector, giving it the resources to invest
and freeing it from dependence upon the national budget. The regulatory system
provides reasonable stability and predictability of prices and service standards, enabling
1



30
the private sector to invest with confidence. The pricing structure provides incentives
that smooth out demand across the day, permitting higher capacity utilization. The
private sector firms operate more efficiently than their predecessors, and, where there is
competition, try to attract and retain customers through better prices and service.-
5. Remainins Sector-Reform Issues. Although the sector is functioning well bv and
large, there remain a number of issues to be addressed, which result primarily from the
newness and complexity of the legal, regulatory and pricing regimes. The Perumian
authorities recognize these issues, but fixing them is not easy, especially when it involves
changing any rules of the game under which private firms operate.
a) The initial tariff structure, through the way its payments for capacity were
calculated, appears to have given too much incentive to invest in thermal as opposed to
hydro generation - and, indeed Peru now has an excess of thermal capacity. The tariffs
are in the process of being corrected, but the change underway will have an adverse
impact on firms which made huge investment decisions under the old rules, partcularly
on those firms which are entirely dependent on thermal generation. While we appreciate
the need to give the correct signals for new investments, consideration should be given
to "grandfathering" past investments, so that the Government cannot be accused of
"bait and switch".
b) Important decisions about the system operation and remuneration to generators, such
as the one discussed under (a) above, are made by the Committee for the Economic
Operation of the System (COES), on the basis of majority vote among the (currently
nine) members (the transmission company and the eight major generating companies).
The recent key vote affecting the division of revenue from capacity payments between
thermal and hydro generators was made by a 5-4 vote (with the 3 state-owned enterprises
voting en bloc with the majority). Such votes raise questions about both the fairness and
the stability of the outcomes, both essential issues for investors. In addition, as some
COES decisions can affect distributors and free-market users as well, some mechanism
for their involvement where relevant should be found.
c) Regulatory autonomy is not yet well understood and appreciated, even within the
Government. Regulators must steer a difficult course between "regulatory capture' by
the industry, and retrogression to being a tool of short-run government policy. Peru's
course is tending more toward the latter, due to (i) tighter MEF budgetary control over
the Electricity Tariff Commission and OSINERG, (ii) the Board of the Tariff
Commission now being entirely Government nominated (previously, 3 of the 5 mernbers
were to represent the Government), and (iii) Government's stated concerns abouE keeping
down electricity prices to consumers. Government needs to learn to appreciate the
benefits of not being responsible for utility price movements, and should allow the
regulatory agencies to pay salaries that can attract and retain qualified personnel.
d) Distribution companies are required to sign multi-year contracts with generators for
the full estimated demand of the regulated market, but generators are under no such
obligation. As prices in the free market have generally exceeded those in the reeulated
market, distribution companies have at times had difficulty meeting that legal
requirement. Until recently, Government had to use its ownership of Mantaro to help
meet that requirement - but this is obviously not how the system is supposed to work.
Recent changes in payments to generators for capacity have added an incentive to sign
such long-term contracts, and this will surely help, but a more comprehensive
examination of contracting requirements may be desirable.
2



31
e) On the free market, the largest firms (such as mining companies) have been able to
get competitive bids from generators, but this has often not been the case for smaller
users, especially those within existing distribution grids, who have invariably remained
with the distributors (upon whom, in any case, they would remain dependent for
distribution lines and hence for uninterrupted service). Such users may lack both the
knowledge and market power to obtain fair deals, and reputedly many were induced to
sign very-long-term contracts at high prices. Free market prices have generally been
above regulated prices, which is not what one would expect in a fully-competitive
market. We did not have the time to meet with a sample of users to learn of their
experience and views, but we recommend that this be done to determine whether there
have been abuses and, if so, to propose remedies.
6. Remainin2 Privatization A2enda. Electric power was by far the largest component
of the state-owned-enterprise sector, and its privatization has proven to be complicated.
Although about $1.5 billion has already been obtained from the privatizations to date (not
counting investment commitments), an even larger amount is still in Government hands,
and comprises the largest portion of the remaining national privatization agenda. As in
other sectors, the electricity-privatization program started quickly (with Electrolima
distribution and then its generation) but slowed down. The privatizations under the
EPAL were done transparently and efficiently, and the decisions to establish a pair of
large companies by selling Electrolima's and Electroperu's generation (excluding
Mantaro) en bloc appear reasonable, as this created two strong companies which should
be able to compete with Mantaro and (potentially) whomever generates with gas from
Camisea. Besides Mantaro, Government's remaining minority position in most
privatized firms, and the former CENTROMIN generation (where privatization is
complicated both by CENTROMIN's need for the funds it generates so as to pay for
environmental clean-ups, and by the ongoing construction of the Juncan hydro plant), the
remaining privatization agenda is as follows:
a) Regional generating companies EGASA and Machu Picchu, for whom the process
has been very slow and politically complicated. The construction of the Mantaro-
Socobaya transmission line, linking the central and southern systems, should make it
easier to privatize them, as once they are part of the larger grid, there should no longer be
concerns about their regional quasi-monopoly position.
b) Regional distribution companies, which are slowly being privatized, under
"Promocion Entrepreneurial," requiring at least 60% Peru-vian ownership and providing
cheap (LEBOR plus 2%), long-term (12 years) credit for up to 90% of the purchase price.
We understand the rationale for requiring Peruvian control, but this does go against the
grain of overall privatization policy in Peru, tends to exclude the most efficient potential
operators, and results in relatively-few qualified bidders. In addition, the use of
subsidized credit makes bid prices somewhat artificial, and with 90% financing, there is a
risk of moral hazard and later default.
7. Privatization of Mantaro-Restitucion. This was, of course, a key issue during
EPAL implementation, and the area in which no resolution was reached. While we
cannot know exactly on what grounds decisions at various points not to privatize Mantaro
were made, we have heard the following arguments against privatization:
a) Mantaro plays such a central role in the power system, that whoever buys it would be
in too strong a market position, and perhaps even able to organize a cartel;



32
b) The regulatory/pricing system has not been optimal, and private investors in the
sector have allegedly engaged in abusive practices, so Governnent has had to use its
ownership of Mantaro to offset these distortions (as by selling more on long-term
contracts to distributors, maximizing production so as to keep down the spot price, and
using its vote on COES to affect key decisions;
c) Mantaro is now run efficiently, and produces high annual earnings, so there is little
to be gained by privatizing it;
d) It would be problematical to sell Mantaro before the uncertainties about the
condition of its tunnel are resolved; and
e) It is politically difficult to sell Mantaro, because (i) it stands as President Belaunde's
monumental legacy to Peru, (ii) it might be bought by Chilean or Spanish investors, who
already have a strong hold on Peru's public utilities, and (iii) public support for
privatization in general is at an all-time low.
8. On these points, our response is as follows:
Re (a), the relative importance of Mantaro keeps dropping as new capacity is brought
on line, and the company will soon not be much larger than EDEGEL. The transmission
line being built between the central and southern systems will further increase
competition for Mantaro. The risk of cartelization can be protected against through
INDECOPI and other legaVregulatory mechanisms, and by ensuring that the purchasers
of Mantaro are not linked to any of the larger existing generators in Peru..
Re (b), recent and ongoing legal/regulatory/pricing changes (the anti-monopoly law
for electricity, incentives for signing long-term contracts) have virtually eliminated the
need for Government to use Mantaro in this way.
Re (c), there still appears to be some room for improving efficiency in operations but,
much more importantly, there could be substantial efficiency gains in future
investments, and without the need for Government funds.
Re (d), as Electroperu has not been able to resolve this issue after many years, it would
seem best to let new owners decide how they wish to handle it.
Re (e), while we are not competent to address all the political issues, we would note that
(i) certain forms of privatizing operation of companies (e.g. selling a minority share but
with operational control) raise fewer political objections, (ii) that the political objections
might be diminished if Government made a concerted effort to explain the benefits
which privatization has produced in Peru, and (iii) companies which already have a
significant share in the Peruvian power market would be barred by existing laws from
purchasing Mantaro.
9. The arguments in favor of privatizing Mantaro are that it would:
a) show Government's commitment to the separation between entrepreneurship and
the Government's normative/regulatory role, and its confidence in the legal/regulatory
system it has established;
. b) ensure that Government cannot be accused of making policy decisions so as to favor
the enterprises it owns;
c) leave the construction of any second tunnel up to a private company that has the
resources and can be expected to invest efficiently; and
d) provide fiscal resources in the near term, when they are needed urgently as a result
of El Nino and the economic slowdown.
4



33
10. Government Performance. Government successfully met 7 of the 8 second and
third tranche disbursement conditions (economic tariffs; autonomy of the Electricity
Tariff Commission; model concession contracts with third party access to transmission
and distribution networks; sectoral anti-trust rules; offer for sale of both Lima
distribution companies and of generation companies with at least 12% of selected sectoral
assets; and actual sale of at least 25% of selected sectoral assets). It established a
modern legalregulatory/tariff system for the electric power sector, with competent
regulatory institutions, and has continued to make improvements on that system, although
a number of issues remain, as noted in para. 5 above.
11. In privatization, it moved quickly initially, overcame considerable difficulties in
privatizing all of Electrolima and a large part of Electroperu, and did the privatizations
properly. But progress on privatization slowed down considerably, as the sense of
economic urgency diminished, key people left, and political opposition developed.
Fortunately, the process never stopped completely, and there are indications that the new
COPRI leadership may revitalize it. Regarding Mantaro, it would have been preferable if
Government had been franker with the Bank about the issues impeding privatization, so
that there could have been a more productive dialogue, and perhaps a resolution of the
dispute (through one side convincing the other, or a compromise solution). In addition,
the Government did not follow up on its agreement with the Bank to hold a workshop on
the alternatives for private participation in Mantaro.
12. World Bank Performance. The Bank did a creditable job in designing and
supervising the project. It was particularly useful at the project-identification stage,
when it advised key officials on the overall design of the legaVregulatory/pricing system,
and financed consultants who did much of the detailed work. The decisions to twice
extend the closing date appear reasonable, as they kept some incentive to privatize
Mantaro (although rather little, considering that Mantaro is worth about 20 times the size
of the cancelled tranche) and allowed some dialogue to continue. When it became clear
last December that no progress towards privatization had been made, the decision to close
the loan was also proper.
13. But there are a number of areas in which the Bank could have done better.
a) The President's Report was not very transparent about the complexity of the
Mantaro issue, and did not mention this as a specific project risk. As a result, Bank
management did not give the matter the attention it deserved, or raise it at an early stage
with senior Peruvian officials.
b) The project timetable and closing date were far too optimistic, even bearing in mind
that this timetable was part of a strategy agreed with Govertunent so as to accelerate
privatization. The Bank should have recognized the legal, political, economic and
technical complexity of privatizing Electroperu/Mantaro.
c) The privatization conditions essentially related only to Electrolima and Mantaro,
which kept the Bank from being involved in other major privatizations, such as the rest of
Electroperu generation and the regional distribution and generation companies (which
were omitted primarily because they did not fit into the overly-optimistic timetable).
d) The Bank did not systematically monitor sectoral performance indicators.
e) The Bank did not devote sufficient resources to supervising the project, especially in
the later years. Coupled with the Government's lack of frankness about Mantaro, this
5



34
resulted in only a minimal dialogue on this important issue, and coupled with c) and d)
above, in inadequate dialogue on other key issues. A mid-term review would have been
very useful in this regard.
14. Lessons Learned.
a) A complete reform of the electricity sector is not a one-shot operation. Flexibility is
needed in the laws, so that modifications can be made based on experience, preferably by
means of regulations (to minimize the need to go back to Congress each time).
Amending the laws and regulations is often harder than enacting them initially, because
it affects the interests of private firms which have made investment decisions based on
the existing "rules of the game." The amendment process is much easier when there is an
adequate level of trust between the public and private sectors (which is not yet the case in
the electric power sector in Peru).
b) As the private sector enters, Government needs to retain high-quality staff familiar
with the private sector and as competent as the private-sector staff with whom they deal.
c) Maintaining the autonomy of regulatory agencies is a constant struggle that
requires not only adequate laws but also continuing political support and adequate
financing.
d) When privatizing, it is important to move quickly, because resistance always
develops, even when the privatizations have been transparent and generally sucoessful, as
in Peru. Adequate personnel, with incentives to sell as fast as possible, are required for
this.
e) Close coordination between the key agencies (in this case MEF, MEM and
COPRI) is required for successful privatization and reform - in Peru this was excellent at
first, but lacking in the later phases of electricity privatization.
f) Tariff revisions should be made well before privatization commences, so that the
public does not confound the two.
g) Government needs to carry out studies of the effects of privatization, and publicize
the results, so that the public is not misled (e.g. into thinking that there has been a net job
loss due to privatization).
h) The World Bank, when making sectoral reform loans, should (i) include all major
parts of the sector, (ii) devote adequate resources to supervision, and (iii) when a major
roadblock is encountered, devote resources to understanding the source of the problem
and, on that basis, having a dialogue on the issue, rather than focussing almost
exclusively on the legal aspects (closing date extensions and disbursement conditions).
14. Next Steps. In accordance with World Bank procedures, the Implementation
Completion Report (ICR) needs to be presented to its Executive Directors within six
nonths after loan closing, i.e. by June 30, 1999. To meet this schedule, we would greatly
appreciate it if Government could send us a draft of its contribution to the ICR, for
comment, by April 15. We appreciate the commitment of the Ministry of Economy and
Finance to preparing this report. We will then endeavor to send our draft ICR to
Government, for comment, by April 30, and would hope to receive Government's
comments on it by May 15.
Joerg-Uwe Richter    Stephen J. Ettinger             Lima, March 9, 1999
6



35
Appendix c
PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER' S PERSPECTIVE
ELECTRICITY PRIVATIZATION ADJUSTMENT LOAN (LOAN 3810-PE)
Inforn,e de Cierre de Proyceto
Prestamo en Agoyo al Desarrollo del Sector Electrico
tEec'(tricitv Privatization Adjustm l 'f Luan - EPAL)
Resumen Ejecutivo
El progr-.ma de reformas cstablecido por el 1'r6stamo en Apoyo al Desarrollo del
Sector El1.cerico - Electricity Privutization Adjustment Loan (EPAL) acordado con
el Banco ; iundial el 22 de noviemnhre de 1994, ha acomppanado a las otras reformas
estructurales y de sanas politic.ts macroccon6micas implantadas por el Gobierno
Pcruano
Los cor:eonontes del referido prestnino han contribuido a alcanzar un mejor
funcionai.iiento del sector electrico nmedianto la total reformulaci6n del marco
regulatorio que regia en el sector cl6ctrico, el pleno establecimiento del nAevo
marco regulatorio con un 6nfasis central en la plena aplicacion del nuevo s .stema
tarifario ;-ae permiti6 a la postre una exitosa reestructuraci6n y privatizaci6n de
las emprcsas electricas de propiedad del Estado.
Introduc gi6n
El Prestarlno en Apoyo al Desturuolo del Sector El6ctrico - Electricity Priuatization
Adjustmeazt Loan (EPAL)- fue concebido para apoyar al Gobierno del Peru6 en la
realizac-,5n de un ambicioso progrtirna de reestructuracion del sector electrico que
ha perniitido contribuir a un mejor funcionamiento de la economfa en di':ho
sector, uediante la participaci6n de la inversi6n privada y generando ingentes
recursos para el Tesoro Puiblico.
El EPAi. fue aprobado por .I Gobierno peruano mnediante Decreto Supremo
No.146-94 EF publicado el 22 cle noviembre de 1994 y fue suscrito el 22 de
noviembre de 1994.
Situaci6n Previa del sector electrico
En 1992 quo se inicia la reforma del sector el6ctrico peruano, el coeficiente de
electrificacion a nivel nacional a 199() alcanzaba a un 43%, y se agravaba en
algunas zonas donde dificilmcnte alcanzaba cl 5%, el consumo per-cdpita anual
de ener.ia era de 350 kwh aptoximadamente y la potencia instalada era apenas



Emisor:  051 A                                36  05/17/99 6:36PM  Tra tuz         Pagina 3
qi,SCA DR~ 
MINIS[ERIO DE ECONOMIA Y FINANZAS
de 0. 19 kW por habitante. Estos valomes nos ubicaban en el grupo de los paises de
menor dc sarrollo en Latinoam&rica, regi6n reconocida como en via de desarrollo.
En genercal. la calidad del servicio se habfa deteriorado, principalmente por el
manejo  no tecnico  de las tarits 0el6ctricas que no permitieron  cubrir
adecuadamente los costos de operaci6n y mantenimiento y, que Ilevaron a
efecruar severos racionamientos en 1990.
La falta de una adecuada selecci6in v administraci6n de proyectos de inversi6n,
trajo conmc consecuencia que en el leru, a pesar de su gran potencial y favorables
condiciones para su desarrollo, se hayan construido centrales hidroelectricas
mayore: con costos que supera uon a los 4000 US$ por kW  instalado,  iajo
condicioi z.s  de  financiamient.o  integral  por  parto  de  contratiuas  y
SLiniinistradores, sumamente gravos<as.
La invern .jn privada en el sect.ur electrico fue priicticamente nula, con I u ixnica
excepci6I: de aquella, que con car.cter forzoso, se imponia a los nuevos usuarios
para la c. nstrucci6n de los sistemas cle distribuci6n y que se capitalizaba en las
empresas a favor del Estado, sin reconocerle ningtin derecho por esta inversi6n.
El sector cmpresarial a cargto del Estado, no alcanz6 niveles de eficiencia
principalmnente por las politicas de corte populista, que permitieron la ingerencia
politica en la direcci6n de las empresas y la sobredotaci6n de personal.
Los resultados de esa gesti6n so traducen en un indicador de productividad de
124 clientes por trabajador para el sector en 1990, perdidas econ6micas
acumuladas de US$ 3,000 millones y una deuda externa acumulada de US$
3,500 millones.
ObjetivoQs del Prestamo
El prograrna de reformas que e lBanco ha apoyado con este pr6stamo incluy6 cuatro
con-poner.tes principales:
a)   Mantenimiento de un programna macrocconomico v un Rlan financiero
satisfactorioa pagra el Banco gue parnmitan apo-var el orograma cle privatizaci6n.
D)esde la suscripci6n del prestamo en noviembre de 1994 y su cancelaci6n en
diciembrc de 1998, el Banco Mundial ha realizado un soguirniento de la politica
&PAT. -Pnf, 2,' d.      -                                      P gZde 10



Emisor:  051 1                                37  05/17/99 ff:i(rM  114 A          ragina 4/11
0%.%SCA OP4
MINISTERIO DE ECONOMIA Y FINANLAS
macrocconomica del Peru y Lin plan de financianijento consistente con los
objetivos del programa de reforimas.
Las Misiones del Fondo MIonotLrio Internacional han rcalizado un seguimiento
continuo de la politica macroecon6inica. Entre los principales objetivos y logros
macroecon6micos planteados y alcanzados respocto de aquellos trazados segun la
u1tima Pre-publicaci6n de la Carta de Intenci6n presentada al FMI en mayo de
1997, encontramos los siguientes:
L Crecir:iiento del PBI real dc 7,4%'Y en 1997, lo cual supera el crecimiento
proyec tado de 5%.
j Reduc:i6n del nivel de inflaci6n: en 1996 la tasa de inflaci6n fue de 11,8% y
en 19)7 se redujo a 6,5%., con lo cual se cumnple ampliamente la meta
propucsta en la mencionada carta (se esperaba quo la inflaci6n se ubicase
entre -- 10%).
o Se log--6 una reducci6n del deficit de cuenta corriente de 5,9% del PBI en 1996
a 5,2%, en 1997 (se incluy6 que fuera inenor al 5,5%).
w Las R servas Intermacionales Netas del Banco Central de Reserva Ilegaron a
nivelo, de US$ 10,3 billones lo cual oquivale a 15 moses de importaciones de
bienes y servicios no financicros (nientras que en 1996 equivalia a 12 meses),
6 vec:'. la base monetaria y el 80X% de la liquidez total del sistema bancario.
_ La tasa de inversi6n ascielnde a 25% del PBI y la tasa de ahorro nacional a
20% dol PBI. De la misma nmanera aimbas tasas superan lo proyectado.
i Por otro lado, el deficit del sector puiblico, antes de ingresos de privatizacion,
se redujo a 0% en 1997, logrdndose de esta manera un equilibrio fiscal.
b)   Reformas del marco legal. regulatorio e illstitucional
La Ley de Concesiones Elctricas, promulgada en noviembre de 1992, y sus
normas reglamentarias, contenidas en legislaci6n secundaria, establecen las
condiciones sobre las cuales se dcsarrollan las actividades del sector electrico.
Las caracteristicas principales son: por un lado, definici6n del rol del Estado
como normativo y regulador, de acuerdo a lo establecido en la Constitucion
Politica del Pais; y por otro quo hls actividades de generaci6n, de transmisi6n y
de distribuci6n de electricidad se efectuan independientemente, mediante
contratos de concesi6n a plazo indeterminado y s6lo terminan por renuncia o
caducidad debido a incumplimiento de las condiciones del contrato.
I'AL -Inf-nn, de Cierre                                        PZg 3 de 10



Emlsor:  051 1                                38  05/17/99 6:37PM  ira nuz         Pagina 5i
,*XCA bQ 
-MINISTER10 DE ECONOMIA Y FINANZAS
Los usuarios con consumos superiorcs a 1000 kW quedan desregulados, en
consecucxicia pueden contratar libroniente al distribuidor o a cualquier proiductor
clel sistenia, sin mayor restricci6n lue lia capacidad fisica dc los sistemas.
La regulaci6n tarifaria la ejerce la Cnomisi6n de Tarifas Electricas, organismo
t6cnico con autonomfa funcional y administrativa, bajo un sistema de precios
basado en los valores del inercado librt en generaci6n y de costos estandares en
distribuci6n (VAD).
La fiscalizaci6n de la calidad del stervicio se encuei-tra a cargo del Organismo
Supervisor de la Inversi6n en Energia - OSINERG con los lineamientos
establer;dos en la norma de Calidad del Servicio.
c)i   Sisterma de precios de la electricidad
Otro aspc ;-to remarcable es que la experiencia en ol pais de los uiltimos anios, en
un ambi:!nta totalmente rcgulado, con exclusividad en la prestaci6n por
empresas estatales, con un manejo tarifario no t6cnico, ha dejado una scrie de
distorsior es y prejuicios en los agenies econ6micos.
El equilibrar un niercado con oferta restringida y demanda creciente a precios
artificialmente mantenidos llevaron al racionamiento del servicio, haciendo que
los usuarios domesticos derrocharan un bien escaso y la industria no dispusiera
de este insumo vital, que origin6 una negativa realimentaci6n en desmedro de la
producci6n.
Los resultados de la desregulaci6n eni el sector electrico son que a partir del mes
de mayo de 1993 la fijaci6n tarifaria se rige por mocanismos econ6micos y ]os
usuarios con demanda superior a 1000 kW, tienen la posibilidad de negociar sus
precios libremente y se han eliminado los subsidios cruzados entre sectores de
consumo.
Los indicadores que revelan una tendencia de eficiencia son que en el aino 1990
un consumo per-cdpita de onergia a usuario domdstico de 143 kWh-mes, en tanto
que dicha cifra para el presente afno alcanza un significativo valor inferior a 100
kWh-rnes. Igualmente el factor de carga que en aquel ano alcanzaba apenas un
nivel del 65%, a la fecha tiene un significativo valor cercano al 74%.
Los niveles de competencia a nivel del mercado libre no han alcanzado todavfa
los mejores resultados, y en algunos casos han causado C<iertos desajustes debido
BI'AL -1M.onn . de Cierre                                      PI 4 de- IO



Emisor:  051 1                               39  05/17/99 6:38PM  Tra 502        Pagina 6/11
,'OgUCA AN Aw
MINISTERIO DE ECONOMiA Y FINANZAS
fundamentalmente al desfase entre la privalizaci6n de las empresas de
distribuci6n en Lima y las empresas de generacion.
1n cuantc al comportamiento de los precios de 1a electricidad en los ultimos anos,
los datos relevantes son, que cl precio para usuarios dom6sticos ha sufrido un
incremnelno real de 200% entiv los alios 1990 y 1994, en tanto que para el sector
industrial se redujo en 9%.
El programa de implementacion tarifitria para los usuarios domesticos ha sido
un tema particularmente dificil de afr ontar, y que se alcanz6 en 1994 previo a la
privatizaci6n, hecho sin precedentes en America Latina o en otros sectores como
telecomunicaciones, en el cunt se ensay6 un programa de rebalanceo de mayor
alcance.
d)   Pri  atizaci6n de las er_oresas celetricas
En cumpIimiento a lo establecidol en la Ley de Concesiones Electricas, las
empresas efectuaron un proceso de reestructuraci6n destinado a dividir las
actividad. s de generaci6n, de transmisi6n y de distribuci6n en empresas
independientes.
El proces: de privatizaci6n de las cimpresas de electricidad se enmarc6 dentro de
lo establecido en la Ley de Prornoci6n de la Inversi6n Privada, que sefiala que la
Conisi6n de Promoci6n a la Invcrsion Privada - COPRI es la encargada de Ilevar
adelante tal proceso mediante Jos respectivos Comites Especiales.
Para efectuar el proceso de privatizaci6n del sector eldetrico se conformaron tres
Comites Especiales CEPRI's.
El CEPRI de Electrolima, erncargado de la privatizaci6n de las unidades
empresariales derivadas de Electrolima, el CEPRI de ElectroperCt encargado de
la privatizaci6n de las unidades derivadas de ELECTROPERtI y El CEPRI de
Empresas Regionales encargada de la privatizaci6n de las empresas regionales
de distribuci6n y generaci6n.
La estrategia bAsica del procoso fue la de generar un ambiente real competitivo
en la actividad de generacion, miontras que en la distribuci6n se busc6 que en el
proceso no se lograra una intogracifn horizontal, ni siquiera en la ciudad de
Lima, donde se dividi6 la emprosa en dos unidades.
El'-l ^.1_ . -m-Aex . l Cierre  '        -"     -Piig, S de 10



Emlsor:  051 1                 *             40  05/17190 6:39PM  Tra 502        Pagina 7/11
MINISTERIO DE ECONOMIA Y FINANZAS
En las primoras-privatizaciones so I)usc6 transferir el control de la unidad
empresarial a un operador estrategico que asumicra la propiedad de un paquete
accionario que le diera el control real de la stociodad nmediante un proceso de
licita.ci6n ptiblica internacional.
Una vez concretada la transferencia al inversionista cstrategico, se procedia a
transferir un paquete de hasta el 10% de acciones a los trabajadores de la
emipresa, que en ei caso de las primeras privatizaciones fueron operaciones que
involueraron montos importantes en beneficio de los accionistas trabajadores.
La privatizaci6n de una empresa concluia el dia quo el Estado colocara, mediante
los mecanismos de participacion ciurladana, el paquete remanente de la emnpresa
privatizaaa.
Bajo es-os criterios se llevo adelante la privatizaci6n de las unidades
ernpres&aiales derivadas de Electrolima S.A. (Edelnor, Luz del Sur, Edegal, EDE
ChaBcay . EDE Cafiete) asi corno algunas do IAs derivadas de Electroperd S.A.
(Etevensa, Egenor y Empresa EI6ectrica de Piura) efectuadas entre 1994 y 1996.
Leccioes aprendidas
Sobre la reforma del sector:
Un aspecto que se puede seiialar. comIo principal lecci6n aprendida en la reforma,
es que la regulaci6n que se plantcu no debe responder en ningin caso a las
condiciones coyunturales o de corto plazo.
A manera de ilustraci6n se puedo scialar como casos tipicos de este tipo de
decisiones las siguientes: la conformaci6n del organimo . regulador y la
remuneraci6n de la potencia.
En el primer caso se incluy6 en cl Couojo Dirwctivo de la Comisidn de Tarifas
Eldctricas la participaci6n de repressatant.s de las empresas a fin de darle
estabilidad y hacerla atractiva hacia lo. invorsionistas, deformando de esta
manera un rol que plenamente le correspondo al Estado.
En el caso de la potencia firme. igualmento se estructur6 una regulaci6n que
privilegi:aba la generaci6n t6rmica, debido a que en el momento de la reforma el
FTZ I. _I nf  te rIs 0 de 10



Emisor:  051 1                                41  05/17/99 6:39PM  Tra 502         Pagina a/11
MINISTEROE EcOMIA Y FIZAS
pais afrontaba un scrio racionamituntoi y los proyectos t6rmicos eran los de mas
pronta e-jecuci6n.
Otro de los objetivos de la rcfoiria es privilegiur la libre competencia, que el
usuario final pueda contar con el scrvicio en forms suficiente, oportuna y con una
calidad adecuada, a un precio de eticiencia, sostenible on ol largo plazo.
En cste entendido, la conmpetencia deberia permitir a los ofertantes del servicio
los ingresos suficientes para el retorno de sus inversiones, cubriendo
adecuadamente los costos de prestar y ampliar el servicio.
IUno de Is* aspectos quo privilegia el modelo, cs cl levantamiento de las barreras
de acceso al mercado en las distintas actLividades, como son el uso de los sistemas
de transri-si6n para atenci6n de clientes.
En el ca ;o de la generacion, el principio de la competitividad es de crucial
importax, ;.a, por ser la base de la fijaci6n de precios. los que han de formarse por
la conc ;- *ancia de varios ofertantes, compitiendo por clientes que per mitirdn la
formaci6i. de precios econ6micos, que se toman como base para la fijaci6n de los
precios 'vgulados.
Uno de lo.s retos de la reformu es que en el nuevo entorno, se lleven a ca.bo las
nuevas invorsiones que permitan cl crecimiento de la oferta, para atender la
creciente demanda, situaci6n que se ha alcanzado con la privatizacionss, las
concesiones y los proyectos rcalizados por iniciativa propia.
En el proceso actual, se reconoce quo la nueva inversi6n, principalmente de
fuente extraWera, es necosaria pars lograr estc cometido, por lo qe el mantener
un marco regulatorio eatable y coherente debe ser una tarera permanente,
evitando caer en las tentaciones regulatorias de corto plazo y efctistas.
Los resultados alcanados son bastanto alentadores, a nivel de generaci6n
mediante inversi6n privada so ha logrado una reserva del 50% de la demanda
total del sistema.
Las inversiones en distribuci6n han contribuido a mejorar el coeficiente de
electrificer.i6n. del paus, an efecto, Linia Metropolitana tiene ahora un nivel del
100% y a nivel nacional sc ha alcanzado un valor cercano al 70 %,
correspondiendo a IaB empresas de Lirna wa 6% de este crecimiento.
iSAL a1znrn,, d. O,iare.                                      PAS 7 dn 10



Emisor:  051 1                               42  05/17/99 6:40PM  Tra 502        Pagina 9/11
MINISTERIO DE ECONOMIA Y FINANZAS
Sobre el Acuerdo de Prestamo:
Un aspecto remarcable del presente prestanio de ajuste fue que el plazo de
ejecuci6n fue excesivamente opLimista para alcanzar las condicionalidades que
en el se acordaron, no habi6ndose tomado en cuenta debidamente el entorno
politico que se iba a presentar en el ano 1995 con las elecciones presidenciales
quo tuvicron un serio impacto en le proceso de privatizaciones.
En esto sentido, ha quedado en evidencia la necesidad de que el Banco trabaje,
en lo sucesivo, en el disefio de planes mas acordes con las realidades de cada
pais.
Sobre el lesempento del Banco:
El Gobicvno del Peru, a pcsar quc cl prdstasio no lleg& a ejecutarse en su
totalidad, considera que el EPAL ha alcanzado satisfactoriamente los objetivos
esperado ,.
El equiypo de trabajo del Batnco asignado para este prestarr.o se involucr6
profundainente en el proceso do la reforma aportando sus experiencias a lo largo
de todo E i proceso. Menci6n especial merecen las discusiones referidas al marco
regulat :. io asi como al proceso de ajuste tarifario.
Otro aspecto que demand6 especial atenci6n por parte del Banco fue el dessrrollo
de los lineamientos y reglamcntaci6n de las pr*icticas que limitan o restringen la
libre con'petencia, en el que se cont6 con el aporte de especialistas en el tema y
permitieron crear consciencia.
Una gran ventaja en el prestamo EPAL fue la continuidad de la(s) personas a
cargo que permiti6 aplicar flexibilidad necesaria en el cumplimiento de metas.
El Prestamo de Asistencia Tecnica de Privatizaci6n (Privatiz2tion Technical
Assistance Loan - PTAL) tambi4n ayud6 a cumplir las metas del pr4stamo no
s6lo en el MEM, sino tambi6n en COPRI y los CEPRIs, se tuvo asesoria t6cnica y
continuidad en el campo de acci6n del pr6stamo.
Sobrc el desempefio del Beneficiario del Prdstam<a:
Tanto el Banco como el Gobierno del Perd trazaron metas muy optimistas al
momento de la suscripci6n del pr6stamo, hecho que gener6 presiones por ambas
partes para llegar a cumplirlas. Algunas de estas metas no se concretaron en su
EPAL -tnIr,,r-, dci Cierre                                   pAg 8 de 10



Emisor:  051 1                                 43 05/17/99 6:41PM  Tra 502          Pagtna lO/l
,3O IL
MINISlERIO DE ECONOMIA Y HNANZAS
oportunidad, dando lugar a que se solicitaran varias pr6rrogas a la fecha de
cierre pactada inicialmente. Asimismo, el tema vinculado con la privatizaci6n
de la Central Hidroelectrica de Mantaro determin6 que no se efectuara el dltimo
desemboLso.
Durante todo el proceso se busc6 comsolidar la reforma de este importante sector.
Sisn embargo, algunos aspectos relativos a deeisionies de politica impidieron cumplir
cabalmente con tal cometido. No obsLante, confianios quo en los pr6ximos afios una
vez que la experiencia haga evidentc que los paradigmas del contexto el6ctrico de los
anios 70 han perdido vigencia y que se defina que el Estado s6lo debe centrar sus
esfuerzos en la regulaci6n, dicha roformia concluirx auspiciosaraente.
Agenda pendiente en la reformla:
Los tern is pendientes de resolver cn cl marco regulatorio se centran basicamcnte
en los sivazientos puntos.
3  Mejorar la competitividad a nivel de la generaci6n que perni ta una
adecuada incorporaci6n de nuevas fuentes de energia como el gas
natural y que redunde an mejores precios para los consumidores.
- Solucionar el conflicto de la remuneraci6n de la potencia, que no se ha
resuelto con la modificacion do la Ley.
*  Revisar profurndamente Ia norma de prevenci6n de monopolios a fin de
evitar que siga siendo una barrera de ingreso a nuevas inversiones.
* Revisar la norma do calidacd do servicio, ya que los niveles de e2dgencia
de la norma tienden a oncarecer el servicio, y toda esa exigencia se
traducira en mayores tarifas en peijuicio de los usuarios.
Privatizaci6n de Mantaro:
Al principio, la condicion de imiayor trascendencia en el prestamo EPAL era la
privatizaci6n de la C.H. Mantaro. Las fechns establecidas en los cronogramas
resultaron muy optimistas.
De la manera en la que se ha desarrollado la privatizaci6n del sector el6ctrico, la
privatizaci6n del complejo Mantaro ya no tiene la trascendencia econ6mica que
tenia en el momento de la suscripci6n dol pr6stamo. Su participaci6n relativa es
cada vez menor, al igual quo su valor de rmercado por la entrada en servicio de
nuevas plantas hidraulicas y de gas natural que sera aun mas notoria con el
rPAL -I,f,rrn  de Cierre                                        Pig $1 dr 10



Lmisor:  Ut1 1                                 44  05/17/99  6:41PM  Tra 502         Pag1na 11
MINISTERIO DE ECONOMIA Y FINANZAS
ingreso del gas de Camisea. Sin embargo desde el punto de vista conceptual de la
reforma, cs conveniente conclui' con dicho proceso.
Duraci6n del prestamo:
El prcstamo suscrito el 22 de noviombre dc  1994 tonia como fecha inicial de
cierre el 31 de diciembre de 1996. Hubo una serie de sucesivas pr6rrogas hasta
que se corr6 definitivamente cl 31 de diciembre de 1998.
El periodo indicado en el Convenio de Prestamo de dos arios de duraci6n result6
insuficiente para las reforimas quo so adoptaron.
5Si'AI. -Ijrutle de Cierre                                      P*g In d.> ia



45
APPENDIX D
PROPOSED OPERATIONAL PLAN
The government is in the process of preparing an operational plan aimed at maintaining
EPAL's achievements.



*812'                 ~~~~~7'8                                                   74                           072
ELECTRICITY SYSTEM 
GENERATION AND TRANSMISSION/C0L0MBIA
INSTALLATIONS 
ECUADOR
c_ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ -                                                                                                                  1
TUMBES                          /                                                                                                              //
M.K-j~~~~~~ NeareDE
A.-s "'    ofot              \,      (Ree
L.WE    I  L                                1"'_  ci  >
SeThoro  2         -~~ ~~ a                 *     O XxBA'U",o                                                                                 TRANSMISSION LINES:
67                                                                                                                                                     220 kV -   ~'k   
N  "'- N                                                                       -    -     -----        138 kV
LA/V44$9~EQ  7Co'eoa   ~CHACAPOYAS                ATi ~ OO
`7    00t    dePI-j.~O*                                                                                                             33-60 kV
CHICL4Y0rat12  '~  Chor                    SAN              t
GOOMIOPe~MtkCI~ e   aAAJA8AX3                                                                                                         SUBSTATIONS
Pot'roi'g~~j~~      C  b.ek          MAHN YDRO STATIONS
N' ~~~~~~~~~~~,                                              A ~~~~~~~~~~THERMAL STATIONS
5"'    'lf P,4   Aeyosat1B   R   A   Z I   L
AN HCA' ~~i-hq  ~HUANUCO                       A        UAAI                     '
_fHUANU9O  Pooee_ 
'iSrto4,~    "ASCO
P. 6'  "'-    \ gh..oCERRO DE        0
reroaoogF<   *E    PoroAhoU&E, PB121-0
H-or  Yoy    '- Sg e3 'Ch" -1
13~ ~ ~~~~~k1
MA DR E DE DCb0S
12~~~~~~~~~~~~M%MYOoP"    ACQ                                                                                                                                               12'
U    Rset,toae&                           >n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  PU( ERTO
-                                    3Cob,ioo                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MALDONAD%)
"   SdE ,enci.a    *Illebao       '"
coove      ,1HuANCAJLCAHo r                          c  UT    C  0            ""         r -<t
pi_~  Wt,d.                           '~4doaalo  'A8ANCAWbesAt                          0
"a,           ~APURI,MAC 
14'                                                    oanmo~~~~~~~~~~~ ~CA   AYACUCHOCeoh   i                                           oo
C  A   -'                                                    Ill          *ole'
a-1.                  '                                   -
U'  '                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~0
0  DEPARTMENT CAPITALS0                                                                                     'N '          UnyoOoa
-  RIVERS                                                     Mrne    o~                                               ~Uotoeo
-- DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES                                       SO,OACrn0,~Rn7                                                                                  
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                13        '                   o-aipoal                                                >
,13CholO       A R EQU iP A-                               br
-16'                                                                                                                        C.,al[3f                    taa,'16-
8 52  180 1820 200                                                                                               - 0oa    o~sCh~AS:o   >Pnt    
L    50  0   150  25~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -   AREOVIPAJ
KILIOMETERZS                                                                             -CoMOQyf  'A    dnts-c-,e
Then -op -a p-oco-d bl' the Map Deign bait ~e The Wo-ld Baok                                                           M~A           to~o0       BtiTs
The boondocks --,ooo  eoalotoond o-yotbe inonoiAPba                                                                           >      Mr-0-o'U~
lb.naoo  ho Iawostto of an -actaprny -ndo--ao orI-. '                                                                                          ii   &al  E
nepaoof sod boosdaaes                                                                                                                           To ;,
Soonos Ministy at mE-gy -ne Mim-s Li.tm, Pena                                                                                                      UeAPoJ          .5-1
B0'                         78'                        76'                         7A'                         72'                         70' CHIE  t



