Document of                         COPY
The World Bank                  VILE  ,p
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Repo" No. P-3059-EG
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
EGYPTIAN IRON AND STEEL COMPANY
WITH THE GUARANTEE
OF THE
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
FOR A
STEEL REHABILITATION PROJECT
May 6, 1981
lThis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performanuce of
their offichi duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
I Egyptian Pound (LE)  -  US$ 1.43
1 US Dollar ($)         =  LE 0.70
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to December 30
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS
tpy          tons per year
BOF          Basic Oxygen Furnace
CU           Coordination Unit
EGITALEC     Egyptian Italian Engineering Company
GODE         Gulf Organization for the Development of Egypt
HADISOLB     Egyptian Iron and Steel Company
ICB          International Competitive Bidding
KfW          Kreditanstalt fuer Wiederaufbau
OSC          Operating Steel Company
PIU          Project Implementation Unit
UEC          United States Steel and Engineering Consultants



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
EGYPTIAN IRON AND STEEL COMPANY REHABILITATION PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:              Egyptian Iron and Steel Company (HADISOLB)
Guarantor:             Arab Republic of Egypt
Amount;                $64 million equivalent
Terms:                 15 years including four and a half years grace at
9.6% interest per annum. In addition, HADISOLB would
pay a guarantee fee of 1% to the Government.
Project Objectives    The project is a major part of the first
and Description:       rehabilitation (Stage I) program of HADISOLB's steel
making facilities. This Stage I program is expected
to raise the production level of the plant from about
0.9 million tons per year (tpy) of liquid steel to
about 1.2 million tpy by 1987, mainly by removing
technical production bottlenecks but also through
substantial improvements in operation/maintenance
practices and methods needed for attainment of
increased productivity. Under the project,
correction of serious deficiencies in present
operating practices and production methods is also
expected to result in substantial reductions in the
cost of production mainly through improved process
control, higher metallic yields, and reduced
consumption of energy. The project comprises the
following principal elements:
(i)   The equipment package consists of items for all major
operating centers and supporting services such as:
raw material handling, iron-making, steel-making,
continuous casting, rolling and utilities, including
replacement of most instruments and weighing
equipment, installation of pollution monitoring
equipment, acquisition of computer facilities and
installation of energy saving equipment.
(ii)   Organization/Operations Improvement Program;  This
program, as well as the closely related technical
assistance services, are designed to implement the
project efficiently and--of greater long-term
importance--to improve operational efficiency,
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- 12. -
control costs of production especially through energy
saving devices, improve the general performance level
of HADISOLB and plan the future development of the
company in an economic manner. The program is also
designed to strengthen the management and
organization of HADISOLB by allowing the company to
design and implement a competitive salary structure
and incentive system, thereby improving the ability
of the company to attract and retain qualified staff;
and
(iii)   Technical Assistance: Consulting services from a
foreign operating steel company will be provided
primarily for assistance in implementing the
organization/operations improvement program. Project
engineering services will also be provided by an
Egyptian/Italian joint venture engineering firm for
the implementation of the equipment package under the
project.
Benefits and            The proposed project would help HADISOLB to increase
Risks:                  its production capacity and thus reduce Egypt's heavy
reliance on imports of steel as well as substantially
reduce the company's unit cost of production. It
would also help bring about major organizational and
operational improvements. Failure to achieve the
latter is the major project risk. However, the
assurances that have been received from both HADISOLB
and the Government should reduce this risk to a
minimum.
Cost Estimates:                                                  US$ Million
Local      Foreign      Total
Equipment, Spares & Structural Materials (FOB)    0.5            25.4        25.9
Electricals and Cables                                0.2        17.3        17.5
Ocean Freight and Insurance                           -           2.0         2.0
Customs Duties                                        5.0         -           5.0
Port Charges and Local Transport                      3.6         -           3.6
Civil Works                                           0.9          1.3        2.2
Engineering and Know-How                              1.2         2.1         3.3
Erection and Commissioning                            7.4         1.5         8.9
Technical Assistance and Training                     1.9         3.5          5.4
Base Cost Estimate (BCE) a/                 20.7         53.1        73.8
a/ Prices as of December 1980.



- 1i11 -
Physical Contingency (10%)                             2.1         5.3         7.4
Price Escalation (20%)                                 5.6         9.3        14.9
Installed Cost                               28.4        67.7        96.1
Incremental Working Capital                            -           -           -
Interest During Construction                           1.0         8.5         9.5
Total Financing Required                     29.4 a/    76.2        105.6
US$ Million
Financing Plan:                                        Local      Foreign   Total
Bank loan                                     -          64.0      64.0
Government equity                            29.4        12.2      41.6
Total                               29.4        76.2    105.6
Estimated
Disbursements:                                            US$ Million
Bank FY                   82      83      84     85
Annual                    2.7   33.5  19.9    7.9
Cumulative                2.7   36.2  56.1   64.0
Estimated Economic       42 percent
Rate of Return:
Appraisal Report:        Arab Republic of Egypt, Staff Appraisal Report,
HADISOLB Rehabilitation Project, No. 3332a EGT,
dated May 1, 1981
a/ including about $7 million for taxes and duties.






INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE
EGYPT'IAN IRON AND STEEL COMPANY
WII'H THE GUARANTEE OF T'HE ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
FOR A STEEL REHABILITATION PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Egyptian Iron and Steel Company (HADISOLB)I/ with the
guarantee of the Arab Republic of Egypt for the equivalent of $64 million
to help finance part of the foreign exchange cost of a project forming a
major part of the HADISOLB Stage I rehabilitation program. The loan would
have a term of 15 years, including four and a half years of grace, with
interest at 9.6 percent per annum. In addition, HADISOLB would pay a
guarantee fee of 1 percent to the Government. Kreditanstalt fuer
Wiederaufbau (KfW) of Germany will participate in the financing of other
parts of the program.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.       A report on "Recent Economic Developments and External Capital
Requirements" (Secl180-933) was distributed to the Executive Directors on
December 24, 1980. Country data sheets reflecting the recently updated and
revised macroeconomic accounts are attached.
The "Open Door" Strategy
3.       Following more than a decade of inward looking and centralist
economic policies, President Sadat in 1974 announced a new "Open Door"
policy with the objective of accelerating the pace of development by
liberalizing the economy and stimulating foreign and domestic private
investment. It is important to stress that the "Open Door" policy was not
a radical break with the past but a redefinition of priorities in the face
of changing opportunities. Parallel to the changes in economic policy
there was progress towards peace which brought with it expectations of
rapid economic growth and greater prosperity.
1/  HADISOLB is the commonly used abbreviation for the company, deriving
from the Arab words for iron and steel, hadid and solb.



- 2 -
4.       To implement the open-door strategy the government took a number
of specific policy actions. Among the more important ones were the gradual
devaluation of the Egyptian pound (LE), and the concurrent liberalization
of foreign exchange regulations. Starting in 1973 when the parallel market
rate was introduced, Egypt's currency has been devalued by 44 percent from
US$2.56 to US$1.43 per LE at present. Exchange restrictions were eased,
specific import allocations wiere replaced by general import quotas, and
more foreign exchange was made available to both the public and private
sector. A new investment law (1974, amended in 1977) offered attractive
incentives to foreign firms. Trade agreements, especially with the EEC,
opened new markets for export products; at the same time, bilateral trade
with COMECON countries was much reduced.
5.       In 1975, Egypt was able to reopen the Suez Canal.  At the same
time petroleum production in the Gulf of Suez started increasing at rapid
rates and workers' remittances as well as tourism became significant
sources of foreign exchange. Nevertheless, Egypt was facing serious
balance of payments problems. The base from which foreign exchange
revenues were growing was too small to meet the increase in imports
triggered by the liberalization program and the government's commitment to
providing ample supplies of basic consumer goods at stable prices.
However, large capital inflows, primarily from the oil-rich Arab Gulf
states, sustained tthe "Open Door" policv during the 1975-77 period. These
loans and grants also complemented the public sector's fiscal resources and
allowed a large expansion of both consumer subsidies and public sector
investment.
6.       By the end of 1978 the balance of payments started to shoaw clear
signs of improvement as a result of the sustained rapid grow7th in receipts
from remittances, tourism, the Suez Canal and petroleum exports. The last
two years have confirmed and strengthened this improving trend. Petroleum
exports and workers' remittances reached about $2.7 billion each in 1980.
On capital account, the cessation of Arab aid following the Camp David
agreements wias largely offset by a substantial increase in U.S. assistance,
and an increase in direct foreign investment, mainly but not exclusively in
the oil sector.
7.       The Egyptian economy has thus entered the new decade with a much
improved balance of payments. Moreoever, the emergence of the petroleum
sector has strengthened the buoget considerably. Deficit financing through
the domestic banking system declined from an average of about 10 percent in
the 1975-1979 period, to 5 percent in 1980. Finally, gross fixed
investment increased from about 25 percent of GDP in the 1975-1977 period
to almost 28 percent over the last two years with the share of national
savings in total investment rising from 30 percent in 1974 to 70 percent in
1979; real GDP growth averaged almost 10 percent throughout the period.
8.       While much of the momentum for this accelerated pace of
development is attributable to the "Open Door" policy, the increasing
openness and accompanying structural changes have made economic management



more difficult and changed the environment in which economic policies
operate. Inflation has emerged as a principal policy concern. Prior to
1975, Egypt was essentially a fixed price economy and resource allocation
and investment decisions were centrally determined. Moreover,
international and domestic inflation was low, so that while relative prices
may have been out of line with world prices, price inflexibility did not
create undue macroeconomic imbalance. The situation has since changed
radically. The opening of the economy coincided with an acceleration in
world inflation. At the same time, labor migration and the rapid expansion
of the economy led to supply bottlenecks in several key sectors. Effective
demand, especially for consumer goods, also rose sharply following the
income gains that resulted from the growth of tourism, remittances and
other receipts. All these factors have exerted sharp upward pressure on
domestic prices. In a country unaccustomed to inflation and flexible
prices, and where there are no easily functioning mechanisms for
cost-of-living adjustments in wages and salaries, the required price
adjustments appeared large and unjust. Some small adjustments were made
and, in the uncontrolled parts of the economy, prices and wages did in fact
surge upward. In the controlled sector, major changes could not be
achieved. As a result the gap between world prices and domestic selling
prices of key traded goods has continuously increased, leading to large
implicit and explicit subsidies and resulting in an increasingly distorted
system of relative prices and incentives.
Recent Economic Developments
9.       Recent economic trends have been characterized by continued rapid
overall growth and the emergence of the petroleum sector as the dominant
sector in Egypt's economy. In Miay 1980, the fiscal and administrative year
was shifted from January-December to July-June. As a result, data for
calendar year 1980 are not always available and fiscal year 1981 (July 1980
- June 1981) estimates are used instead of calendar 1980 estimates to
describe the most recent developments.
10.      Overall CDP growth averaged about 10 percent in constant FY81
prices over the last four years.l/ The very high rate of growth reflects
the emergence of the petroleum sector and rapid growth in industry,
transportation, trade and finance, and Suez Canal traffic. Agriculture
stands out by its low growth rate, around 2.2 percent per annum, although
it should be stressed that agricultural performance improved compared to
the 1965-75 period when growth averaged 1.5 percent. The combination of
continued growth in real petroleum output and the doubling in export prices
has resulted in considerable changes in the structure of GDP. The share of
petroleum in value-added at factor cost has tripled since 1977 to about 19
percent in FY81.
1/ In 1975 prices real growth would decline to 8.5 percent, the difference
being due to the changed petroleum prices.



- 4 -
11.      Production of crude petroleum is at present averaging close to
650,000 barrels a day (32 million tons a year). There is general agreement
in Egypt and among foreign observers that the proven reserves attached to
Egypt's large established petroleum fields could not sustain production at
present rates beyond the mid-1980's. On the other hand, over the last two
years Egypt has added about 100 million tons to the stock of proven
reserves largely through a continuous stream of small discoveries.
Investment in exploration by foreign oil companies has increased
dramatically since the oil price increase of mid-1979 and is expected to
average at least $600 million annually for the next few years.  Given the
performance achieved over the last two years and the massive investment
program, it is only reasonable to assume that new discoveries will continue
to occur. The magnitude of these discoveries remains, of course, highly
uncertain.
12.      In addition to crude petroleum, the output of natural gas has
recorded a steady increase reaching over 2 million tons of oil equivalent
in FY81. Substantial investments are planned for the exploitation of
existing gas fields and for further exploration, which will hopefully
release additional quantities of petroleum for export. HovTever, the level
of the exportable surplus of petroleum would also depend on domestic energy
consumption, which has been growing by over 11 percent annually in recent
years. It is important therefore that efforts to increase production of
energy are complemented by measures designed to achieve more efficient
domestic use of energy.
13.      Reflecting the sharp increase in petroleum export earnings and the
continued growth in workers' remittances and Suez Canal revenues, Egypt's
foreign exchange earnings have grown rapidly since 1979. At $1.9 billion,
the current account deficit in FY81 was lower in relation to GDP (7.5
percent) than in any year since 1973. Net medium and long-term capital
inflows are estimated at $2.9 billion, giving an overall surplus in the
balance of payments of about $1 billion compared with a surplus of $167
million in 1978 and a deficit of $250 million in 1977.  The marked
improvement in the balance of payments since 1979 has allovwed for some
buildup in foreign exchange reserves, which stood at about $1 billion at
end-1980 (about one and a half months of imports). Despite the apparent
strength of the balance of payments, certain structural features are worth
noting: (i) Agricultural and manufactured exports constitute only a very
small fraction (10 percent) of Egypt's foreign exchange receipts.
Petroleum ($3.1 billion in FY81), Workers' Remittances ($3 billion), the
Suez Canal ($0.9 billion) and foreign capital inflows ($2.9 billion)
dominate the accounts. (ii) Food imports, at $2.6 billion, are almost
equal to petroleum earnings. Moreover, wyith severely limited arable land
and a growing population, Egypt's dependence on imported food is likely to
grow. (iii) The share of imported capital goods in overall investment is
high. Along with import requirements of industrial raw materials, this
implies a continued high import dependence in the medium term.
14.      The liberalization of Egypt's trade and payments system has
contributed significantly to the balance of payments performance. However,



- 5 -
by enhancing capital mobility (through the creation of the so called "free"
foreign exchange market 1/) financial liberalization has made it more
difficult for the monetary authorities to pursue policies entirely divorced
from external circumstances. Attempts to keep domestic interest rates much
below world levels will lead to private capital outflows and an upward
pressure on the "free" market exchange rate. Policies to mobilize private
savings through the development of a domestic capital market must,
therefore, be complemented by an interest rate policy that acknowledges the
growing sensitivity of capital movements to the relative structure of
incentives.
15.       Most "competitive" imports and exports were shifted to the
parallel market rate of LE 0.70 per $ at the end of 1977. The rate
applying to these transactions has thus remained constant since 1977.
Since inflation in the domestic Egyptian economy has been somewhat more
rapid than inflation affecting the real value of the dollar, the purchasing
power parity deflated value of the Egyptian pound has slowTly but steadily
appreciated with respect to the dollar over the last 3 to 4 years. Egypt
faces the typical problem of real appreciation characterizing many natural
resource and oil exporting economies. While oil and service receipts have
shown spectacular growth, non-oil merchandise exports have declined in
volume since the mid-1970's.  Part of this decline may be due to the
necessity of replacing Egypt's traditional Eastern European markets with
outlets in the convertible currency areas. But the transition should by
now have been achieved and increasingly the problem may be due to an
erosion of Egypt's competitive cost position and a shift of incentives
against exports. The trend tovTards real appreciation has also reduced the
profitability of import competing activities. The situation is
complicated, however, by the subsidies provided to domestic producers
through low energy prices and other subsidized inputs. These subsidies
allow competitive production of some exports and import substitutes inspite
of the appreciating real exchange rate. The medium and long-term prospects
for the volume and composition of merchandise trade, therefore, are
intimately tied to developments in price and exchange rate policies.
16.       While rapid growth was achieved over the last five years and there
has been a continuous imrprovement in the balance of payments, the overall
fiscal deficit of the consolidated public sector remained very large during
the 1976-1979 period, fluctuating between 13 and 22 percent of GDP. The
1980 budget, presented in end-1979 and revised in February 1980, included
several proposals to raise revenues and limit the growth of expenditures.
The most important of these were: a new sales tax, an increase in
electricity tariffs, price increases for public sector companies, and a
1/  The official exchange rate applies to transactions taking place within
the framewTork of the government's foreign exchange budget and has been
fixed at LE 0.70 per $1.0 since January 1979. However, the free market
exchange rate has fluctuated between IE 0.75 and LE 0.85 per $1.0 over
the last two years.



- 6 -
reduction in consumer subsidies. However, some of these measures were
dropped when a new CGovernment took office in May 1980. A different set of
measures were announced and a newz budget presented to the People's Assembly
in response to growing signs of social tension and based on the additional
revenues provided by the petroleum sector. Wage increases were awarded to
public sector employees, the prices of several commodities were reduced and
the government embarked on a large scale import program.  The declared
objective of the new budget and the accompanying measures was to break
inflationary expectations, raise incomes of disadvantaged groups and
reaffirm the government's commitment to ample supplies of basic commodities
at stable prices.
17.      Despite the large increases in subsidies and the other net
expenditure raising measures taken in 1980, the overall fiscal deficit vwill
decline substantially as a percentage of CDP from 19.5 percent in 1979 to
about 13 percent in 1980/81. Excluding investment expenditures, the
current budget will actually be in surplus. This improved situation is due
to the additional resources provided by the petroleum sector and the Suez
Canal. Together, petroleum and Suez Canal revenues have more than tripled
since 1978 (9.1 percent of GDP in FY81), more than offsetting the
deteriorating trend in Central Government savings. This massive increase
in public revenues has reduced the need for domestic bank financing from
more than 9 percent of GDP in 1979 to less than 5 percent in FY81, the
lowest percentage since the mid-1970's.
18.      There was hope that increased public sector savings and reduced
deficit financing would reduce the pace of monetary expansion that has
averaged about 30 percent annually over the last few, years. This has not
so far been the case because the reduced growth in the domestic assets of
the banking system has been more than compensated by much more rapid growth
in net foreign assets reflecting the overall surplus in foreign payments.
Since a large portion of the increase in reserves has accrued to the
government, domestic bank credit to the public sector understates the
expansionary monetary effect of public sector operations. During the
present phase of foreign asset accumulation, monetary control requires
special sterilization policies so that the fiscal improvement can reduce
the underlying inflationary pressure which constitutes such a crucial
source of concern for Egyptian policymakers and which is an obstacle to
many of the required reforms in the areas of pricing and institutional
change.
Development Potential and Constraints
19.      Egypt has considerable potential for continued rapid development.
The reasons for this are, in brief: a large domestic market, a relatively
skilled and literate population, an agricultural potential not yet fully
developed, varied raw materials (including oil, gas and phosphate), and a
key geographical location. Future economic growth may come less easily,
howiever, than during the past years. The gradual need to substitute
domestic for foreign savings wlill become more pressing as net foreign



-7-
contributions decline in relation to GNP.  Capacities are now strained in a
number of sectors, including infrastructure. The expansion of new
capacities has been slowed down by administrative inefficiency, inadequate
fiscal resources and weakness in national coordination and sector
programming. Managerial effectiveness in public enterprises and financial
incentives for production are often inadequate. Higher levels of economic
activity together vTith labor emigration have led to shortages in critical
professional and technical skills. Educational facilities in Egypt still
reflect a non-technical bias and their quality needs to be upgraded.
20.      In addition, the rapid economic growth of recent years has been
based on the performance of sectors with only w7eak linkages to agriculture,
industry and services where the bulk of the labor force is occupied.  For
example, the Suez Canal and the petroleum sector currently account for
about 22 percent of GDP but only one percent of total employment. While
tourismt and remittances directly touch the lives of a much greater number
of people, they cannot provide a solid basis for employment expansion and
technological development. Moreover, the long-term real growth potential
for receipts from petroleum, Suez and remittances is uncertain. The
challenge for Egypt lies in the necessity of channeling a good part of the
surpluses and revenues from these "natural resource" based sectors, into
productive investment in agriculture, industry and social infrastructure in
order to lay the foundations for self-sustaining growth and employment
expansion in the domestic economy. There is tremendous scope for improving
the efficiency and dynamism of domestic institutions and production
processes, particularly at a time when overall resource constraints have
been eased and the absence of short-term crises provides a valuable
opportunity to address the difficult problems of long-term structural and
technological change.
21.      Another key issue is population.  At an estimated 42 million in
mid-1980, Egypt's population is already very large for its limited arable
land area, w7ith an average density exceeding 1300 per sq. km, higher than
that of Bangladesh or Indonesia. Recent census results show that
population has continued to growT at an annual rate exceeding 2.5 percent,
adding almost one million people every year. Moreover, almost half of this
increase is concentrated in the greater Cairo area alone. This continues
to create pressures on resources for consumption and investment and
aggravates the employment problem in the longer run.  Although the
government has initiated a more aggressive population program, it will take
considerable time and further measures to achieve measurable results in
fertility reduction.
22.      A serious side effect of recent inflation appears to have been a
deterioration in the relative distribution of income and a growing
disparity in consumption levels. Although inequality and the incidence of
absolute poverty is no worse in Egypt than in most economies at similar
income levels, continued inflation and lack of progress in more effective
taxation of high income groups could lead to serious social problems.
23.      To maintain the momentum of development and to meet the challenges
of the future, major efforts are required to overcome the structural



constraints cited above. Specifically, action is needed to (i) increase
the efficiency of government administration through organization and
procedural modifications and selective changes in salary structures; (ii)
increase real domestic savings through an effective mobilization of
domestic resources and fiscal reform; (iii) strengthen the general use of
prices as meaningful indicators of relative scarcities; (iv) develop a
long-term export promotion policy including appropriate management of
incentives and real effective exchange rates; (v) pursue a vigorous and
balanced program to upgrade the country's physical infrastructure; and
finally (vi) intensify efforts to develop a coherent and effective
population policy. There is an ongoing dialogue on all these important
issues between the Egyptian authorities and the Bank. They have also been
the focus of discussions among the members of the Consultative Group for
Egypt.
External Debt and Creditworthiness
24.      Egypt's non-military medium- and long-term public debt outstanding
and disbursed as of June 30, 1980, was estimated at about $12.6 billion.
Bilateral loans comprised about 7.9 billion or about 63 percent of the debt
outstanding while the shares of multilateral credit and suppliers' credit
were about 22 and 9 percent respectively, with the remainder being held by
financial institutions. Major creditors were the USA and Gulf Organization
for the Development of Egypt (GODE), followed by Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, and
the Federal Republic of Germany. IBRD/IDA debt comprised about 6 percent
of the total disbursed debt. Debt service on medium- and long-term debt is
estimated at $1.8 billion in 1980 giving a debt service ratio of about 20
percent.
25.      Although there has been a marked improvement in the overall
resource situation, and in particular in the balance of payments, in a
longer term perspective, Egypt's development needs remain immense. It is
still a relatively poor country with a population projected to increase to
55 million by 1990. A large investment program will thus be required if
Egypt is to meet the basic needs of its growing population and lay the
foundations for self-sustaining growth. This, in turn, implies the need
for continued large foreign capital inflows in the medium-term.
26.      If Egypt can successfully develop its export and import competing
sectors, and given the significant amounts of concessional aid flows, it
should be able to meet some of its foreign exchange requirements through
borrowing on commercial terms. In the medium- and long-term, debt
servicing as a percentage of exports is expected to remain at'around 18
percent during the next five years. In the longer-term, the debt service
ratio will depend on domestic policies and on developments in the oil
sector.



- 9 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN EGYPT 1/
27.      The proposed loan would be the World Bank's fifty-sixth lending
operation. It would bring Bank and IDA commitments made since 1970 to
$2074.6 million. Through these operations, the Bank Group has assisted
in the development of the agriculture, industry, power and energy,
population, transportation, telecommunications, tourism, urban and
education sectors. Annex II contains a Summary of Bank loans and IDA
credits as of March 31, 1981 and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
28.      The Bank has tailored its response to Egypt's basic structural
problems in a very broad fashion and in close cooperation with other
donors.  Its strategy involves entry into a broad spectrum of sectors in
order to provide not only direct finance with its relatively limited
resources but, equally, to act as a catalyst for other bilateral and
multilateral agencies, and as a spur for initiating discussion and positive
action on a coherent framework of policies and investment proposals which
can tackle the substantive issues. The approach also includes delivery of
technical assistance, not only for adequate implementation of specific
investment programs but for developing the domestic institutional
capability to articulate and implement future policies and investment
programs. The Bank's deliberately broad multisectoral intervention has
been differentiated by sectors and tailored to the pace at which the
Egyptian authorities can reasonably be expected to address these issues and
implement the programs.
29.      Industry, which has been over the past five years the sector
receiving the largest portion of Bank resources and significant attention,
illustrates the nature and scope of the Bank's intervention. The govern-
ment looks upon rapid industrialization as a means to stimulate growth of
the economy, create productive employment, cater to basic consumer needs,
and generate an "export surplus". Efforts under Bank financed projects
have gone beyond the immediate objective of improving capacity utilization
(Imports loans and credits Nos. Cr. 524, Ln. 1062 and Ln. 1456) and in-
creasing production capacity and supply of essential commodities in
resource-based industries (cotton ginning, textiles, cement and fertilizer
projects). The more fundamental effort has been directed at introducing
policy and structural improvements. Towards this end, the Bank has
financed six subsector studies in textiles, building materials, pulp and
paper, food processing, metallurgy, and engineering industries, in order to
assist the government in formulating a package of policy and investment
proposals, which are also embodied in our projects. To complement these
efforts the Bank has also carried out a study on small-scale industries.
1/ This section is substantially unchanged from the corresponding part of
the President's Report for the Fish Farming Development Project
(P-2958-EGT) approved by the Bank on March 17, 1981.



- 10 -
Finally, the Bank is assisting the government in a comprehensive study of
the construction/contracting industry, wyhich is one of the major
bottleneckF facing Egyptian industry today.
30.       The illustrative sketch provided above of the scope and breadth of
the Bank's intervention in one sector is representative of the multifaceted
approach that it has adopted in varying degrees in the entire spectrum of
the Egyptian economy. It is a role that is in harmony not only with the
Egyptian Government's wishes but is welcomed by the various bilateral and
multilateral donors as an appropriate function for the Bank as the Chairman
of the Consultative Group. Preparation of projects for future lending fol-
lows this strategy, and the pipeline includes projects in education, gas
development, rural and urban development, population and nutrition, trans-
portation, w7ater supply, agriculture (including drainage), development
finance and industry.
31.       Bank Group disbursements in 1980 represent about 13 percent of
Egypt's medium-and long-term capital inflow.  The Bank and IDA shares of
total external debt outstanding and disbursed wTere about 3.2 percent and
2.4 percent, respectively, as of June 30, 1980. For the future, the Bank
and IDA shares of total external debt outstanding and disbursed (excluding
military debts) are estimated to reach about 5.5 and 3.5 percent
respectively in 1981. It is estimated that in 1981, debt service payments
due to the Bank and IDA will represent about 2.3 percent and 0.2 percent,
respectively, of service payments due on Egypt's external debt.
32.       IFC participation and lending for projects in Egypt now total
about $74 million and include: a ceramics project (approved in 1976); a
ready-made garment project (1977); a project for an agricultural complex,
primarily for sugar beet (1978); a poultry project (1979); a fish farming
project (1979); a building material project (1980); and a tourism project
(1980). IFC is discussing several other private sector and joint venture
projects, including participation with the Bank in a green field steel
plant at El Dikheila, near Alexandria, to produce about 800,000 tons of
non-flat steel products (see para. 39).
PART III - THE INDUSTRIAL AND STEEL SECTOR
Background and Structure
33.       Industry (manufacturing and mining excluding petroleum) has become
a significant sector of the Egyptian economy with its share in GDP rising
from 8 percent in 1946 to 13.5 percent in 1979. In 1979, industry employed
about 1.3 million persons, or nearly 12.4 percent of the civilian labor
force. Industrial exports provided about 18 percent of commodity exports
and amounted to about LE 500 million (12.7 percent of the gross value of
industrial output).  The industrial structure is weighted heavily in favor
of industries producing consumer goods which account for about 58 percent
of industrial gross value added; intermediate products (building materials,



- 11 -
fertilizers, chemicals, and metals) account for about 34 percent; and
capital goons, for only 8 percent.
34.      As a result of the nationalizations of the early 1960s, the public
sector, comprising some 200' enterprises, accounts for almost all large and
mediumi scale industrial enterprises.  It generates some two-thirds of the
value added in industry and mining and provides slightly more than half of
the total industrial employment, mainly in four subsectors: textiles, food
products, metals and engineering (including steel), and chemicals. Egypt's
basic industries are all in the public sector and include iron and steel,
aluminum and fertilizer. The private sector accounts for about one-third
of total value-added in industry and about half the sector's labor force.
Textiles, food products, leather, woodworking and furniture, and
engineering are the important industries of private activity.
35.      The performance of the industrial sector which was characterized
in 1973-74 by important idle productive capacities rapidly improved during
1975-77 following the announcement of the "open door" policy in 1973 which
resulted in the relaxation of controls and greater availability of foreign
exchange.  This period was folloV7ed by a temporary slowdown in the grovwth
of industrial output in 1978 (5.7 percent), followed by a recovery in 1979
(11.5 percent) which points to the increasing impact on production of
investment efforts during the last few years.  While the growth of
industrial output in the public sector in 1973 and 1974 was low (2.1 and
2.6 percent), it jumpea to about 8-9 percent per annum, during 1975-79.  The
private sector has performed somewhat better than the public sector during
the past few years. Its output, which stagnated during 1972-74, increased
by 10 percent annually during 1974-79. The private sector's share in total
industrial investment averaged only about 4 percent during 1969-74.
Following the adoption of the "open door" policy, it increased to about
10-12 percent during 1975-78, reflecting a favorable response to the
Government's initiatives.
36.      Egyptian industry has significant long-term prospects to grow and
broaden its base deriving primarily from the large and growing domestic
market and a strategic location wTith access' to markets in Africa and
Europe. An industrial structure and tradition already exist, as wiell as a
large relatively low7-cost labor force. Since development of agriculture is
proceeding slovTly and the service sector (mainly Government) is
overstaffed, it is to industry that the Government looks to provide
stimulus to growth through continued expansion, efficient import
substitution emphasizing intermediate and capital goods, expanded exports,
as well as to absorb the growing labor force.  This is reflected in the
1981-85 Industrial Plan which allocates about LE 5.8 billion or one fifth
of total investment to industry. The Plan also recognizes the potential of
the private sector for Egypt's industrial development and growth. The
review of the Plan, as well as of sector studies financed under the Bank's
First Imports Project (Ln. 1062 and Cr. 524), point to the need to develop
exports and the capital goods and construction industries on a priority



- 12 -
basis.  The latter tVo subsectors w7ill directly benefit from the proposed
project, since HADISOLB's products are major inputs thereto.
37.      Until the late 1970s Egypt's industrial public sector has been
severely hampered by general economic constraints prevailing until that
time and the specific restrictions imposed upon the public sector as such.
Major constraints were: shortage in foreign and local funds, inadequate
performance by Egyptian construction companies, shortage in construction
materials, low7 quality of project management, heavy overstaffing, etc. The
Government is novw seriously considering specific legislative proposals to
radically reform and liberalize the policies and regulations governing the
public sector enterprises and thus lay the base for higher efficiency in
the sector. In the meantime, several ad hoc liberalization measures have
been gradually introduced during the past three years: no employment
quotas, free dealings in foreign exchange including retention of all or
part of foreign exchange export earnings, direct imports of capital goods,
improvements in bonus and incentive systems, unlimited participation of
foreign contractors in civil works, and selective increases in some
industrial product prices (e.g. steel, textiles wyhich are now about 80% to
100% of international price levels). Also, as a result of the substantial
improvement in the country's balance of payment position as well as the
Government's fiscal position, the central Government novw has sufficient
resources to support investments for the rehabilitation/ modernization of
the public sector enterprises.
Recent Bank Lending to Industry
38.      The Bank's recent loans to industry include:  (i) program loans to
alleviate foreign exchange constraints and thereby improve capacity
utilization; (ii) assistance to individual large, high priority projects;
and (iii) assistance to financial intermediaries to enable them to provide
financial and technical assistance to the private sector, including small
scale industrial enterprises. lending commitments, including IFC, amounted
to $641 million for industry from FY73 to FY80, of which about $334.1
million has been disbursed as of March 31, 1981. Performance under the
loans and credits for industry has been mixed. Especially the earlier
operations have encountered substantial delays and cost overruns which wiere
mostly the results of the restrictions imposed upon the public sector in
general. Hovwever, recent improvements and plans to liberalize the public
sector (see para. 37) should allow the public sector to compete more
effectively with the private and joint venture sectors.
The Steel Sector
39.      Sector Organization. The steel industry in Egypt consists
essentially of four public sector companies, three of which are fairly
small--Egyptian Copper Works, Delta Steel and National Metal--together
producing about 0.3 million tons per year (tpy) of steel products,
primarily reinforcing bars and other non-flat products. The industry is
dominated by the Egyptian Iron and Steel Company (HADISOLB) located in



- 13 -
helwan near Cairo, the borrovwer of the proposed loan (see para. 49 below).
A pipe plant and a few foundries wTith a capacity of 0.1 million tpy also
form part of the sector. All of the above companies employ about 45,000
people, 55% of whom are in HADISOLB. The Egyptian steel industry has an
installed capacity of about 1.7 million tpy of products (equivalent to 2.0
million tpy of liquid steel) but production is only about 55% of capacity,
primarily due to operating difficulties at HADISOLB wThich has an installed
capacity of about 1.3 million tpy of finished products (equivalent to 1.6
million tpy of licuid steel) but produced only about 0.5 million tons of
finished products in 1980. In an effort to meet the increasing domestic
demand for steel, the Government of Egypt has given high priority to the
rehabilitation of HADISOLB and is also planning the construction and
operation of an integrated steel plant at El Dikheila, near Alexandria, for
the production of about 0.8 million tpy of rods and bars. The El Dikheila
project would be a joint venture with a group of Japanese steel
manufacturers participating as equity partners. The Government of Egypt
has also requested the Bank and IFC to participate in the financing of this
project, which would utilize natural gas for the direct reduction of
imported iron ore pellets.
40.       Resource Base.  Egypt's three small steel companies use the open
hearth and electric arc furnace technology wTith steel scrap as ravw
material. HADISOLB uses the blast furnace/basic oxygen furnace (BOF) route
for iron making utilizing iron ore from a company-owned mine near the
Bahariya oasis, about 350 kms south west of Cairo (see map). Because of
the ore's low quality--it has a high chloride content--HADISOLB is faced
with continuous difficulties in plant operation and maintenance.  To
determine whether the ore could be beneficiated and thus reduce HADISOLB's
operating and maintenance problems as well as to determine practical
solutions to BADISOLB's poor production performance, the Bank, in 1977,
granted a $2.5 million iron ore beneficiation and engineering loan
(S-5-EGT) which has served as a basis for preparing the proposed project
(see para. 42 below). Ihe Bahariya deposits have 250 million tons of
proven and economically recoverable reserves, well in excess of the needs
of the Stage I program. Coke, another major input for HADISOLB's steel
making operations, is supplied by the El Nasr Coke Works, another public
sector company, located adjacent to HADISOLB, which produces coke using
imported coking coal.
41.       The Steel Market in Egypt.  An annual average of 1.4 million tpy
of steel products have been consumed in Egypt during 1977-80, corresponding
to a crude steel equivalent of about 1.7 million tpy. This is equivalent
to a per capita steel consumption level of 41 kg in terms of crude steel
(1978-80 average) wThich compares to an equivalent consumption of 105 kg in
countries such as Turkey and about 35 kg in the Philippines. Domestic
production provides only about 50% of domestic requirements at present, so
that about one million tpy have to be imported at a cost of about $385
million (in 1980). The main reason for this has been and continues to be
the lovT production performance at HADISOLB. Whilst overall consumption
growTth is likely to continue to be sustained mainly due to the country's



- 14 -
large population growth (2.5% p.a.), its overall rate of increase wrill
depend primarily on the country's ability to increase industrial investment
and production momentuml, primarily in those sectors which consume large
amounts ot steel.  Among these, construction wrill rerain by far the most
important one. Other important consuming sectors are mechanical and
engineering inoustries, petroleur, textiles, food products and chemicals.
As to the future demand for steel products, a UNIDO sponsored study
completed in January 1979 estimated that it would reach 2.1 and 3.1 million
tons of finished products in 1983 and 1987, respectively, implying a demand
of about 2.4 million tons by 19F5. For purposes of this project a somewhat
more conservative assumption of 2.3 million tpy by 1985, similar to that
developed by United States Steel Engineers and Consultants (UEC) in the
context of a Bank financed diagnostic study of HADISOLB (see below) has
beer used. On the basis of the above steel consumption forecasts, HADISOLB
should have no difficulties in selling the additional production from the
Stage I program.
The Bank's Role in the Egyptian Steel Sector
42.      Bank involvement in the Egyptian steel sector commenced in 1976 in
the context of a metallurgical sector study under the First Agricultural
and Industrial Imports Project (Cr. 524 and Ln. 1062-ECT). This study,
wThich wTas carried out in 1976-77 by consultants (Atkins Planning of the UK)
strongly recommended assistance to HADISOIB, to enable it to produce at a
level closer to its design capacity. Following further discussions
concerning possible Bank assistance to HADISOLB, the Bank approved in June
1977 an engineering loan of US$2.5 R million (in. S-5 ECT) to help finance a
project designed to (i) determine the feasibility of beneficiating the
Bahariya iron ore being used by HADISOLB, which, as pointed out before, is
difficult to process due to its high chloride content; (ii) initiate the
detailed engineering wiork, including the preparation of tender documents,
for an iron ore beneficiation project, provided it would be shown to be
viable; and (iii) carry out a diagnostic study of the technical, operating,
managerial, organizational and marketing problems of HADISOIB with the
objective to recommend remedies to solve these problems.
43.      The first and third studies were carried out by UEC.  The
beneficiation study was completed in 1979 and concluded that beneficiation
was technically and possibly economically feasible but would involve
substantial capital investments and could pose serious environmental
problems and therefore needed a more vigorous evaluation. HADISOIB
therefore decided to first install a semi-industrial pilot plant to further
evaluate the technical, financial and environmental problems of ore
beneficiation. Engineering w7ork for this industrial pilot plant will be
financed from the uncommitted funds of the engineering loan referred to
above. The diagnostic study was also completed in 1979 and formed the
basis for the HADISOLB Stage I rehabilitation program, of which the
proposed Bank project forms the most critical component.
44.      In addition to the above engineering loan, under the Industrial
Imports Loan (Ln. 1456-EGIT) of 1977, the Bank provided hADISCLB, the three



- 15 -
other public sector steel companies and the El Nasr Coke Works with
financing totalling $1W million for the purchase of equipment and $18
million for the purchase of raw materials.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project history
45.      As mentioned above (paras. 42 and 43), the project w7as identified
in the context of a metallurgical sector survey and prepared through an
engineering project, both supported wTith Bank financing. The project was
appraised in twio stages in September/October and December 1980. loan
negotiations were held in Washington from April 13-17, 1981. The
Government of Egypt w7as represented by Mr. S. Koraiem, Undersecretary,
Ministry of Economy, and the Egyptian Iron and Steel Company (hADISOIB) by
its Chairman, Mlr. F. Abu Zaghla. A Staff Appraisal Report is being
circulated separately to the Executive Directors.
Project Objectives and Description
46.      The project which is estimated to cost about $106 million, is the
main and most critical component of HADISOLB's Stage 1 Rehabilitation
Program, estimated to cost about $172 million. The prime objective of the
program is to more effectively utilize the extensive facilities already
installedi at HiADISOIB through rehabilitation and roundout investment,
together with operational and management improvements designed to achieve
substantial increases in productivity and product quality as well as
reduced costs oi production, particularly through energy conservation.
Thus, it is hoped that HADISOLB's production levels wTill be increased from
presently 50 percent of installed capacity to about 75 percent of capacity
by 1987/88. A subsequent Stage II program vThich will be defined in the
context of the proposed project is designed to raise HADISOLB's output to
the full design capacity of about 1.6 million tpy of liquid steel.
47.      The Stage I program consists of three components: (i) a
USSR-assisted component, (ii) a component supported by Kreditanstalt fuer
Wiederaufbau (KfW) of Germany; and (iii) the proposed Bank project. The
USSR component involves the supply of five equipment packages, wTith an
estimated cost of US$10 million. This component will be financed by the
Government through Egypt's bilateral trading account wlith the USSR; it is
already under implementation with physical completion of the essential
equipment packages expected by the end of 1983. The KfW component is
estimated to cost US$55 million and will be financed with a concessionary
loan from KfW of about US$40 million, the balance of US$15 million being
borne by the Government. The KfW component, wThich is expected to be
physically completed in mid-1984 and for w-hich a loan is expected to be
granted by mid-1981, will involve the rehabilitation of four old rolling
mills originally built in the late 1950s.
48.      The project comprises the follovwing principal elements:
(i) The equipment package consists of items for all major operating
centers and supporting services such as: raw material handling,



- 16 -
iron-making, steel-making, continuous casting, rolling and
utilities, including replacement of most instrun-ents and
weighing equipment, installation of pollution monitoring
equipment, acquisition of computer facilities and installation
of energy saving equipment.
(ii)  Organization/Operations Improvement Program:  This program, as
well as the closely related technical assistance services, are
designed to implement the project efficiently and--of greater
long-term importance--to improve operational efficiency, control
costs of production especially through energy saving devices,
improve the general performance level of HADISOLB and plan the
future development of the company in an economic manner.  The
program is also designed to strengthen the management and
organization of HADISOLB by allowing the company to design and
implement a competitive salary structure and incentive system,
thereby improving the ability of the company to attract and
retain qualified staff; and
(iii) Technical Assistance: Consulting services from a foreign
operating steel company wlill be provided primarily for
assistance in implementing the organization/operations
improvement program. Project engineering services will also be
provided by an Egyptian/Italian joint venture engineering firm
for the implementation of the equipment package under the
project.
The Borrower
49.         The project will be implemented by the Egyptian Iron and Steel
Company (HADISOLB), the borrower of the proposed loan. HADISOIB, a public
sector company, started commercial operations in 1958 with a steel plant in
Helwan, about 40km south of Cairo, built by DEMAG of Germany. The plant
included two blast furnaces, an electric arc furnace, a Thomas steel making
shop and heavy and light section mills with a combined capacity of 0.4
million tpy of liquid steel. In 1968, the company entered into an
agreement wTith the USSR to expand plant capacity in two phases by 1.2
million tpy of liquid steel. (HADISOLB's total capacity of 1.6 million tpy
of liquid steel is equivalent to 1.3 million tpy of finished products.) In
parallel with the construction of the plant, a new iron ore mine was
developed and started operations in 1973 at Bahariya, about 350 km
southwyest of Cairo. The expansion of the mill involved a steelmaking
technology (basic oxygen furnaces or BOF) entirely different from the DEMAG
plant (Thomas converters). Each phase was to add 0.6 million tpy of liquid
steel capacity. Although both the first and second phases became
operational in 1973 and 1977, respectively, the plant in 1980 has reached a
production of only 0.8 million tpy of liquid steel or about 50 percent of
its design capacity and is expected to attain a production of only about
0.9 million tpy in the future without a rehabilitation/ modernization
project. This shortcoming is due to (i) the low quality of the domestic



- 17 -
iron ore, which makes the operation and maintenance of the sinter plants
and the blast furnaces very difficult; (ii) obsolete and inappropriate
equipment and technology which need to be rehabilitated and/or modified,
and (iii) operating systems and practices as well as an organization/
management/staffing structure that is basically inadequate to operate and
maintain a plant of HADISOLB's size, complexity and difficult conditions.
To help remedy the above shortcomings, the proposed project includes (i)
remedial action to partially overcome the low quality of the ore (para.
56), (ii) rehabilitation and replacement of equipment and technology with
substantial technical assistance (paras. 48(i) and 52); and (iii)
organizational and operation improvement programs, which are detailed below.
50.         Organization and Operations Improvement Program.  This component
of the project is the most critical one to ensure successful project
implementation; it consists of the following:
(i) implementation of about 80 operations improvement schemes
identified and recommended by UEC in the context of the engineering
loan (see para. 42). Some of these improvement schemes should lead
towards the use of improved energy savings devices and thus greatly
reduce 1HADISOLB's use of electricity and natural gas. In this
context, HADISOLB agreed that in selecting its operating practices
and in making decisions relating to its new investment, it would,
to the extent that it is technically and financially feasible, take
such economic factors as the economic cost of production inputs,
the capital cost, the economic benefits and the long-term trends in
the international prices of steel into account (Loan Agreement,
Section 4.05);
(ii) development and application of computerized management and control
and information systems, including, but not limited to, production
planning and material tracking system; raw material control and
mine's development system; and rolling stock and utilization
control system;
(iii) strengthening of the industrial safety and occupational health
practices as well as development of environmental protection
standards and policies (para. 58);
(iv) development of sound long-range plans for overall plant
rehabilitation, including the completion of the conceptual
engineering and design of the Stage II Rehabilitation program and a
feasibility study by March 31, 1983;
(v) strengthening of the company's training and recruitment policies
(para. 55); and
(vi) most importantly, development of a more competitive remuneration
system (para. 53).



- 18 -
51.      Project Implementation.  Although HADISOLB has a competent
Chairman and generally qualified top management, its overall organization
and operating systems are inadequate for an enterprise of HADISOLB's size
and complexity and unable to implement the above organization and
operations improvement program. The strategy envisaged under the project
is to help establish the basic institutional foundations upon which further
improvements can be built. This involves two main areas: the first relates
to the ability of the company to successfully implement the project, to
plan its operations and to operate its plant efficiently and effectively,
and the second to its ability to attract and retain qualified personnel as
well as to motivate the workforce to perform well.
52.      Overall control of implementation rests with HADISOLB.  The
implementation arrangements include a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) and
a Coordinating Unit (CU) within HADISOLB reporting directly to the
Chairman, with adequate authority and responsibility for the entire Stage I
Program. A PIU was formally established in 1980. HADISOLB's Board of
Directors has approved all staff positions considered essential for the PIU
and CU; also a group of essential staff has already been appointed and is
in place. The remaining staff will be appointed as work proceeds. The PIU
which would be assisted by a qualified joint venture engineering firm, the
Egyptian Italian Engineering Company (EGITALEC), will be responsible for
the day to day work of project implementation such as engineering,
procurement, critical path scheduling, inspection, field supervision and
control, construction management, budgets, testing and commissioning.
EGITALEC already assisted HADISOLB in reviewing and updating the technical
scope of the Stage I rehabilitation program. The CU which will be
supported by a qualified foreign operating steel company (OSC) will assist
HADISOLB's production departments in the implementation of the organization
and operations improvement program forming part of the project. The OSC
will also support HADISOLB in making decisions in such areas as specialized
aspects of equipment design, desired operating characteristics of new
facilities, steel plant operating practices, commercial practices, as well
as project implementation and operator and maintenance training.
Additional benefits to HADISOLB from its association with the OSC would be
full access to the operational, managerial, and commercial know-how of the
OSC, throughout execution of the Project, covering all areas of plant
operations, maintenance, process control, management, training, etc. Close
coordination between EGITALEC and the OSC is being provided for. In
addition, individual foreign or local consultants may be hired from time to
time as deemed necessary by either the Bank (in consultation with HADISOLB)
or by HADISOLB for specific tasks, e.g. pollution, civil works, computer
systems. The signing of suitable technical assistance contracts with both
the OSC and the joint venture engineering firm is a condition of
effectiveness of the loan (Loan Agreement, Section 7.01). The arrangements
regarding PIU and the Coordinating Unit and the respective technical
assistance provisions are considered satisfactory and should ensure
effective project implementation.
53.      Remuneration Improvement.  One of the major weaknesses of the
public sector is the large discrepancy between its pay scales and those of



- 19 -
the private sector. Not only is the absolute level of wages/salaries
unconmpetitive (the base salary of the public sector is, depending upon job
grades, at most 25% to 50% of that of the private sector), but the relative
salaries within public sector companies also do not promote individual
motivation and acceptance of responsibility/authority due to the absence of
meaningful differentiation. In fact, the entire public sector, by law, is
governed by a uniform six level salary structure which is totally
inadequate for large industrial enterprises such as HADISOLB. As a result,
there exists a significant shortage of skilled managers and technicians in
the public sector, including HADISOLB.  To somewhat offset the present
legal restrictions regarding base salaries, the Government has recently
allowed public sector companies, including HADISOLB, to make use of an
elaborate system of bonuses and allowances which result in total
remuneration of a multiple of the base salary (up to 70 - 120%). The more
liberal and extensive use of the bonus/allowance system is expected to
improve HADISOLB's ability to attract, retain and motivate more highly
qualified technicians and managers, thereby helping to improve the
operation of the company, the execution of the rehabilitation program, and
the planning of its future development.
54.      HADISOLB's management is aware of the inherent limitation of the
bonus and allowance system in correcting an inappropriate basic salary
structure and is fully committed to introducing a better salary structure
provided it can do so within the framework of prevailing laws. Giving
public sector companies greater freedom in establishing salary structures
that meet their own needs is one of the major topics of a comprehensive
public sector reform law presently under consideration by the Government
and scheduled for submission to Parliament during its current session,
ending in early July 1981. The proposed law would build upon recent
Government actions to improve the working conditions of the public sector
which included the abolishment of hiring quotas, permission of public
sector companies to freely deal in foreign exchange and to directly import
capital goods, unlimited participation of foreign contractors, and no
limitation on bonus and allowance systems. While it is difficult to
predict when the public sector reform law will be enacted, the recent
actions and policy statements by the Government point to its seriousness to
move ahead with the reform.  To prepare for the enactment of such law,
HADISOLB agreed to develop wTith the assistance of OSC a job classification
and grading system that will form the basis for a more rational basic
salary structure in the future as well as a transitional remuneration and
incentive system suitable to HADISOLB's requirements as an integrated steel
company.  After taking into account the Bank's comments, HADISOLB agreed to
take all action required on its part to ensure that such sytems will be
implemented not later than July 1, 1984 (Loan Agreement, Section 3.05).
The Government, in turn, agreed that it would allow HADISOLB to comply with
the above obligation (Guarantee Agreement, Section 3.04), it being
understood that full freedom in matters of basic salary structure can only
be accorded to HADISOLB, once the public sector reform law is enacted.
55.      Employment and Training.  With a workforce of about 24,000
(including personnel employed at the iron ore mine and in transportation



- 20 -
services for HADISOLB's employees), HADISOLB is the largest employer in
Egypt's steel sector (see para. 39 above). Even after allowing for the
lower labor productivity generally found in developing countries as
compared to developed countries, HADISOLB's workforce is still roughly 50
percent higher than necessary. Most of the surplus labor is in the
unskilled category and the administrative personnel. The low local wage
level is the reason that in spite of HADISOLB's overmanning, labor
accounted for only about 18 percent of HADISOLB's total operating costs in
1979. Given the Government's policy of providing, to the extent possible,
every Egyptian with a job, it is unlikely that HADISOLB's workforce can be
substantially reduced in the near future. The only reduction that is
likely to be achieved is through attrition and strict planning and control
of training and recruitment. In order to relate employment levels of
HADISOLB to the actual needs of its operations, HADISOLB would, with the
assistance of the OSC, design and implement a manpower planning and control
system. HADISOLB also agreed to prepare by December 31, 1982 and promptly
thereafter carry out in accordance with a time schedule satisfactory to the
Bank, training programs designed to qualify the staff to operate the
company's facilities, including those to be established under the project
or, if necessary, for productive employment elsewhere. Also, HADISOLB
agreed to make adequate arrangements in its contracts with the OSC and the
suppliers of equipment for training its personnel (Loan Agreement, Section
3.03).
Raw Materials and Utilities
56.      The main raw material for the project is Egyptian iron ore, mined
near the Bahariya oasis, 350 km southwest of Cairo. While timely
availability of the ore has recently not been a major problem, facilities
at the mine, along the rail track connecting the mine with the plant and at
the Helwan plant are being improved.  At the plant site, facilities are
being expanded in anticipation of higher raw material requirements planned
under the Stage I rehabilitation program. As mentioned above (paras. 40
and 43), the quality of the iron ore is causing difficult operating
problems. However, some of the operations improvement measures and
equipment packages (i.e. external desulphurization) included under the
proposed project will reduce the adverse effects of the poor ore quality.
Thus, the local iron ore is still an economic raw material to use because
of its low mining cost compared to imported high quality ore and given that
the mine and associated infrastructure have already been developed. Also,
to look into the possibility of improving the quality of the ore, HADISOLB,
based on the recommendations of UEC, intends to install a semi-industrial
scale pilot plant for washing and leaching the ore and will aiso consider
the possibility of blending it with high-quality imported ore once adequate
port handling facilities become available, which is not expected before the
late 1980s. The supply of other raw materials, such as coking coal,
limestone and other additives needed for steel making and subsequent
processing is adequately assured.
57.      The supply of natural gas, power and water are also adequately
assured. To further safeguard HADISOLB in this regard, the Covernment



- 21 -
agreed to enable HADISOLB to have access to these utilities (Guarantee
Agreement, Section 3.05). Similarly, HADISOLB agreed to review the
technical and financial feasibility of using coke-oven gas in its
operation, a more economic solution than using natural gas. Provided the
review confirms the feasibility of using coke-oven gas, HADISOLB would
enter into contractual relations with El Nasr Coke Works for the supply
thereof (Loan Agreement, Section 3.06).
Ecological Considerations
58.      As is most often the case in Egypt and many other countries,
HADISOLB does not have effective or adequate programs for safeguarding the
occupational health of its employees, air pollution or control of liquid
effluents from the plant. To start remedying this situation, HADISOLB,
with the assistance of OSC, agreed to develop by December 31, 1982 and
subsequently implement programs designed to improve its operational
procedures and measures for pollution control and industrial safety (Loan
Agreement, Section 3.04). Development of these programs would be assisted
by short training visits of experienced managers of steel industry safety
programs now in use in other countries. The programs would also involve
the development of suitable standards for air and water pollution as well
as a plan for the future control of air and water pollution, spelling out
those environmental protection facilities that would form part of the Stage
II rehabilitation program. The above measures will be supported by
suitable monitoring instruments, financing of wihich is included under the
proposed Bank loan.
Project Cost and Financing Plan
59.      The installed capital cost of the project is estimated at $96
million. Of the total financing requirements of $106 million, including
about $7 million for taxes and duties, $76 million, or 72 percent, would be
in foreign exchange including about $8.5 million for the foreign exchange
portion of interest during construction on the Bank loan. The basic
capital cost estimates were prepared by UEC in early 1979 and updated by
EGITALEC in December 1980. The cost of the technical assistance for the
foreign experts and the EGITALEC engineers, including salary, costs, fees,
international travel and subsistence have been estimated at $13,000 and
$3,300 per man-month respectively. Physical contingencies have been
estimated at 10 percent for all basic cost estimate items. Price
escalation for equipment is calculated on the basis of projected price
increases of betwTeen 9 percent in 1981 and 7.5 percent in 1984 in major
equipment supplying countries. The local cost for civil works, supplies,
erection and commissioning have been escalated at 18 percent annually due
to the scarcity of these resources in Egypt and the relative higher
domestic inflation rate compared to international levels.
60.      The proposed loan of $64 million would finance 61 percent of the
total and 84 percent of the foreign exchange requirements. The Government
agreed to finance the balance of the project cost of about $42 million in



- 22 -
the form of equity, as well as any cost overruns in the proportion of not
more than 60 percent in loan funds. Also, the Government agreed to provide
HADISOLB with all other funds for the Stage I rehabilitation program
(Guarantee Agreement, Section 3.03). The proposed Bank loan would be made
to HADISOLB with the guarantee of the Arab Republic of Egypt for a period
of 15 years, including four and a half years of grace, at an interest rate
of 9.6 percent per annum.  In addition, EADISOLB would pay the Government a
guarantee fee of 1 percent.
Procurement and Disbursement
61.      Out of a total of $54 million worth of equipment and materials to
be financed by the Bank loan, about $47 million (87%) are expected to be
procured through international competitive bidding (ICB). Goods up to an
aggregate amount of $7 million, such as items critical to the timely
completion of the project, items costing less than $500,000 equivalent (up
to an aggregate amount of $3 million) and items, which for technical
reasons must be compatible with existing equipment or must be standardized
for reasons of effective maintenance will be purchased through limited
international tendering involving at least four foreign suppliers from at
least three different countries on the basis of suitability, availability
and price considerations following approval by the Bank of the list of
items involved. Qualified local equipment suppliers will be allowed to
participate in ICB with a 15 percent (or the import duty rate if lower)
preference margin. However, because of the limited capacity and capability
of the domestic equipment industry, virtually all the plant equipment and
materials bid internationally are expected to be supplied from abroad.
Because of the small size of the individual contracts, civil works under
the project ($3 million) would be procured on the basis of competitive
bidding advertised locally pursuant to HADISOLB's applicable procedures.
Both local and joint venture construction companies registered in Egypt
would be invited, on the basis of a list of prequalified contractors
acceptable to the Bank, to participate in the bidding.
62.      The proposed loan would be disbursed against (i) 100 percent of
the foreign expenditures for: (a) imported equipment, (b) technical
assistance being provided by the foreign experts, and (c) training; (ii)
100 percent of the local ex-factory price for equipment supplied by
domestic suppliers; (iii) 80 percent of expenditures for imported items
procured locally, (iv) 100 percent of the total expenditures of the
Egyptian joint venture engineering firm and other local consultants, and
(v) 60 percent of the total expenditures of civil works. Expenditures
totalling $1.5 million for equipment, foreign and local technical
assistance incurred after March 1, 1981, are proposed to be eligible for
retroactive financing. Disbursement of about $6 million allocated for an
oxygen plant and argon separation unit would be subject to the completion
of a study satisfactory to the Bank confirming the viability of
establishing under the project the oxygen plant (Loan Agreement, Schedule
1, para. 3).



- 23 -
Financial Projections 1/
63.      The benefits from the Stage I Rehabilitation program are expected
to become evident in FY85 and gradually reach their full impact in FY88.
With the Stage I Rehabilitation program, the total revenue of HADISOLB is
forecast to reach about LE 298 million in FY85 and about LE 416 million in
FY88, or about 25 percent and 63 percent higher, respectively, than would
be the case without the Stage I program. Net profits after taxes would
also be higher at LE 10 million in FY85 and LE 16 million in FY88, compared
to losses of LE 8 million and LE 10 million respectively without the Stage
I program. Net profits as a percentage of total revenues would thus be
about 3 percent after taxes in FY85 and about 8 percent in FY88 which is
satisfactory.
64.      To safeguard its financial position HADISOLB agreed to observe the
following: (a) not incur any additional long-term debt if its future debt
service ratio will fall below 1.5; (b) until the project is completed
inform the Bank of its plan for any new investment not related to the
rehabilitation programs supported by the USSR or KfW as well as to the
proposed project, exceeding in the aggregate $5 million annually and ensure
that any such investment vTill not have an adverse effect on the
implementation of the project or HADISOLB's compliance with its obligations
under the Loan Agreement; (c) maintain after June 30, 1984 a current ratio
of at least 1.3, (d) maintain at all times a debt/equity ratio of not more
than 60:40 and (e) following project completion, to operate its production
facilities and set its product prices in such a way that it will, under
conditions of efficient operation, earn net profits sufficient to allow it
to pay dividends, build adequate reserves and finance a portion of its
future investments. In this connection HADISOLB further agreed, in setting
its product prices, to take the prices of internationally traded steel
products adequately into account (Loan Agreement, Sections 5.04 - 5.08).
The Government agreed to exercise its statutory powers over HADISOLB in
such a way that HiADISOLB will be in a position to comply with the above
financial covenants (Guarantee Agreement, Section 3.04).
65.      The financial rate of return of the project is estimated at 36
percent before and 32 percent after taxes. Sensitivity tests show that
even under moderately adverse conditions, such as a 20 percent increase in
capital costs, or a 10 percent fall in product prices or a one year delay
in project completion, the before-tax return would still be at least 28
percent.
Accounts and Audit
66.      HADISOLB is obligated by law to prepare full accounts of its
financial position and of annual operations by the end of every year.
1/ The financial analysis was carried out in both constant and current LE
terms. The values in para. 63 above are in current terms but the rate
of return is based on constant terms.



- 24 -
These accounts are subject to an external audit by the Fgyptian "Central
Auditing Authority". HADISOLB agreed to have the project accounts and its
other accounts and financial statements audited by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank and to supply the Bank with copies of such
statements not later than seven months after the end of every year (loan
Agreement, Sections 5.01, 5.02).
Project Justification and Risk
67.      As mentioned before, one of the main objectives of the project is
to improve and strengthen the operations and organization of HADISOLB, the
largest steel producer in Egypt. Some recent C-overnment action in
liberalizing the freedom of action of public sector companies has already
had positive effects. However, additional measures, especially in the area
of vwages and salaries need to be undertaken to make the public sector more
competitive. The Government recognizes this and to this end is about to
submit to Parliament a comprehensive public sector reform law. Increasing
hADISOLB's efficiency should be vievwed from the perspective of the inherent
comparative advantage that Egypt possesses in steel-making and of which it
ought to take full advantage. The country has a substantial and growing
market for steel which permit economies of scale in production, a fairly
vwell developed infrastructure, an industrial tradition, including
steel-making, its ovTn hydrocarbon energy resources, iron ore deposits, and
a relatively cheap and readily trainable labor force. In addition, Egypt
is at a stage of industrialization where important linkages betvTeen the
steel sub-sector and the capital goods/consumer durable sub-sectors as well
as the construction industry should be improved as a means of broadening
the industrial base and of employment creation. Thus, the efficient
modernization of its steel industry is among the high priority programs of
the Government, especially since there is already a large sunk investment
in the steel industry that is not fully productive at present but whose
output can be increased substantially at a much lower investment cost per
ton of incremental output compared to new, (green-field) plants. As a
result, the economic rate of return of the project is estimated at 42
percent. International prices for the tradeable inputs and outputs as wTell
as conservative assumptions about the build-up of capacity utilization were
used in calculating the rate of return.
68.      The inherent risks of the project are the problems facing the
Egyptian public sector which are embodied in HADISOLB--a weak organization,
inadequate operations systems/procedures, obsolete and poorly designed
physical plant facilities, inefficient production systems, low machine and
labor productivity, poor ravw material quality and poor financial
performance. However, the assurances received from HADISOLB and the
Government with respect to the institution building measures, the specific
measures included under the proposed project, i.e. organization and
operations improvement, improved remuneration levels, technical assistance
and training and financial covenants, combined with the physical facilities
are designed to help provide a solution to these problems. The financial
forecasts for the project and the company assume that through the



- 25 -
institution building measures the company will have the necessary
complement of qualified management and factory personnel. Should this not
be the case, project implementation will be longer and operating cost
savings substantially less than assumed, capacity utilization lower and the
production less than envisaged in the financial forecasts. A sensitivity
analysis of such contingencies indicates that the financial rate of return
could drop to about 18 percent before taxes or about one-half of what
otherwise is expected.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
69.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Egyptian Iron
and Steel Company, the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Arab Republic
of Egypt and the Bank, and the Report of the Committee provided for in
Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank, are
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
70.      Features of the draft Loan and Guarantee Agreements of special
interest are listed in Section III of Annex III. The appointment of the
OSC and the joint venture engineering firm would be a condition of
effectiveness of the loan (Loan Agreement, Section 7.01).
71.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
72.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
May 6, 1981
Washington, D.C.



- 26 -                                             ANNEX I
Page 1 of 6
TABLE 3A
EGYPT - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
EGYPT                             REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND S0. KM.)                                                                 -H MST RECENT ESTIlATE) H
TOTAL            1001.4                                                        MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL       29.6                                   MOST RECENT         NORTH AFRICA &               MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b         MIDDLE EAST          LATIN AMERICA A CARIBBEAN
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                    100.0        160.0      460.0                 81F.5                    1562.9
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOCRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       298.0        275.0      463.0                  545.0                    1055.9
POPULATION AND VITAL STArISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (lILLIONS)       25.9         33.3       39.9
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 37.9           42.2       44.0                   45.7                      63.4
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                          62.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                   ..      101.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                     2105
POPULATION DENS ITY
PER SQ. KM.                         26.0         33.0       40.0                   40. 7                     28.1
PER SQ. KH. AGRICULTURAL LAND    982.0         1125.0    1343.0                   598.6                      81.7
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENTS
0-14 YES.                           42.0         42.1       40.2                   44.0                      41.4
15-64 YRS-                           55.0         54.7       56.3                   52.5                      54.7
65 YES. AND ABOVE                     3.0          3.2        3. 5                   3.5                       3. 9
POPULATION GRCWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                2.4          2.5        2.2                    2.6                       2. 7
IRBAN                                6.0          3.6        3.0                    4.5                       4. 1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       45.0         39.0       37.0                   41.6                      34.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)        19.0         15.0      13.0                   13.7                       8.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                 2. 8/        3.0       2.3                    2.9                       2.5
FAMILY PLANNINC
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)          ..       206.0      187.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..            9.0       21.1                   16.2
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)            96.0         99.0       91.0                   93.5                     106.9
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                    102.0        104.0      109.0                  103.6                    107.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)            73.0         71.0       75.0                   69.8                     65.6
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         17.0         17.0       19.0                   17.5                      33.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE       31.0         23.0       18.O                   17.5                       8.4
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    46.0           51.0       54.0                   54.4                      63. 1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                               ..           ..      108.0                     ..                      66.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..           ..       66.0                   62.5                      65. 9
URBAN                                 ..           ..       88.0                   82.9                      80.4
RURAL                                 ..           ..       50.0                   45.1                      44.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..           ..         ..                     ..                      62.3
URBAN                                 ..           ..         ..                     ..                      79.4
RURAL                                 ..           ..         ..                    ..                       29.6
POPLSLATION PER PHYSICIAN           2600.0       1910.0    1065.0/d                4688.7                    1849.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON       2730. O/d    1640. O/d  1150. 0L               1751. 5                   1227.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                              460.0        462.0      470.0                 635.5                     480.3
URBAN                                 ..        290.0      250.0
RURAL                                 ..       2110.0    2090. o
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..           ..
HOUSING
AVERACE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                 ..           ..        5.2                     ..
URBAN                                4.8           ..
RURAL                                 ..           ..
AVERACE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                 ..           ..        1.R8
URBAN                                1.6           ..
RURAL                                 ..           ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OP DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                 ..           ..       45.7
URBAN                               37.8           ..       77.0
RLRAL                                 ..           ..       19.0



-27-                                           ANNEX I
Page 2 of 6
TABLE 3A
EGYPT - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
EGYPT                          REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAG5
- M0ST RECENT ESTIMATE)
MIDDLE INCCOE
MOST RECENT        NORTH AFRICA &           MIDDLE INCOME
1960  Ab   1970 /b ESTIMATE A        MIDDLE EAST        LATIN AMERICA & CARISBEAS
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:    TOTAL                66.0        69.0      72.0                 76.4                    99. 7
MALE                 80.0        84.0      87.0                92.2                    101.0
FEMALE               52.0        53.0     56.0                 59.9                    99.4
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                 16.0       32.0      46.0                 33.3                    34.4
MALE                 23.0        44.0      57.0                 41.9                   33.5
FEMALE               9.0        21.0      34.0                 24.2                    34.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (S OF SECONDARY) 22.0         19.0     18.0                  9.8                    38.2
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                          39.0        38.0      40.0                 39.2                    30.5
SECONDARY                         16.0       25.0      29.0                 25.1                    14.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)      26.0          ..      43.5                 39.7                    76.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        3.0         4.0       7.5                 15.3                    43.0
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                       58.0       132.0    137.0                 139.0                   245.3
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        1.9        16.0      17.0                 29.0                    84.2
NFI/SPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  *         22.0      21.0                 22.2                    63.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  3.0        2.0        ..                  2.8
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    7481.4      9318.2  11124.7
FFMALE (PERCENT)                  7.3         7.2       8.0                  9.6                    22.2
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)            58.4         54.4     51.0                 47.0                    37.1
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)               12.2        18.8      26.0                 23.8                    23.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              28.9        28.0      28.0                 26.1                    31.5
MALE                                53.2        51.5      51.3                47.4                    48.9
PEMALE                              4.2         4.1       4. 3                 4.7                    14.0
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.6        1.6       1.6                  1.9                     1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OP PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OP HOUSEHOLDS   17.5|e      17.4/e.f  22.0.                         
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  44.4/      42.8/,  49.2*-
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OP HOUSEHOLDS    6.6/e      7.0/ jf   5.1*-
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OP HOUSEHOLDS   17.5/e     18.7/e.f  14.8..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                              ..          ..    120.0                 262.5
RURAL                              ..          ..      86.0                140.4                   190.8
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                              ..          ..     163.0                202.1                   474.0
RURAL                              ..          ..      72.0                122.2                   332.5
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INC01E LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                              ..          ..      21.0                 22.1
RURAL                              ..          ..      25.0                 33.1
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted erithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and Is not uniform.
lb  Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, betwesn 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estisate, between 1974 and 1978.
Lc  1950-55; Ld Registered, not all practing in the country; Le Rural expenditures; /f 1964-65; Ia Rational,
19 74-75.
Most recent estimate of GNP per capita is for 1979, all other data are as of April, 1980.
October, 1980



ANNEX I
- 28 -Page 3 of 6
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Notes: JAlthough the data are deae Iron sore   genrallyjudged the must au-ottutiv- sad reliable, it should also be noted that they -y to  be. ter-
eatiotallyomp-ble_ b.osuse oft1he'Ito  ofsanadised def!isition   and ton.sp.  uset .d by differ-t nountrise teti lco                        the dot..  The date  r,  os
thebes   useful1 todescibereso  magltda                   ..dicat  .rgd,  end  haracesrIseetuie sloe differenc-  bet-snoneie
The re .tau  grup  are(1  tbo sas                   V.aeySop of abs subjeot countryY ad (2) a county group citb            oreee  higber  -verge I-com  tbs  the coun.try ge..up
of,he abjeot rountry (eatept for"Cpia  Surlu  OilEfpercrs" group ther   IMddeur-   Nurth Afric  and1 Mi1IddleEast'istchosen because of stronge
ociocultrsl  at.  ofiniia).  to eba rsfsrsac  greup data tba avosges ore pePulatite sightod artthmeoti  ease  for eac  idico  ud shon  onl   h,b, at,
least belf of ths coutries  . loagoup baa data fo,r bt ladiostur.  Sinr. cbtch              eag  ofoutreamncb    doaraepdsn the avilabilitp o
data nd ia not -lf.ore  cautina must bg .eerni-d i0 relating a-srag   of one inidiate  c t                 be.    heeatrae          Yae  ny usful In coparing ths talus
of one itdicut-or at   ties a-n  ths coutry sed  rfrnsgraupa.
LASSD AREA (chouseud si.)                                                                       ' ltt   e  'hvia- ropulatte   dividd bY  -ine  of Pratuinlg pey-
Total - T-1calsuf.. -u    s   oprising land aetn nadetr.                                        iln   ulftdIono   mediclsho  at                      ..ieity la-a.
Aeloltra  -isiniso  ariulurl  re  us  temporrlyr    permanently                     Populatlo  per N ...lue Person - PoPolatina divided by  ubro  patn
fc   rce  pscus, oarfs  an Uice.greao  to lie fallow; 1977 data,                  mals en  fma   graduate .t....., pracical nuse,  a                  asisa t!ares 
ISfP  t CAPT   1)  - GNP per capita e-letest at ourra   -art prir...s. ca-                       ura,ndualdvdd by tbai  reprir olro eepital bed
culuced hy.  sans   ..vricon muchod as World Bauk Atlas (5 977-79 basis); 1960,               seallble in publcadpiaeglra   n   prsia   hospi al  a  es-
1970, aed 1979dtc..                                                                            biblitation  ceter.'. I gpiltale        -1re   psc iliib.nn dpa -peetlysafe
byea  lenot ens pbysiclan.  IEatblialasete  previdlng prialpa11  catedia1
ENEtRtY CONSUePTIoM  PM~ CAITA - Anoual conuptinu of .oemccll engry I(cal                         ue  are not included.  Sral. beapitals, honre,,include benltb and mdita1
and l1ignIte  petroleum   naturlgsan         .y -       Iuma  and geetbhrma  alec-             cnesnrpermaoely staffedbyia pbysicin  (btc by, a edirsl asistant.
Irut) It kilogram   ofca quvln  prupIca   190, 1970  end 1978nus.mdehfs, etc.)  hbich offe  is-aten  arrai-datien  and preside
data.                                                                                          imited range of medical faniliris           e   ctlee. -ttidtial eupoes arbas hospi-
tals inclde eSle principal general nid speialied bhpitals. and rura
P'OPUL,ATION AMff VITAL STATISTICSI-i&.lcl.   u.   .pt..-                                                                                      dc1-    :.i ,t.
Total P_rulaina, Mid-Veer  (illia) -. As of July 1; 1960, 1970. and 1978                    Admissions. tor HosPitel Red - Total nuber uf admissions te  r dietbarge-
deetis.                                              b.t  tt1  o~.t ;from bh-pitals divided bY ths nuber of beds.
different definitione of -urba arss may ffct ...mperbility uf data MSN
mugcutries; 1960, 1970,. ad 1978 deta.                                                isase  ie  u  Hou- bl  (e.sreon        e pe .buhold) - total  urban  andna-
Porula~tlon  in fear 2000 -Crrtppltion proJertiun   are base.d en 1990                       ad hei.     mi  masl-t. Atboarder rY lcdger mayorma   no  b ncuedi
toa   oueinby age ad se  and their mortality1 end f-rtility rates.               tod houseodfrsaisia,upss
Projetiet pa ramtrs I0 ormotality raes- noprias of three levels   er                    Asue  ohr  fprsn   e   rue     otl  ura,adrrl-Aeaenm
In tlf  epucny at birth irean    ihounr'pacpiannm                                 heofesnaper           roa.1.lpihn,adruaocpidonntne
lee,  n  tml  life  soysutascy stabllleing at 77.3 years.  Tbs pAOedelna  caetol.Selin    uldectpraet  ntros   n
neenfrfertility         rt   lohv   he   eesaemn   al                    in               un.occu.Pied P,rc..
ietl e  arrdun  to  ncoe  evf ad past family planoing  psefermauc.               Aue   ofetiloiecn  of dwellings)-tta,ubnadrrl-
tahcuty Is_hnasge   n   fIaann   ebnteo  matlisy                                 Covetina  diliegs nhth eletricity In living quarters as p-rratage
srdod ferti'lity tren.ds tor projeotien purposa.                                           o   ea,uta,ndrra   slgrepo ey
it.            I'nr    oltirn- _In a staIonay  .popletion there I  ma growth since-..ob.,-                          rId.l.g   op..il
the hireb rote is equal to rha death rats, nad als  the  g  s.tructur  re-..             CAI
maecntant.  ThI  is achieved only after feetility rate  dauina to                  Adiuse tarlentRto
th   elaeet 1ea  nf unit net reponduot.ti  rats, sho  math g.....raion           prim ryanoll -n Rtiota,mls        n    oas         sttl    aeadfml
estinutad on ths haste of the projaread obracteristlrs of the population                    primary  ubool-age populaotiost          a    Includes children agd 6-Il
Ic the year 21001 ..ed tho rats cf drl ite, of tactility Yeats ccepas                        er  btajse            c  dilfternt lnths o  primary edstion; far
metr evl,contries  ih unitors1 educa..tion anu11at moy enoaa  100 por.ten
-ersaiuryr eacpeie  is  -nchd - The yea  than stationry ppulattn                         sinus som  pupils are bl ur  abet  th  effiti.1 school age.
sine has bss   sus                                 ecoday  chol-ootl,m leud f= hl      optdasaea   sede
PoplatIon       1 itUiti           e- dnooctin  requi-res at leas t f cur years of aPProvad primary intrutien;
_7sr at.A. - Mid-yea  pultonpr squar  kilomtar 1100 hartar...) of                            poidsg       -ae,  naion...  oreabrtaiigisroieafo   aa
toed  area.                                                       usually of ~~~~~~~~~~~~~12 to 17 yeaso. g;crepneneea  m   r   amal
Per  e. ka. agiutrl.lad - Computed as above for ageiculturaI land                             .secluded.of..                             ...do.  -..-    -al
PPopoltmo       St .. irutore  irneut) - Childre  (0-14 years). seria-age                         etd    eil.          urdustIaf- ootherprr    ht   pct  nm,a
64 yean,n          iretrd (5years andoe)a  p-roentegs of mid-panr pupa-                        dently orasdeparmnso.scnaytecttaa
Iation; 1960, 1970,oad 197B data.                                                            Prltahrrto-ciay   n   ectav-Ttleuat                                     eidi
750ppltosfor 1950-60  196G-7i1 and 1971-78.crrP                                               odi"lsss
IPopulatio  Gr-eh Eat   (pret) -luban -  nanl goetb roee  ef orban popc-                      Adl  liercyra e reent) - Literate adults (able to raad and -It.)S
I.r.on. for 1950-hI,t) 19'6070  and 197.-78.  a'a  ercncoeto  totlautpplto   aeY0ynaedee.
Crude  iebRts  ea  thounad) - Annua  Ien births par ch-ousd of hid-year.    .1   ...io    .   5  el   .
popoIHLatna  1960, 1970.  n  1970 data.                                                 CONOSUPTION
Crude Death hots  lint thousand)   AnsuaI deaths par thousan d of  ild-y-s                    asaerCr   rtthousend  roruletion) - Pas...ngo  .rar  rumpias macne
.Poplton; 1960, 1970, and 1978odata                                                          caesaigie   husgtpron;ecue    uara    ors   n
C Ros  ceution Eats- Averge aumr of daughtars a  -nmn:ill bmer in                           military vehicle..
her uonlrprndootivs period if she ameIstr   prosret na-se if Ict-                         Radio Rc-iv-rs (Ureth c....edArr          o) -1Al type. uf r-riv-re for redj,
tiltty rates; usullyftive-y-s  aveags.  enIng In 1960, 1970, andi11977.                     blooadoat  to geea   ulcpreuen  o   ouain    uu                             n
Funily PIuanaArret.Anna  (huna  -Anl tnme   faoett                                              eed rcursi  coutresan  in.. yer  the rpgpl                 rtiano.ei   a
of birth- toncrI deviosa under.. supio o  natonal family planing progra.                    nsin effect; data  o  rcn  yearn ney ot  he comparble sinus must
rosily  PI.-aIa- Users  (rerc..at otfmarried sta) - Percentage of married                      cutries abolished licensing.
omec of child-besin   oge (15-44 years) sho use birch-conrol devi..e to                   TV O..eiv-ra  (rer theuad   ouato)- T   recivrs1s  broadcast1 te
all marred unmanin seas  ge group                                    genera  public per thousand populactu sriesuninae"  'S reeier
PODAND ONU OTRITION                                                                              in ro risad In years shan rogistratine of TV sets  =n  n  ff .rc.
lunao  Pu  Pouoio   erCrti       19h9711!00) -ldno  pe"aiaanul                     feea    Circuatio   lee  thosad ....letion  -iShone tho avrg   iLrtuIm-
'~pnd.   ti,, p t:.~19P         -Itidoo of per C-pit.                  tin  of "daily genera  in teres   esPapr"  defie  neaparieie 
prdution of al  oo    ondtis   frductlnn suoludon seed aedi fendse                        lc-tiot d--ctd primarily to recodin  geealI s.   tistgidetebd
is or calender yarbasin. Coaiiscvrpiay  od   eg   natn                                      to he "daily" Ifiaperatlstoutmsasek
Per reit  su:relifclris(ecnto   scrstl-Coptdfo
nupri,  ad  hage  i  stech r. Met suple    ..o-tre anima  ted   sat,aa  force  nd.unemployed but encludieg duasso                            d.istdets  etc.
hoonehIo--d  pove;     ..6.-6, 197,  andl.  1916.17.1977 data,                              fish -ing aspes..     soitttlbo.oc;.90   97   n   97    aa
tsrcZito  suenly of eroteun  (stem   re  day Y- Promtein  -ctn Cofo pe  uspcfnutyilrnl      ao   oc   nmnn.rosrcis    austrs
out. supy  of. -toa  tsr da.d Se.spply. of Inod  is defined usr ..pvt.  L-                AndR FOREctccy    ae   n   a   aprntg               fttllbrfre   90
dloncs  f  0grm  of  uca !: -protein_ per . day ad.2   rm         faia  and           PeipinipaI...   netsh(rrcen) - tota l,mley and feal    Faci ipaIena
q.ortid Po   -d Surey  196-d5, 1970. and 197.at...iditbti.    qi-                          ageit-sn  structreio  thpopultri.on, and long time tr6d. A97 lo  m
Per1 carie  orteit soey From  anima  and royeIsi1 -Potein suppy  of fundtd-                 me7 te.er  frmntoalnacs
ChidY(age  1-Al  Motal.. i.ityEts(a   Itosndboatul deahye  thight nd in                     to1 the tota  -eo Fume. Ibrfr                      tg        o       brfr
age   . group 1-A  yers  in prhild tin. this age group; I or most foav..dyng onrn
tries. dues do-ive  fro 61litsIf' tables;  1960. 1970  nd 197 dat,                     tnrn,o IitEInTIO
P.r -pi   .1 .1.197   Ur d") - Prot.i.Frt nuas  f Pr'oetoIncmeo(othinrnsh ad kid) -d-ceved y-rLbee
at hith; 196of1970end 198 data
ofat  prehosn  lire0 .=   birthsIp...  e    y              0  l          i1..             EsYtimapted  Abolte (perty  Inom Ltel.  (109 pee  naita -  urban and tarel
Acse   t  OfsWae (,i foetOf g npLatmh-Id btta"'I urban,ian  ruhol td-                       .Absiyolute  ovrpy inome lveli  chat1,        . incom   level ble  bit  a e.. ima
roonideredaa being vithir reasonableif ecuastiof that hgouso.tIc ruralfarato
Acestdort   tsuo    nreco  unnuYatun  - tc6l,  urba   and97    t.
rua "-Smbro  pedi (tta,  urban, and                                                                                        ppor-l) sarvred by  n65eta
Cidisposal 1as prtnags  ofthe it- tee-podtv   populetine . pto tht i-                                                        todnc  ndSrilDae  uin
pMa myi Ond  theyleto    n   Ipsl   Iihorstou   facIf,tnonnAalssso   reetfa    aarm
pit pRiritss and siilrt   inelati ooas               ofy.r   fli.l-..



- 29 -                                                        ANNEX I
Page 4 of 6
EGYPT - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Population: 41 million (mid-1979)
GNP per capita: USi460
Amount (million)                           A N N U A L  G R 0 W T H  R A T E S  (X)
US$ at current
prices)                      A C T U A L                       EST.           P R O J E C T E D
1979       1975      1976      1977      1978     1979      1980/81  1981/82  1982/83  1983/84  1984/85
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross Domestic Product /a           17745.0       10.4      10.3      10.9     11.9       8.2        9.0      8.3       6.5       6.9      6.9
Agriculture                     3844.0        6.3       1.6     -3.0       5.5       3.9       2.2       2.1       2.3      2.6       2.7
Industry                        3237.0       10.6      4.8       9.8      12.3      6.5        9.8       9.2      9.7       9.5       9.8
Petroleum                       2728.0       39.4     52.3      55.2      22.0     10.3       11.6      12.8      3.4       6.0       5.7
bervices                        7263.0        9.2     11.6       9.4      12.0      10.2      10.8       8.8       8.3      8.0       7.8
Consumption                         15010.0       -3.8       8.3     11.0      11.2       4.5      12.0      11.2       8.9      8.0       7.1
Gross Investment                     5450.0       54.2      -8.2      9.3      -2.4       9.4        9.6      8.6       7.5       6.7      5.7
Exports of GNFb                      5585.0       27.2      30.8      9.0       3.0       5.8      12.4       7.9       4.5       5.8      5.8
Imports of GNFb                      8300.0       16.0      -5.3      2.5       4.2       8.9      18.7      11.8       9.2       7.9      5.2
Gross National Saving                3885.0      133.0      74.8      25.7     17.4    -13.4          -        -         -         -        -
PRICEb
GDP Deflator                                      50.6      55.9      60.5     65.8      81.0      100.0       -
Excnange Rate /b                                   2.15      1.97      1.75     1.54      1.43       1.43      -
Share of GDP at Market Prices (X)                     Average Increase (%) at constant prices
(at current prices)                       1965 Prices  1975 Prices           1980/81 Prices
1960      1970      1975      1979   1984/85          1960-1970    1970-1975       1975-1979    FY81-FY85
Gross Domestic Product
-    Agriculture                       27.9       25.3      28.2     21.7      16.2              4.7           5.1            1.9           2.4
-    Industry & Petroleum              23.7       26.1      25.4     33.6      37.0              3.0           2.6           17.5           8.2
-    Services                          42.9       40.8      42.8     40.9      41.7              6.3           4.4           10.8           8.2
Consumption                            87.3       90.6      90.4     84.6      86.2              4.4           8.0            6.8           8.8
Gross Investment                       13.3       13.9      32.3      30.7     27.4              5.8           4.2            1.8           7.1
Export of GNFb                         19.5       14.2      21.5     31.5      30.9              4.9          22.8           11.6           6.0
Import of GNFS                         20.1       18.8     44.1      46.8      44.5              1.1          13.5            2.5           8.5
Gross Nationai Saving                  12.9        7.7      10.9     21.9      17.9              7.2          17.2           22.2            -
As X of GDP
1960      1970      1975      1979
PUBLIC FINANCE
Current Revenue                        18.5       21.3      34.1     37.2
Current Expenditure                    21.5       22.0      39.9     33.9
Surplus (+) or Deficit (-)             -3.0       -0.7      -5.8      3.3
Capital Expenditure                    11.8       11.1      16.6     23.0
Foreign Financing                        -          -       16.0      4.4
1960-70  1970-75  1975-80   FY81-FY85
OTHER INDICATORS
GNP Growth Rate (X)                     4.5        5.0      11.9       7.6
GNP per capita growth rate (2)          1.9        2.7       8.7      4.9
Energy consumption growth rate (X)/c 14.9         14.9      13.2     11.4
ICOR                                     -          -        3.6      4.0
Marginal savings rate                    -          -        0.46      0.15
Import elasticity                       0.9        1.7       0.9      1.1
/a   GDP for 1979 at current prices is valued at market prices.  Rates of growth concern GDP at factor cost.
/b   Effective rate computed as a weighted average of official and parallel market rates.
7W   Electricity only.
April 22, 1981



- 30 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 6
EGYPT - EXTERNAL TRADE
Population: 41 million (mid-1979)
GNP per capita: Ub$460
Amount (million)                      Annual Growth Rate (X) at Constant 1980/81 Prices
US$ at current
prices)                     A C T U A L                       EST.               P R O J E C T E D
1979       1975      1976      1977      1978      1979    80/81    81/82        82/83    83/84    84/85
EXTERNAL TRADE
Merchandise Exports               4024         27.2      19.6       3.1       7.7       9.6      10.8        6.6       3.2       5.4       5.3
-  Primary ./                      546       -15.3       -8.5      25.7    -29.8        4.5       5.2       1.4       2.0       2.6       3.0
-  Manufactures 1/                  168        24.8    -14.6    -27.3        17.9    -29.6        9.2       6.1       6.1       6.7       6.7
-  Petroleum                      2860         72.0      63.3      11.1      16.1      22.6      12.1       7.5       2.8       5.6       5.4
Merchandise Imports               7336         14.1      -5.0      -1.1       8.5       5.9      18.0      11.7       9.1       7.7       5.0
-  Food                           1677         27.4      16.9    -18.1       25.8      -7.0      21.2      12.8       8.8       6.2       2.3
-  Petroleum                       243       -34.2    -23.3    -53.3          2.7    -11.8       17.7       6.1       2.7       1.5       0.6
-  hacninery and Equipment        2846        59.5       24.8      21.4      -0.7      25.6      14.3      10.4       9.4       7.8       6.8
-  Others                         2570         17.9    -26.2       10.7       7.5       0.2      20.0      12.9       9.6       9.2       5.6
L'rices
Export Price Index                             51.5      49.9      52.3      52.9      76.0    100.0    112.0    124.0    137.0    152.0
Import Price Index                            60.6      63.5      70.4       76.1      87.9    100.0    110.0    120.0    130.0    140.0
Ternis oi Trade Index                          85.0      78.6      74.3      69.5      86.5    100.0    102.0    103.0    105.0    108.0
Composition of Merchandise Trade (X)  Average Annual Increase (X)
(at current prices)              at constant 1980/81 prices
1970      1975      1979    84/85         1975/79      FY81/FY85
Exports                                                                    9.8           4.8
Primary 1/               64.2       28.3      13.6      11.8          -4.1            2.4
Petroleum                 4.8      25.2       71.0      76.3          26.8           4.9
Manufactures-/            31.0     46.7       15.4      11.9         -15.3            6.6
Imports                                                                   1.9            7.6
Food                     13.4      23.6       22.9      26.0           2.9            6.3
Petroleum                 8.2       6.9        3.3       3.0         -24.5            2.3
Machinery                23.4      23.7       38.8      37.7          17.2            8.1
Others                   55.0      45.8       35.0      33.3          -3.1            8.4
Share of Trade with            Share of Trade with                    Share of Trade with
Industrial Countries (X)        Developing Countries (X)           Capital Surplus Oil Exporters (X)
1965      1970      1975        1965      1970      1975               1965      1970      1975
DiRECTION OF TRADE
Exports                           27.0       17.0      14.0        18.0      22.0      10.0                1.0       1.0       4.0
Primary                        29.0      19.0      18.0        17.0      22.0       11.0                          1.0       3.0
Manufactures                   19.0      12.0       3.0        23.0       23.0       9.0                4.0       3.0       5.0
Imports                           55.0      42.0      65.0         18.0      25.0      14.0                 -         -        4.0
1/ Not including oil and oil products.
April 22, 1981



- 31 -
ANNEX I
Page 6 of 6
EGYPT - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(million US$ at current prices)
EST.                  P ROJ E CT ED
1974     1975     1976    1977      1978     1979   1980/81       1981/82     1982 /8 3    1983/84     1984/8 5
BALANCE OF PAYMENTb
Export of Goods and Non-FacCor bervLces               2251      2503     3319    3888    4099    5585    8207             9835        11315        13160       15275
- of which merchandise f.o.b.                         1818      1875    2169    2346       2558    4024    6007           7160         8185         9550       11125
Imports of Goods and Non-Factor Services             -3959   -5141   -5182   -5879   -6612   -8300  -11388             -13920        -16590      -19360       -21965
- of which merchandise c.i.f.                        -3618   -4608   -4659   -5110   -5998   -7336   -9998             -12225        -14575      -16995       -19270
Net Factor Income                                        70      122      413      472    1098      1143     1412         1650         1865         1980         2020
Net Private Transfers                                   42        90       87       63       54       50      --           --           --           --          --
Current Account Balance                              -1596   -2426   -1363   -1456   -1361   -1522   -1769               -2435        -3410        -4220       -4670
Private Direct Investment                                87      225      444      477      387      710      964         1130         1320         1510        1715
MLT Loans (Net)                                          69      270      647      730     1141     1509     1826         2370         2635         2560        2500
- oltccial                                             -21       210      490      803     1028     1072     1615         1685         1870         2040        2195
- private                                                90       60      157      -73      113      437      211          687          765          520          305
Otner Capital (Net) 4/                                 1393     1907      191      339    -181      -599    -300          -330         -360          355          455
Change in Reserves                                      47        24       81      -90       14      -98      721          735          185          205            0
International iReserves 1/                             516      678       642      880    1106      1098    1815         2550          2735         2940        2940
- of which gold                                        102       102      102      104      104      104      --           --          --          --           --
Reserves as Months Imports 3/                           1.7      1.8      1.7      2.i      2.2      1.8      2.2          2.5          2.3          2.1          1.8
EXTEiNAL CAPIIAL AND DEBT
Gross Disbursements                                   2227      3612    2305    3349    2812        2329     2962         3720         4375         4620        4870
Official Grants                                    1303     1076      792      445       345      110      350         600           735         805          870
Concessional Loans                                  120    1444       668    1855       1600      996     1461        1420          1475        1530         1545
- DAC                                                55      199      421      591      799      833     1198         1190          1260        1320         1330
- OPEC                                                3    1142       171      137        93       43       68          20             5            0           0
- IDA                                                12       49       42       42       45        55       55          85           110         105           80
- Others                                             50       54       34    1085       663        65      140         125           100          105         135
Non-Concessional Loans                              804     1092      845    1049       867     1223      1151        1700          2165        2285         2455
- otticcal export creaits                           379      639      214        24       44       50       97         120           170          185         210
- IBkRD                                              -        14       36       37        57      118      163         185           225         295          370
- other multilateral                                 -         6       -       256        18        5       34          55            65           80          95
- private                                           425      433      595      732      748     1050       857        1340          1705        1725         1780
External Dent
Debt outstanding and disbursed                        2830    4830       5770    8090    9920   11330   13537           15310         17210        18970       20600
- official                                         1990    3890    4720    6800    8500    9470   11423              12510         13640       14880        16210
- private                                           840      940     1050    1290      1420    1860    2114           2800          3570        4030         4390
Undisbursed Debt                                      1602    2426    3014    4515    4390    4629           5558         5950         6175         6480        6900
Debt Service
Total bervice Payment                                   517      595      665     1099    1211      1040    1658          2030         2490         2935        3400
- interest                                           70      115      111      340      387       236      645         685           750         870         1035
- payment as x exports 2/                           21%    21.6%   16.8%   23.9%   21.8%   14.6%   16.3               16.8          18.0        18.4         18.7
Average Interest Rate on New Loans                     6.3       4.7      5.1      5.1      4.6      6.4      6.5          7.3          7.3          7.3          7.2
- ottilclal
- private
Average Maturity of New Loans (years)                   17.2    18.5    23.3    18.7    27.9    24.5    19.5               17.4         17.3         16.2         16.2
- official
- private
1/ Foreign assets of Central Bank.
2/ Exports of goods and services not including foreign oil companies exports.
3/ Nerchandise only.
4/  Inciuding comsercial banks operations and residual balance of payments financing.
April 22, 1981



- 32 -                                          ANNEX II
Page 1 of 10
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN EGYPT
STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(March 31, 1981)
Amount in million US dollars
Loan/Credit      Approved        Borrower        Purpose                                         less cancellations
Numbers            FY                                                                    Bank        IDA      Undisbursed
Ln  243-UAR          60             SCA          Suez Canal Expansion                       56.5        --           --
Cr  181-UAK          70            UAR           Nile Delta Drainage                          --      26.0           --
Cr  284-UAR          72            ARE           Railways I                                   --      30.0           --
Cr  393-UAR          73            ARE           Upper Egypt Drainage                         --      36.0          2.4
Cr  412-UAR          73            ARE           Development Industrial Bank 1/               --      15.0            --
Cr  423-UAK          74            ARE           Cotton Ginning Rehabilitation                --      18.5          2.1
Cr  437-UAR          74            ARE           Population I                                 --       5.0           --
Cr  484-UAR          74            ARE           Talkha Fertilizer                            --      20.0           --
Cr  524-EGT          75            ARE           Ag./Ind. Imports                             --      35.0           --
Ln 10l2-EGT          75            ARE           Ag./Ind. Imports                           35.0        --           --
Ln 1064-EFT          75            SCA           Suez Canal Rehabilitation                  50.0        --         13.5
Ln 1085-EGT          75            ARE           Tourah Cement                             40.0         --          2.1
Ln 1098-EGT          75            ER            Railways II                                37.0        --          7.0
Cr  548-EGT          75            ARE           Telecommuniations I                          --      30.0           --
Cr  576-EGT          76            ARE           Development Industrial Bank II 1/            --      25.0          0.2
Ln 1239-EGT          76            APA           Alexandria Port                           45.0         --         27.1
Ln 1276-T-EGT 2/   76              ARE           Fruit and Vegetable Dev.                   50.0        --         33.7
Er  637-EGT          76            ARE           Upper Egypt Drainage II                      --      40.0         13.6
Ln 1285-EGT          76            ARE           Upper Egypt Drainage II                    10.0        --         10.0
Ln 1292-EGT          76            ARE           Textile Rehabilitation                    52.0         --         14.6
Ln 1369-EGT          77            AWA           Alexandria Water Supply                    56.0        --         31.3
Cr  b8i-EGT          77            ARE           Education I                                  --      25.0          4.0
Cr  719-EGT          77            AeE           Nile Delta Drainage II                       --      27.0          7.2
Ln 1439-EGT          77            ARE           Nile Delta Drainage II                    27.0         --         27.0
Ln 1440-T-EGT 2/   77              ARE           Nile Delta Drainage II                     12.0        --         12.0
Ln 1453-EGT          77            EEA           Regional Electrification                  48.0         --         15.1
Ln 1456-EGT          77            ARE           Industrial Imports                         70.0        --         18.8
Ln S-005-EGT         77            ARE           Iron Ore Beneficiation and Eng.             2.5        --          0.7
Ln 1482-ECT          78            SCA           Suez Canal Expansion                      100.0        --         29.9
Cr b-20-EGT          78            ARE           Water Supply Engineering                     --       2.0           --
Cr  774-EGT          78            ARE           Telecommunications II                        --      53.0         51.0
Ln 1533-EGT          78            DIB           Development Industrial Bank III           40.0         --         12.0
Cr  830-EGT          78            ARE           Agricultural Development                     --      32.0         26.8
Cr  831-EGT          78            ARE           Urban Development                            --      14.0         13.6
Cr  850-EGT          79            ARE           Population II                                --      25.0         20.9
Cr 868-EGT           79            ARE           Education II                                 --     40.0          33.3
Ln S-14-EGT          79            AKE           New Valley Phosphate Engineering
and Technical Assistance               11.0        --          3.3
Cr  909-EGT          79            ARE           Tourism                                      --      32.5         32.1
Ln 1732-EGT          79            ARE           Gulf of Suez Gas                          75.0         --         45.2
Cr  935-EGT          79            ARE           Shoubrah El Kheima Thermal Power             --      37.0         36.5
Ln 1733-EGT          79            EEA           Shoubrah El Kheima Thermal Power 3/  102.0             --        102.0
Cr  988-EGT          80            ARE           Agroindustries                               --     45.0          44.9
Ln 1804-EGT          80            DIB           Development Industrial Bank IV            50.0         --         45.1
Ln 1837-EGT          80            ARE           Textiles II 4/                             69.0        --         69.0
Ln 1842-EGT          80            ARE           MIDB                                      30.0         --         30.0
Cr 1024-EGT          80            ARE           Cairo Gas Distribution                       --      50.0         34.4
Ln 1849-EGT          80            ARE           Pulp and Paper 4/                         50.0         --         50.0
Ln 1886-EGT          80            EEA           Power III 4/                                7.0        --          7.0
Cr i052-EGT          80            EEA           Power III 4/                                 --    120.0         120.0
Cr 1069-EGT          81            ARE           Education III                                --     40.1          40.1
Ln 1298-EGT          81            EGPC          Petroleum Exploration 4/                  25.0         --         25.0
Cr 1083-EGT          81            ARE           New Land Development 4/                      --     80.0          80.0
Cr llit-EGT          81            ARE           Fish Farming 4/                              --     14.0          14.0
Totals                                                                                   1150.0    917.1         1208.5
Of which has been repaid                                                                    65.3      f.i
Total now outstanding                                                                    1084.7    916.6
Amount sold                                              7.5
O  which has been repaid                                7.5
Total now neld by Bank and IDA                                                           1084.7    916.6
1/ Formerly Bank of Alexandria.
2/ Third Window Loani.
3/ Not included is EEC Special Action Credit 20 of $35.0.
4/ Not yet effective.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 10
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN EGYPT
STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(December 31, 1980)
(Amount in US$ million)
Year         Obligor                 Type of Business                           Loan        Equity        Total
1976        Arab Ceramic Company   Ceramic Industry                             4.80         .835         5.635
1977        Nile Clothing Company  Ready-Made Garment Industry                  0.43        0.16          0.59
1978        Delta Sugar Company    Agricultural Production, mainly
sugar                                  20.0         3.00         23.0
1979        Ismailia Misr Poultry  Food and Food Processing                     5.97        1.52          7.49
Company
1979        Ismailia Fish Farming  Food and Food Processing                     1.93         .55          2.48
Company
1980        Suez Cement Company    Building Materials                          30.0           -          30.0
1980        Crocodile Tourist        Crocodile Tourist Project
Project Company                                                  4.41         .857         5.267
67.54       6.922        74.462



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 10
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION I/
Cr. No. 393-UAR - Upper Egypt Drainage I Project; US$36 million Credit of
June 8, 1973; Effectiveness Date: November 28, 1973; Closing Date: July 31,
1981.
Construction and remodelling of some 1,640 km of open drains have
been completed. Of 300,000 feddans in the project area, tile drainage has
been completed in about 230,000 feddans. Progress on this activity was
slow due mainly to poor construction planning and management by the public
sector contractors. The other outstanding activity is the construction of
two pumping stations: civil works are more than 75% complete and the
pumping equipment has been delivered at site for erection. EPADP's current
program shows project completion by June 1982, and accordingly, the
Government is likely to request an extension of the current closing date.
Cr. No. 423-UAR - Cotton Ginning Rehabilitation Project; US$18.5 million
Credit of July 30, 1973; Effectiveness Date: February 15, 1974; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
The project is estimated to be completed in 1982. Previous
substantial delays, primarily due to lack of adequate local funds, have
been overcome.
Ln. No. 1064-EGT - Suez Canal Rehabilitation Project; US$50 million Loan of
December 20, 1974; Effectiveness Date: April 21, 1975; Closing Date: June
30, 1982
Project execution is generally satisfactory although some items
are lagging behind appraisal schedule. Contracts for most items in the
project have been awarded and the cost of Bank-financed items is expected
to exceed appraisal estimates slightly.
Ln. No. 1085-EGT - Tourah Cement Expansion Project; US$40 million Loan of
February 10, 1975; Effectiveness Date: June 9, 1975; Closing Date: December
31, 1982
Procurement of machinery and equipment is completed. Most items
are already on site being erected. Slow civil works execution has further
delayed project execution. Thus start-up of commercial operations is
expected to be only towards mid-1982.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 10
Ln. No. 1098-ECT - Railways II Project; US$37 million Loan of April 2,
1975; Effectiveness Date: August 20, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Investment in mobile assets has been satisfactory but progress on
fixed installations is slow. The Egyptian Railways' (ER) operations and
maintenance situation remains very poor with low availability of
locomotives and rolling stock. The track renewal and repair program is
also behind schedule. Efforts are now being made to improve rolling stock
maintenance with the help of consultants and ER plans to set up separate
companies with overseas technical assistance to upgrade track conditions.
The 1980-84 draft investment program contains many large investments
including new lines for which no economic justification has been
demonstrated. The financial situation is poor and a deficit of LE 38
million was recorded for 1979. After many years without tariff increases,
substantial increases in freight tariffs were made in 1979, and passenger
fare increases are promised for 1981. A decree, effective in July 1980,
establishes a National Railway authority and aims to give the railways
inter alia considerably more autonomy in relation to tariffs and staff
salaries.
Cr. No. 576-EGT - Second Development Industrial Bank (formerly bank of
Alexandria) Project; US ,25 million Credit of July 30, 1975; Effectiveness
Date; February 19, 1976; Closing Date: April 30, 1981
The credit is now fully committed and about $24.8 million was
disbursed as of March 31, 1981.
Ln. No. 1239-EGT - Alexandria Port Project; US$45 million Loan of April 19,
1976; Effectiveness Date: August 30, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Progress on the execution of the main civil works and dredging
contract is proceeding reasonably well although other civil works are
behind schedule. Procurement of most equipment is progressing
satisfactorily although the evaluation of bids for radar equipment is
behind schedule. Estimated final cost remains within appraisal estimates.
Because of the delayed start of the main civil works, the project is now
expected to be completed by the end of 1983.
Ln. No. 1276-EGT - Fruit and Vegetable Development Project; US$50 million
Third Window Loan of June 11, 1976; Effectiveness Date: December 20, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project is now over two years behind schedule but is making
progress. Work on the drainage and irrigation components of the project is
proceeding and a large contract has recently been awarded. The seed
component has had major problems, which are now being addressed. The
Agricultural Development Lending Unit in Bank Misr is making very good
progress. The project scope has been expanded to allow financing of
agroindustries subprojects, and terms of financing liberalized.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 10
Ln. No. 1285-EGT and Cr. 637-EGT - Upper Egypt Drainage II Project; US$10
million Loan and USW4O million Credit, both of June 11, 1976.
Effectiveness Date: January 31, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Overall progress on construction of 1602 km of open drains
covering 500,000 feddans is 62%o complete. Foundation work is in progress
on one pumping station included in the Project. Installation of tile
drains has just commenced and is complete only in 8,000 feddans. The
progress on this activity has been slow due mainly to the time taken by the
public sector contractors for import of plastic pipe laying machines and
setting up of cement collector pipe making workshops. Also the area of the
project was adjusted by exchanging 22,000 feddans of previously tiled area
with an equivalent non-tiled area of the Upper Egypt I Project.
Ln. No. 1292-EGT - Textile Project; US$52 million Loan of September 20,
1976. Effectiveness Date: February 16, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1982
The project is proceeding with a delay of more than two years
caused by a later and slower than anticipated start of the civil works,
shortage of steel and cement, and a recent fire on the construction site of
one of the two beneficiary companies. The project is now estimated to cost
about US$20 million equivalent (all in local currency) more than appraised,
due to increased scope and delay of civil works and increase in cost of
construction materials beyond what was expected at appraisal.  No
difficulties are foreseen in financing this, although some government
equity contribution would be required in the next two years to supplement
the companies' internal cash generation in order to adhere to the financial
covenants as well as project costs. Early management problems have now
been overcome and both companies have developed effective project
implementation units.  Disbursements are slower than anticipated reflecting
initial delays in procurement.  However, about 95 percent of the contracts
for machinery and equipment have now been awarded, and the balance is
expected to be awarded in the near future.
Ln. No. 1369-EGT - Alexandria Water Supply Project; US$56 million Loan of
March 7, 1977; Effectiveness Date; July 6, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Bidding for all equipment has been completed and orders placed.
Management studies were completed in the Authority and AWA is implementing
some of the recommendations. AWA has called for bid proposals for new data
processing equipment. The award has been made for the civil works
construction of the Bank financed water treatment plant extensions and work
has started. Local bidding for 65 km pipeline contracts have been
completed and awards made to four contractors; these contracts are now
being financed with local funds. Satisfactory progress is being made on
meter replacement and reduction of wTaste, and AWA's regularly submitted
reports reflect good general progress.



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 10
Cr. No. 681-EGT - Education Project; US$25 million Credit of March 7, 1977;
Effectiveness Date: August 19, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily. Curricula
and staff development, and technical assistance are essentially complete.
About 95 percent of all equipment has been procured and nearly all has been
installed. Of the 23 institutions to be constructed 22 are completed and
operational, and the remaining one will be operational by June 1981. All
of the existing institutions being re-equipped are operational.
Commitments total about 92 percent of Credit amount.
Cr. No. 719-EGT, Ln. No. 1439-EGT and Ln. No. 1440-ECT - Nile Delta
Drainage II Project; US$27 million Credit, US$27 million Loan and US$12
million Third Window Loan of July 15, 1977; Effectiveness Date: April 17,
1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Construction of open drains is on schedule, with completion of
some 380,000 feddans out of the total area of 815,000 feddans. Progress is
satisfactory on renovation of the equipment of two pumping stations. Of
the other four new pumping stations, the foundation work has been commenced
on three. The contractors for the installation of tile drains are in the
process of importing plastic pipe laying machines and other equipment.
This activity is complete only in 4,000 feddans out of the project area of
400,000 feddans.
Ln. No. 1453-EGT -Regional Electrification Project; US$48 million Loan of
July 15, 1977; Effectiveness Date; February 6, 1978; Closing Date; December
31, 1981
Physical progress is good. A six month delay in completion of
construction is expected, hovwever. Consultants for the extension of the
UNDP Power Sector Survey have completed their work. Consultants for the
distribution companies are in place. All contracts for equipment,
materials and technical assistance have been awarded.
Ln. No. 1456-EGT - Industrial Imports Project;US$70 million Loan of July
15, 1977; Effectiveness Date: November 7, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
As of March 31, 1981, about $51.2 million has been disbursed and
about $56.0 million committed. Utilization of the loan proceeds has been
slow mainly because of delays in procurement of equipment for public sector
firms.



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 10
Ln. No. S5 EGT - Iron Ore Engineering and beneficiation Project; US$2.5
million Loan of July 15, 1977. Effectiveness Date: February 2, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Consultants preparing both iron ore beneficiation and diagnostic
studies have submitted the final feasibility studies. The closing date wias
extended to help finance consulting services to help prepare a
rehabilitation and balancing project for Egyptian Iron and Steel Company
and engineering w7ork for pilot beneficiation plant.
Ln. No. 1482-EGT - Suez Canal Expansion Project; US$100 million Loan of
September 28, 1977; Effectiveness Date: February 8, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
Progress in the execution of the project is close to appraisal
estimates although in some areas, such as procurement of tugs there has
been some delay because of delayed decisions on design wThich have now been
taken. The financial situation of the borrower is sound, total canal
traffic continues at levels close to appraisal forecasts and revenue is
higher than appraisal estimates.
Ln. No. 1533-EGT - Development Industrial Bank III; US$40 million Loan of
April 12, 1978; Effectiveness Date: July 18, 1978; Closing Date: December
31, 1982
Commitments and disbursements are progressing satisfactorily. As
of March 31, 1981, $28.0 million had been disbursed and the loan had been
fully committed.
Cr. No. 774-EGT - Second Telecommunications Project; US$53 million Credit
of March 21, 1978; Effectiveness Date; September 19, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
Procurement action under this credit is wTell advanced. Bid
evaluation reports on the twTo remaining items (mobile exchanges and
electronic PABXs) are awaited.
Cr. No. 830-EGT - Agricultural Development Project; US$32 million Credit of
July 24, 1978; Effectiveness Date: February 20, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
Project tractors have been procured and distributed.
Implementation is being reviewTed to determine whether basic project
objectives have been met. Improvements in institutions and project
management are under consideration.



- 39 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 10
Cr. No. 831-EGT - Egypt Urban Development Project; US$14 million Credit of
August 30, 1978; Effectiveness Date: April 30, 1979; Closing Date: December
31, 1982
There has been progress in the staffing of the project unit, but
its technical staff needs to be augmented. Progress in implementation of
some of the shelter components and studies has improved; however, there are
delays in some of the other components. Measures to resolve the problems
are under discussion with the Government.
Cr. No. 850-ECT - Second Population Project; US$25 million Credit of
October 30, 1978; Effectiveness Date: May 1, 1979; Closing Date: December
31, 1983
Civil works and procurement of furniture, equipment and vehicles
are proceeding satisfactorily. All sites have been selected. Of the 153
sites, construction on about one third has been completed, and the
remainder should be completed by September 1981. Progress in implementing
the software components is seriously delayed partly due to managerial
problems. Measures to be taken by the Government following discussions
with a recent review mission should expedite progress in the training, IEC
and home visiting programs.
Cr. No. 868-EGT - Second Education Project; US$40.0 million Credit of
January 26, 1979; Effectiveness Date: July 18, 1979; Closing Date: March
31, 1984
Project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily. Of the 23
new institutions to be constructed, five are completed, another five will
be completed by mid-1981 and 12 will be completed in 1983. One will now be
situated in an existing building. Of the 36 institutions to be
rehabilitated, 14 will be completed by mid-1981; construction work on the
remainder will begin in 1982. All equipment is under procurement with
contracts already signed for about 50 percent. All technical assistance
has been contracted.
Ln. No.S-14-EGT - New Valley Phosphate Engineering and Technical Assistance
Project; US$11 million Loan of May 25, 1979; Effectiveness Date: October
19, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Procurement and delivery of mining equipment has been completed
and erection is proceeding at mine site; laboratory tests of phosphate rock
have been completed and reviewed by the Bank. Draft terms of reference for
pre-feasibility study are being discussed with government.



- 40 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 10
Cr. No. 909-EGT - Tourism Project; US$32.5 million Credit of June 13, 1979;
Effectiveness Date: March 26, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Project implementation has started. Procurement is underway for
electricity, telecommunications, Luxor Hotel Training School and luxor air
terminal components. Planning and Design studies are underway for the
roads, water, and museum components. Disbursements are running at 50% of
appraisal forecasts, and this percentage is expected to rise by the end of
1981.
Ln. No. 1732-EGT - Gulf of Suez Gas Project; US$75 million Loan of June 29,
1979; Effectiveness Date: January 29, 1980; Closing Date: September 30, 1982
Project implementation is in progress. The onshore contract has
been signed and the contractor has mobilized. The three studies included
under the project, the exploration and the energy pricing studies as well
as the financial management study are underway.
Ln. No. 1733-EGT - US$102 million, Cr. No. 935-ECT - US$37 million and
Special Action Cr. No. 20-EGT - US$35 million - Shoubrah El Kheima Thermal
Power Project of September 6, 1979; Effectiveness Date: April 8, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986
Bidding documents for electro-mechanical equipment were issued in
December 1980. Bid opening dates for major equipment packages are set for
May/June 1981.
Cr. No. 988-EGT - Agroindustries Project; US$45 million Credit of May 1,
1980; Effectiveness Date: December 3, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
The contract for construction of the Cairo abattoir has been
awarded, and the bids for construction of the Alexandria abattoir are being
evaluated. Disbursements under the credit component through three
participating banks have been slow, pending clarification of on-lending
interest rates by the Egyptian Government.
Ln. No. 1804-EGT - Fourth Development Industrial Bank Project; US$50
million Loan of May 1, 1980; Effectiveness Date: August 8, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984
Commitments and disbursements are progressing satisfactorily. As
of March 31, 1981, $25.9 million had been committed and $4.9 million
disbursed.
Ln. No. 1837-EGT - Textile II Project; US$69 million Loan of June 4, 1980;
Effectiveness Date: (Not yet effective); Closing Date: September 30, 1984
Effectiveness action underway.



- 41 -
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 10
Ln. No. 1842-EGT - Misr Iran Development Bank Project; US$30 million loan
of June 4, 1980; Effectiveness Date: December 31, 1980; Closing Date: June
30, 1985
The project became effective on December 31, 1980.
Ln. No. 1849-EGT - Pulp and Paper Project; US$50 million Loan of June 4,
1980; Effectiveness Date: (Not yet effective); Closing Date: December 31,
1984
Action on effectiveness is underway.
Cr. No. 1024-EGT - Cairo Gas Distribution Project; US$50 million Credit of
June 4, 1980; Effectiveness Date: December 4, 1980; Closing Date: December
31, 1985
Contractor has been working since April 1980 and the project is
progressing satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 1069-EGT - Third Education Project; SDR 30.3 million (US$40.1
million equivalent) Credit of Novenmber 7, 1980; Effectiveness Date: April
16, 1981; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The credit became effective on April 16, 1981.
Ln. No. 1886-ECT, US$7 million, Cr. No. 1052-EGT, US$120 million - Third
PowTer Project of November 7, 1980; Effectiveness date: (not yet effective);
Closing Date: June 30, 1987.
Action on effectiveness is underway.
Ln. No. 1928-EGT - Western Desert Petroleum Exploration Project; US$25
million Loan of January 13, 1981; Effectiveness Date: (Not yet effective);
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Effectiveness action underway.
Cr. No. 1083-ECT - SDR 60.9 million (US$80 million) - New Land Development
Project of December 16, 1980; Effectiveness Date: (Not yet effective);
Closing Date: December 31, 1987
Action on effectiveness is underway.
Cr. No. 1lll-ECT - SDR 11.0 million (US$14 million) - Fish Farming
Development Project of April 24, 1981; Effectiveness Date: (Not yet
effective); Closing Date: December 31, 1986.
Action on effectiveness is underway.



- 42 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
Egyptian Iron and Steel Company (HADISOLB) Rehabilitation Project
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare         Two and a half years (February
the project                                  1978 - October 1980) 1/
(b) Agency which prepared project                Egyptian Iron and Steel Company
(HADISOLB)
(c) Date of first presentation to Bank           Spring of 1977 2/
(d) First Bank Mission to consider the           October 1977
project
(e) Date of departure of appraisal               September 12, 1980
mission
(f) Date of completion of negotiations           April 17, 1981
(g) Planned date of effectiveness                December 1981
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Action
None
Section III - Special Conditions
1. A special condition of effectiveness is the appointment of a qualified
foreign operating steel company and a joint venture engineering firm to
assist in project implementation (para. 52).
2. A condition of disbursement for the oxygen plant would be the
completion of a study satisfactory to the Bank demonstrating the
viability of establishing under the project the oxygen plant (para. 62).
1/  Project prepared through engineering loan (see para. 42).
2/  Project was identified as part of Bank financed metallurgical sector
study (see para. 42).



- 43 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
3. Other special conditions are:
(i) taking account of economic factors in selection of operating
practices and making decisions relating to new investments (para.
50(i);
(ii) preparation and implementation of adequate job classification and
grading structure (para. 54);
(iii) manpower and recruitment development program (para. 55);
(iv) Ecological provisions concerning occupational health of HADISOLB's
employees, plant safety, air pollution and control of liquid
effluents (para. 58); and
(v) Financial provisions concerning incurrence of additional long-term
debt and further investments; debt/equity ratio; plant operation
and setting of product prices to meet operating expenses and debt
service and earn reasonable return on investment (para. 64).






_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   ____ _______ _______ _______ _   _____ _______        _______          _______          ___IBR DR                                                         11527
r                                                                                             '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                      If ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OCTOBER  1980
--' M2 0;'0  ; S ::';    ; ;: ;3   E;   .':  1 X   t   Z-D    I   r:E  IR  RR A    NA                                                                                                      L A    N
:   :   2  ;uf  rj09gL g<< S yf_ '8;,r-9 ttS>l8' 0 X ; ' S R                                                                                    A                                                                                              '9
QATiXRA~~~~~~~AIT~R                                                                                                                                                       T~
oN,<s+~~/K  //X,1                                                                                                               {                                                                                                   --\A                                          E   L
DEPRESSNOC
.U                                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~                     ~            ~            ~~~~~~~El GI-X   RO                                    
HADISO08                                        f
tW GQ A.$9 /               )- '                                                                                                                                                                      '\f i  
BHARIYA                                                                                                                                                                                                                  9
,OASIS
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
HADISOLE REHABILITATION   PROJECT    K"
7 .;                                                                                                                                                  ' | () C EU | STELt.RAI EU S                      Tt eL  PLANI I RTIRNAT ON t, A RPO tTS                             A'\I         E D
REUt.l5    F    A
e _~~~~~~~~''                                                                                                                                                   2N         0    '                    iNNv    S1L   >   wseO   eW< S  tvEer fdJ AArJA f20  34 ,0  10  1 7 O90T9   IN M[ E
S~~~~ ~ U                       ',A ',   t" "' ."'       \'"" '"   ""''"'                                                                          01   3ZN       NO      1           A      N           0        ZN U
c 1 / 9~~~   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _   _   _  _   _  _   _  _   _   _  _   _  _   _  _   _   _  _   _  _   _  _   _   _  _   _  _   _  _   _   _  _   _  _   _  _   _   _  _   _  _   _  _   _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
________________________________________                                                                                                                                                                                                        j~~~~~~2D  L



