OFFICIAL       LOAN NUMBER 2002 EGT
DOCUMENTS
Loan Agreement
(Hadisolb Rehabilitation Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
EGYPTIAN IRON AND STEEL COMPANY
Dated                      2       , 1981


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2002 EGT
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated          T                  , 1981, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONST CTION ND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank) and EGYPTIAN IRON AND STEEL COMPANY (hereinafter
called the Borrower).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Project is a part of the first stage of a program
for the rehabilitation and modernization of the facilities and
the improvement of the operating practices of the Borrower and
which is designed to increase the output of liquid steel equiva-
lent of the Borrower to about 1,200,000 tons per year;
(C) towards the implementation of said first stage, the
Borrower, with the assistance of the Government of the Arab
Republic of Egypt, has made arrangements for the provision of a
loan from Kreditanstalt Fuer Wiederaufbau (KFW), an agency of the
Government of the Federal Republic of Germany, and for the supply
of equipment from the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of
the foregoing, to make the Loan available to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions set forth hereinafter and in the Gua-
rantee Agreement of even date herewith between the Arab Republic
of Egypt and the Bank;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the


﻿-2-
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Implementation Unit" means the Implementation Unit
established by the Borrower for the purpose of supervising the
execution of Part A and Part B (4) of the Project; and
(b) "Coordinating ,Unit" means      the  Coordinating Unit
established by the Borrower for the purpose of coordinating the
execution of Part B (1), (2), (3), (5) and (6) of the Project.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
sixty-four million dollars ($64,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Sched-
ule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time
to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1986
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of nine and three-fifths per cent (9-3/5%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time.


﻿-3-
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appro-
priate engineering, financial and administrative practices.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall:
(a) until the completion of the Project, maintain and
adequately staff the Implementation Unit and the Coordinating
Unit;
(b) employ engineering consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satis-
factory to the Borrower and the Bank, in order to assist the
Borrower in the carrying out of Part A and Part B (4) of the
Project, and ensure, under suitable operating procedures, that
such consultants shall be responsible for the day-to-day work
under Part A of the Project under the general supervision of the
Implementation Unit; and
(c) employ, through reputed steel producing companies,
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and condi-
tions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Borrower and the
Bank, in order to provide technical advice in regard to Part A of
the Project and to assist the Borrower in the carrying out of Part
B of the Project.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall, for the implementation
of Part B (5) of the Project:
(a)  not later than December 31, 1982: (i) prepare training
programs designed to qualify the Borrower's employees for operat-
ing the Borrower's facilities, including those to be established
under the Project, and, if necessary, for productive employment
outside the Borrower; and (ii) exchange views with the Bank on
such programs;


﻿-4-
(b) thereafter carry out such programs in accordance with
a time-schedule satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank; and
(c) require suppliers of equipment included in the Project
to provide, as part of their contractual obligations, adequate
training for the Borrower's employees on the operation and main-
tenance of such equipment.
Section 3.04. For the implementation of Part B (3) of the
Project, the Borrower shall:
(a) not later than December 31, 1982: (i) prepare programs
designed to improve the Borrower's operational procedures and
measures for pollution control and industrial safety; and (ii)
exchange views with the Bank on such programs; and
(b) thereafter implement such programs in accordance with
a time-schedule satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall:
(a) not later than March 1, 1983, prepare and exchange views
with the Bank in respect of, a compensation package for the
Borrower's staff, including a job classification and grading
system, remuneration and incentive systems, all appropriate for
the Borrower's operation and designed to enable the Borrower to
recruit and to retain adequately qualified staff; and
(b) take all action required on its part in order to ensure
that such package will be put into force and effect not later
than July 1, 1984.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall:
(a) review the technical and financial feasibility of using
coke-oven gas in its operation;
(b) provide the Bank, for its comments, not later than
December 31, 1983, or such later date as the Bank may agree, with
the results of such review; and
(c) make reasonable efforts for entering into contractual
arrangements with the El-Nasr Coke Company of the Guarantor for
the supply to the Borrower of such quantity of such coke-oven
gas as shall be required for the Borrower's operation pursuant
to such review.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident


﻿-5-
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.08. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and works and procurement schedules
for the Project, and any material modifications thereof or
additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit the
facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to
examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the
Bank, on quarterly basis, all such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where
appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank
a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation of
the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived
from it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their
respective obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accom-
plishment of the purposes of the Loan.
(d) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for civil
works, goods or services to be financed from the proceeds of the
Loan, the Bank may publish a description thereof, the name and


﻿-6 -
nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded and the
contract price.
(e) The Borrower shall enable the Bank's representatives
to examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment of the Borrower and any records and
documents relevant to the Project, the operation of the Project
facilities, and the performance by the Borrower of its obligations
under this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall continue to operate and to
maintain its plants, equipment and property and from time to time
to make all necessary renewals and repairs thereof, all in accord-
ance with appropriate engineering standards.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall at all times continue to
manage its affairs, maintain its financial position, plan its
future expansion and carry out its operations, all in accordance
with sound engineering, financial and administrative practices
and under the supervision of experienced and competent management.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to
the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall:
(a) provide the Bank, not later than December 31, 1982, with
the detailed proposals for the implementation of the computerized
management control and information systems referred to in Part B.2
of the Project; and
(b) after reviewing the Bank's comments thereon, take
all action required to ensure the start of operation of said
systems not later than December 31, 1984.
Section 4.05. In selecting its operating practices and in
making the decisions relating to its new investments, the Borrower
shall take into account, to the extent that is technically and
financially feasible, such economic factors as the economic
cost of production inputs, the capital cost, the economic benefits
and the long-term trends in the international prices of steel.


﻿- 7 -
ARTICLE V
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall continue to maintain records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained
appropriate accounting practices its operations and financial
condition.
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall: (i) have its accounts and
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not
later than seven months after the end of each such year, (A)
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as
so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors,
of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information
concerning the accounts and financial statements of the Borrower
and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
reasonably request.
Section 5.03. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date
of this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security
for any debt.
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree: (i) if any lien shall be created on any assets
of the Borrower as security for any debt, such lien will ipso
facto equally and ratably secure the payment of the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and in the creation
of any such lien express provision will be made to that effect,
at no cost to the Bank; and (ii) if any statutory lien shall be
created on any assets of the Borrower as security for any debt,
the Borrower shall grant, at no cost to the Bank, an equivalent
lien satisfactory to the Bank to secure the payment of the
principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan; pro-
vided, however, that the foregoing provisions of this paragraph
shall not apply to: (A) any lien created on property, at the time
of purchase thereof, solely as security for the payment of the
purchase price of such property; or (B) any lien arising in the
ordinary course of banking transactions and securing a debt
maturing not more than one year after the date on which it is
originally incurred.


﻿-8-
Section 5.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall conduct its operations and affairs in such
manner as shall be necessary to maintain, at all times, the
Borrower's ratio of current assets to current liabilities and
the Borrower's debt/equity ratio within the limits specified,
respectively, in Sections 5.05 and 5.07 of this Agreement.
Section 5.05. (a) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall maintain at all times, after June 30, 1984, its
ratio of current assets to current liabilities at least at 1.3:1.
(b) For purposes of this Section:
(i) "Current assets" includes cash, accounts receivable
due within twelve months less reasonable provisions
for bad debts, inventories convertible to saleable
goods within twelve months, and all other assets
which could, in the ordinary course of business,
be converted within twelve months into cash;
(ii) "Current liabilities" includes accounts payable
within twelve months, customer advances, income
taxes, dividends, bonuses, loan maturities, inter-
est and all other liabilities which would be due
and payable or could be called for payment within
twelve months; and
(iii) whenever in connection with this Section it shall
be necessary to value in terms of Egyptian Pounds
any current assets or liabilities denominated in
another currency, such valuation shall be made
using the highest rate of exchange for such cur-
rency declared by the Central Bank of Egypt.
Section 5.06. (a) Following the completion of the Project,
the Borrower shall set its product prices and operate its produc-
tion facilities in a manner that will enable the Borrower under
conditions of efficient operation to earn net profits sufficient
to allow the Borrower to pay dividends, build adequate reserves
and finance a portion of its future investments.
(b) For purposes of this Section:
(i) "Net profits" means the difference between total
revenues and operating expenses for the fiscal
year;


﻿-9-
(ii) "Operating expenses   means all operation, admini-
strative, selling, overhead expenses and provision
for maintenance consistent with industry practices,
depreciation charges computed according to the
straight-line method over the useful life of the
assets, taxes (if any), interest and other charges
on debt;
(iii) "debt" shall have the meaning set forth in Section
5.07 (c) of this Agreement; and
(iv) "conditions of efficient operation" means produc-
tion from the steel-making shops, on average, of
not less than 7,500 heats per year for each basic
oxygen furnace vessel in operation, a minimum
metallic yield of finished products from liquid
steel of 75% for flat products and of 79% for
non-flat products and an average blast furnace coke
rate of not more than 600 kilograms per one ton of
pig iron.
(c) Without limitation on its obligation under this Section,
the Borrower shall, in setting its product prices, take adequately
into account the prices of internationally traded steel products.
Section 5.07. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not incur any debt if incurring such debt
will increase the Borrower's debt/equity ratio above 60:40.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not incur any debt in any fiscal year unless a reasonable
forecast of the Borrower's revenues and expenditures shows that
the Borrower's projected net revenues for each fiscal year
during the term of debt to be incurred shall be at least 1.5
times the Borrower's projected debt service requirements for any
succeeding fiscal year on all debt of the Borrower including the
debt to be incurred.
(c) For purposes of this Section:
(i) the term "debt" means all debt of the Borrower,
maturing by its terms more than one year after the
date on which it is originally incurred;


﻿- 10 -
(ii) debt shall be deemed to be incurred on the date of
the agreement providing for such debt;
(iii) the term "incur" with reference to any debt in-
cludes the assumption and guarantee of any debt and
any renewal, extension or modification of the terms
of the debt or of the assumption or guarantee
thereof;
(iv) the term "equity" means the difference between the
Borrower's total assets, as such assets are re-
valued annually in accordance with methods satis-
factory to the Bank, and the sum of the Borrower's
debt and current liabilities, as such debt and
current liabilities are defined, respectively, in
Sections 5.07 (c) (i) and 5.05 (b) (ii) hereof;
(v) the term "reasonable forecast" means a forecast
prepared by the Borrower in the fiscal year in
which the debt in question is to be incurred, which
both the Bank and the Borrower accept as reasonable
and as to which the Bank has notified the Borrower
of its acceptability, provided no event has occur-
red since such notification which has or must
reasonably be expected in the future to have a
material adverse effect on the financial condition
or future operating results of the Borrower;
(vi) the term "net revenues" means gross revenues less
operating and administrative expenses including
provision for taxes, if any, but before provision
for depreciation and interest and other charges on
debt; and
(vii) "debt service requirement" means the aggregate
amount of amortization (including sinking fund
contributions, if any), interest and other charges
on debt; and
(viii) whenever, for the purposes of this Section, it
shall be necessary to value, in terms of Egyptian
Pounds, debt payable in another currency, such
valuation shall be made using the highest rate of
exchange declared by the Central Bank of Egypt at
which such other currency is, at the time of such


﻿- 11 -
valuation, obtainable by the Borrower for the
purposes of servicing such debt.
Section 5.08. Until the completion of the Project and all
other works included in the first rehabilitation stage referred
to in the Preamble to this Agreement, the Borrower shall: (a) keep
the Bank informed of the financing and implementation plan for any
new investment of the Borrower estimated in the aggregate to cost
more than $5,000,000 equivalent per year, and (b) ensure that any
such investment will not have any adverse effect on the imple-
mentation of the Project or the compliance by the Borrower with
its obligations under this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) any part of the principal amount of any loan to the
Borrower having an original maturity of one year or more shall,
in accordance with its terms, have become due and payable in
advance of maturity as provided in the relative contractual
instruments, or any security for any such loan shall have become
enforceable;
(b) a resolution shall have been passed for the dissolution
or liquidation of the Borrower; and
(c) a change shall have been made in Law No. 111 of 1971 of
the Guarantor, which will materially and adversely affect the
ability of the Borrower to carry out the Project.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following events are specified pursuant to para-
graph (h) thereof, namely, that the events specified in paragraph
(a), (b) or (c) of Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement


﻿- 12 -
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions,
namely, that the Borrower has employed the consultants referred
to in Section 3.02 (b) and (c) of this Agreement.
Section 7.02. The date  41      1    mf(, is hereby speci-
fied for the purpose of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Addresses
Section 8.01. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INTBAFRAD                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Borrower:
Egyptian Iron and Steel Company
54 Abdul-Khalek Tharwat Street
Cairo
Arab Republic of Egypt
Cable address:                       Telex:
EGYPTIAN IRON AND STEEL             72007 FOLB UN
COMPANY
Cairo
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this


﻿- 13 -
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
ByQ.Oatmu               Regional Vice President
Europe, M' dle East and North Africa
EGYPTIAN IRON AND STEEL COMPANY
By
Authorized Representative


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) Equipment, machinery,         44,000,000       100% of foreign
materials and spare                           expenditures,
parts and related                             100% of local
services under Part                           expenditures
A of the Project                               ex-factory and
80% of local
expenditures
for imported
items procured
locally
(2) Oxygen plant and               6,000,000       100% of foreign
argon separation                              expenditures
unit
(3) Civil works                    2,000,000       60%
(4) (a) Consultants'               2,000,000       100%
services under
Section 3.02 (b)
of this Agreement
(b) Other consul-             4,000,000       100% of foreign
tants' services                          expenditures
and training
(5) Unallocated                    6,000,000
TOTAL         64,000,000


﻿- 15 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Guarantor and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Guarantor; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Guarantor or for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Guarantor.
3.   Disbursement under Category (2) of the table in para-
graph 1 hereof shall be made only after the Borrower shall have
completed a study satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank
demonstrating the viability of establishing under Part A of the
Project the oxygen plant and the argon separation unit referred to
in said Category.
4.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in
compliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the
Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Guarantor on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof; to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied
on or in respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to
the Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage
then applicable to such item as required to be consistent with
the aforementioned policy of the Bank.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent
of $1,500,000, may be made in respect of Categories (1) and (3) on
account of payments made for such expenditures before that date
but after March 1, 1981.
6.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph 1
above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that
Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate
to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated


﻿- 16 -
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that
further withdrawals under such Category may continue until all
expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
7.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the
Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of
the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the
amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project constitutes a part of the first stage of a
program for the rehabilitation and modernization of the facilities
and the improvement of the operating practices of the Borrower,
which is designed to increase the output of liquid steel of the
Borrower to about 1,200,000 tons per year.
The Project consists of the following:
Part A:   Operational Equipment
(1) Provision and installation of equipment required for:
(a) modifying the systems for raw material preparation,
storage and handling; (b) external desulphurization of
hot metal (outside blast furnace); (c) three argon
stirring stations, including the provision of pipelines
or other means of argon supply; (d) sinter plant modifi-
cations; (e) modifications to basic oxygen furnace shop,
including application of slide gates on all steel
ladles; (f) rebuilding of the facilities for calcined
lime for the basic oxygen furnace shop; (g) improving
ladle preparation and ingot teeming facilities; (h) hot
metal transfer car modification; (i) modification or
replacement of one continuous billet casting machine;
(j) revamping or replacement of plant instruments,
including installation of necessary pollution monitoring
equipment; (k) revamping of scales and weighing equip-
ment of plant; (1) modifications and improvement to the
electrical distribution system, including hot strip mill
drives and automatic load dispatching system; and (m) an
oxygen plant equipped with an argon separation unit.
(2) Provision and installation of: (a) a new computer and
related equipment for the information service center;
(b) communications equipment; and (c) equipment for
utilities and plant services, including energy saving
equipment, water pumps and cooling systems.
Part B:   Operations and Management Improvement
(1) Implementation of operation improvement schemes.


﻿- 18 -
(2) Development and application of computerized manage-
ment control and information system, including inter
alia, systems for production planning and material
tracking, manpower planning and control, raw material
control and mine development, and rolling stock
utilization control.
(3) Development and implementation of a program for streng-
thening of the industrial safety and occupational health
practices and improving the environmental protection
standards of the Borrower.
(4) Preparation of a long-range plan for overall plant
rehabilitation, including the completion, by March 31,
1983, of the feasibility study and the conceptual
engineering design for the second rehabilitation stage
of the Borrower's facilities.
(5) Strengthening the Borrower's training procedures, and
development and implementation of training programs.
(6) Preparation and application of a job classification
and grading system, remuneration and incentive system
for the Borrower's employees.
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30,
1985.


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each June 1 and December 1
beginning June 1, 1986
through   December 1, 1995                  3,050,000
On June 1, 1996                                  3,000,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,
Section 4.04), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 20 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                              Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                                      1.90%
More than three years but not
more than six years before
maturity                                             3.85%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                                     7.05%
More than eleven years but not
more than thirteen years
before maturity                                     8.30%
More than thirteen years
before maturity                                     9.60%


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under
World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March
1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding as described in Part A of the
Guidelines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and forward to
the Bank as soon as possible, avd in any event not later than 60
days prior to the date of ave-lability to the public of the first
tender or prequalification dccuments relating thereto, as the case
may be, a general procurement notice, in such form and detail and
containing such information as the Bank shall reasonably request;
the Bank will arrange for the publication of such notice in order
to provide timely notification to prospective bidders of the
opportunity to bid for the goods in question. The Borrower shall
provide the necessary information to update such notice annually
so long as any goods remain to be procured on the basis of
international competitive bidding.
3.   Bidders for the works included in Part A of the Project shall
be prequalified as described in paragraph 1.3 of Part A of the
Guidelines.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other
import taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken
into account in the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost to
the Borrower of inland freight and other expenditures incidental
to the delivery of goods to the place of their use or installation
shall be included.


﻿- 22 -
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Egypt may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Egypt if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that the
manufacturing cost of such goods includes a value
added in Egypt equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest evalu-
ated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such


﻿- 23 -
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
(1) Contracts for the purchase of goods estimated to cost
not more than the equivalent of $500,000 per contract and
$3,000,000 in the aggregate may be awarded on the basis of
limited international tendering, under procedures satisfactory to
the Bank, by obtaining not less than four price quotations from
suppliers in not less than three member countries of the Bank
(including Switzerland for this purpose).
(2) Contracts for civil works to be financed from the
proceeds of the Loan may be awarded to qualified contractors on
the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally pursuant to
the Borrower's applicable procedures.
(3) Proprietary items and items of highly specialized nature
may be procured under contracts awarded pursuant to procedures
satisfactory to the Bank; provided, however, that contracts
awarded in this paragraph and paragraph (1) above shall not cost
in the aggregate more than $7,000,000 equivalent.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.    Review of prequalification. The Borrower shall, before
qualification is invited, inform the Bank in detail of the
procedure to be followed, and shall introduce such modifications
in said procedure as the Bank shall reasonably request. The list
of prequalified bidders, together with a statement of their
qualifications and, where applicable, of their eligibility for
domestic preference under Part B above and of the reasons for the
exclusion of any applicant for prequalification and for such
eligibility shall be furnished by the Borrower to the Bank for
its comments before the applicants are notified of the Borrower's
decision, and the Borrower shall make such additions to, deletions
from, or modifications in, the said list as the Bank shall reason-
ably request.


﻿- 24 -
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to all contracts for goods (excluding goods to
be procured under Part C (3) of this Schedule) estimated to cost
the equivalent of $500,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the
Borrower shall, before a final decision on the award is made,
inform the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient
time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and
comparison of the bids received, and such other information as the
Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines
that the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal
of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
3.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after
its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines


﻿- 25 -
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for such determination.
4.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 10% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and state
the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this aU       day of         198 L.
FOR SECRETARY


