Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  57119 
Operation Name 
Development Policy Loan 2 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
General public administration sector (50%); General industry and 
trade sector (50%) 
Project ID 
P120947 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF SEYCHELLES 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
Ministry of Finance and Trade 
PO Box 313 
Victoria, Mahe 
Seychelles 
Tel: (248) 382-0004 
Fax: (248) 225-893 
ps-finance@finance.gov.sc 
Date PID Prepared 
September 9, 2010 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
September 9, 2010 
Date of Board Approval 
November 23, 2010 
1. 
Country and Sector Background 
 
1. 
In 2008, the unsustainable fiscal situation and misaligned foreign exchange regime 
proved unmanageable.  Seychelles defaulted on its debt and faced a severe foreign debt and 
balance-of-payments crisis in the second half of the year
.
The catalyst for the crisis was 
provided by the external shocks in 2008 as global commodity prices rose rapidly, quickly leading 
to depleted stocks of foreign exchange.  The result was missed external debt service payments 
and Standard and Poor
’s downgraded Seychelles credit rating from B to selective default 
 
2. 
The government is now on track with an IMF Extended Fund Facility (EFF) program, 
and macroeconomic stability has been achieved through liberalization of the exchange rate in 
November 2008 and significant improved fiscal performance in 2009 and 2010.  A three-year 
arrangement under the EFF for SDR 19.8 million was approved in December 2009.  All 
quantitative performance criteria and structural benchmarks at end-April 2010 have been met and 
the EFF first review was successfully completed in May 2010.  The macroeconomic framework 
is robust and the conditions for development policy lending are in place.  Macroeconomic 
performance under the IMF program has been good, and the economy has been resilient to the 
global economic shocks in 2009 and 2010 (financial crisis and Eurozone crisis).  The 
Government of Seychelles has now a demonstrated 2 year track record with implementing the 
economic reform program. Structural reforms under have included: (a) improving Public 
Financial Management (PFM), (b) reforming the tax system, (c) improving corporate governance 
and oversight of public enterprises, (d) bolstering the financial system, (e) improving the 
effectiveness of the public administration and (f) reducing the administrative barriers to doing 
business to improve the business climate.   
Page  2
3. 
Economic growth resumed during the second half of 2009, and a positive 4 percent 
growth is expected for 2010 and 5 percent in 2011.  The key development issues are for the 
Government to maintain the sound fiscal framework, now consistent with debt sustainability 
objectives, at the same time to protect the most vulnerable households and to become a more 
efficient public sector in order to continue to deliver better public services.  Improving quality 
and value for money in service delivery will allow Seychelles to continue to make the 
development progress witnessed, in terms of good health and education and other quality of life 
indicators.  Secondly, as the Government sector rolls back its commercial activities there needs 
to be put in place a liberalized, consistent and efficient set of licensing and investment 
procedures in order to allow the domestic and international business community to grow and 
create jobs.  
 
2. Operation 
Objectives 
 
4. 
The objective of the proposed operation is to assist the Republic of Seychelles to 
maintain a sustainable fiscal framework and to improve the business environment for medium-
term economic growth. 
 
This is to be achieved through (a) strengthening budget management, 
(b) creating a more efficient civil service and public administration, (c) improving public 
enterprise corporate governance, (d) reducing the role of the state in commercial areas of the 
economy and (e) removing the administrative barriers to doing business. The DPL supports a 
number of policy reforms in each of these areas.   
 
3. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
5. 
In 2008, the government sought assistance from the International Monetary Fund (IMF), 
the World Bank, and other development partners to provide financial support and technical 
assistance to transition from an unsustainable economic model to a liberalized economy.  The 
World Bank responded with a new Interim Strategy Note for the period 2010 to 2012 with two 
development policy operations (US$9 million equivalent each) to support the government 
through the period of macroeconomic stabilization and a structural reform program.  This is the 
second development policy operation aligned to this strategy as agreed with the Government of 
Seychelles. 
 
4. Financing 
 
Source: ($m.) 
Borrower 0 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
9 
 Total 
9 
 
5. 
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
 
6. 
Executing agency
.
The Ministry of Finance is the executing agency.  Other line agencies 
and decentralized institutions will support the ministry.  The Ministry of Finance and the Bank 
Page  3
have agreed to monitor progress in the program supported by the DPL in the context of the 
Implementation Completion Report for this loan and preparations of a new country assistance 
strategy (programmed for fiscal 2012 delivery).  The Ministry of Finance is charged with 
collecting from the appropriate sources the data necessary to assess implementation progress.  
Reviews by the Ministry of Finance and the Bank team will identify the main strengths and 
weaknesses of the reform program, to identify possible assistance needs to sustain the forward 
momentum toward th
e
government’s planned medium-term outcomes, and to address possible 
downside risks. 
 
6. 
Benefits and Risks  
 
7. 
The benefits of the operation are the support to a structural agenda which will provide for 
sustainable economic growth, improved debt dynamics and maintain macroeconomic stability. 
The implementation of the proposed reform program faces the following possible risks: (a) 
continued global economic recession causing external shocks such as low tourism arrivals and/or 
revenues; (b) unplanned  emergency expenditure priorities emerging from the decline in capital 
investment and maintenance in recent years; (c) increased piracy attacks in Seychelles waters 
reduces tourism and fishing activities; (d) reduced ownership of policy reforms in the run up to 
2011 elections; (e) slippage on policy reforms, (f) lack of capacity to lead and implement the 
reform program, and (g) risks of natural disasters.  The Government is taking the following 
mitigation measures respectively: (a) introducing policies to improve the business climate and 
diversify the economy; (b) improving management practices and oversight of the Public Utilities 
Company and setting aside capital grants for infrastructure maintenance; (c) working with the 
U.S. and French coast-guard to protect territorial waters and operating a special forces unit; (d) 
empowering key reformers in Government to maintain ownership of the reforms; (e) 
implementing an action plan to address fiduciary risks identified in the IMF safeguards report; (f) 
allocating additional resources to build the skills base and seeking technical assistance from 
development partners; and (g) developing a natural disaster risk assessment and mitigation 
strategy.   
 
7. 
Poverty and Social Impacts and Environmental Aspects 
 
8. 
Growth in private sector employment has off-set the fall in jobs in the public sector, 
and Government sponsored re-training programs have successfully supported the 
transition of individual employees from public to private employment.
 
Public sector 
employment has dropped from 30 percent of total employment in 2003 to 21 percent of 
employment in 2009.  Some 2,700 employees left the public sector (government and parastatals 
combined) during 2009.  At the same time, there were an additional 3,280 jobs created in the 
private sector in the course of 2009.  There were an estimated 10,800 expatriate labor permits 
granted in 2009, with only 150 in the government and parastatal sectors combined (down from 
190 in 2008).  This indicates that labor demand in the private sector is still high.  The 
unemployment rate is estimated to have remained low, at around 4 percent in 2009.  The 
Department of Employment tracked those job seekers who left the public sector, on the 
Voluntary Departure Scheme, and found that all but a handful of cases had either found 
alternative employment or other activity, and very few were registered job seekers.  Of the 
registered job seekers (an estimated 2,302), it is the case that most of these appear to be more 
Page  4
long term, or structurally unemployed who have lower levels of education and lack of work 
experience, and who have registered in order to claim social welfare payments.  
 
9. 
The total number of welfare claimants has been in decline since the middle of 2009.
 
The Social Welfare Agency provides cash grants to households with a low income.  The size of 
the grant is calculated to cover the basic needs, including food, shelter, and utilities (electricity 
and water).  The total number of eligible claimants peaked at 3,500 households in August and 
started to fall from September 2009.  Through advice in the Public Expenditure Review 2, the 
Bank has provided assistance in the design of active labor market policies to address the 
relatively small pool of structurally unemployed, and this will also assist with government plans 
to get people from welfare-dependency to employed status.  The government has also provided 
grants to NGOs for social programs to address unemployment.  Impact evaluations of these 
programs found that 100 percent of people enrolled in the programs found new employment 
within two months of graduating. 
 
10. 
The conclusion of an environmental screening of the proposed reforms is that the 
reforms are not likely to be significant from an environmental point of view. 
 
Improving 
budget management is expected to lead to more efficient use of public resources, which may 
indirectly generate environmental benefits by encouraging the adoption of modern technologies 
which use resources more efficiently than those they replace. The operation will support 
implementation of public sector reforms aimed at creating a more efficient and effective public 
service.  This may also have a beneficial impact on the environment, because the reforms will 
result in targeting resources on core government functions, including environmental protection.    
The operation seeks to enhance the transparency, efficiency, and accountability of public 
enterprises.  This is expected to result in lower subsidies to public enterprises such as the 
electricity and water utilities, which will in turn force the utilities to raise prices to reflect costs 
of services and to operate more efficiently.  Reducing the time required to obtain or renew a 
license and eliminating the need for prior approval from the Seychelles Investment Board for 
investment will facilitate business entry and growth.  This will result in uncertain environmental 
impacts, depending on the sectors that attract new investment, and the availability and cost-
effectiveness of new technology.  The reforms may be positive for the environment if they attract 
businesses from the informal to the formal sector, since formal businesses are more likely to 
comply with environmental regulations.   
 
8. Contact point 
Contact: Tracey M. Lane 
Title: Senior Economist 
Tel: 5368+6418 / 254-20-322-6418 
Fax:  
Email: tlane@worldbank.org 
Location: Nairobi, Kenya (IBRD) 
 
For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Page  5
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
