Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB5987 
Operation Name 
Development Policy Loan 2 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
General public administration sector (50%);General industry and 
trade sector (50%) 
Project ID 
P120947 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF SEYCHELLES 
Implementing Agency 
INISTRY OF FINANCE 
Ministry of Finance and Trade 
PO Box 313 
Victoria, Mahe 
Seychelles 
Tel: (248) 382-0004 
Fax: (248) 225-893 
ps-finance@finance.gov.sc 
Date PID Prepared 
September 9, 2010 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
September 9, 2010 
Date of Board Approval 
November 23, 2010 
1. 
Country and Sector Background 
 
1. 
The unsustainable fiscal situation and misaligned foreign exchange regime proved 
unmanageable and in 2008 Seychelles defaulted on its debt and faced a severe foreign debt and 
balance-of-payments crisis
.
The catalyst for the crisis was provided by the external shocks in 
2008 as global commodity prices rose rapidly, quickly leading to depleted stocks of foreign 
exchange.  The result was missed external debt service payments and Standard and Poor
’s 
downgraded Seychelles credit rating from B to selective default 
 
2. 
The government is on track with the IMF Extended Fund Facility (EFF) program, and 
macroeconomic stability has been achieved through liberalization of the exchange rate in 
November 2008 and significant fiscal reduction in 2009 and 2010.  A three-year arrangement 
under the EFF for SDR 19.8 million was approved in December 2009.  All quantitative 
performance criteria and structural benchmarks at end-April 2010 were met and the EFF first 
review was successfully completed in May 2010.  The IMF review concluded that the 
macroeconomic performance under the program has been good, with the economy showing 
remarkable resilience to the debt crisis in 2008 and the financial crisis in 2009.  The Government 
of Seychelles has now a demonstrated 2 year track record with implementing the economic 
reform program. Structural reforms under the EFF focus on (a) improving Public Financial 
Management (PFM), (b) reforming the tax system, (c) redefining the role and raising the 
performance of public enterprises, and (d) bolstering the financial system.   
 
3. 
The economy has been resilient in the face of the reforms and the external shocks 
(including the global financial crisis in 2009 and euro-crisis in 2010).  Economic growth 
Page  2
resumed during the second half of 2009, and a positive 4 percent growth is expected for 2010.  
The key development issues are for the Government to maintain the sound fiscal framework, 
now consistent with debt sustainability objectives, and at the same time to protect the most 
vulnerable households and to become a more efficient public sector in order to continue to 
deliver public services.  Improving quality and value for money in service delivery will allow 
Seychelles to continue to make the development progress witnessed, in terms of good health and 
education and other quality of life indicators.  Secondly, as the Government sector rolls back its 
commercial activities there needs to be put in place a liberalized, consistent and efficient set of 
licensing and investment procedures in order to allow the domestic and international business 
community to grow and create jobs for those leaving the public sector.  
 
2. Operation 
Objectives 
 
4. 
The objective of the proposed operation is to assist the Republic of Seychelles to 
maintain a sustainable fiscal framework and to improve the business environment for medium-
term economic growth. 
 
This is to be achieved through (a) strengthening budget management, 
(b) creating a more efficient civil service and public administration, (c) improving public 
enterprise corporate governance, (d) introducing new legislation to reduce the red tape with new 
investment approvals, and (d) reducing the role of the state in commercial activities and (e) 
improving the business climate for foreign and domestic firms. A number of policy reforms are 
supported in each of these areas.   
 
3. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
5. 
In 2008, the government sought assistance from the International Monetary Fund (IMF), 
the World Bank, and other development partners to provide financial support and technical 
assistance to transition from an unsustainable economic model with a dominant public sector and 
an over-valued pegged exchange rate to a liberalized economy.  The World Bank responded with 
a
new Interim Strategy Note for the period 2010 to 2012 with two development policy operations 
(US$ 9 million equivalent each) to support the government through the period of macroeconomic 
stabilization and transition.  This is the second development policy operation aligned to the 
interim support strategy agreed with the Government of Seychelles. 
 
4. Financing 
 
Source: ($m.) 
Borrower 0 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
9 
 Total 
9 
 
5. 
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
 
6. 
Executing agency
.
The Ministry of Finance is the executing agency.  Other line agencies 
and decentralized institutions will support the ministry.  The Ministry of Finance and the Bank 
have agreed to monitor progress in the program supported by the DPL in the context of the 
Page  3
Implementation Completion Report for this loan and preparations of a new country assistance 
strategy (programmed for fiscal 2012 delivery).  The Ministry of Finance is charged with 
collecting from the appropriate sources the data necessary to assess implementation progress.  
Reviews by the Ministry of Finance and the Bank team will aim to identify the main strengths 
and weaknesses of the reform program, to identify possible assistance needs to sustain the 
forward momentum toward the government’s planned medium-term outcomes, and to address 
possible downside risks. 
 
6. 
Benefits and Risks  
 
7. 
The operation would contribute to the continuation and consolidation of reform progress 
made since 2009 which has achieved macroeconomic stability and significantly improved debt 
sustainability The implementation of the proposed reform program faces the following possible 
risks: (a) continued global economic recession causing external shocks such as low tourism 
arrivals and/or revenues; (b) social and political tensions arising from vulnerable groups being 
adversely affected and 2011 elections; (c) unplanned  emergency expenditure priorities emerging 
from the decline in capital investment in recent years; (d) increased piracy attacks in Seychelles 
waters reduces tourism and fishing activities; (e) reduced ownership in the run up to 2011 
elections and policy slippage; (f) fiduciary risks, (g) slippage on policy reforms, and (h) lack of 
capacity to lead and implement the reform program. 
 
7. 
Poverty and Social Impacts and Environmental Aspects 
 
8. 
It was anticipated at the start of the economic program, that the reforms would 
have an adverse impact on household welfare, particularly those who would be required to 
transfer from the public to private sector.
 
In fact, growth in private sector employment was 
much more rapid than expected and this has more than offset the fall in public sector and 
parastatal employment.  Public sector employment has dropped from about 30 percent of total 
employment in 2003 to 21 percent of employment in 2009.  Some 2,700 employees left the 
public sector (government and parastatals combined) during 2009.  At the same time, there were 
an additional 3,280 jobs created in the private sector in the course of 2009.  The number of 
expatriate employees in the public sector has also fallen from 190 in 2008 to 150 in 2009.  The 
total number of welfare claimants has been in decline since the middle of 2009.
 
The total number 
of eligible claimants peaked at 3,500 households in August and started to fall from September 
2009.  Claimants are typically young women looking for supplementary household income 
and/or unemployed, and have low levels of education.  The government has also provided grants 
to NGOs for social programs to address unemployment.  Impact evaluations of the programs 
show a 100 percent success for participants getting new employment opportunities.  The real 
wage fell during 2008, as a result of the period of high inflation and price shocks from the 
exchange rate devaluation, but has since recovered in line with the economic recovery in 2009 
and 2010.
 
The adjustment in the government sector from efficiency reforms and the new wage 
grid show a more structural shift down to a lower rate of average monthly incomes. 
 
9. 
Policy actions supported by this DPL are not expected to have significant environment 
effects on the forests, or other natural resources.  There is potential for new business climate and 
new investments to have an adverse impact on the environment.  These aspects will be taken up 
Page  4
in the context of DPL 2 implementation, including further investigation of environmental 
protection legislation and land-use planning processes. 
 
8. Contact point 
Contact: Tracey M. Lane 
Title: Senior Economist 
Tel: 5368+6418 / 254-20-322-6418 
Fax:  
Email: tlane@worldbank.org 
Location: Nairobi, Kenya (IBRD) 
 
For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
