Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB5823 
Operation Name 
Development Policy Loan 2 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
General public administration sector (50%);General industry and 
trade sector (50%) 
Project ID 
P120947 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF SEYCHELLES 
Implementing Agency 
INISTRY OF FINANCE 
Date PID Prepared 
June 10, 2010 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
June 19, 2010 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
October 21, 2010 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
1. 
The unsustainable fiscal situation and misaligned foreign exchange regime proved unmanageable 
and in 2008 Seychelles defaulted on its debt and faced a severe foreign debt and balance-of-payments 
crisis
.
The catalyst for the crisis was provided by the external shocks in 2008 as global commodity 
prices rose rapidly, quickly leading to depleted stocks of foreign exchange.  The result was missed 
external debt service payments and Standard and Poor
’s downgraded Seychelles credit rating from B to 
selective default.  The government sought assistance from the International Monetary Fund (IMF), the 
World Bank, and other development partners to provide financial support and technical assistance to 
transition from an unsustainable economic model with a dominant public sector and an over-valued 
pegged exchange rate to a liberalized economy.  The World Bank responded with a new Interim 
Strategy Note for the period 2010 to 2012 with two development policy operations (US$ 9 million 
equivalent each) to support the government through the period of macroeconomic stabilization and 
transition. 
 
2. 
The government is on track with the IMF Extended Fund Facility (EFF) program, and 
macroeconomic stability has been achieved through liberalization of the exchange rate in November 
2008 and significant fiscal reduction in 2009 and 2010.  A three-year arrangement under the EFF for 
SDR 19.8 million was approved in December 2009.  All quantitative performance criteria at end-Match 
and structural benchmarks at end-April 2010 were met.  The Government of Seychelles has now a 
demonstrated 2 year track record with implementing the economic reform program. Structural reforms 
under the EFF focus on (a) improving Public Financial Management (PFM), (b) reforming the tax 
system, (c) redefining the role and raising the performance of public enterprises, and (d) bolstering the 
financial system.  The May 2010 IMF review concludes that the macroeconomic performance under the 
program has been good, with the economy showing remarkable resilience to the debt crisis in 2008 and 
the financial crisis in 2009. 
 
3. 
The key development issues are for the Government to maintain the sound fiscal framework, 
now consistent with debt sustainability objectives, and at the same time to protect the most vulnerable 
households and to become a more efficient public sector in order to continue to deliver public services.  
Improving quality and value for money in service delivery will allow Seychelles to continue to make the 
development progress witnessed, in terms of good health and education and other quality of life 
indicators.  Secondly, as the Government sector rolls back its commercial activities there needs to be put 
Page  2
in place a liberalized, consistent and efficient set of licensing and investment procedures in order to 
allow the domestic and international business community to grow and create jobs for those leaving the 
public sector.  
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
4. 
The objective of the proposed operation is to assist the authorities maintain a sustainable 
fiscal framework and to improve the business environment.  
This is to be achieved through (a) 
continuing to introduce public financial management reforms, (b) continuing to implement public 
administration reforms to improve expenditure efficiency (c) improving oversight of the public 
enterprise sector and minimizing the transfers to, and contingent liabilities associated with the sector; 
and (d) introducing new legislation to reduce the red tape with new investment approvals, and (d) reduce 
the number of economic activities requiring annual licenses to be approved.  A number of policy 
reforms are supported in each of these areas.   
 
3. Preliminary description 
 
5. 
The following policy prior actions are supported. 
To maintain improved fiscal 
performance
 
the policy prior actions are (a) ensuring consistent and comprehensive treatment of budget dependent 
agencies in the annual budget; (b) the development of a macroeconomic framework and indicators as 
part of the fiscal framework for the annual budget and (c) the introduction of a new wage grid to 
improve transparency and control over the wage bill, (d) the contracting out of non-core public service 
functions to newly formed cooperative contractors, and (d) the establishment of the Public Enterprise 
Monitoring Department in the Ministry of Finance under the Public Enterprise Monitoring Act.  To 
improve the business climate the policy prior actions are (a) the establishment of the Seychelles 
Investment Bureau as a one-stop shop for foreign investment approvals, and (b) the revised Licensing 
Act is approved by Parliament drastically reducing the number of activities requiring an annual license.  
 
4. Environment Aspects 
 
There are no environmental aspects. 
 
5. Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
Borrower 0 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
9 
 Total 
9 
 
6. Contact point 
Contact: Tracey M. Lane 
Title: Senior Economist 
Tel: 5368+6418 / 254-20-322-6418 
Fax:  
Email: tlane@worldbank.org 
Location: Nairobi, Kenya (IBRD)
 
