                                  Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                   Report No: ICR2118



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IBRD-79900)



                                     ON A

                                    LOAN

            IN THE AMOUNT OF (US$ 9.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                   TO THE

                         REPUBLIC OF SEYCHELLES

                                    FOR A

                    DEVELOPMENT POLICY OPERATION



                                October 04, 2011




Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Unit 1
AFCS4
Africa Region
             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

            Currency Unit = Seychelles Rupee
           Seychelles Rupee 1.00 = US$ 0.083
           US$ 1.00 = Seychelles Rupee 12.20
       (Exchange Rate Effective November 1, 2011)


            GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
              January 1 – December 31


         ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

DPL       Development Policy Loan
EFF       Extended Fund Facility
EC        European Commission
FIAS      Foreign Investment Advisory Service
GDP       Gross Domestic Product
GFS       Government Finance Statistics
IBRD      International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IMF       International Monetary Fund
MEFP      Memorandum of Economic and Financial Policies
MDG       Millennium Development Goals
PD        Program Document
PEFA      Public Expenditure and Financial Accountability
PER       Public Expenditure Review
PFM       Public Financial Management
SLA       Seychelles Licensing Authority
SR        Seychelles Rupee
STC       Seychelles Trading Company Ltd.




              Vice President:   Obiageli K. Ezekwesili
            Country Director:   Haleh Bridi
             Sector Manager:    John Panzer
           Task Team Leader:    Tracey Lane
           ICR Team Leader:     Sawkut Rojid
                                       SEYCHELLES
                                 DEVELOPMENT POLICY LOAN


                                                  CONTENTS




 Data Sheet
 A. Basic Information
 B. Key Dates
 C. Ratings Summary
 D. Sector and Theme Codes
 E. Bank Staff
 F. Results Framework Analysis
 G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs
 H. Restructuring

1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................ 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 6
3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 12
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ......................................................... 20
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 21
6. Lessons Learned........................................................................................................ 24
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners........... 25
Annex 1 Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes.............. 26
Annex 2. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 27
Annex 3. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 27
Annex 4. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 27
Annex 5. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 27
Annex 6. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 27

MAP
A. Basic Information
                                                                          Development Policy
Country:                Seychelles              Program Name:
                                                                          Loan 2
Program ID:             P120947                 L/C/TF Number(s):         IBRD-79900
ICR Date:               10/04/2011              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     DPL                     Borrower:
                                                                          SEYCHELLES
Original Total
                        USD 9.00M               Disbursed Amount:         USD 8.66M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 9.00M
Implementing Agencies:
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                  Revised / Actual
     Process              Date            Process              Original Date
                                                                                      Date(s)
Concept Review:       06/21/2010     Effectiveness:             12/14/2010           12/14/2010
Appraisal:            09/13/2010     Restructuring(s):
Approval:             11/23/2010     Mid-term Review:
                                     Closing:                   05/31/2011           05/31/2011

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Highly satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                Ratings             Borrower                           Ratings
Quality at Entry:          Satisfactory    Government:                         Highly satisfactory
                                           Implementing
Quality of Supervision:    Satisfactory                                        Highly satisfactory
                                           Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                               Overall Borrower
                           Satisfactory                                        Highly satisfactory
Performance:                               Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                            Rating:
     Performance                                 (if any)
Potential Problem                               Quality at Entry
                          No                                            None
Program at any time                             (QEA):
(Yes/No):
 Problem Program at any                            Quality of
                        No                                               None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                  67                   67
General industry and trade sector                                  33                   33


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Administrative and civil service reform                             42                  42
 Public expenditure, financial management and
                                                                    25                  25
procurement
Regulation and competition policy                                   33                  33

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                          At Approval
Vice President:            Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili          Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili
Country Director:          Haleh Z. Bridi                      Constantine Chikosi
Sector Manager:            John Panzer                         John Panzer
Program Team Leader:       Sawkut Rojid                        Tracey M. Lane
ICR Team Leader:           Sawkut Rojid
ICR Primary Author:        Sawkut Rojid


F. Results Framework Analysis

Program Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The objective of the DPL was to assist the Republic of Seychelles to improve public
sector effectiveness and the business environment.

Revised Program Development Objectives (if any, as approved by original approving
authority)
Program Development Objectives were not revised
(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target      Formally         Actual Value
                                            Values (from          Revised         Achieved at
    Indicator          Baseline Value
                                               approval           Target         Completion or
                                             documents)           Values         Target Years
Indicator 1 :      The primary surplus remains positive and stabilizes
Value
                                            7.40 percent of
(quantitative or   14.8 percent of GDP                                          8.7 percent of GDP
                                            GDP
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/31/2009            12/31/2010                         12/31/2010
                   Achieved. The primary surplus remained positive. It stood at 8.7% of GDP
Comments
                   (revised figure).
(incl. %
achievement)
                   Comprehensiveness of information included in budget documentation
Indicator 2 :
                   improved
Value                                       C or better in
                   D in question P1-6 of
(quantitative or                            question P1-6 of                 A
                   PEFA
Qualitative)                                PEFA
Date achieved      12/31/2008               05/31/2011                      05/31/2011
                    Achieved. The budget documentation as submitted to legislature for FY2011
Comments
                   included 7 out of the 8 components required under P1-6
(incl. %
achievement)
                   Deviation between original appropriated budget and aggregate actual
Indicator 3 :
                   expenditure falls
Value
(quantitative or   16 percent               10 percent                          5 percent
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/31/2009          12/31/2010                         12/31/2010
                   Achieved. The Government exceeded expectations in this indicator.
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 4 :      The number of top-level staff that are integrated on the wage grid rises
Value
(quantitative or   59                       139                                 366
Qualitative)
Date achieved      08/31/2010             08/31/2011                           08/31/2011
                   Achieved. The Government exceeded expectations in this indicator.
Comments           The number of top-level staff per category is as follows: Category SG9: 178;
(incl. %           Category SG10: 69; Category SG11: 56; and Category SG12: 63.
achievement)

                   Actual payments to Public Enterprises (as defined in the Public Enterprise Act)
Indicator 5 :      in 2010 are at or below budgeted amounts, and loans made in 2009 are repaid
                   as due in 2010
                                                                              Total development
                                                                             Grants transfer to
                   Budgeted: SR 134.7                                        PUC was SR 336
                   million for development                                   million;
                                           Payments to PUC
                   expenditures of PUC                                       development
Value                                      and SPTC are at or
                   and SPTC, plus SR 100                                     expenditure to PUC
(quantitative or                           below budgeted
                   million for PUC from                                      was SR 12.5
Qualitative)                               amounts, plus
                   contingency fund.                                         million instead of
                                           loans repaid
                   Loans to be repaid is                                     SR 3 million. Loans
                   SR 330 million                                            of SR330 million
                                                                             due in 2010 was
                                                                             repaid.
Date achieved      01/01/2010              12/31/2010                        12/31/2010
                   Achieved.
Comments           Transfer to SPTC was SR 12.5 million instead of SR 3 million to pay for the
(incl. %           tax component on capital grant. Transfer to PUC was SR 336 million instead of
achievement)       SR 126 million to finance infrastructure works out of additional revenue
                   received.
                   Revenues to the government from the commercial operations of L#Union
Indicator 6 :
                   Estate increase
Value
(quantitative or   SR 0 million            SR 2 million                      SR 0 million
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/31/2009              05/31/2011                          05/31/2011
                    Not achieved. Revenue of 2 million was not paid to Government. In fact the
Comments
                   Government has created a Trust Fund for projects at La Digue Island and the
(incl. %
                   profits of the L#union Estate will be used to fund these projects.
achievement)
Indicator 7 :      Time required to obtain or renew a license declines
                                             At least 95 percent            100 percent of
Value              68 percent of all license
                                             of applications               applications being
(quantitative or   applications receiving a
                                             being responded to            responded to in 14
Qualitative)       response within 14 days
                                             in 14 days                    days
Date achieved      09/30/2010                05/31/2011                    05/31/2011
                    Achieved. The Government exceeded expectations in this indicator
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                   The number of economic activities legally requiring approval from the
Indicator 8 :
                   Seychelles Licensing Authority to start operations falls
Value
(quantitative or   180                    27                                 26
Qualitative)
Date achieved      09/30/2010            05/31/2011                        05/31/2011
                   Achieved. The Licensing Act 2010 eliminated all unnecessary licenses.
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 9 :      The number of economic investments legally requiring Seychelles Investment
                   Bureau approval to start operations falls
Value
(quantitative or   26                       0                                 3
Qualitative)
Date achieved      09/30/2010               05/31/2011                       05/31/2011
Comments
                   Achieved. Approval for operations to investment indeed fell in number.
(incl. %
                   However, the target of zero was not attained, but will soon be attained.
achievement)




(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target                      Actual Value
                                                               Formally
                                              Values (from                         Achieved at
    Indicator           Baseline Value                          Revised
                                                approval                          Completion or
                                                             Target Values
                                              documents)                          Target Years



G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs

                                                                                   Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                              DO                           IP              Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                               (USD millions)


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable
1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design
(This section is descriptive, taken from other documents, e.g., Program Document/ISR,
not evaluative):

1.     This ICR is prepared following the completion of the second DPL in Seychelles.
This is a stand-alone, single tranche operation of US$9 million. This operation was
designed as a stand-alone operation, to be consistent with the approach in the Bank’s
Interim Strategy Note FY10-11 (ISN), and was designed to pave the way for a
programmatic DPO in the future, depending on the Bank’s program in the new Country
Partnership Strategy.

1.1 Context at Appraisal
(Brief summary of country, macroeconomic and structural/sector background, rationale
for Bank assistance)

2.      The Republic of Seychelles is a small and highly vulnerable middle income
country. It has a population of around 90,000 and a per capita income of around US$
9,028 (2009). The economy is predominantly service based. The two main economic
sectors are tourism and fisheries, which together account for 30 percent of GDP and
around 37 percent of employment. The financial and professional services sector account
for 22.5 percent of GDP, manufacturing sector is 8 percent of GDP and a modest
construction sector of 5 percent of GDP. Seychelles comprises 115 tropical islands spread
over 1.37 million km2 in the Indian Ocean. Habitation is on 10 of the islands, and around
90 percent of the population lives on the largest island, Mahé. The limited land, capital,
and human resources restrict Seychelles’ ability to benefit from economies of scale in
production and economic diversification. External trade accounts for 150 percent of
GDP, and Seychelles relies on imports for oil, food, almost all raw materials, products,
and specialized services. Concentration of economic activities and openness render the
economy vulnerable to global economic shocks and terms-of-trade shocks.

3.      The Seychelles has quality-of-life indicators comparable to European levels.
It was ranked 57th out of 182 countries in the United Nation’s 2009 Human Development
Index (the second highest African country), and has met the target for most of the eight
Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). The primary net enrollment rate is 99 percent
while the secondary net enrollment rate is 94 percent. However, despite having achieved
universal education, there are critical issues in that sector as well. Learning outcomes
have been disappointing, and skill gaps are increasingly visible as Seychelles further
modernizes its economy. There is significant gender inequality, with boys
underperforming girls, in learning achievements in mathematics and reading. Seychelles
has better health outcome indicators than many European levels. The country’s life
expectancy is 73 years, equal to that of Mauritius. However, challenges remain in that


                                            1
sector. Contraceptive use remains low, at less than 50 percent. In fact, the use of modern
contraceptive methods among women aged 15-49 declined from over 60 percent in 1996
to 36 percent in 2009. 

4.      The Seychelles enjoys a stable political system and is a relatively young
democracy. A year after independence in 1976, a coup d’état established a one-party
socialist state. In December 1991, President René of the Seychelles People’s Progressive
Front announced a shift to multiparty pluralism. Seven presidential elections have been
held since then and in the last Presidential election (May 2011), the incumbent president
(James Michel) was reelected for another five-year term with a comfortable majority (55
percent of votes). Parliamentary election was held in September 2011, and the ruling
party won all seats following the boycott of the main opposition party. With his new
mandate, the President has renewed Seychelles’ commitment to continuing the basic
direction of structural reforms, consolidating the economy, boosting productivity, and
encouraging innovation, while giving special attention to the social sector.

5.      The Seychelles’ post-independence state-led development model, with its
extremely generous welfare system built during the 1980s and 1990s, proved
financially unsustainable, and by 2008, had to confront a debt crisis. Under the early
economic model, the public sector owned most of the corporations and productive
resources and was heavily involved in economic activities, funded by borrowing. The
state’s welfare system was extensive with elements of discretion and political
interference. This model led to unsustainable financial and external imbalances. The
global shock in 2007-08 led to depleted stocks of foreign exchange and was the catalyst
for the debt crisis. The authorities sought the support of the IMF to initiate debt
restructuring discussions with the Paris Club and other creditors, and launched a
comprehensive stabilization reform program. A two year Stand-By Arrangement was
negotiated with the IMF. The Bank also reengaged in Seychelles and supported the
reform program with knowledge products and two DPOs (this ICR assesses the second
DPO).

6.     Macro-economic stability has been achieved through the stabilization
program. The adjustment program aimed at liberalizing the exchange rate regime,
consolidating fiscal policy and implementing sound monetary policy focused on
maintaining low inflation. At appraisal, the macroeconomic framework was robust, as
evidenced by low and stable inflation rates, stable exchange rate, growing international
reserves, improved debt sustainability position, and good fiscal performance in 2010. The
outcomes of the first DPL delivered in 2009, with the objective of supporting the
Seychelles establish a stable macroeconomic environment and sustainable fiscal
framework, was rated satisfactory by IEG. The Government met, and even exceeded the
IMF program’s Extended Fund Facility (EFF) performance targets, at appraisal. The May
2010 IMF first review of the EFF concluded that the macroeconomic performance under


                                            2
the program has been good, and that the economy has shown remarkable resilience to the
domestic debt crisis in 2008 and the global financial crisis in 2009. The structural
benchmarks of the EFF focus on: (a) improving public financial management; (b)
reforming the tax system; (c) redefining the role and raising the performance of public
enterprises; and (d) bolstering the financial system.

7.      The Seychelles emerged from a period of debt distress to debt sustainability
with improved credit-worthiness. Significant progress was achieved with debt
restructuring. Agreements on approximately 88 percent of the eligible debt stock were
secured at time of appraisal. Exceptional debt treatment under the Evian approach was
granted by the Paris Club creditors in two tranches (July 2009 and July 2010) reducing
the debt stock by 45 percent in nominal terms, and rescheduling the remaining debts.
Deals with private creditors on equivalent terms to the Paris Club deal was agreed in
January 2010 and several non Paris Club bilateral deals were concluded. Total public
debt stocks have almost halved from a high of 136.7 percent of GDP in 2008 to an
estimated 82.4 percent of GDP in 2010, and external debt stock has fallen from 82.8
percent of GDP to approximately 53.6 percent of GDP over the same period.

8.      Strong fiscal adjustment showed quite impressive results. Primary surplus
stood at 14.8 and 9.4 percent of GDP in 2009 and 2010. The reform program increased
discipline in fiscal expenditure, broadened and simplified tax regime, and improved
revenue administration. Structural reforms on the expenditure side included downsizing
of the civil service in 2009 which resulted in the overall wage bill declining from to 7.1
percent of GDP in 2009 (compared to 10.2 percent of GDP in 2007). The policy on
subsidies was reviewed. Universal subsidies from Central Government to public entities
were eliminated and replaced by a targeted safety net aimed to protect the most
vulnerable households. Public financial management practices were improved,
establishing binding ceilings and limiting intra-year rises in spending. A treasury single
account was introduced to improve budget execution rates. Revenues exceeded original
projections by 18 percent in 2010. The income tax base was broadened in 2010 with the
introduction of a Personal Income Tax, which replaced social security contributions and
removed special, sector-specific tax treatments. Revenue for 2010 was revised upwards
by 1.1 percent of GDP.

9.     The economy successfully weathered the shocks of the global financial crisis.
Rebound in tourist arrivals and exceptionally high foreign direct investment (FDI) largely
contributed to positive outcomes in 2009 and 2010. The economy grew at 6.2 percent in
2010, better than the level forecast in mid-2010. Tourism saw arrivals increased by 11




                                            3
percent in 2010 compared to 2009.1 Monetary policy targeted reserves throughout 2010
and by the end of that year, the country’s net international reserves stood at US$182
million, bolstered by financial support from international organizations for the reform
program.

10.     The Bank’s assistance supporting reforms to consolidate achievements was
crucial. Through DPL1, the Bank supported reforms which addressed fiscal policy
deficiencies, public financial management, public administration and civil service
reforms, public enterprise corporate governance, privatization of state owned enterprises,
and social welfare programs. The outcome of DPL1 was rated as satisfactory by IEG. For
enduring results, the Government continued the reform process with the support of this
operation which builds on the achievements of DPL1, as shown in table 1.

                             Table1: Areas of support under DPL1 and DPL2

Areas of support common      Areas of support under DPL1               Areas of support under DPL2
to both DPLs
Public           Financial   The adoption of the standard              The preparation of the Budget Strategy
Management                   Government Finance Statistics (GFS)       and Outlook Paper for the year 2011
                             classification for preparing and          which provided a medium-term budget
                             monitoring budget performance             framework       consistent   with      the
                                                                       macroeconomic forecasts
Public Administration and    Reducing excess staff, including the      Contracting out process been expanded
Civil Service                voluntary    departure    and     early   to cover all budget dependent institutions
                             retirement schemes and the contracting    and non-core public functions
                             out of non-core government functions
Public Enterprise            The restructuring of the Seychelles       The establishment of the Public
                             Marketing Board into 16 commercial        Enterprise Monitoring Division (PEMD),
                             units and the subsequent privatization    and staffing this division to oversee the
                             of eight units and the liquidation six    implementation of the Public Enterprise
                             non-viable units;                         Act;

                             The elimination of all subsidies to the   The restructuring of L’Union Estate to
                             Seychelles Trading Corporation, and a     lease the commercial activities to private
                             sharp decline overall in subsidies to     operators
                             public enterprises
Social Protection            The introduction of a new means-tested    -----
                             social welfare policy and the
                             establishment of the Social Welfare
                             Agency
Business Environment         ---------                                 Approval of a revised Investment Bill to
                                                                       provide the framework for the
                                                                       promotion, regulation and protection of
                                                                       investors and investments;

                                                                       Enactment of the Licensing Act, 2010 to
                                                                       set out transparent procedures for the
                                                                       issuance and renewal of all licenses




1
 The tourism sector was heavily affected by the global crisis in the second half of 2008. Tourism revenues
declined by almost 30 percent in the third quarter of 2008 compared to the same period of 2007.



                                                       4
11.     In line with the Seychelles ISN FY10-11, this operation builds on existing and
new knowledge and provided financial support. The Bank initiated preparation of a
second Public Expenditure Review (PER2) in 2010 to provide evidence based advisory
services for the second operation. PER2 focused on measures to create a more efficient
and affordable public sector, improve governance and oversight of the public enterprise
sector, and improve labor market flexibility to absorb employees being retrenched as a
result of the civil service reforms. The Bank also offered advice on establishing a means-
tested social welfare system, and promoting private sector development. In addition, the
Bank was able to offer financial support through this operation to finance the
government’s budget, facilitating sound fiscal management. The DPL was a key
component of the Bank’s Interim Strategy Note for Seychelles FY10-11, which was
discussed by the World Bank’s Board of Directors on November 5, 2009. The Bank’s
strategy was to support the government’s macroeconomic stabilization program in the
short run and to initiate the structural reform process in line with the Seychelles longer-
term economic recovery strategy. The DPL was fully consistent with this objective.

1.2 Original Program Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)
         
12.    The objective of the DPL, as stated in the Project Document (PD) was to assist the
Republic of Seychelles to improve public sector effectiveness and business environment.
Measures to improve public sector effectiveness included the strengthening of budget
management, creation of a more efficient civil service and public administration,
reducing the role of the state in commercial areas and improving public corporate
governance. Removal of administrative barriers to doing business would help improving
the business environment.

13.    The key performance indicators, as outlined in the program summary of the PD,
are:

      The primary surplus remains positive and stabilizes
      Comprehensiveness of information included in budget documentation improved
      Deviation between original appropriated budget and aggregate actual expenditure
       falls
      The number of top-level staff that are integrated on the wage grid rises
      Actual payments to Public Enterprises (as defined in the Public Enterprise Act) in
       2010 are at or below budgeted amounts, and loans made in 2009 are repaid as
       due in 2010
      Revenues to the government from the commercial operations of L#Union Estate
       increase
      Time required to obtain or renew a license declines


                                            5
         The number of economic activities legally requiring approval from the Seychelles
          Licensing Authority to start operations falls
         The number of economic investments legally requiring Seychelles Investment
          Bureau approval to start operations falls

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
Reasons/Justification

14.       The objectives were not revised.

1.4 Original Policy Areas Supported by the Program (as approved)

15.    The operation supported civil service and public administration reforms, public
financial management (PFM) reforms, public enterprise corporate governance reforms
and business environment reforms.

16.     To consolidate the gains achieved in the area PFM reforms, this operation
supported the preparation of the Budget Strategy and Outlook Paper for the year 2011
which provided a medium-term budget framework consistent with the macroeconomic
forecasts. The government also introduced a policy for re-classifying the broader public
sector institutions according to their core functions and budget dependency in July 2010.
The new classification ensured a consistent budgetary treatment and human resource
rules and guidelines (including public sector pay policies) across budget dependent
agencies. The Government continued implementation of public administration reforms,
based on the Public Administration Reform Memorandum adopted in August 2009.
Under this operation, the contracting out process been expanded to cover all budget
dependent institutions and non-core public functions (school cleaning, and others). This
operation supported the implementation of a simplified wage grid which eliminated the
complex allowances system that was used to supplement low monthly salaries, thereby
ensuring a significant improvement in transparency and fiscal management.  

17.     Under the public enterprise reform component the focus was on
strengthening oversight of public enterprises to improve accountability and
performance. This operation supported the establishment of the Public Enterprise
Monitoring Division (PEMD), and staffing this division to oversee the implementation of
the Public Enterprise Act. The division ensured that public enterprises have submitted
their annual financial reports for presentation to the National Assembly, as required by
the new act. The division introduced new corporate governance guidelines and developed
a training course to improve the effectiveness of the Boards of Directors. The trainings
are run in collaboration with the Seychelles Institute of Management. As part of the
process of withdrawing from commercial activities, the authorities initiated the
restructuring of L’Union Estate to lease the commercial activities to private operators.


                                             6
The L’Union Estate was a fully-owned government company with a range of commercial
activities including running a farm, and renting vacation chalets. A management contract
with a private operator was signed in September 2010. 

18.     Under the business environment component, the government embarked on
several reforms to reduce the administrative barriers to doing business. The
Licensing Act, 2010 was enacted to set out transparent procedures for the issuance and
renewal of all licenses. Most professional activities henceforth require just simple
registration. The requirements for licensing in particular economic sectors are henceforth
handled directly by the relevant authority. Oversight standards will be maintained by
relevant professional bodies, technical ministries. This new legislation also includes an
appeals procedure to provide fair and adequate recourse to applicants in the event of any
adverse decisions. A revised Investment Bill was approved to provide the framework for
the promotion, regulation and protection of investors and investments. The government
has eliminated activities defined as “strategic,? “restricted,? or “sensitive? areas for
foreigners. Immigration Decree was issued to eliminating the differential fee for permits
issued outside of company quotas, and harmonizing all fees at the lowest rate as a first
step towards reforming the work permit system to improve the timeliness and
transparency.  

1.5 Revised Policy Areas (if applicable)
        
19.     The policy areas were not revised

1.6 Other significant changes
(In design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and schedule, and funding
allocations)

20.     None

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Program Performance (supported by a table derived from a policy matrix)
        
21.     This operation was a single tranche operation which was disbursed on
effectiveness. It supported the implementation of the second phase of the Seychelles
Government’s comprehensive structural reform program. It focused on implementation of
reforms to improve public sector effectiveness and to improve the business climate.
Within these two board areas, the actions of this operation aimed to (i) strengthen budget
management, (ii) create a more efficient civil service, (iii) reduce the role of the state in
commercial areas of the economy, (iv) improve public corporate governance, and (v)
remove administrative barriers to doing business. This operation contained six prior



                                             7
actions in line with best practice. All the prior actions for this operation were fully met, as
presented in table 2. The operation contained nine monitoring indicators, of which eight
have been achieved, and one partly achieved, by the closing date of this operation, as
shown in table 3. In fact, in four of the indicators (of which three related to strengthening
of budget management), the actual results exceed the expected outcomes. These are
marked by an ‘*’ in table 3.

                                  Table 2: Program Prior Actions

Operation       Policy                                                                            Status
                                                       Policy action
objectives      objectives
To improve      Strengthen           The Borrower has secured Cabinet approval for           Fulfilled
public sector   budget                the Budget Strategy and Outlook Paper, 2011
effectiveness   management.           indicating 2011 budget ceilings, consistent with
                                      the medium term macroeconomic model and
                                      fiscal projections.
                                     The Borrower has pursuant to the Memorandum
                                      of Action: Public Administration and Public
                                      Sector reform Program, adopted the Reclassifying        Fulfilled
                                      Public Bodies in Seychelles and Introducing a
                                      Standard Approach policy, categorizing public
                                      entities as regulatory, essential service-delivery or
                                      non-government service-delivery and defining
                                      new financing and accountability standards and
                                      mechanisms relative to such classifications.
                Create a more        The Borrower has adopted a new wage grading             Fulfilled
                efficient civil       structure to ensure consistency and transparency
                service and           in the grading of staff, alignment of remuneration
                public                to skills and levels of responsibility and the
                administration.       retention of skilled workforce in the professional
                                      cadres of the public sector.
                Improve public       The Borrower has pursuant to the Public                 Fulfilled
                enterprise            Enterprise Monitoring Act, 2009 established and
                corporate             appointed staff of the Public Enterprise
                                      Monitoring Division of the Ministry of Finance, to
                governance
                                      oversee the implementation of the Act.
To improve      Remove               The Borrower has enacted the Licensing Act,             Fulfilled
the business    administrative        2010, providing for transparent procedures for the
environment     barriers to           issuance and renewal of licenses, eliminating the
                                      number of commercial activities requiring ex ante
                doing
                                      licenses to operate, and streamlining the licensing
                business.             procedures.
                                     The Borrower has secured Cabinet approval of the
                                      Investment Bill, 2010 providing the framework           Fulfilled
                                      for the promotion, regulation and protection of
                                      investors and investments, and establishing the
                                      Seychelles Investment Board to facilitate and
                                      promote investments.




                                                   8
                            Table 3: Program Monitoring Indicators
 Operation                                                                                Status
                 Policy objectives        Monitoring indicators
 objectives
 To improve       Strengthen             The primary surplus remains positive and        Achieved *
 public sector    budget                  stabilizes
 effectiveness    management.            Comprehensiveness of information included       Achieved *
                                          in budget documentation improved
                                         Deviation between original appropriated
                                          budget and aggregate actual expenditure falls   Achieved *

                  Create a more          The number of top-level staff that are          Achieved *
                  efficient civil         integrated on the wage grid rises
                  service and
                  public
                  administration.
                  Improve public         Actual payments to Public Enterprises (as       Achieved
                  enterprise              defined in the Public Enterprise Act) in 2010
                  corporate               are at or below budgeted amounts, and loans      
                  governance              made in 2009 are repaid as due in 2010 
                  Reduce the role        Revenues to the government from the             Not Achieved
                  of the state in         commercial operations of L#Union Estate
                  commercial              increase
                  areas o f the
                  economy
 To improve       Remove                 Time required to obtain or renew a license      Achieved
 the business     administrative          declines
 environment      barriers to doing      The number of economic activities legally       Achieved
                  business.               requiring approval from the Seychelles
                                          Licensing Authority to start operations falls
                                         The number of economic investments legally      Achieved
                                          requiring Seychelles Investment Bureau
                                          approval to start operations falls



2.2 Major Factors Affecting Implementation:
        
22.    Several factors contributed to the successful implementation and outcome of the
operation. These factors are summarized into the following four sub-headings: (i)
adequacy of Government’s commitment, (ii) soundness of the background analysis, (iii)
assessment of the operation’s design, and (iv) risks identified at appraisal stage.

       Adequacy of Government’s commitment:

23.    Commitment to economic reform was expressed at the highest level, by the
President in his State of the Nation speech (February 2010) and the President’s National



                                                    9
Day speech (June 2010). Government’s reform priorities were expressed in the 2010
budget speech by the Minister of Finance (November 2009) as well as in the MEFP and
Letter of Development Policy to DPL 2. The Government’s objectives were to
consolidate macroeconomic stability; complete debt restructuring and achieve external
sustainability, improve economic efficiency and raise growth through the implementation
of a second generation of structural reforms. This operation was fully aligned with the
Government’s reform priorities, and build on the previous operation following an
incremental sequencing path to push the reforms deeper. The drive for reform came from
the Ministry of Finance and was led by the Vice President and Minister of Finance.
Therefore the reform agenda had the political backing at the highest level. The team of
reformers showed strong capacity and commitment to attain the objectives set out.

      Soundness of the background analysis:

24.    The breadth and depth of knowledge base underpinned the policy areas
supported by this operation. Analytical works undertaken by the Bank and other
partners helped to undertake evidence based policy dialogue with the authorities during
the design of the operation, and the knowledge was used to shape the operation for
greater impact. The analytical pieces produced prior to or during the design of the
operation were guided by the reform priorities of the Government. The core analytical
works that provided the underpinnings for this operation are the following:

          a. The Public Expenditure Review by the Bank in 2009 highlighted priority
             policy measures for public sector wage structure reforms and public
             expenditure management.
          b. The Public Expenditure Review 2 by the Bank in 2010 provided technical
             advice on how to improve governance of the public enterprise sector.
          c. The Strategy for Strengthening Budget Management in 2008 and the work
             on Further Steps towards Sound Fiscal Management in 2009 by the IMF
             informed the design of the component on improving public financial
             management.
          d. The Public Financial Management Performance report in 2008 by the
             European Commission contributed to the analysis of public financial
             management shortcomings.
          e. The Administrative Barriers to private Sector Development and Business
             Environment in the Seychelles by the Bank in 2009, the Review of the
             Policy, Regulatory and Administrative Environment for Investment in
             2004 by the World Bank Group’s Foreign Investment Advisory Service
             (FIAS) and the unpublished World Bank’s Development Policy Review in
             2005 were helpful in the design for the reform program to improve the
             business climate.


                                          10
Taken together, these studies provided a strong analytical background for the design of
the operation.

       Assessment of the operation’s design:

25.     This operation supported the continued progress and consolidation of
reforms that started in 2009 and that was supported by the first DPL which was
approved by the Board in November 2009. This operation, like the first one was well
focused. It involved a few sectors and a few institutions. Although focused on a few
areas, the complexity of policy areas supported by the operation was different and
required different approaches of intervention. While reforms in public financial
management were part of an on-going program, reforms to reduce the administrative
barriers to doing business were new and necessitated change in the mindset of the
agencies involved. While strengthening oversight of public enterprises to improve
accountability and performance was welcomed and supported by the civil society,
continued public administration reforms were politically sensitive. Overall, the operation
was quite complex and required constant dialogue with the implementing agencies. The
Bank also provided support through technical assistance in areas where capacity was
limited. For example, the Bank provided assistance to the PEMD in drafting the Board
Appointment and Remuneration Policies. Identifying and sequencing the building blocks
for the reform agenda and building consensus in the process, was important. The process
benefited from the fact that only a few partners were engaged in the country.
Coordination among the partners was strong. All partners aligned their programs to the
priority needs of the country, and were guided by the existing knowledge base. The
design of the operation continues to be relevant in the current context. Capacity is still
limited and the reform agenda should be focused, involving few ministries/agencies.

      Risks identified at appraisal stage:

26.      At appraisal stage, risks that could impact on the implementation of the
reform program were identified and qualified into two categories: moderate and
substantial. The moderate risks were: (a) continued global economic recession leading to
a fall in tourist arrivals and/or tourism revenues, (b) social and political tensions arising
from vulnerable groups being adversely affected by the reform program, (c) unplanned
emergency expenditure priorities emerging from the decline in capital investment in
recent years; (d) increased piracy attacks in Seychelles waters reducing tourism and
fishing activities; and (e) reduced ownership in the run up to 2011 elections and policy
slippage. The risks rated as substantial were: (f) fiduciary risks, (g) lack of capacity to
implement the reform program, and (h) risks of natural disasters. All the risks that were
identified were relevant at the time of the design of the operation and the mitigation
measures taken were adequate. The global economic environment remained uncertain



                                              11
and global recovery prolonged and therefore the economy remained vulnerable to the
global economic uncertainty. Also, the specificity and geographic position of the
economy made it (and still makes it) vulnerable to climate change and piracy attacks.
Since Presidential election was to take place at a time just after the economy was affected
by the crisis, risks to policy slippage were high. Although, none of the risks identified at
appraisal stage occurred during the implementation period, the country faced a serious
drought just after the closing date of the operation and this had a significant fiscal impact
– the government spent SR 100m on the purchase of desalinization plants. These plants
are extremely power-hungry, and have risen by over 10% fuel used for electricity
generation on Mahe.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization:

27.     The Program Development Objectives were clear and the aims of the different
components were well described. These helped in formulating appropriate M&E
indicators to follow up on the achievements of the objectives.

      M&E Design:

28.     The Program Document for the operation included a policy matrix which linked
policy actions to medium term expected outcomes (by 2012) and intermediate monitoring
indicators, for each of the components. This matrix was prepared jointly by the
Government and the Bank. Eight out of the nine monitoring indicators were output
indicators. They were carefully crafted to be either directly linked to the prior actions or
which would be a result following implementation of the prior actions. The remaining
indicator was an outcome indicator which cannot be directly associated only with this
operation. The indicator is ‘primary surplus remains positive and stabilizes’. The
indicators identified were adequate to monitor progress toward the PDO. Data required
for these monitoring indicators were the authorities’ own data and did not require DPL-
specific survey.

      M&E Implementation:

29.      The data used for M&E purposes were all official data collected from
Government agencies (Ministry of Finance, Seychelles Licensing Authority, Seychelles
Investment Bureau and the Department of Public Administration). Data from these
institutions are highly reliable and very up to date. Data on PEFA assessment was
obtained from the 2011 PEFA report. During the ICR process, gathering the monitoring
indicators was not a challenge. The agencies already had the data and monitoring became
a norm for some of these agencies.

      M&E Utilization:


                                             12
30.    There is no clear indication that the monitoring indicators were evaluated and
used to inform further decision making and resource allocation during the period of the
operation. However, agencies have mentioned that through the two DPOs, they have been
exposed to the culture of monitoring and evaluation and understand its importance. The
Minister of Finance explicitly mentioned that more fundamental economic and social
changes is required to ensure fiscal sustainability and growth for the country, but this
should be done through programs like the DPO from the Bank and EEF from the Fund
because such programs provide the ability to monitor and measure success or failure,
thereby providing useful information for decision making.

2.4 Expected Next Phase/Follow-up Operation (if any):

31.     Following the successful completion the two DPOs, the Government has
requested a programmatic series for the next three years. The new series will help
deepen the reforms already underway. At this stage, preliminary discussions points out
that the focus will be on: (i) strengthening public financial management, (ii) improve
investment climate, (iii) strengthen social safety nets and (iv) improve governance and
efficiency of selected state owned enterprises.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
(To current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)

Overall rating: Satisfactory

32.      This program is rated satisfactory as its objectives, design and
implementation are consistent with Seychelles current development priorities, and
its objectives were met, and in some cases exceeding expectations. As the results
framework shows, significant results were achieved by the GOS in full and in some cases
exceeded. In particular, (i) the ability of the government to deliver a primary surplus of
8.7 percent of GDP (above the target 7.4 percent) in fiscal year 2010 is impressive since
the debt restructuring deals had largely been concluded the previous year, (ii) the
movement from a PEFA P1-6 rating of a D to an A in 3 years is equally impressive, as is
(iii) the fall in budget deviation rates from 16 percent to 5 percent - again over the target
of 10 percent, and (iv) increase in the number of top-level staff that are integrated on the
wage grid was 366 compared to the expected 139. The program development objectives,
namely to improve public sector effectiveness and the business environment are as
relevant currently as they were at the time of approval of the operation. These areas are




                                               13
reflected in the draft Country Partnership Strategy 2012-20152 and are also priority areas
of reforms in the new request for a programmatic DPO series from the Government
highlighting these two areas as areas of reform priorities.

33.      Objectives: The operation’s objectives have been achieved and remain relevant in
the current country context. The objectives set in this operation are consistent with the
objectives of the Seychelles’s reform program and with the Bank’s Interim Strategy Note
FY10-11. Both these documents recognize the importance of sound business environment
to attract investment and boost private sector development, and an effective public sector
to sustain social outcomes. These objectives continue to be relevant in the medium term.
While business environment has improved, yet there are challenges ahead, as reflected by
the Doing Business Indicators 2012 – the country is ranked at 103 out of the 183
countries rated, an improvement from 109 in 2011. Figure 1 shows the sub-categories,
highlighting that improving business environment is still largely relevant. Improving
public sector efficiency continues to be of high relevance for Seychelles in the current
context, despite improvements have been achieved, as reflected by two indicators in the
World Governance Indicators 2010 – Government effectiveness and regulatory quality
(figure 2). In regulatory quality, Seychelles is ranked in the bottom third of countries
worldwide while it is ranked in the bottom two thirds in terms of government
effectiveness. In both these indicators, Seychelles have experienced improvements over
the last few years.

                   Figure 1: Seychelles ranking in Doing Business topics 2012




                    Source: Doing Business database



                         Figure 2: Seychelles World Governance Indicators 2010



2
    The Country Partnership Strategy is currently under preparation and may go to Board in Q3 FY12



                                                      14
34.     Design: The project design was consistent with the project objectives and such
design remains relevant in the current context. Seychelles is a small economy with small
pool of experts and lack of expertise in a few areas. There is also a lack of knowledge in a
number of areas which makes decisions about reforms quite difficult. The program was
well designed. It included a small number of reforms based on Seychelles-specific
analysis in areas of reform priorities. The program was developed in close coordination
with the IMF to ensure that it reflected the expertise of both institutions and
complemented each other’s program for the benefit of the country. Taking into
consideration the capacity constraints that the country face, this operation used
incremental approach in dialogue and building capacity as the operation was moving
ahead in the specific areas of reforms, namely PFM, business environment, and public
sector efficiency. The operation concentrated on strengthening budget management,
adopting a new wage grid, building institutional structure to improve governance in
SOEs, creating transparent procedures for business and creating the legal framework for
promoting, regulating and protecting investors and investments. Going forward, such a
design will remain highly relevant as the country still lacks capacity and knowledge to
embark on too many reforms at the same time. On capacity constraints, it should be noted
that the authorities are upgrading skills in some areas (economic forecasting and PFM,
for example) at a rapid pace, with the support of the IMF and other development partners.
35.     Implementation: The implementation arrangements were relevant and continue to
be relevant in the current context. The driving force for reforms came from the Ministry
of Finance. Sector ministries and agencies in the country highlighted that this role should
continue to be played by the Ministry of Finance as this ministry has the capacity of
looking at the macro perspective and effectively plays the role of policy coordination
within the Government. While the Ministry of Finance should continue to lead the reform
process, the team of reformers may have to be expanded to include reform champions



                                            15
from sector ministries, as the reforms that the country will undertake in the medium term
will be more at sector level and ownership may need to be at the sector level.
3.2 Achievement of Program Development Objectives
(Including brief discussion of causal linkages between policy actions supported by operations and
outcomes)
Overall rating: Satisfactory
36.     The operation has achieved its development objectives of improving public sector
effectiveness and the business environment. The indicators measuring achievement with
respect to these two overall objectives, as well as specific objectives within these two
overall objectives are discussed below.
Objective 1: Improving public sector effectiveness - Satisfactory
37.     In support to improving public sector effectiveness, this operation supported four
prior actions and monitored achievement by six indicators. The reform areas comprised
of (i) strengthening budget management, (ii) creating a more efficient civil service and
public administration, (iii) improving public enterprise corporate governance, and (iv)
reducing the role of the state in commercial areas of the economy. All the prior actions
were met and most of the monitoring indicators were achieved.
       Strengthening budget management – Highly Satisfactory
38.    This is the area where reforms have been the most successful, and is the result of
longer engagement through DPL1, thorough TA and ESW by the Bank and the IMF,
where political commitment was very strong in light of the huge fiscal correction
required for debt sustainability, and where the capacity of reformers was the highest. The
government has remained committed to reforms in this area and has requested further
support in this area in the next operations. In this operation, the Government has
exceeded all the targets in this area, and has implemented further reforms throughout
2011 even when the DPO was already presented to the Board in 2010.
39.     This operation supported strengthening the credibility of the annual budget by
ensuring that the expenditure framework is consistent with the macroeconomic
framework, by documenting the revenue forecasts, projections of the macroeconomic
indicators and the principal expenditure focus for 2011 budget. This prior action for this
operation was the preparation of this document (Budget Strategy and Outlook Paper,
2011) and its approval by Cabinet. This approach has been adopted by the Government
and the same principle of linking expenditure framework with macroeconomic
framework will be adopted even for the 2012 budget. The monitoring indicator directly
linked to this action was to improve comprehensiveness of information included in
budget documentation. This has been largely achieved as reflected by an improved rating
in the PEFA assessment in question PI-6 from a rating of D in 2008 to a rating of A in
2011. In addition to the detailed information on revenues and expenditures, the budget


                                               16
document now includes some of the macro-economic assumptions (including estimates of
aggregate growth, inflation and exchange rate), fiscal deficit defined according to GFS,
deficit financing and anticipated composition, debt stock, prior year’s budget outturn,
current year’s revised budget, and explanation of budget implications of new policy
initiatives, with estimates of the budgetary impact of all major revenue policy changes
and/or some major changes to expenditure programs. The budget document can be
further improved however by reporting on more macro-economic assumptions and by
including the overview of financial assets (cash and bank balances, remittances,
investments, advances and imprest) for the foregoing and current year.
40.      The operation also supported reclassifying public bodies to ensure consistency in
budget treatment and human resource rules and guidelines for all public sector
institutions. This exercise was supported by the prior action of reclassifying of public
bodies and introducing a standard approach policy, categorizing public entities as
regulatory, essential service-delivery or non-government service-delivery and defining
new financing and accountability standards and mechanisms relative to such
classifications. The prior action has been met, the exercise was completed and the new
definitions were used in the preparation of the 2011 budget. The same classification will
also been used for the 2012 budget exercise, schedule for November 30 2011. There was
no direct monitoring indicator linked to this prior action.
41.     There were two monitoring indicator for the PFM component which cannot be
directly linked to the actions supported by the operation, but which could be resulted
partly due to the actions. These two indicators are (i) the primary surplus remains positive
and stabilizes, and (ii) the deviation between original appropriated budget and aggregate
actual expenditure falls. Both these indicators have been achieved. The primary surplus
was positive in 2010 at 8.7 percent of GDP down from 14.8 percent in 2009. Revised
estimates for 2011 (as of October 2011) show that primary balance for 2010 will also be
positive at 4.5 percent of GDP and the forecast for the next three years are around 5
percent. The deviation between actual and appropriated expenditure fell and exceeded
expectations. The deviation was 16 percent in 2009 and the expectation was that by 2010,
the deviation would go down to 10 percent. However, actual deviation in 2010 went
down to 5 percent and the same percentage is maintained in 2011 (as shown by October
2011 revised estimates).
      Creating a more efficient civil service and public administration - Highly
       Satisfactory
42.     In 2009, the Government adopted a Public Administration Reform Memorandum
which outlines its reform priorities in this area. The three major components of the
memorandum were (i) the contracting out of non-core public functions with a view to
increase efficiency and reduce the number of civil servants, (ii) the revision of the wage
grid to ensure greater transparency in public sector wages, and (iii) rolling back the State


                                            17
from commercial activities to increasing the role of the private sector reducing
government’s contingent liabilities. While the first component was supported by the first
development policy operation, this operation supported the second and third components.
The third component is dealt with in the next section ‘reducing the role of the state in
commercial areas of the economy’ below.
43.     This operation supported the application of a new wage grid to dispose of the
complex allowances system that was used to supplement low monthly salaries and
thereby improve transparency and fiscal management. The prior action in support of this
component was fulfilled. This component was directly monitored by an indicator on the
number of top-level staff integrated on the wage grid. Again the result exceeded
expectations. The number of top-level staff on the wage integrated in the wage grid in
August 2010 was 59, and it was expected that this number will increase to 139 by August
2011. However, by this date, the top level staff integrated in the new wage grid increased
to 366. The Department of Public Administration is monitoring integration into the wage
grid by the different categories. The top level categories are defined in the new system by
SG9, SG10, SG11 and SG12, and the number of staffs in each category by August 2011
was 178, 69, 56 and 63 respectively. The implementation of the new wage grid was
within the fiscal framework and wages and salaries as a percentage of recurrent revenue
has stabilized at a much lower level – 20% in 2011 compared to 70% in 2005, as shown
in figure 3.
                           Figure 3: Wages and Salaries, 2005 - 2014




      Reducing the role of the state in commercial areas of the economy – Satisfactory
44.   This operation continued to monitor progress on reduction of the role of the state
in commercial areas, although not directly supporting by a prior action. This is to


                                            18
continue monitoring an area that was supported by the previous operation, which
included a sharp decline overall in subsidies to public enterprises. As monitoring
indicator, this operation picked the achievement of reforms at L’Union Estate. The
Government signed a management contract with a private operator and as a result
discontinued to be directly involved in the commercial operation of the L’Union Estate.
The Government was expected to receive revenue of SR 2 million by May 2011.
However, the Government did not receive any revenue from the private operator. The
restructuring process seems to have failed to be implemented as it was designed. In
November 2011, the President announced the creation of a new funding body for La
Digue island, aimed at raising funds and approving fund allocation for projects to develop
the island, and this Trust Fund will be partly financed from the profits of L'Union Estate.
At the time of preparation of this ICR, there was no clarity on this issue. It was not clear
whether L’Union Estate is managed by the private sector and whether Government
discontinued direct involvement in the commercial operations of L’Union Estate.
45.     However, it should also be pointed out that L’Union Estate is not the only area of
heavy government involvement in commercial areas. Heavily subsidized operations of
the Housing Financial Corporation and the Development Bank of Seychelles limit greatly
the ability of banks to expand into the mortgage loans and small business loans markets
respectively. Also, the Government has side-tracked somewhat on the policy of
elimination of subsidies to public entities, due to unforeseen but substantive losses made
by Air Seychelles, and Government had to bail out the national carrier (soon after the
closure of the operation). Help to the airline was originally provided though government-
guaranteed loans from Nouvobanq, but government took over debt service almost
immediately. Mounting losses in the second half of 2011 triggered additional subsidies.
Total budget support to airline in 2011 will exceed 1% of GDP, and is projected to
continue into 2012. Having said that, it is worthwhile point out that the commitment to
eliminate subsidies to public entities is still strong, as besides Air Seychelles, the
Government has not increased subsidies to any public entities in 2011 compared to the
2010 figures, as shown in table 4. Also, a stabilization fund (SR 50m) was created to
subsidize prices for fuel and electricity through transfers, respectively, to SEYPEC and
PUC. However, 2012 will see the elimination of the stabilization fund and, indeed, an
expansion of targeted transfers to low-income households.




                                            19
                             Table 4: Subsidies to Public Enterprises. 2007-2011
                                                     2007              2008            2009          2010               2011 (Rev) 

          Operating subsidies                                                                                            

          Seychelles Investment Bureau               4,357             3,000           2,530         3,563              4,422 

          Islands Development Company                8,000             7,000           0             0                  0 

          Seychelles Public Transport Corporation    15,000            14,611          0             0                  0 

          Property Management Corporation            5,700             5,700           0             0                  0 

          Seychelles Institute of Management         8,421             9,221           8,344         6,460              0 

          Small Enterprise Promotion Agency          3,500             3,500           4,128                             

          Seychelles Broadcasting Corporation        25,000            35,500          32,500        37,820             48,977 

          L'Union Estate Company                     1,799             0               0             0                  0 

          Public Utilities Corporation               77,000            0               0             0                  0 

          SMB                                        68,000            0               0             0                  0 

          Indian Ocean Tuna Ltd                      22,500            0               0             0                  0 

          Air Seychelles                             0                 0               0             0                  122,243 

          Subtotal                                   239,277           78,532          47,502        47,843             175,642 

          Subtotal % of GDP                          4.6               0.9             0.5           0.4                1.5 

          Subtotal % of GDP (except A. Sey)          4.6               0.9             0.5           0.4                0.4 

          Capital grants                                                                                                 

          Seychelles Public Transport Corporation    0                 5,389           8,750         12,528             0 

          Seychelles Broadcasting Corporation        5,000             5,000           4,947         31,617             0 

          Public Utilities Corporation               15,828            22,135          106,801       336,023            200,000 

          Seychelles Institute of Management         0                 0               0             13,000             0 

          Island Development Company                 5,000             0               0             0                  0 

          Subtotal                                   25,828            32,524          120,498       393,168            200,000 

          Subtotal % of GDP                                     0.5              0.4           1.2               3.4                  1.7 

          Total                                             265,105          111,056   168,000               441,011             375,642 

          Total % of GDP                                        5.1              1.3           1.6               3.8                  3.1 

          Total % of GDP (except A. Sey)                        5.1              1.3           1.6               3.8                2.11 


  


         Improving public enterprise corporate governance - Satisfactory
46.     This operation supported improving accountability and performance of SOEs
through the establishment and operationalization of a Public Enterprise Monitoring
Division (PEMD). The prior action related to this was fulfilled. While the division was
established through the enactment of the Public Enterprise Monitoring Act, its


                                                                      20
operationalization was not very smooth. The division has seen significant turmoil since
the departure of the expatriate manager in April 2010, following internal disagreements
within the Ministry on policy issues. Her replacement came 6 to 8 months later. The
capacity of PEMD to monitor the performance of public enterprises and to provide
advisory services to public institutions to prepare performance monitoring indicators has
been strengthened by the recruitment of three financial officers in August 2011.
However, the three staff that has recently been hired replaced the three staff that was
hired at the beginning of the program, which left over the past 6 months. In general, the
unit has received serious push-back from the companies (especially in a few well-known
cases) and have had their authority reduced by the removal of the Banks from the Public
Enterprise Law for dubious policy reasons. 
 
47.      However, besides the turmoil mentioned above in operationalizing the
institutions, the passage of the Act and the creation of the PEMD were significant
achievements, some progress has been made and these could not have been achieved
without a strong institution that has high-level political support. The division has
successfully introduced a Board Appointment Policy which is predicated on several
factors including Board members collective responsibility for the long term success of the
public enterprise, re-appointment of Board members at regular intervals subject to
continued satisfactory performance, and formal, rigorous and transparent procedures for
the appointment of new members. The division has also successfully introduced a Board
Remuneration Policy which aligns the level of responsibility and work. The division will
conduct a workshop, in November 2011 with the support of the Bank, with all financial
officers of SOEs on developing monitoring indicators that will be used to assess
performance as well as detect early warning signs of distress, if any. The associated
monitoring indicator for this component has been achieved. The monitoring indicator had
two components: (i) actual payments to public enterprises are at or below budgeted
amounts (and the two agencies to monitor are the Public Utility Company (PUC) and the
Seychelles Public Transport Company (SPTC)), and (ii) loans made in 2009 are repaid as
due in 2010. Transfer to SPTC was above budgeted amount. While the budgeted amount
was SR 3 million, actual transfer to SPTC was SR 12.5 million. The reason for an
increase in transferred compared to the budgeted amount is simply because the
Government received 12 buses and coaches as capital grants from the Peoples Republic
of China and the SPTC had to pay duty on them, as the Ministry of Finance no longer has
the discretion to waive duties on imports. Therefore the Government transferred an
additional SR 9.5 million to SPTC for the latter to pay the duties. In an accounting sense,
this transaction is just a transfer from Ministry of Finance to SPTC, which eventually got
back to Ministry of Finance/ consolidated Fund. Transfer to PUC was also above
budgeted amount (SR 336 million instead of SR 126.5 million). However additional
funds were allocated to PUC due to the fact that the country received additional revenue



                                            21
than budgeted and Government negotiated with IMF to allocate part of that revenue to
urgent infrastructure. Thus PUC was given additional funds late 2010. Loans of SR330
million due in 2010 was repaid.


Objective 2: Improving the business environment – Highly Satisfactory
48.     This operation supported improving the business environment through two prior
actions and monitored achievement by three monitoring indicators. The reform areas
comprised of reducing administrative barriers to doing business by setting out transparent
procedures for issuance and renewal of licenses, reducing a number of unnecessary
licenses, and redefining the role of the investment bureau by eliminating its role in
approval process for new investments. The operation supported improving business
environment through revisions of the legal framework by setting up the new Licenses Act
2010 and the revised Investment Bill 2010. As such, the number of applications which
are responded within 14 days has increased from 65 percent to 100 percent. This is a
highly successful outcome.
49.      The number of economic activities legally requiring approval from Seychelles
Licensing Authority declined from 180 in September 2010 to 26 in May 2011, and the
number of economic investments legally requiring approval from Seychelles Investment
Bureau (SIB) to start operation fell from 26 to 3. This is also remarkable achievement and
in a short time span this number may come down to zero. The three activities that the SIB
still grants approval are the following: (i) manufacturing industries, (ii) ICT activities,
and (consultancy services. Manufacturing industries will be taken over by the department
of industries for approval of the concept. This is because this department required
submitting their plans to the planning authority. The approval for the concept is still
required as it supports the request for land in most cases and it checks the compliance of
the activity with relevant policy guidelines, regulations and legislation. Approval for ICT
activities is still with SIB until DICT have their front office staff for same. For
consultancy services as it is difficult for the Immigration department to issue Gainful
Occupation Permit (GOP) without the letter from the Investment Bureau.
50.     The Government’s reform program for the medium term includes a few specific
areas of reforms which may improve the investment and business climate further. These
include measures aimed to speed up procedures to start up and closing businesses, make
the process of obtaining a construction permit faster and cheaper, (iii) speed up
procedures for registering a business by allowing for more efficient and less costly
transfer and registration of property titles, (iv) improve access to credit, (v) enhance
efficiency in paying taxes by reducing administrative burdens on companies to comply
with tax requirements, (v) enhance trading across borders by reducing the number of
documents and time to trade, and (vi) strengthen procedures for the enforcement of
contracts by streamlining the time, costs and procedures involved in enforcing a contract.


                                            22
3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
(Combining relevance, achievement of PDOs)
Rating: Satisfactory
51.      The operation has achieved the Program Development Objectives set at the
appraisal stage of the operation. However, the objective of improving public sector
effectiveness is rated satisfactory while the objective of improving investment climate is
rated highly satisfactory. Therefore, a combination of these two implies that achievement
of program development objectives is satisfactory. The operation objectives, design, and
implementation arrangements were relevant at the appraisal stage and continue to be
relevant in the current context, and therefore rated highly satisfactory. High relevance
and satisfactory achievement of objectives justifies an overall outcome rating of
satisfactory for the operation.  
52.     The overall satisfactory rating is also based on consideration to the risks related to
the continuity to the reform program towards the medium term development outcomes.
As this is a single tranche stand-alone operation, several of the prior actions would
require further follow-up actions to bring expected results in the medium term. The Bank
will be supporting the Government’s reform program in the context of the CPS FY12-15,
which is currently being drafted. The reform agenda of the Government is clear and is
both deepening of the on-going reforms, and broadening areas of reforms. Advanced
discussions with the Government portrays that while Government’s commitment to
reforms is very high, the appetite for reforms in public enterprises is not very strong. The
Government wants to move slowly and cautiously to ensure that it does not lose its
political capital. Therefore, achievement of satisfactory outcomes is ensured as reforms
seem to be sustainable, but it might take longer than expected in the area of public
enterprises.
3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(If any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
53.     Two components of this operation directly impact on the job market. The first one
is the adoption of the wage grid which had the objective of retaining skilled workforce in
the professional cadre in the public service. The second one is the improvement of
business climate which in principle would have established more enterprises and created
more jobs. Estimates as at September 2010 compared to March 2010 show that average
number of total employees has increased from 43302 to 44365 by creating more than
1,000 jobs in the private sector. Most of these jobs have been created in the construction
sector, wholesale and retail trade and accommodation and food service activities. There
has also been an increased in average earnings from SR 6,178 to SR 6,704. The other



                                               23
components that this operation supported may have had little impact on the labor market
and may not have impacted on poverty directly.
(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
(particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional development)
54.     This operation helped in building capacity for a number of public agencies in
Seychelles. At the Ministry of Finance the capacity to prepare more comprehensive
budget documents including forecasts, ceilings and linking expenditure to
macroeconomic framework, has been built. This exercise has force the forecasting
division at the ministry to improve its internal capacity to ensure that it uses better
approaches and tools to forecasts macroeconomic variables like GDP growth, inflation
rates, exchange rate, interest rates, and unemployment. The forecasting division works in
close collaboration with the statistical office in this exercise, and the Bank is supporting a
capacity building exercise at the statistical office through the Statistical Capacity
Building Trust Fund (STATCAP).
55.     The capacity at the Ministry of Finance in monitoring budget execution has also
been improved as the ministry is constantly monitoring deviations between allocated
funds and actual expenditure for each ministry, departments and agencies on a monthly
basis. This has been facilitated even more since the operation supported reclassifying of
public bodies to ensure consistent budget treatment. The Ministry of Finance presents the
results of these exercises during their monthly meetings chaired by the Minister of
Finance. In case of high deviations, necessary measures are being undertaken to rectify
the situation.
56.      The capacity at the Department of Public Administration has improved at this
department has the ability to simplify its wage system. The new wage grid was intended
to attract and retain qualified and high-performing staff. Having gone through this
exercise, the department is now confident that even the low level staffs can be brought
into the new wage system which is much simpler, avoiding all the complex allowances.
The department has already started to consolidate the bottom grades in the new wage
grid.  
57.     This operation also improved capacity at the Ministry of Finance to monitor
expenditure and efficiency of public enterprises, through the creation and making
operational the Public Enterprise Monitoring Division. This division has successfully
introduced an appointment policy and a remuneration policy for public enterprise board
members. This division with the support of the Seychelles Institute of Management is
dispensing course on governance to high cadres of SOEs in the country and will in
November 2011 build capacity of all finance officers of SOEs to design monitoring
indicators for their own enterprises.
(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative, if any)



                                               24
58.     There were no unintended consequences
3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
(Optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)
59.     There were no beneficiary survey and/or stakeholder workshop.


4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Overall rating: Moderate
60.     The political risk is negligible to low. As highlighted in this document,
Presidential election was to take during the implementation period of this operation and
this could lead to policy slippage. However, reforms remained on track, despite the year
2011 also experienced Parliamentary elections. Further political risk is mitigated by
Seychelles’ well established tradition of political stability, dialogue and social harmony.
61.     The risk to move away from strengthening budget management is negligible
to low. The Government, with the support of several development partners and the Fund
is incrementally improving its budget management every year, and making its budget
document more comprehensive and transparent. In this operation the Government
included in its budget prepared its budget the issuance of binding sector ceilings. The
budget unit at the Ministry of Finance is monitoring on a monthly basis variances
between budget allocations and actual expenditure for all agencies and ministries. The
Government has requested the support of the Bank to build institutional capacity to
improve efficiency in budget allocation and monitoring. The Bank will assist with the
implementation of the BOOST tool.
62.     Risk to policy reversal in improving business environment is low. The
Government is highly committed to accelerate private sector development in the country
and is ready to facilitate that process as a priority in the reform agenda going forward.
This operation has supported institutional and legal set up to eliminate unnecessary
licenses and redefining the role of the investment board. The Government has requested
support from the Bank and the IFC Advisory Services to support them in improving the
environment for doing business in the country. Several committees have been set up
under the chairmanship of the Vice President and the Ministry of Investment to ensure
that the business climate is improved and all red tape are removed.
63.     The risk to creating a more efficient civil service and public administration is
moderate. The government adopted a Public Administration Reform Memorandum in
2009 and has over the last two years implemented the reforms intended, including
politically sensitive reforms like contracting out of non-core public functions,
implementation of a simplified wage grid which eliminated the complex allowances
system, and eliminating non-core positions. Going forward, the Government has to



                                                25
ensure that the new institutions in place are followed and more staffs are trained at the
Department of Public Administration to ensure that reforms undertaken are sustained.
The Bank is supporting in building capacity of the Department of Public Administration
for change management, project management, and other areas needed to improve its
effectiveness through an Institutional Development Fund. However, given that the
country is out of the crisis situation, risks to deepening reforms in this area exist.
64.      Risk of policy reversal in the areas of public enterprise governance and
reducing the role of the state in commercial areas of the economy is moderate. The
Government is committed to improve the policy and institutional base for the country to
attract investment, improve competitiveness and create an efficient civil service. All these
have been demonstrated by the ownership for reforms implemented, despite the financial
crisis. The commitment to maintain the reform drive is still high, as evidenced by the
request for a programmatic series of development policy operation starting this year, and
an extension of the Extended Fund Facility from the IMF. However, the risk to
sustainability of outcomes in the areas related to public enterprise reforms is moderate.
Although the capacity for the Public Enterprise Monitoring Division has been strengthen
with the recruitment of three finance officers in September 2011, it is not clear whether or
not monitoring and evaluation will take place as expected, or even if it takes place,
whether or not the recommendations will be implemented outright. However, the division
is working with public enterprises to build capacity of officers and directors of these
enterprises to adopt monitoring framework. The division has planned a workshop for
November to build capacity of the SOEs to monitor financial performance, and the Bank
will be supporting this workshop. The finance officers recruited has already started
monitoring the monthly financial statements filed by the SOEs and are building capacity
for those SOEs who cannot on their own produce these monthly statements. The division
in collaboration with the Seychelles Institute of Management (SIM) is delivering courses
for directors of the SOEs to ensure proper management. Such courses take place at the
SIM 4 times a year, and also in house on request of the SOEs so that more people are
trained at their own convenient time. Sixty directors have already been trained. The
division has also successfully introduced Board Appointment and Remuneration Policies.
The risk to reducing the role of the state in commercial areas of the economy is moderate.
The Government has successfully reduced subsidies to state-owned enterprises and ended
the monopoly rights of the former Seychelles Marketing Board. However, there are other
areas of activities that the Government is still involved, for example housing finance,
banking services and airline. Further reducing the role of the state in the economy may
prove challenging, as people who benefit from the current regime may resist reforms that
threaten their interests. However, outright privatization may not be the solution in any of
these remaining institutions. There is a need for further analytical work to understand the
model that would best suit the purpose they serve and build consensus to attain the most
efficient structure.


                                            26
65.    Economic risk related to external shocks is moderate. The risk of external
shocks associated with the uncertainties in the global economic environment is
considerable and the economy remains vulnerable to these shocks given its large
dependence for its tourism industry on the European market. The external environment
may also affect aid and foreign investments in the economy and thus impact development
outcome.
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(Relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)
5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
(i.e., performance through lending phase)
Rating: Satisfactory
66.     The Bank’s performance in identification was satisfactory. This operation
continued to support the broad areas supported by the last operation but deepened
reforms implementation. The areas of support are those that are identified by the
Government as high reform priorities based on consultations with the IMF and other
development partners, on available knowledge, and which are also highlighted in the ISN
for the country. The Bank also realistically assessed the implementation capacity of the
country and identified areas which could be successfully be reformed and continue to
build capacity through technical assistance and dialogue for deeper and broader reforms,
going forward. The Bank designed the reform program also based on consultation with
other development partners to ensure that donors complement each other and keep the
administrative costs for reforms low for the authorities.
67.     The Bank’s performance in preparation was satisfactory. The design of the reform
program was largely based on analytical pieces produced either by the Bank or other
partners. These included Public Expenditure Reviews highlighting policy measures for
public sector wage structure, public expenditure management, and governance of public
enterprises; the Strategy for Strengthening Budget Management and the work on Further
Steps Towards Sound Fiscal Management, and the Public Financial Management
Performance report focusing on public financial management; the Administrative
Barriers to private Sector Development and Business Environment in the Seychelles, the
Review of the Policy Regulatory and Administrative Environment for Investment
focusing on improving business environment. These economic and sector works were
used in policy dialogue with the authorities to prepare the program.
68.     The Bank’s performance in appraisal was satisfactory. At appraisal the team was
constituted by staffs from the relevant sectors that were leading dialogue in their
respective areas of expertise and also providing technical assistance to implementing
agencies. The team assessed the risks that implementation of this program may face and



                                              27
candidly highlighted same to the authorities and in the program document. The team also
worked closely with the Government to identify mitigation measures so that the impact
on the program can be limited in case risks occur, and also to ensure flexibility in case of
serious impact.
(b) Quality of Supervision
(including M&E arrangements)
Rating: Satisfactory
69.      This operation was a single-tranche operation that was approved based on
fulfillment of the six prior actions. The team continued to be engaged with the authorities
to follow up on implementation of reforms beyond just fulfilling the prior actions and
also continued discussion to prepare for further reforms in any next operation. These
discussions were important to ensure that the country continue to keep the reform
momentum and policy reversal does not take place, more so as the country was already
out of the crisis mode. In 2010, GDP grew by 6.2 percent and there were some indication
of possible complacency. As Presidential election were scheduled towards the end of this
operation, the team ensured through continuous discussions that the gains achieved in
PFM reforms do not slip away.
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
70.     The performance in ensuring quality at entry and at supervision is both rated
satisfactory. Therefore the overall Bank performance is also satisfactory. The Bank team
have responded to the request of the Government to support the authorities reform its
priority areas, based on analytical work and maintained thorough and constant dialogue
during supervision to ensure that the risk for policy slippage do not occur.
5.2 Borrower Performance
√ Click here if the Government and the Implementing Agency is the same or indistinguishable
(a) Government Performance/ Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance/ Overall
Borrower Performance
Rating: Highly Satisfactory
71.     In this operation, the Government and implementing agency cannot be
distinguished separately. Therefore the rating in this section should be considered as
overall rating for the borrower. The Ministry of Finance was the coordinating body for
the reform program and responsible for the management of the reforms. Several units
under the Ministry of Finance were involved in the reform process.
72.    Government’s commitment to reform was strong and the Vice President and
Minister of Finance were leading the reform program with a team of champions, mostly
from the Ministry of Finance and the Central Bank. The Government owns the reform
program as the areas of reforms were the priority areas of the Government and the


                                              28
Government was highly involved in the design of this operation which was based on
analytical work and the Government very well understood the weaknesses in the
economy. The President and the Vice President were very vocal about the need for
reform and its benefits. They implemented an effective outreach strategy and on several
occasions allowed the public to ask questions about the reform program, and this
provides an opportunity to explain and get buy in from the generally public which was
crucial to keep the reform momentum.
73.     The Government’s commitment is demonstrated by the level of its achievement of
almost all the monitoring indicators despite the country went through a Presidential
election. The country also made good progress in implementing the IMF-supported
Extended Fund Facility fulfilled and all end-June 2011 quantitative targets under the
program were met. The Government also made effective use of development partners to
support the reform agenda. The partners complemented the reform agenda of other
partners and there were no duplication of resources towards the same reform.
6. Lessons Learned
(Both operation-specific and of wide general application)
73.     The key lessons learned from this program pertain to: (i) strong Government
commitment and ownership, (ii) selective focus of policy areas based on knowledge and
provision of technical assistance and capacity building, (iii) effective outreach strategy,
and (iv) simple monitoring indicators build M&E culture.
74.     Strong Government commitment and ownership drives reforms. Commitment
at the highest level to the reform program provides guidance to the implementing
agencies on the direction that the Government is heading and this facilitates dialogue at
technical level. Strong ownership of the reform program obtained though joint Bank-
Government design of the program linked to the Government’s priority areas of reforms
is crucial for fast and successful implementation and dealing with politically sensitive
reforms. Alignment with Government priorities and incremental dialogue provides
valuable weight to immediate and short term policy exigencies while building consensus
for broader and bolder reforms. The incremental dialogue approach essentially helps the
Government to identify and articulate country priorities and as such build the ground in
terms of substance and sequencing for subsequent operations. In this operation, reforms
to SOEs and removing barriers to business were such areas.
75.    Selective focus on policy areas based on strong analytical underpinnings
helps in getting traction for reforms. In a small country with limited implementation
capability, the reform program should be guided by strong analytical work and focus on a
few areas to ensure effective implementation. At the same time, the implementing agency
should be provided with assistance to support reform implementation, while building
capacity to enhance the agencies’ capability to undertake further reforms on their own.



                                               29
Seychelles has a limited pool of expertise given its small population size and therefore
unable to undertake analytical work in a variety of areas and design reforms strategies
and even to a lesser extent implement these reforms. The local expertise has been
complemented by international expertise during this operation and this is a model that has
worked well and the Government has requested that this model be strengthened going
forward. Proper assessment of the capacity of the implementing agency at the design
stage helps in designing pragmatic time bound prior actions and the setting realistic
targets and helps in pursuing incremental dialogue for further reform. Availability of
knowledge helped to translate broad priorities into specific actions and guided in the
design on monitoring indicators. Agreement on set of results and continued dialogue
motivate agencies, but more importantly the champions to remain focus on the reform
agenda.


76.     Effective outreach strategy provides stakeholders enough time to adjust to
upcoming changes and helps build public support for reform. The Government of
Seychelles has a tradition of communicating to all the citizens through various media
sources about the vision of the government, the actions that are being undertaken to
achieve this vision and how possible negative impact is being mitigated. Many different
types of media are involved in the communications efforts, including newspapers,
television, radio, posting of information on government and social websites, and
distribution of newsletters. The policy makers, including the President, attempts to
explain the reform program and its implications during public gatherings. All these
helped in preparing ahead of time of possible changes that could happen and limits public
protests.
77.     Simple monitoring indicators build M&E culture. Building the results
framework jointly with the Government and using Government’s own data, keeping in
mind the capacity of public agencies helps in developing the monitoring and evaluation
culture, and creates the drive for benchmarking. In Seychelles, monitoring the number of
top level staffs that are integrated in the wage grid has eventually developed into
monitoring staffs at all the different levels in the wage grip and keeping track of changes.
At the Seychelles investment Bureau, involvement in monitoring the number of days it
takes to process application for licenses at the Licensing Authority and the involvement
of the agency in the dialogue on removal of barriers to business has nurtured the desire to
be better ranked in the Doing Business Indicators.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/Implementing agencies

(b) Co financiers



                                            30
(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)




                                           31
Annex 1 Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                         Responsibility/
            Names                         Title                 Unit
                                                                           Specialty
Lending
Tracey Lane               Senior Economist                     AFTP1 TTL
Tony Verheijen            Lead Public Sector Specialist        AFTPR Public sector reforms
                          Lead Private Sector Development
Dileep Wagle                                                   AFTFP Private sector reform
                          Consultant
                                                                       Corporate
Alex Berg                 Manager                             GCMCG
                                                                       Governance reforms
Gretta Mhanna             Voice Secondee                               Tax issues
Stephen Mukaindo          Counsel                              LEGAF
Luis Schwarz              Senior Finance Officer               CTRFC
                                                                       M&E, Results
Wendy Ayres               Consultant
                                                                       framework
Patrick Kabuya            Senior FM specialist                 AFTFE
Frederik Wwamalwa         Research Analyst                     AFTP2
Supervision
Sawkut Rojid              Economist                            AFTP1 TTL
All of the above


(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                         Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
                 Stage                                        USD Thousands (including
                                       No. of staff weeks
                                                              travel and consultant costs)
Lending
                          Total:                 30                      165.00
Supervision/ICR
                          Total:                 10                       20.00




                                            32
Annex 2. Beneficiary Survey Results
         (If any)

No beneficiary survey conducted

Annex 3. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
        (If any)

No stakeholder workshop conducted

Annex 4. Summary of Borrower's ICR


1.      Implementation of Development Policy Loan
In view of the major reforms that are being undertaken in Seychelles since the second
half of 2008, the Government has worked closely with the World Bank to ensure that the
desired effects of the listed policy actions in the DPL are being achieved.

The DPL measures are aimed at putting Seychelles on a sustainable development path
through a stable macroeconomic environment and a sustainable fiscal framework. The
Government of Seychelles continues to pursue the policy objectives set out in the DPL,
and coupled with achievements on the front of fiscal discipline, sovereign debt re-
structuring and others, are making great advances to achieving the DPL aims.

2.     The Reforms

2.1     Civil service and public administration Reforms

Results of the Reforms

A new wage grading structure was adopted to ensure consistency and transparency in the
grading of staff, alignment of remuneration to skills and levels of responsibility and the
retention of skilled workforce in the professional cadres of the public sector. The reform
also saw an increase in the number of top-level staff that was integrated on the wage grid.

Remaining Challenges

The integration of nominal roll and payroll remains outstanding.

The Bank’s Performance Appraisal

The Bank was helpful towards the achievement of reforms in this area of reform. The
Public Expenditure Review, as well as the presence of a senior public sector specialist—
courtesy of World Bank—provided the Government with a lot of guidance.




                                            33
2.2     Public Financial Management (PFM) Reforms
Results of the Reforms

As a result of the reforms, the comprehensiveness of information included in budget
documentation improved considerably. The 2011 Budget Strategy and Outlook Paper
indicated the 2011 budget ceilings, which was consistent with the medium term
macroeconomic model and fiscal projections. The primary balance continues to remain
positive and stable. Deviation between original appropriated budget and aggregate actual
expenditure falls
In addition The Borrower has pursuant to the Memorandum of Action: Public
Administration and Public Sector reform Program, adopted the Reclassifying Public
Bodies in Seychelles and Introducing a Standard Approach policy, categorizing public
entities as regulatory, essential service-delivery or non-government service-delivery and
defining new financing and accountability standards and mechanisms relative to such
classifications.

Remaining Challenges

The main challenge continues to be the sustainability of the progress made so far amidst
all the financial uncertainties the world economy is currently facing and the
implementation of further reforms such as the chart of accounts, program based
budgeting etc. Technical assistance would be required to ensure proper implementation.

The Bank’s Performance Appraisal

The Bank was helpful towards the achievement of reforms in this area of reform. The
presence of consultants through technical assistance provided the Government with a lot
of guidance and best practices.

2.3    Public Enterprise Corporate Governance Reforms
Results of the Reforms

As a result of the reform and pursuant to the Public Enterprise Monitoring Act, 2009 the
Public Enterprise Monitoring Division of the Ministry of Finance was established, to
oversee the implementation of the Act. The division has successfully introduced a Board
Appointment Policy and a Board Remuneration Policy which aligns the level of
responsibility and work. The capacity of PEMD to monitor the performance of public
enterprises and to provide advisory services to public institutions to prepare performance
monitoring indicators has been strengthened by the recruitment of three financial officers
in August 2011.

Remaining Challenges




                                            34
The development of monitoring indicators that will be used to assess performance as well
as detect early warning signs of distress, if any remains outstanding. It is to be noted
however that the World Bank will be assisting towards this process.

The Bank’s Performance Appraisal

The Bank was helpful towards the achievement of reforms in this area of reform. The
Public Expenditure Revue, as well as the presence of consultants through technical
assistance provided the Government with a lot of guidance and best practices.

Appraisal of the Borrowers Performance

2.4     Business Environment Reforms

Results of the Reforms

In 2010 saw the enactment of a new Licensing Act, which provided for transparent
procedures for the issuance and renewal of licenses as well eliminating the number of
commercial activities requiring ex ante licenses to operate, and streamlining the licensing
procedures.

In addition to that the Seychelles Investment Act, 2010 was also enacted which provided
the framework for the promotion, regulation and protection of investors and investments,
and establishing the Seychelles Investment Board to facilitate and promote investments.

As a result of the reforms, the was as decline in the time required to obtain or renew a
license and the number of economic activities legally requiring approval from the
Seychelles Licensing Authority to start operations also reduced.

As for the economic investments the number legally requiring Seychelles Investment
Bureau approval to start operations also reduced.

Remaining Challenges

The most pressing challenge remains the creation of a conducive environment for private
sector development where the private sector can play a vital role in the economy. Work is
being done to ensure that the country further addresses existing barriers.

The Bank’s Performance Appraisal

The Bank was helpful towards the achievement of reforms in this area of reform. The
Administrative Barriers to private Sector Development and Business Environment in the
Seychelles by the Bank in 2009, as well as the presence of private sector development
specialist provided the Government with a lot of guidance and best practices.




                                            35
Conclusion

The conditions set out for the disbursement of the DPL have been maintained following
its disbursement. This has been achieved as a result of the determination and continued
commitment of Government towards achieving the aims of the disbursement, as well as
assistance and support provided by multilateral partners such as the Bank, the IMF and
the EU.

The Government recognizes the importance of sustainability and long-term macro-
economic stability, and expresses its gratitude to the World Bank for the DPL which has
helped with the achievement of these goals.

In view of the above the Government has requested a programmatic series for the next
three years. The new series will help deepen the reforms already underway. Preliminary
discussions are focusing on: (i) strengthening public financial management, (ii) improve
investment climate, (iii) strengthen social safety nets and (iv) improve governance and
efficiency of selected state owned enterprises.


Annex 5. Comments of Co financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders



Annex 6. List of Supporting Documents

Seychelles Interim Strategy Note for fiscal 2009-11, October 5, 2009, Report 47418

Loan Agreement

Public Expenditure Review, June 25, 2009, Report 49273 – SC

Public Expenditure Review, March 1, 2011, Report 57113 – SC

Public Expenditure and Financial Accountability Assessment, 2011

Other project files, implementation supervision reports, aide memoirs, and back-to-office
reports




                                           36
                                                                                            50°E                                 52°E                                          54°E                                                    56°E

                    SEY C HELLES                                                                                                                                                                                                     Bird I.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Denis I.
                                                                                      4°S                                                                                                                                                                                                              4°S
                                  SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS

                                  NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        INNER
                                  MAIN ROADS                                                                                                                                                                          (GRANITIC)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         VICTORIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ISLANDS
                                                                                                                                                                                               African Banks
                                        48°E                                                                                                                                                                                                    For Detail,
                                                                                                                                           AMIRANTE                                                                                           See Inset Below
                                                                                                                                            GROUP                                            St. Joseph Atoll
                                                                                                                                                                             Étoile I.                Desroches I.
                                                                                                                                                                                            Poivre
                                                                                                                                                                    Boudeuse I.             Atoll                                                     Platte I.
                                          SEYCHELLES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   6°S
             6°S

                                                                                                                                                                    Desnoeufs I.      Marie Louise I.
                                                                                      I N D I A N                 O C E A N
                                                                                                                                                     E )                                             I S L A N D
                                                                                                                                                 I N                                                             S
                                                                                                                                               L
                                                                                                                                    O                ALPHONSE               Alphonse I.
                                                                                                                             R                        GROUP                 S. François I.                                                                     Coetivy I.
                                                                                                                  A
                                                                                                           C                                                                   54°E                                                    56°E
                                                                                                       (
             8°S                                                                                                                                                      8°S               SEYCHELLES
                                                                                               R                                                                                      Inner (Granitic)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Aride I.

                                                                                        E                                                                                          4°15'S                                                                          Curieuse I.
                                                                                  T                                                                                                       Islands                                                                          West Sister I.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             East Sister I.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Félécite
                                                                             U                                                                                                                                                                   Grand' Anse
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Praslin I.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Marie
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Anne I.
                                                                    O                                                                                                                         North I.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     La Digue I.

                                               ALDABRA
                                                                                                                                        Providence I.                                                         INDIAN                              OCEAN
                              Aldabra                                                                      St. Pierre I.
                              Atoll             GROUP                                                                               Bancs Providence
                                                                                                                                                                                              Silhouette I.                         Mamelle I.

                                                              Cosmolédo Is.
                             Assomption I.                                                                         FARQUHAR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Frigate I.
             10°S                                                                                                    GROUP                                           10°S                                                De Quincy Village
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Recif I.
                                                                                                                                                                                                     Belle Ombre                                                                        L'Îlot I.
                                                                 Astove I.
                                                                                                                                         Farquhar
                                                                                                                                         Atoll                                                         VICTORIA
                                                                                                                                                                                              Conception I.                    Cascade
                                                                                                                                                                                                       Thérèse I.

                                                                                                                                                                                                            Anse Boileau            Mahé I.
               This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
               The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information                     0       50          100          150 Kilometers                                 4°45'S                                        Anse Royale
               shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank                                                                                                                                                                                   0       5         10 Kilometers




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                IBRD 33477
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Takamaka
MARCH 2005




               Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
               endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                                                                   0              50                    100             150 Miles                                                                                              0             5           10 Miles


                                        48°E                                                50°E                                 52°E                                                    55°15'E                          55°30'E                              55°45'E
