Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIL USE ONLY
RePoit No. 8M1
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
ZARQA/RUSEIFA WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
(LOAN 2213-JO)
JUNE 25, 1990
Infrastructure Division
Country Department III
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their offcial duties Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Jordan Dinar (JD)
March 1982 - JD 0.365   US$1.00
June 1989 - JD 0.571 - US$1.00
GLOSSARY 0F ACRONYMS
AWSA     -    Amman Water and Sewerage Authority
CEHA     -    Center for Environmental Health Activities
EDI      -    Economic Development Institute
FAO      -    Food and Agricultural Organization
IDB      -    Islamic Development Bank
JVA      -    Jordan Valley Authority
KfW      -    Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
NPC      -    National Planning Council
NRA      -    Natural Resources Authority
SCADA    -    Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition
UNDP     -    United Nations Development Program
USAID    -    United States Agency for International
Development
WAJ      -    Water Authority of Jordan
WHO      -    World Health Organiziation
WSC      -    Water Supply Corporation
JfRDAN'S FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



THM WORLD SANK                 Foa OMCIA  UE ONLY
,.$i"won. D.C. 20433
US A
Olk6 ud Onow4ewa
June 23, 1990
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on Jordan
Zaraa/Ruzsifa Watsr SuRppl and Sewerage Prolect (Loan 2213-JO)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Jordan - Zarqa/Ruseifa Water Supply and Sewerage Project
(Loan 2213-JO)" prepared by the Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional
Office. No audit of this project has been made by the Operations Evaluation
Department at this time.
Attachment
The dacuqt hass a*cuddlsudban nd may be _i by vaipin  ony hn tbspsfun
of te offca dutiu In omtas, may natomm wabe discks withut word ank sutbaumon.



FOR OMCILM USE ONLY
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
hLO       213-JO
ZARQA/RUSEIFA WATER SUPPLY AND SEMERAGE PROJECT
PROJECT CONPLETION REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE  ....  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  i
BASIC DATA SHEET   ....  .            .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    ii
HIGHLIGHTS   ....  .           .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    vi
I. INTRODUCTION  .1...  .           .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  I
Background Data .1...  .            .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  I
Bank Role in the Sector . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  1
Other Works in the Sector ....  .                .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .  2
II. PROJECT PREPARATION, APPRAISAL AND IMPLEMENTATION  ...  .                      .  .  .  .  .     .  2
Project Origin, Preparation,  and Appraisal   . . . . . . . . . . . .                       2
Project Objectives   ....  .             .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  3
Project Description  ....  .             .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  3
Status of Loan Covenants   ....  .               .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  4
Effectiveness and Start-up . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  5
Revisions to the Loan Agreement  ....  .                 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .  5
Revisions in the Scope of Work   ....  .                 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .  6
Project Implementation   ....  .              .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  6
Procurement ....  .            .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .  7
Project Costs  ....  .           .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  7
Disbursements  ....  .           .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  7
Performance of Consultants,  Contractors and Suppliers  . . . . . . .                       7
Reporting  ....  .          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  8
III. INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE   ....  .                 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .  8
Organizational Development   ....  .                .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  8
Staffing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  9
Training   ....  .          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  9
IV. OPERATING PERFORMANCE .11
Introduction   . . . . . . . . . . .                 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   11
Water Supply   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   11
Unaccounted-for Water .11
Sewerage Coverage .12
Urban Poor ........ .                                                                      12
V. FINANCIAL PERFOR4ANCE .12
Introduction   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   12
Operating Results  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   13
Tariffs .13
T:his document has a restricted distribution and may be used by fecipients only in the performance
of their offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclose without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont.)
Page No.
VI. WORLD BANK PERFORMANCE ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  13
VII. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION  .           ........... ... ........    14
Project Achievements  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  14
Least-cost Solution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  14
Socio-Economic Analysis ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  14
VIII. CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS LEARNED ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  15
Conclusions .... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  15
Lessons Learned .... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  15
ANNEXES
1.1  Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
1.2  Comparison of Appraisal Estimates and Actual Project Costs  . . . . . 17
1.3  Details of Water Supply and Sewerage Components . . . . . . . . . . . 18
2.1  Loan Disbursements ........................ . 19
3.1  Organization of the Water Supply Corporation  . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
3.2  Zarqa/Ruseifa Branch - Proposed Organization Chart (1982) . . . . . . 21
3.3  Organization of the Water Authority - 1984-1987 . . . . . . . . . . . 22
3.4  Organization of the Water Authority - Ministry of Water
and Irrigation (1988) .... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . 23
3.5  Organization of a Governorate Water Administration - 1988 . . . . . . 24
3.6  Organization of the Zarqa Water Administration  . . . . . . . . . . . 25
4.1  Components of Unaccounted-for-Water - Greater Amman Area  ... .  .    . 26
5.1  Income and Expenditure Statement - Water Authority Consolidated . . . 27
5.2  Sou' e and Application of Funds - Water Authority Consolidated  . . . 28
5.3  Balance Sheets - Water Authority Consolidated . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
5.4  Water and Sewerage Tariffs ..................... . 30



HASHEMITE XINGDOM OF JORDAN
LOAN-2213-JO
z*maRO/RUSFA 'WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This report reviews the preparation, implementation and achievements
of the Zarqa/Ruseifa Water Supply and Sewerage Project (Loan 2213-JO), for which
a loan of US$17.0 million was made to the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan. The loan
agreement was signed on January 17, 1983, became effective on July 21, 1983, and
was closed on June 30, 1989. The Water Supply Corporation was the implementing
agency of the Borrower until January 1984 when the Corporation was absorbed into
the newly created Water Authority,
This Project Completion Report was prepared by the Infrastructure
Division CDIII of the Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region on the basis
of a Completion Report prepared by the Water Authority (EMENA File No. H27424)
and a review of the Staff Appraisal Report, the Loan and Project Agreements,
and other pertinent reports related to project implementation. The commendable
efforts of WAJ's staff for a well prepared report, and in particular of WAJ's
Technical Advisor, are hereby acknowledged.
This PCR was read by the Operations Evaluation Department (OED). The
draft PCR was sent to the Borrower on May 8, 1990 for comments by June 15, 1990
but none were received.



HASHERITE KINGDOH OF JORDAN
LOAN 2213-JO
ZAROAIRUSEIFA WATER SUORL= AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BASIC DATA SHEET
KEY PROJECT DATA
Item                      Appraisal          Actual
Total Project Cost (US$ million)     103.68             85.88
(JD million)       35.92             33.02
Loan Amount (US$ million)             17.00             17.00
Disbursed                                               17.00
Repaid to 01/31/90                                    3.93
Outstanding 01/31/90                                 13.07
Beneficiary                                    Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan
Executing Agency                                   Water Authority
Follow on Projects:
Eight Cities Water Supply and Sewerage Project (Loan 2425-JO)
Greater Amman Water Supply and Sewerage Project (Loan 2483-JO)
Jordan Water Supply and Sewerage Project (Loan 2694-JO)
Financial Performance                     Revenue covenants not met
Institutional Performance                      Construction: Good
Operation and Maintenance: Insufficient
Q"nu_d EOdbd nd Ad  Dkbub_a
m      -m     -m      -     im    im      i
XAppMtS E0mai          040   4.20     60   12.70   1.30   17.00   17.0
Omburaenn PMII         0.00   1.02    &74   687   1s60    16.49   17.00
ACum                   0.0   9.26   10.90  12.35  14.2    1657   17.00
A a % of Entm         16n0  22024   12Z47  9724   9=33    97.47  100.0
A as % d Obbu.          -    00K6    291.44  142.45  105.00   10Q49  100.00
Dale of Rnal DtSbumnl * Decembe 12 1969



a                                  - ili -
Protect Timetable
Date               Date               Date
Item                         Planned            BULWeytOt           Aetual
- Identification                                                   01-Apr-81
(Executive Project
Summary)
- Preparation                                                      12-Sep-81
- Appraisal Mission                                                25-Feb-82
- Loan Negotiation                                                 13-Sep-82
- Board Approval                                                   07-Dec-82
- Loan Signature                                                   17-Jan-83
- Loan Effectiveness        17-May-83          01-Aug-83           21-Jul-83
- Project Completion        31-Dec-88                              31-Aug-88
- Loan Closing              30-Jun-89                              30-Jun-89
Use of Bank Resources - (A) Staff InMuts (Staffveeks)
Stage of
Proiect Cycle       Planned  _Revised /  Final             Comments
Through Appraisal                          39.6
Appraisal through                          66.5
Board Approval
Board Approval                              3.5
through Effectiveness
Supervision                                32.4  Actual to November 30, 1989.
Total                                 142_Q
In Not available.



- iv-
Us,e of B&aik Resources - (B) Missions
Stage of             Month/  Number of    Days   Specialization   Types of
Project Cyce           year   _eXsons   In Field Represented 1/ Problems 1/
Through Appraisal:
Identification 2/    Apr-81        3          8       SE/FA/SE
Preparation I         Sep-81       2          6       SE/FA
Preparation II        Jan-82       2                  SE/FA
Appraisal throueh Board:
Appraisal             Mar-82       4         23       SE/FA/OP/CO
Appraisal Update 2/   May-82       2         10       SE/FA
Board thX2Mgb
ffectiveness: J/      Feb-83       2         14       SE/FA            M/O
SunervLsion:
Supervision I   i/    Sep-83        1          7       SE                M/O
Supervision II   i/    Feb-84       2         11       SE/FA             M/O
Supervision III  2/   Jan-85        2         10       SE/FA             M/O
Supervision IV   4/   Jul-85        1         13       FA                M/O
Supervision V    4/   Sep-86        2          7       SE/FA             M/O
Supervision VI   i/    Apr-87       2         21       SE/FA            M/O
Supervision VII  §J/   Nov-87       1         16       FA               M/O
Supervision VIII 2/    Apr-88       2         19       SE/FA            M/O
Supervision IX  2/    Jan-89        4         13       FA/SE/SE/CO      M/F/O
PCI                    Nov-89       1          5       SE
/ SE - Sanitary Engineer    F - Financial
FA - Financial Analyst    M - Managerial
OP - Operations Assistant 0 - Other
CO - Consultant
2/ Includes time spent on supervision of Amman Water Supply
and Sewerage Project (Credit 780-JO).
2/  Includes time spent on preparation of Four Southern Citie,.
Water Supply and Sewerage Project.
i] Includes time spent on Water Sector Study.
5/ Includes time spent on supervision of Eight Cities Water
Supply (Loan 2425-JO), and Greater Amman W/S and Sewerage
(Loan 2483-JO).
§/ Includes time spent on supervision of Eight Cities Water
Supply (Loan 2425-JO), and Greater Amman W/S and Sewerage
(Loan 2483-JO).
2/ Includes time spent on supervision of Water Supply and Sewerage
(Loan 2694-JO) and preparation of next Water Project.



BASIC DATA SHEET (Cojntinued
EXCHANGE RATES
CuKrncy RUL                            Jordan Pinar (JD)
Appraisal Date (March 1982)                   US$1.00 - JD 0.365
Appraisal Year Average (1982)                 US$1.00 - JD 0.354
Average over Project Period                   US$1.00 - JD 0.379
Average for Disbursements                     US$1.00 - JD 0.400
Completion Year Average (1/1 - 6/30/89)       US$1.00 - JD 0.544
Closing Date (June 30, 1989)                  US$1.00 - JD 0.571



_ vi .
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
WAN 2213-JO
ZARA/RUSEIFA A'¶TER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HIGHLIGES
The loan under review was the first World Bank loan to Jordan in the
water supply and sewerage sector after four IDA credits. The Hashemite Kingdom
of Jordan was tthe borrower; the Water Supply Corporation (WSC) and its -uccessor,
the Water Authority (WAJ), were the implementing agencies.
Loan 2213-JO, approved on January 17, 1983 for an amount of US$17.0
million, was expected to finance about 27.8 percent of the estimated foreign
exchange requirements of US$61.15 million, and about 16.4 percent of the total
project cost of US$103.68 million, including interest during construction and
other charges.   Contributions of co-financing institutions included: USAID,
US$15.00 million (14.5 percent); KFW, US$14.43 million (13.9 percent); and IDB,
US$7.80 million (7.5 pircent). Local sources of project financing Included: a
government equity contribution of JD 10.4 million (US$ 29.9 million equivalent,
or 28.8 percent), to cover local costs; a government loan of US$12.52 million
(12.1 percent) to cover local (US$4.08 million equivalent) and foreign (US$8.44
million equivalent) interest and other charges during construction; and
customers' contributions of US$7.07 million equivalent (6.8 percent).
The main objectives of the project were to: (a) improve the general
health and protect the environment in the project area through the upgrading and
expansion of the water supply and sewerage systems; (b) improve the operational
and financial performance of the implementing agency; and (c) achieve a more
efficient allocation of scarce resources through the introduction of appropriate
pricing and management policies. The Project, as described in the Appraisal
Report included: (i) the construction of about 113 km of water mains and
distribution lines, and the supply of about 12,000 water meters; (ii) the
construction of about 364 km of trunk, secondary and collection sewers (including
about 30,000 house laterals); sewage pumping stations and force mains; and a
sewage treatment plant and outfall; (iii) the construction of about 13.7 km of
stormwater culverts; (iv) the construction cf a maintenance workshop and the
procurement of vehicles and equipment required for operations; and (v) the
provision of experts and consultants to: develop a computer-based public utility
accounting system; assist in the evaluation of assets; conduct a tariff study;
and assist in an organizational study and in the training of WSC staff.
Construction of the proposed sewage treatment plant was deferred because
WAJ had started the construction of wastewater stabilization ponds for Greater
Amman at Rhirbet As-Samra that had sufficient capacity to serve Zarqa and Ruseifa



*                                   - vii -
as well. Sewage from the western part of Zarqa, Ruseifa and parts of Greater
Amman flows to a pumping station in West Zarqa, where it is pumped into the
inverted siphon leading to the Rhirbet As-Samra wastewater stabilization ponds.
The West Zarqa Pumping Station, located upstream of the proposed treatment plant
site, was finaniced by the Water Authority from its own resources.
The completed project included: (i) laying 144 km of water transmission
and distribution pipes; (ii) construct'.ng 423 km of trunk and collection sanitary
sewers and 27,425 laterals in the project area; (iii) constructing two sewage
pumping stations and 7.7 km of sewage force mains; (iv) constructing 7.9 km of
stormwater culverts and drains; (v) providing consulting services for
construction supervision; (vi) purchasing 101,250 water meters; (vii) purchasing
a computer system; (ix) undertaking a study of supervisory control and "a
acquisition system; (xl evaluating WSC's assets; (xi) carrying out a tariff
study; (xii) providing the services of two technical advisers and a fiuiancial
adviser; and (xiii) training of WSC staff.
The total project cost, adjusted for revisions, amounted to US$85.88
million equivalent, or about 82.8 percent of the appraisal estimate of US$103.68
million equivalent, including interest during construction and the Bank front-
end fee.
Consultants, suppl ers and works contractors performed reasonably well.
Two contractors, however, defaulted on their contracts: an international
contractor, on the one hand, defaulted on two contracts because it could not
afford local subcontractors due to its low bid prices; a local contractor, on
the other hand, experienced financial problems unrelated to the project and could
not complete  its contract.   Both contractors forfeited their performance
guarantees. The contracts were rebid and completed by other contractors. In
general, however, contract completion dates set by the Authority were too
optimistic; this was the result of not taking into account subsurface conditions
as well as the difficult working conditions in a congested urban environment.
In Zarqa, for instance, project implementation delays were exacerbated during
the rainy season.
The loan became effective two months late (para. 2.07). The loan was
fully disbursed about six months later than foreseen at appraisal.
The Appraisal mission evaluated the projected financial performance of
the original implementing agency, the Water Supply Corporation, which was
succeeded by the Water Authority before the project got started. The Authority's
financial performance for the period 1984-1988 was below expectations. Revenues
were also below appraisal forecasts, due mainly to lower than anticipated
tariffs. Total revenues failed to fully cover operating expenses. At the end
of 1988, overdue installmeats and accrued interest on loans amounted to JD 24.2
million.
One undertaking which has potential foi improving the financial
performance of the Water Authority is the reduction of unaccounted-for water,
which was thoroughly studied in the Greater Amman area.   Without tariff
adjustments, however, improvements that can be realized through better management
of customer services (metering, meter reading, billing and collection) and
rehabilitation are not expected to close the Authority's cash flotw gap.



-viii -
The major project objectives of improving the general health and
protecting the environment in Zarqa and Ruseifa by upgrading the water supply
and providing sewerage services were achieved. The ob4ective of improving the
operational and financial performance of WSC was changed to assist tWAJ and was
partially achieved. Institutional strengthening of WAJ is being provided through
technical assistance financed in part under subsequent Bank operations and mostly
by bilateral donors (para.3.06).
An important lesson learned is the need to give as much consideration
to good management of customer service (such as maintenance of connections and
meters, and efficient meter reading and billing) as to operation and maintenance
of water supply and sewerage facilities. It is also important to note that for
properly addressing unaccounted-for water (UFW), innovative approaches such as
twinning arrangements with experienced water supply agencies, in addition to
those already initiated by WAJ which focus primarily on physical aspects of UFW,
will be required.



HASHEMITE KIN(Gi30M OF JORDAN
LO>AM 2213-JO
ZAROA/RUSEIFA WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPOMT
I. INTRODUCTON
Backgrx2d Data
1.01    The project was a part of the Government's ongoing water supply and
sewerage strategy and included improvements in the water supply distribution
systems as well as the elimination of problems associated with inadequate
cesspools in Zarqa and Ruscifa.   The project continued the institutional
development efforts of previous IDA credits. The main beneficiaries were the
low- and middle-income families in the area covered by the project.
1.02    The Borrower was the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan.  The implementing
agency at the time of project appraisal was the Water Supply Corporation (WSC).
The Corporation was succeeded by the Water Authority (WAJ), created under
Temporary Law No. 34 of 1983, which repealed the Water Supply Corporation Law
No. 56 of 1973  Following its establishment in January 1984, the Authority took
over all existing water supply and sewerage operations in Jordan. These included
the operations of the WSC, the Amman Water Supply and Sewerage Authority (AWSA),
the water resources branch of the Natural Resources Authority (NRA), the domestic
water supply department of the Jordan Valley Authority (JVA), and the water
supply and sewerage operations of about 300 municipalities and villages (para.
3.01). Under Temporary Law No. 34, WAJ was an autonomous agency reporting to
the Prime Minister's office, with independent financial and administrative
status. In March 1988, Law No. 18 of 1988 created the Ministry of Water and
Irrigation and WAJ and JVA were placed in this Ministry.
Bank Role in the Sector
1.03    The Bank group's involvement in the water supply and sewerage sector
began in 1961 with Credit 18-JO (US$1.5 million equivalent) for the financing
of the foreign exchange component of a project to augment and improve the Amman
water supply.  This was followed in 1963 by Credit 43-JO (US$2.5 million
equivalent) for the financing of water supply projects in Ramallah-El Bira in
the West Bank, Azraq-Irbid and Zarqa. In 1973, the Bank group, under Credit
385-JO, helped finance (US$8.7 million equivalent) the extension of water supply
and sewerage services for Amman and was also instrumental in the establishment
of AWSA. This credit was followed in 1978 by the Amman Water Supply and Sewerage
Project (Credit 780-JO for US$14.0 million equivalent). Subsequently, in 1982,
the loan under review was made for the Zarqa/Ruseifa Water Supply and Sewerage
Projesct (Loan 2213-JO for US$17.0 million equivalent), which also received co-
financing from the United States Agency for International Development (USAID),
Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (KfW) and the Islamic Development Bank (IDB).



Since its establishment, three loans have been made to WAJ, namely, in 1984, a
loan for US$30 million equivalent for the Eight Cities Water Supply and Sewerage
Project (Loan 2425-JO); in 1985, a loan for US$30 million equivalent for the
Greater Amman Water Supply and Sewerage Project (Loan 2483-JO); and in 1986, a
loan for US$50 million equivalent for the Jordan Water Supply and Sewerage
Project (Loan 2694-JO), for selected water supply and sewerage activities in
various parts of the Kingdom. Work under the first two loans were completed in
1988 (PCRs were issued in May 1989) and work under the latter is scheduled for
completion in December 1994.
Other Works in the Sector
1.04    In addition to the above-mentioned Bank loans (2425-JO, 2483-JO and 2694-
JO), other works executed concurrently with the project included:
(i)     the South of Amman Water Supply Project for water transmission mains
in the Greater Amman area, with assistance for construction from
the Saudi Development Fund;
(ii)     the Irbid Water Supply and Sewerage Project, with assistance for
feasibility, design, supervision, and construction of water supply,
sewerage and sewage treatment facilities provided by USAID;
(iii)     the Aqaba Sewerage and Sewage Treatment Project, with feasibility,
design and supervision financed by the Authority and assistance for
construction provided by USAID.
II. PROJECT PREPARATION. APPRAISAL AND IMPLEMENTATION
Project Origin. Preparation. and AnDraisal
2.01    Nearly half the population of Jordan lives in the conurbation consisting
of the cities of Zarqa and Ruseifa and the Greater Amman Municipality. At the
time of Project Appraisal, these were all part of the Amman governorate, but in
1985 Zarqa and Ruseifa became part of the newly created Zarqa Governorate. The
project area, including the two cities and some outlying settlements, had an
estimated population of about 316,000 in 1982 with an estimated annual growth
rate of about 4.5 percent. The water distribution systems in the two cities,
which were owned and managed by the municipalities, were weak and the cities had
no sewerage systems. The unaccounted-for water in the project area was estimated
to be &bout 46 percent.
2.02    Using a grant from USAID, the National Planning Council signed a joint-
venture contract in 1980 with American and Jordanian engineering consulting
firms for a feasibility study and the design of water and sewerage facilities
for Zarqa and Ruseifa.



-3-
2.03    The project was appraised in March 1982 on the basis of the above-
mentioned feasibility study. The Loan was approved by the Bank on December 7,
1982, and the Loan Agreement was signed on January 17, 1983.
Project Objectives
2.04    The main objectives of the project were to improve the general health
and protect the environment in the project area through the upgrading and
expansion of the water supply and sewerage systems and the provision of
wastewater treatment facilities; as well as to improve the operational and
financial performance of WSC; and to achieve a more efficient allocation and use
of scarce water resources through the introduction of appropriate pricing and
management policies.
Proiect DescriRtion
2.05    The project originally consisted of the following main components:
Part A - Water Supply:
(i)  The construction of a 600 mm supply line of about 3.5 km;
(ii) The installation of about 130 km of water distribution lines; and
(iii) The provision of 12,000 production and supply meters.
Part B - Sewerage:
(i)  The construction of about 364 km of trunk, secondary and collection
sewers, including 30,000 house laterals;
(ii) The construction of a sewage pumping station and force main, and
a sewage treatment plant; and
(iii) The construction of about 13.7 km of stormwater culverts.
Part C - Buildings and Equipment:
(i)  The construction and equipping of a maintenance workshop and the
provision of operating equipment.
Part D - Institutional Development:
(i)  The preparation and implementation of a public utility accounting
system for WSC;
(ii) A study of WSC's organizational structure and operational
procedures, and the implementation of suggested improvements;
(iii) A study of WSC's tariff structure; and
(iv) The training of WSC staff.
2.06    Revisions of the original project scope are discussed in paras 2.11 and
2.12.



t                                    - 4-
Status of Loan Covenants
2.07    The Loan Documents included the following specific covenants applicable
to the Government and WSC (the WSC covenants having been assumed by WAJ).
(i)  The Government would provide all local funds as equity.   This
covenant was met;
(ii) The Authority would (a) have its accounts audited by auditors
acceptable to the Bank; and (b) have the audited financial
statements and auditor's report forwarded to the Bank within six
months after the end of each fiscal year. This covenant was met,
but reports have reached the World Bank with about one to four
months delay;
(iii) The Authority would, for its metered water services, maintain or
adjust tariffs to provide sufficient revenues: (a) to cover its
operating and maintenance expenses (excluding depreciation) and
debt service; and (b) to generate funds from internal sources
sufficient to cover in each of its fiscal years, starting in its
fiscal year 1986, the equivalent of not less than 10 percent of its
three-year annual average capital expenditures. It would also, for
its sewerage services, maintain or adjust tariffs to provide
sufficient revenues to cover its operating and maintenance expenses
(excluding depreciation) and debt service. In subsequent loans to
WAJ this covenant was changed to one where revenue should cover 0
& M, increases in working capital and debt service.   This new
covenant has not been met (para 5.02);
(iv) Three months before the beginning of each fiscal year, the Authority
would review the adequacy of its tariffs on the basis of a three-
year forecast. The consulting firm that performed the tariff study
financed under this project clearly showed that tariffs were
inadequate (para. 5.03). This covenant was not complied with;
(v) The Authority would introduce, in agreement with the Borrower, not
later than January 1, 1987, measures to ensure that the tariffs
applicable to the Authority's rural water services would cover a
reasonable portion of the operation and maintenance costs and that
the Borrower would continue to provide the Authority with the
additional funds. Under WAJ there is a uniform tariff for all
consumers outside Greater Amman and the Jordan Valley area. This
covenant was thus complied with;
(vi) The Authority would, for civil works contracts exceeding 24 months,
allow inclusion in the bid documents of a price escalation provision
for major materials with administered prices (cement and fuel).
This covenant was not applied because it was anticipated that all
construction contracts would be completed within 24 months. In any
event, there was no escalation in administered prices;



-5-
(vii) The Authority would, if required, make adequate arrangements to
enable low-income families to be connected to the sewerage system.
No general measures were taken because it was judged that the cost
of connection was affordable to the poor; and
(viii) The Authority would establish a project implementation unit. This
covenant was met.
Effectiveness and Start-up
2.08    The Loan became effective on July 21, 1983, about two months later than
originally envisaged. The Bank conditions of loan effectiveness included: (a)
the execution of the subsidiary loan agreement related to the Bank loan; and (b)
the signing of loan agreements between the Government and co-financiers for the
agreed amounts.
2.09    The preparation of the final engineering designs for water distribution,
sewerage and sewage treatment works proceeded more or less as envisaged, but
there were some delays because of the need to revise the conditions of contract
and tender documents for the construction of the sewage treatment plant, trunk
sewers and storm water culverts, and for the bulk procurement of water pipes.
All contracts were issued in late 1983, and bids were opened in April 1984.
Contracts were awarded on the basis of international competitive bids for the
construction of trunk. sewers and storm drainage and for the procurement of water
pipes.   The Water Authority, which assumed responsibility for the project,
recommended, and the Bank agreed, that the construction of the sewage treatment
plant be deferred and that the sewage from Zarqa and Ruseifa be treated at the
waste stabilization ponds under construction at Khirbet As-Samra. This change
required the construction of a sewage pumping station near the Rhirbet As-Samra
treatment plant site; as well as the relocation of the East Zarqa Pumping Station
and force main. Furthermore, the Authority requested, and the co-financiers
agreed, that the water distribution and sewerage contracts be repackaged into
smaller contracts to allow local contractors to compete more effectively with
international contractors. These decisions delayed the start-up of parts of the
project.
Revisions to the Loan Agreement
2.10    Based on the recognition that there was no justiftcation for the
construction of a separate sewage treatment plant for the Zarqa/Ruseifa area,
the Loan Agreement was amended (letter to the Ministry of Planning on January
15, 1985) to delete the sewage treatment plant. At the same time, the percentage
of civil works to be financed under the Loan was changed from 38 percent to 100
percent of foreign expenditures and 60 percent of local expenditures; the project
area was redefined to include the cities of Zarqa and Ruseifa and the
Municipality of Amman; and the length of trunk, secondary and collection sewers,
including house laterals, to be constructed was increased to 550 km. In part,
the amendment enabled the financing of additional civil work contracts awarded
according to local procurement procedures, some of which were in the Municipality
of Amman.



Revisions in the Scope of Work
2.11    The major revisions in the scope of work were: (i) the cancellation of
the sewage treatment plant; (ii) the construction of a sewage pumping station
in West Zarqa, south of the abandoned plant site, to pump most of the project
sewage into the inverted siphon leading to the Khirbet As-Samra wastewater
stabilization ponds; and (iii) the relocation of the East Zarqa Pumping Station
and force main to conform with the changes in the site of the sewage treatment
plant indicated in (i) above. The construction of the West Zarqa Pimping Station
was financed by WAJ from its own resources. The relocation of the East Zarqa
Pumping Station and the realignment of a trunk sewer and force main, which were
financed by KfW, involved the extension of the East Zarqa trunk sewer by 5,920
m of gravity sewer to Hashimiyeh north-east of Zarqa; the construction of a
sewage pumping station at Hashimiyeh; and the construction of a 7,150 m force
main directly connected to the wastewater stabilization ponds. The extension
of the East Zarqa trunk sewer will facilitate the connection of sewers from much
of the rapidly growing settlement north of Zarqa.
2.12    Because economic conditions in Jordan led to lower price increases than
envisaged, the co-financiers were able to finance additional items within the
project scope. IDB agreed to use the surplus funds in-its loan to finance the
construction of sewerage in four additional sectors within the project area.
KfW agreed to finance the procurement of 101,250 water meters instead of the
12,000  originally programmed.    In  addition  to  the  contracts  that were
retroactively financed, the Bank financed the purchase of computers and the
Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) study, which had not been
envisaged in the appraisal. USAID also financed computers and operation and
maintenance equipment.
Project Imnlementation
2.13    Project implementation lasted from February 1984 to August 1988, except
for the completion of the three defaulted contracts discussed below.  Revisions
in the project scope brought about by the cancellation of the sewage treatment
plant  caused  some  delays  in awarding contracts  (para 2.11).    Although
international competitive bidding procedures were followed, only 5 of the 14
construction contracts were awarded to international contractors; the rest were
awarded to local contractors. Knowledge of local conditions was an important
factor in the bidding.   A reputable  international contractor with prior
experience in Jordan as a subcontractor was awarded two contracts but did not
even start construction, even though he had received a notice to proceed and
advance payment. He had underbid, was unable to find local subcontractors to
work at the prices he could afford to pay, and preferred to forfeit his
performance  guarantees.    The  other  international  contractors  performed
satisfactorily.    One experienced local contractor had financial problems
unrelated to the project and could not complete his contract.   The three
defaulted contracts, all financed by USAID, were finally retendered in 1988 and
were completed by other contractors in 1989.
2.14    The quality of construction, which was supervised by consultants and
monitored by engineers from the Projects Department of the Authority, was
generally good. Delays were encountered in areas where rock was closer to the
surface than anticipated and in the congested streets and narrow, unpaved paths
of Zarqa, especially duriag the rainy season.



-7-
Progurement
2.15    The contracts financed under the Bank loan are summarized in Annex 1.1.
There were 14 water and sewerage contracts for the appraised project, 2 of which
were financed by the Bank, and 4 supplemental contracts, which were added to the
scope of the project for sewerage in 4 sectors of the project area (Annex 1.2).
The Bank also financed, retroactively, a number of small civil works contracts.
There were four Bank-financed contracts for cars, computers and office equipment,
which were financed normally, and several retroactively-financed small equipment
contracts, which had been awarded in accordance with local competitive bidding
procedures. The Bank also financed a Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition
(SCADA) study, the evaluation of the Authority's fixed assets, a technical
adviser, and training. The KfW loan was used to finance water meters and several
contracts for operating equipment. The USAID loan was also used to finance O&M
equipment and computers, the tariff study, a financial adviser, a technical
adviser and training.   The Authority experienced little or no difficulty in
complying with the procurement procedures of the four cofinanciers.
Proiect Costs
2.16    Comparisons of the projected and actual works completed for the appraised
project and the estimated and actual costs and components for the project as a
whole are shown in Annexes 1.2 and 1.3.  The as-built project cost of US$85.88
million equivalent in current prices, is about 17 percent lower than the
appraisal estimate of 'S$103.68 million equivalent. There are two main reasons
for this cost reductioai, namely, the change in project scope (para. 2.11 and
2.12), which also resulted in lower interest during construction, and the lower
than estimated contingencies. The appraisal report provided 31 percent of the
project's base cost for physical and price contingencies. Actually, the rate
of inflation in Jordan declined during the years of major activity on the project
(about 31 per year in 1984 and 1985 and 0O in 1986 and 1987). There was no price
adjustment for fuel and cement.
Disbursements
2.17    The loan was completely disbursed by December 1989 (FY90) or six months
later than estimated at appraisal. Annex 2.1, Part A, shows a comparison of
appraisal forecasts and actual disbursements; Part B shows the originally agreed,
revised and actual disbursements by categories. At the Borrower's request, the
Bank amended Schedule 1 of the agreement to revise the disbursement categories
and percentages in order to take into account changes in the project scope and
costs (para. 2.10).
Performance of Consultants. Contractors and SuDRliers
2.18    The performance of the joint-venture consultants supervising construction
was good. The local consultant who was engaged in 1988 to supervise construction
of the three defaulted contracts (para. 2.13) performed well. Although two civil
works contractors defaulted on three contracts, the rest completed their
contracts  satisfactorily,  although  later than anticipated.    Suppliers  of
equipment and materials performed well.



-8
Reporting
2.19    The Authority submitted satisfactory monthly progress reports prepared
by the consulting engineers supervising the construction of civil works.
III. INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE
Organizational Develonment
3.01      The sector organization described in the Project Appraisal Report
(Annexes 3.1 and 3.2), changed completely with the promulgation of Temporary Law
No. 34 in December 1983.  When WAJ was established in January 1984, it was
assigned the responsibility for managing water resources and for providing water
supply and sewerage services in all of Jordan. Its first organizational tasks
were to take over the staff and functions of all of WSC and AWSA and part of the
functions of NRA and JVA; to assume the responsibility for water resources
studies; and to integrate the water supply, water distribution, sewerage and
sewage treatment systems of these agencies and of about 300 municipalities and
villages, including Zarqa and Ruseifa. As mentioned in the Project Appraisal,
WSC had already began to take over some of the water systems of secondary cities
and villages in 1982.  This task, taken over by WAJ, has been substantially
completed.
3.02      The system integration and the construction program, both of which were
major accomplishments, were achieved with a highly centralized organizational
structure, which was perhaps appropriate at the time for the job at hand. During
that period, 24 department directors reported directly to the President of the
Water Authority (Annex 3.3). The value of such a management structure was that
it enabled the several existing agencies to be brought together and also provided
the management with the flexibility that was essential during the first years
of operation.
3.03      In 1987, realizing the need for a more rational organization and in
line with Government policy to decentralize services, the Authority undertook
to reorganize its structure with the assistance of a USAID-financed consultant
and  a Jordanian  subcontractor.    Annexes  3.4  and  3.5  show  the  current
organizational charts. The organization for the governorates shown in Annex 3.5
is illustrative: the actual organization varies with the size and complexity of
operations in each governorate. The new organization took effect in April 1988,
at about the same time that the entire water sector was reorganized, following
the creation of the Ministry of Water and Irrigation (para. 1.02). At the Water
Authority's headquarters, under the plan, only the directors of the five
administrations report to the executive head of the agency, who has the rank of
Secretary General. The directors of the eight regional governorate offices also
report to the Secretary General on important issues but have considerable
autonomy to manage the day-to-day activities of their regions. Under the new
organization, there is greater local participation in the water supply and
sewerage sector, since the work ot the Authority in the governorates is also
closely monitored by the Governora#s Water Councils, of which each Governor is
a member. Annex 3.2 shows the organizational chart of the proposed Zarqa



Regional Office as given in the Project Appraisal; Annex 3.6 shows the current
organizational chart of the Zarqa Governorate regional office.
3.04      Following its extensive efforts to integrate the water supply and
sewerage systems and to reorganize, the Authority embarked on a substantial
program of institutional consolidation (described in detail in the Bank mission
Aide-Memoire dated December 15, 1987). The principal elements of the program
included: the development of improved systems for meter reading, billing and
collection; the development of a utility cost accounting system; and the
development of a management information system. Resources available for the
program included: technical advisory services provided under the contract
financed by USAID; numerous reports and studies relevant to the Frogram that
were completed by others during the past six years; and recently acquired data
processing capabilities. A final report by the consultants summarizing their
recommendations, received in August 1989, is under review by a committee set up
by WAJ to develop a phased implementation program.   The performance of the
consultants was not fully satisfactory due in part to their lack of international
experience which hindered their ability to work closely with local counterparts.
Staffing
3.05      Staffing of the Authority has remained fairly constant, at about 5,500
persons. About 1,000 employees are engaged in water resources activities, and
the remainder in water supply and sewerage operations. This is equivalent to
about eight employees per thousand water and sewerage connections, which is
reasonable, given that the Authority's responsibilities are spread over the whole
Kingdom and that the population density outside the Greater Amman and Zarqa areas
is low.  At the end of 1988, the Zarqa governorate regional office had 479
employees and 101,500 weter and sewerage connections, which is equivalent to
about 5 employees per tiousand connections. For the same year, the appraisal
report shows 328 employeez and 61,230 water and sewerage connections for the
Zarqa/Ruseifa Branch (smaller than the governorate), which is also equivalent
to about 5 employees per thousand connections.
Trainine
3.06      The training required under the Bank-financed project focused primarily
on construction supervision and equipment operation and maintenance. Since its
establishment in 1984, the Authority has pursued an extensive program for
training its personnel at all levels, both locally and internationally. It has
actively encouraged international and bilateral agencies to support training for
Jordanians abroad and to schedule courses and seminars in Amman. Some of the
programs which were carried out during the implementation of the Bank-financed
project are worth mentioning.
The Authority has strengthened its vocational training center, which
provides practical training in technical skills to supervisors, meter
readers, mechanics, plumbers, electricians and operators. It trained
879 persons in 44 courses from 1983 to 1988. In the first ten months
of 1989, an additional 266 persons were trained in 13 courses.



- 10 -
Using residual funds from a completed loan from the United Kingdom,
the Authority arranged with the local British Council to provide
training in the English language to some of its employees. To continue
the program, the Bank approved the use of US$100,000 from Loan 2694-
JO for employees who need a knowledge of spoken or written English in
their work.
Along similar lines, the Bank provided assistance so that department
heads could attend international management development seminars.
The Bank Group, through the Economic Development Institute (EDI), was
involved in three seminars offered in Amman, two of which were regional
seminars sponsored jointly with the Amman-based Center for
Environmental Health Activities (CEHA) of the World Health Organization
(WHO).  The two other agencies also sponsored a regional training
program on unaccounted-for water in Amman in November 1988. They are
planning to co-sponsor a regional training program on rural water
supply in Amman in 1990.
CEHA was involved, with the Authority, in several regional and
countrywide training programs and seminars in Amman for mid-level
engineers and technicians in water and wastewater treatment, plant
operation, preventive maintenance, and unaccounted-for water.
WHO, with financial support from USAID, sponsored a course in Human
Resources Development and an on-going 18-month dual-focus training
program in which Jordan and two other countries participated. Jordan' s
teams are concentrating on unaccounted-for water and water quality
management.
The Food and Agricultural Organization (FAO) established a regional
center in Amman to study the treatment and use of sewage effluent f4r
irrigation. It sponsored two regional seminars in Amman, which several
of WAJ's personnel attended.
Most of the bilateral assistance in training was provided by the United
Kingdom and the United States. Other countries such sks Japan, France
and Germany supported the training of a few individuals each year.
Working through the Br'tish Council, the United Kingdom has been
providing academic training (both degree and diploma) in water supply
and sewerage at British universities for an average of four engineers
per year, and theoretical and practical training, usually at one of
the Water Authorities in Britain, for an average of six engineers per
year.
The United States, through USAID, continued to provide academic and
practical training in the United States. During the five-year period
since WAJ was established,  60 employees have been trained.   In
addition, USAID has sponsored two one-month training seminars in Amman,
conducted by an international institute, on procurement and contract
negotiations and the management of contract performance. More than
20 engineers attended each seminar.



- 11 -
USAID also provided more than US$3 million from its Water Systems and
Services Management Project to fund a contract to provide water and
wastewater sector training, water quality management and technical
advisory services. The contract team also advised the Authority on
institutional improvements.
IV. OPERATING PERFORMANCE
Introduction
4.01      In evaluating operating performance, the following areas were addressed
in the appraisal report: (i) the increase in population coverage by the public
water supply; (ii) the control of unaccounted-for water; (iii) the increase in
population coverage by the sewerage systems; and (iv) the increase in the
coverage of the urban poor by both the water supply and the sewerage systems.
Water SuDD1Y
4.02      The increase in water produttion and sales during the project period
is shown in Annex 5.1. The additional supply became available, for Amman, with
the commissioning of a plant for the treatment of surface water from Deir Alla
on the King Abdullah Canal and, for Irbid, of a plant for the treatment of Wadi
Arab well water. The commissioning of the treatment plant at Irbid permitted
the diversion to the Azraq-Amman pipeline of part of the ground water supply from
wells at Mafraq that was previously pumped to Irbid. A portion of this diverted
water, which was mixed with water from Azraq, now supplies the project area
through the pipeline installed under the project.   The contribution of the
project to water supply coverage was greater than anticipated in the appraisal
report. The quantity of water pumped to Zarqa and Ruseifa in 1988 was 56 percent
greater than in 1985, while during the same period the appraisal report estimated
an increase of only 28 percent. Blending the water from Mafraq with Zarqa's
ground water, which is high in total dissolved solids, has also improved water
quality. In the project area, 144 km of water mains were installed, 11 percent
more than the 130 km estimated at appraisal (Annex 1.2).
Unaccounted-for Water
4.03      Unaccounted-for water (UFW) remains a matter of concern to WAJ.  A
hydraulic analysis of the water system in Greater Amman was financed by the Bank
under a subsequent loan (2694-JO). The consultants upgraded the system maps and
prepared a network analysis and detailed designs for rehabilitation of the
distribution system. They estimated that the amount of UFW in the area was 59
percent. Physical losses consisted of 19 percent distributioi network leakage
and 2 percent transmission losses. The balance, 38 percent, resulted from errors
in meter registering and reading, and in billing adjustments (Annex 4.1).
Although such precise data are not available for the Zarqa/Ruseifa area, the
amounts of UFW in each category are reportedly similar. Under the reorgan'zation
of WAJ, the responsibility for subscriber services has been shifted to the
governorate regional offices, closer to the consumer, where meter reading and
collections can be better rntrolled. Billing has also been centrally



- 12 -
computerized. The Authority's extensive training program has included several
courses and seminars on various aspects of UFW.   An action plan has been
developed to address the problem systematically for the entire Kingdom. Minor
water distribution network rehabilitation in Greater Amman was initiated in 1989,
and major improvements are programmed to commence in 1992 with financing being
provided by KfW. Recently, within the context of the above-mentioned action
plan, consideration is being given to twinning arrangements with water
enterprises in the UK, for which ODA-financing is being sought. Theie measures
should result in a slow, but steady, improvement in efficiency.
Sewerage Coverage
4.04      Under the project,  410 km of trunk and collaction sewers were
constructed, compared with 344 km anticipated in the appraisal (Annex 1.3). A
total of 27,435 sewerage laterals were constructed, compared with 30,000
anticipated at appraisal.  Sewage flow to the West Zarqa Pumping Station, which
also collects sewage from parts of Greater Amman and the industrial zone,
averaged 13,500 m3 per day during the first nine months of 1989. Sewage flow
to the East Zarqa Pumping Station at Hishimiyeh averaged 1,300 m3 per day in the
same period. The combined sewage flow for 1989 will be about 5 million m3 per
year, compared with an estimate of 7.2 million m3 per year in the appraisal.
There were 18,653 sewer connections in the Zarqa/Ruseifa area at the end of 1988,
compared with the cppraisal estimate of 17,000.
4.05      Design changes, which were necessary after the cancellation of the
construction of the sewage treatment plant, delayed the construction of the two
stations in West Zarqa and Hashimiyeh that pump raw sewage to the waste
stabilization ponds. They were both completed in 1987.
Urban Poor
4.06      The authority has not found it necessary to make formal arrangements
to enable low income inhabitants of the project area to meet the cost of
connecting  their dwellings  to the sewerage  systems.    Charges  for sewer
connections are based on the rental value of the property and the length of the
sewer connection. The urban poor generally live in densely built-up areas in
low-value properties that are close to street sewers. Experience .as shown that,
generally, they can recover the modest cost of a connection from the money they
save by not having to have their cesspools emptied.   Although no formal
arrangements for financial assistance exist, the Authority has provided such
assistance on a case-by-case basis.
V. FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
Introduction
5.01      The appraisal financial and operating results for WSC were no longer
applicable after 1984, when the WSC was taken over by WAJ. Appraisal estimates
from a subsequent Bank loan and the actual consolidated Income and Expenditure
Statement, Source and Application of Funds Statement. and Balance Sheet for WAJ
for the years 1984 through 1988, are shown in Annexes 5.1, 5.2 and 5.3.



- 13 -
2perating Results
5.02      WAJ's operating results for the period 1984-1988 were not as favorable
as forecast in appraisal reports for subsequent Bank loans.   Its financial
position actually deteriorated during the period of the loan, largely because
of the tariff policy (para 5.03) and the adverse effec~.s of increasing quantities
of unaccounted-for water. During the five years from 1984 to 1988, the annual
quantity of water produced increased by 113 percent from 77.40 MCM to 164.77 MCM,
while retail and tanker sales rose only by 36 percent from 49.11 MCM to 66.70
HCM.  The amount of billable sewage doubled from 10.50 MCM to 21.70 MCM during
the same periad.
Tariffs
5.03      The tariffs currently applied appear in Annex 5.4.  The last tariff
increase took place in 1982. However, the lower block, which is considered the
level of consumption of the poor, has been reduced twice since then. The recent
institution of a minimum charge should recover some of the revenue reduction.
A tariff study carried out by consultants financed by USAID was completed in
1987. The study recommended substantial increase, in both water and sewerage
tariffs. While the study was comprehensive, the report was found not completely
satisfactory by WAJ and the Governm,nt, who felt that several aspects of the
study would require adjustment before it could be imnlemented. Bank's review
of the study suggested revisions of some of the assumptions and advised on
updating the study taking into account the recommendations of all parties
concerned. To date, the study has not been updated. WAJ has been studying
alternative tariff structure arrangements which, while not affecting the poor,
could increase overall revenues. None of these measures, however, are being
implemented in view of the Government's reluctance to increase tariffs before
reducing 1UFW especially improving metering, billing and collection.
VI. WORLD BANK PERFORMANCE
6.01      Relations between the Bank, the Borrower and the Authority were good
throughout project preparation and implementation.   The Bank supervised the
projects at least once a year and, when required, twice a year with missions of
adequate duration to address the issues at hand; the missions were technically
balanced and provided continuity and practical expertise. Preparation missions
for the Eight Cities Water Supply and Sewerage Project (Loan 2425-JO), the
Greater Amman Water Supply and Sewerage Project (Loan 2483-JO), and the Jordan
Water Supply and Sewerage Project (Loan 2694-JO) were used to follow-up matters
related to project supervision.
6.02      To address the non-compliance with financial covenants, a situation
that has been further aggravated by the economic crisis the country is now
experiencing, WAJ's financial viability is a subject of discussion in the Bank's
macroeconomic dialogue with Government. This issue will be addressed in the
next Bank operation in the water supply sector. The objective of strengthening
the institutional capabilities of WSC was changed to assist WAJ through technical
assistance and training to complement similar efforts being financed by bilateral
donors (para. 3.06) as well as those included under subsequent Bank loans to WAJ
(para. 1.03).



- 14
6.03      During the implementation of the project, the Government asked the Bank
to update its earlier Water Sector Study (Report No. 4699-JO) to cover both
munilpal and industrial water supply and irrigation. While the study was in
preparation, the Ministry of Water and Irrigation was created. It was felt by
the Bank that the new study (Report No. 7099-JO) would assist in the development
of policies and strategies by the new Ministry.   As a follow-up to the
recommendations of the report, the Government has decided to execute a project,
in cooperation with UNDP, to strengthen the present nucleus of central water
administration, to develop guidelines for water policy, to establish a
computerized water sector data bank, to establish an integrated water sector
management model, and to update the National Water Master Plan. The project is
co-financed by UNDP and the Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development for
a total amount of US$700,000, plus a Government contribution of JD 297,000.
VII. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
Pro ect Achievements
7.01      The major objectives of the water supply and sewerage components of
the project, to improve the general health and protect the environment in the
project area through upgrading and expanding the water supply and sewerage
systems, have been met (para. 2.04). Early in 1989, the Authority was able to
supply water to 423.000 connections, 42 percent more than projected, and to
collect and treat sewage from 132,500 connections compared to the 152,000
projected (Annex 5.1). In the appraised area of the Zarqa governorate, there
were 50,560 water connections, compared with the 44,230 projected, and 18,650
sever connections, compared with the 17,000 projected.
Least-cost Solutio
7.02      The water supply and sewerage works to be constructed under the project
were the least-cost solutions among the several alternatives analyzed by
consultants who had not looked beyond the project area S. The alternatives did
not, however, include the joint treatment of sewage from Zarqa and Ruseifa at
the Khirbet As-Samra wastewater stabilization ponds because the decision to build
the ponds was not taken until after the Bank's project appraisal had been
completed. The decision to use the Khirbet As-Samra treatment plant, which ---s
taken after the Water Authority was established in early 1984, reduced the
Project's capital cost of pumping and treatment from the appraisal estimate of
US$19.7 million to US$6.5 million (Annex 1.2).   The annual operating and
maintenance cost estimated at appraisal was also reduced from about 27 fils per
m3 to about 5 fils per m3.
Socio-Economic Analysis
7.03      No calculation of the internal rate of return was included in the SAR;
it did, however, include calculations of the average incremental costs for water
and sewerage in the cities of Zarqa and Ruseifa to test the adequacy and
affordability of water and sewerage tariffs. After the creation of WAJ in 1984,
At the time of project preparation and appraisal, Greater Amman sewerage
was under the jurisdiction of AWSC, while the project area was under the
responsibility of WSC (para. 1.02).



- 15 -
records were not kept on the same basis and it is therefore not possible to
replicate these tests, although overall for WAJ the current level of tariff is
affordable 'jut insufficient to recover operation and maintenance cost and debt
service (para. 6.02).
VIII.  CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS LEARNED
Conclusions
8.01      The project was technically well-conceived and represented least-cost
solutions.   In general, there was more constructior. and pr.-curement than
projected in the appraisal report. The primary objectives of improving both the
water supply and sewerage services were achieved.  Operations duriLg the project
period and a Bank-financed study highlighted once again the urgent need to reduce
unaccounted-for water. Effective implementation of the Authority'e action plan
(under Loan 2694-JO) in this regard should show improvement, geanerate more
revenues and slowly improve WAJ's financial performance. It would not, however,
be sufficient to meet its financial obligations, that is to pay for its operating
expenses, working capital increases and service its debt. Actions on tariff
levels and structure are also necessary.
Lessons Learned
8.02      The project shows the need to attach at least as much importance to
operation and maintenance of water supply and sewerage systems, and to the
financial management of a utility, as to the construction of new facilities and
extensions to the existing systems. The reduction of unaccounted-for water (UFW)
under the ongoing program involves not only the purchase of meters, pipes and
leak detection equipment, but also good management of customer services, such
as the maintenance of connections and meters, efficient meter reading and billing
etc., (para. 4.03). This situation is being partially addressed under follow-
up Bank financed projects (paras. 1.03, 6.01) which have made provisions for
water supply network rehabilitation, and through technical assistance funded by
bilateral donors for strengthening WAJ's administrative *nd operation and
maintenance capabilities (para. 3.06). Addressing the problem of UFW, however,
will require innovative approaches such as twinning contracts with experienced
water supply agencies particularly from Europe. Also, it is important to note
that when separate authorities operate in contiguous areas, close coordination
of their plans is necessary to ensure optimal economic and practical solutions
(para. 7.02).



-16 -
ANNEX 1. 1
Wuum 1130 of lonw
Zluamu itmi 0 11Q0 UOUc
1011221)
W UIc1 cou roi 31108?
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
~~~... . _. . .... . _ .... .  _.. ... ..... .. . ..... . . .... ........
s:    11}        1~~21             :    (3)       (4)     IS}        (6)         III    :: 11        (9)        (10)    111}    :
::M    =      UU1I0N    $                :a I:CumT    Cm1 . c mil lI     CIM        8     1   ::  I    COM MD   Is              B    ::
::11        3111810        :  01CM     g0.  UR1m1       M      (D   1tUCI(I)  ::111.   VsIJ           J    083     )  ::
* *..t. .........q.....              .. .....  .. .
::(I)108        C,400,000t  14,300,000 :                                                      ::                                     :
:6A       064/85 21/1 8          936,551    910,008 ::   60    5146,06  0.3541,51,97? ::
:6        103/85 U-11NU-I       781,000    7178,7 ::   60    467,074 0.343  1,362,181 ::
::60102 :of                               MUCAIR  1WC1                  1,574,973  71,574,13  ::   60  4,544,989 e.     10,141,336 ::
::100Z 01                                ::
::mm W.
:::  '.tu  10                 9,358,524  9,263,4   ::   60  5,558,068 0.401 13,651,494 ::
-  *                                      ............. *...._.......-
::  81-uiimt    6,282,000              0:                                       0           0::
:: T 3:58
_~~~~~~~ .4  e e.e c. e.                                          e..t .a..S........  _  _  _ _ _ 4
::B t9RMT    2,111,000          SOO,OOO:                                                      :::
::& UIl                                  :C11       130/85 13-1-86         37,025      37,02  ::   85      31,471 0.31?      99,U15::
::1001  01 aC C:a    0   27186  01-M6-87                                  2S6,019    269,411 ::  100    269,444 0.31    189,582 ::
::aw                                     .          25186                 110,005    110,005 ::  100    110,005 0.361    29,864::
:J;s  D1  .                       19,900     19,900 ::  100       19,900 0.332      59,853 ::
::851o1                                  :811M710101    111C1011          383,747    33?,741 ::45*100   381,147 0.506    166,426 ::
,:     1011U1111                 810,696'  824,121 ::           811,56  0.406  2,015,160 ::
d1f}             S §500,000    900,000 :
::MMlIl                                  :CuD    26/16                   160,210    179,300 ::  100    119,900 0.337    533,300 ::
::Sam                                    :    87      11                   14,369    1H,369::  100         14,369 0.340       2,26 ::
:1: D010V                        53,380    168,094::  100    168,0940.314    48,90::
::1002                                   zalI:C0    801                    511,000     51,000 ::  100      51,0    0.387    131,801 ::
-V:1I                              1,442      1,442  ::  100       1,42 0.340        4,24.0::
::1MAM                             8,413      8,411:  100          8,413 0.360      23,12 ::
::  0I101111 JIIDC                                  ::                            109,517 ::
:1011  COM8III                   288,814    423,218::           42,218 0.3117  1,33,46 ::
*   .... .............e........     ...........  _   .0.S......    _    .....  ...
::111100110      1,7100,000    1,300,000 :                                                     ::
::?GU          17,000,000   11,000,000 :0                              10,145,031 10,510,777 ::         6,799,153 0.400 1,080,000 ::



17 -
AlNNEX 1.2
HASHEMITE KINCDOM OF JORDAN
ZAUQA/RUSEIFA WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
WAN 2213-JO
PROJBCT COMPLETIQN REPORT
ComParison of A praisal Estimates and Actual P oject Costs
US$ Thousand
Item                          Appraisal     Actual   Financed by
Sewage treatment plant (1)                  18,130          0        WB
Sesge pump station and force main
East Zarqa P.S. and force main (28)        1,696      2,460       KfW
West Zarqa P.S.                              -        4,032       WAJ
Trunk and subtrunk sewers (2A)               7,798      5,676      KEN
Water distribution and sewerage
Subareas II & VII (3A & 3B)               7,602       4,166       USAID
Subarea III (4A & 4B)                     8,139       4,416       USAID
Subarea IV (5)                            2,375       1,686       USAID
Subareas I, VI, VIII & XII (BA & 6B)      10,003      4,989       WE
Subareas XIII, XVI & XVIII (7A, 7B & 7C) 11,102       5,563       IDB
Subarea V, IX & X (9)                      1,501        949       IDB
Subareas in Phase 2                         -         6,012       IDB
Retroactive financing                       -        16,754       WB
Supply of water pipes for all contracts (8) 4,153         949       KfW
Stormwater sewers and culverts (10)         4,245       2,115       IDB
0 & N depot/workshon                           309          0       WB
Maintenance b04lding                                    126       WE
Consultants for ..vpervision & startun      5,426       3,174       USAID
WSC/WAJ vroiect staff                        1,500      1,500       WAJ
Tariff study                                  199         304       USAID
Trainint                                      202       1,002       USAID
42       WB
Financial Experts                             690         250       USAID
Evaluation of fixed assets                               132       WB
Manamement/technical experts                  519         488       WB
Technical expert                              -          280       USAID
Miscellaneous studies
SCADA (prelim)                                            32       USAID
SCADA                                                    533       WE
Computer                                                  72       USAID
Feasibility and Design - Salt STP                        110       WB
Meters and operating eg9guinment             1,339      2,576       KfW
Computers, Office & Operating Equipment                2,030       WB
Computers & Operating Equipment                        1,778       USAID
Land acauisition                            4.329       4.412       WAJ
Total cost (including physical &
price contigencies)            91,157     78,608
Interest during construction               12,265       7,032
Dank front-end fee                            255         255
Total financins reauired                  103,677      85,875



- 18 -
ANiNEX 1.3
RASNEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
ZARQA/RUSEIFA WATER SUPPLY AND SEWAOE PROJECT
LOAN 2213-JO
PROJECT COMPLETION REORT
Details of Water SuDPlV and Sewerage Components
Financing  Project  Contract    Lentth of Pipe - km_                   Costs
Agency    Element    Number    ProJected      Installed       JD Thousands       Per
or                Water      r WLer  Sewe   Projected   Actugl  Cent
Subarea
ADpraised Project
WB      Sewage       1        -     One    -       None       6282        0       0
Treatment
Plant
KfW      Trunks &     2A       -       35    -       26.0      2702     1929      71
Subtrunks
KfW      Sewage       2B       -      one    -       One        553      817    148
Pump Sta &
Force Main            -        3    -        7.5        -        -
USAID    II, VII   3A 3B       -       -      11.5   60.6      2634     1764     67
III      4A 4B      -       -     10.0   65.4       2820     2353     83
IV        5        -       -     14.3   21.2        823      586     71
Subtotal              30     171    35.8  147.2       6277     4703     75
WB      II, VII,   6A 6B      30      77    26.3   68.1       3466     1688     49
Vill, Xi_
IrB      XIII, XVI  7A 7B      46      82    48.0   69.0       3847     1891     49
XVII       7C
KfW      Supply of     8      133      -      133     -        1439      323     22
Water Pipe
=IDB     V. IX. X       9       24      -     34.0    -          520      321     62
IDB      Stormwater   10       -      13.7    -       7.9      1471      776     53
Sewers
Subtotal                                             26557    12448     47
Additional works
IFB                  ZQ-1      -      -        -      30.1      -        540
ZQ-2      -      -        -     23.2       -        446
Z4-3      -      -        -     32.0       -        592
_  M-1   -      -        -      24.5       -        467
WAJ      Sewage
Pump Sta      -       -      -        -     One        -       1370
WB       Other Civil Works     -      -         -      -        -       7575
Subtotal                                    109.8             10570
Totals for appraised project
Water pipe and sewers          130    343.7  144   299.7
Costs                                                         26557    12448     47
Totals for ProJect as constructed
Water pipe and sewers         130    343.7    144   409.5
Costs                                                         26557    23058     87



- 19 -
ANNEX 2.1
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
ZARQA/RUSEIFA WATER SUPPLY AND SR E PRJECT
LOAN 2213-JO
PROJ8CT COMPLETION REPORT
LOAN DISBURSEMES
A. Cmparison of Appraisal Forecasts and Actual Amounts (US$ million)
Fiscal      Appraisal Report Forecast                      Actual
Year    Annual    %    Cumulative      X     Annual    S    Cumulative    %
1984      0.4     2.4       0.4        2.4      0.1    0.4       0.1      0.4
1985      3.8    22.4       4.2       24.7      4.3   25.2       4.4     25.9
1986      4.7    27.6       8.9       52.4      6.6   38.8      11.0     64.1
1987      3.8    22,4       12.7      74.7      1.4    8.2      12.4     72.9
1988      3.6    21.2       15.3      90.0      0.1    0.4      12.5     73.5
1989      1.7    10.0      17.0      100.0      4.5   26.5      17.0    100.0
B.  Disbursement Categ,ories (US$)
Aareement        Revised          Actual
1. Civil works                       6,400,000       14.300,000      13,651,494
2. Sewage treatment plant                                     0               0
and                        8,400,000
Workshop Equipment                                   500,000       2,015,160
3. Consultant Services                 500,000          900,000       1,333,346
4. Unallocated                       1,700.000        1,300.000            -
Total                            17,000,000       17,000,000      17,000,000



HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
ZARQA/RUSEIFA WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
LOAN 2213-JO
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ORGANIZATION OF THE WATER SUPPLY CORPORATION
__________ Jsa  lmumu   A~urS.I
Wow1 '' amow
~~~~~wool~~~~~~~~~~~~
be         .         .
~~Mwirml I!1rl *01bMm
V.~b.uw  Uawr AW M pmU.
4el_ I I a 1-- ' | - ' I _ Ielm
_l     -          -_ _ _I o I                                    e      1   l          t           l 
_. ""                                                                _
of _wd  Om* lm so~    a Om #V
t_d   _   JR~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A
_ w 4_ W __                                _                                        t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~B



-21-
ANNEX 3.2
Ii~~~~.....  
Go~~~~~~~~~~~~
~~~~~ii~~~~~A
en  4
0'~~~~



- 22 -
ANNEX 3.3
HASH6E11SE KflItD0i 0F JORDAN
ZAw.jEtUSIIIFA WATER SUPPLY AND SEWQ   C
LOAN 2213-JO
Orgauniation of the Water Authority
1984-1987
80AO OF DIRECTORS
SECRETARYGEN-
ERALS OFPICE
FEGLOIEI                                        _OMTrE
ITECH. ADVISORS_
FINANCE       .    TANKERS DEPT.          TENDERING
DEPARtMENT I       L             IL DEPT.
ADMINISTRATION       CONSTRUCTION            IRRIGATION
n  DEPARTMIEWT 0   LDEPARTMENT 0         | DEPARTMENT
[   PU8LIC    l  H  WAREHOUSE |    § SEWERAGE
REAIN                  DEPARtMENt     |       DEPARTM^ENT|EN|
DEPARTMENT ~ ~  ~     ~     ~    EPRTEN
OPERATIONS&                    ~~~~~~DESIGN &STUDY
. MAINTENANCE |FOLLOWUP|ENT
. DEPARITMENT          DE4PARTMENT           D  EPARTMENT 
TREERRE8.  |   WATMER  PERSONHNKAL_
_  DEPARTMENT |D- OEPARTMENT               DEPARTMENT
WATER        ~~MECHANICAL
STUDIES  ~    DEVELOPMENT           DEPARTMENT
LABORATORIES&         DEVELOPMENT           SULSCRIBERS
n ENVICOLCNTROL zDEPARTMENT                 DEPARTMENT
TRANING             TRANSPRT              ACOUSTON



HiASI{E4ITE KINGDOtI OF JORDAN
ZARQA/RUSEIFA WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
LOAN 2213-JO
PROJECT RCOMPLEMION REPORT
ORGANIZATION OF THE WATER AUTHORITY - MINISTRY OF WATER AND IRRIGATION '
Rojo"  ioroams  I    .t 1agf rrmme o  cSt oWIc
[ w1         *~~~~~~~~~~~
r  s -  -_-
_1 J .sS              A-  1_111*11111                                                                   a"__    _                 IR
t _ ' = _~~~t4t                                                                                 s  _Z_n ow"
11_ba*   _        Uhn      2AS      Q 0 " _  l_|  
-m   .wm        3S so"wm         s~a@wtumr      tttdLV   31wUW1t                    O6UUft ckz
eUSaS*eUtos  bw MialuMrsMACI                         SwaiUnata UocLw,,  mS a~aU.t Vt. *1*aRm  tgaj"
Una _"  Ab 
Adow. nt. |   9  X M
clNo    swu                                           ad*                                                    R_ ,m0
=~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"lrs   %UUMl
_@   *. lt~~Mw



HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
ZARQA/RUSEIFA WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
LOAN 2213-JO
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ORfGANIZiTION OF A WATER AUTHORITY GOVERNORATE WATER ADMINISTRATION
mr,etoe.m. or  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t
ouvatomto or  ur"tonto or                        r ftwu.                                of~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~...
I "ro~~~~~~sum                                     |                      nusw 
Lgi tlmmolaL *fftIzW
o.m   le om ati
we
d ~ ~~~a                         uui ax"  IWMU n-oI,,s0q
tam"MmMv
UMI      hdM*n                                                                                                             Nowl
Si                                  Mm~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~V



HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
ZARQA/RUSEIFA WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
LOAN 2213-JO
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ORGANIZATION OF THE ZARQA WATER ADMINISTRATION
Cote             oun luAlm tsUdI
W~~E Cl -_ -I I
1n_                                              1^ !
stF                     I   r       I                    .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0



- 26 -
Annex 4.1
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
ZARQA/RUSEIFA WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
LOAN 2213-JO
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Components of Unaccounted-for Water
Greater Amman Area
1987
WM         Percent        Percent
MW            UFW
Amount Billed                          33.17
Billing Adjustments                   -8.63                          14
Net Amount for Collection              24.54          41
Revenue Meter Under-registration       12.58                         21
Source Meter Error                      1.76                          3
Leakage                                11.70                         19
Transmission Losses                     1. 42                         2
Total Water Produced                  60.28           41             59
RW = Revenue Water
UFW = Unaccounted-for Water
Source: Sogreah Consulting Engineers et al., "Hydraulic Analysis of the
Water System in the Greater Amman Area", Volume 4, draft, (1988).



- 27 -
Am 5.4
lwoolm mul OPL1 i ung loe
HU  213 * Jo
am AIMw WUDIYI 511131
um muiom ioumuwo
1984              1985                1986              1981               1988
PIoIlcti    AM1W  P30Jn11   IUam     P3081   Amiii  P30181081mm     PIOICUD mm11)
..... O.....*..* ........ .......  e.                                     . 
1m   p1om0 p (1)               81.14    77.40    86.79       92.70    12.64   134.70    39.43   150.40    998.2   164.77
W0m1  (1U      )               39.00    38.00    38.00       36.00   31.00    54.00    31.00    52.50    3.00    51.00
am     8UI&l(C)                 2.28     1.13     2.30        S.17     2.41     1.92     2.52     0.38     2.40     0.90
IYUI 818 mu    C)              49.42    4.98    53.56        59.32    58.07    62.10    62.88    6.40    61.88    65.80
111131  8116(11                11.59    10.50    15.56       14.10    11.29    11.30    24.61    10.40    34.80    21.70
M0. 01 COMMOi-V&W            231,070  266.360  241.340    334,266  251,150  364,300  261,150  3191700  217,700  423,000
10.01 aCO    ONS-aml          13,500   54,100   58,400      63,500   75,800   1,600 80,400  103.400  152,000  132,100
"N11M  l11(iD0/ClN)            0.078    0.160    0.086       0.250    0.091    0.250    0.096    0.250    0.800    0.250
a".Ur  uIILI2/ic)              0.26#    0.237    0.267       0.243    0.367    0.243    0.376    0.256    0.489    0.256
UL.U   SICRAcIGIDICII          0.043    0.030    0.073       0.030    0.128    0.030    0.158    0.030    0.100    0.030
11L111.1111nD/jc)              0.230    0.224    0.210       0.236    0.238    1.173    0.238    0.204    0.318    0.258
"31M   8U1s                     0.17     0.27     0.20        0.28     0.22     0.26     0.24     0.21     1.92     0.23
RI:'   BIks                   13.06    11.39    14.28       14.39    21.32    15.12    23.62    16.26    33.22    16.16
1Sa3m161  0icu.O 0.5 0  0.40                      1.14        0.41     2.34     0.40     3.81     0.11     3.48     0.83
0113 IICONI                     2.62     3.27     2.63        4.76     2.55    4.78      2.56     5.37     1.50     7.38
6,17. 8mDTh                     2.50              2.33                 2.35              2.41
*e*  **e*  **        C....         ..C    ....    ...      C.       0.
I01  awls3                     18.85    15.33    20.58       19.8S    28.78    20.65    32.72   U260    40.12    24.59
mum
--....
U111118                         6.15     6.43     6.67        8.82     7.36     0.41     8.42     9.57     9.42     9.86
1316t                           4.06     1.76      4.57       7.45     5.50     8.97     7.15     8.60     8.80    12.35
ciau                            0.2)     0.14    04.25        0.14     0.35     0.10     O.S      0.15     0.640     .16
fIIUI                           2.40     1.64     2.60        1.08     2.81     1.78     3.13     1.37     3.63     1.21
ADIIIUIIIOII                    0.95     0.26      1.02       1.01     1.23     2.67     1.38     1.69     1.58     1.35
eec.    eaCe      ee.        ....     ....    0...      *ee*     ee.       c.. ...e
TOT1m1 1 115UU                 13.79    13.22    15.11       20.31    17.25    22.06    20.53    21.-3    14.03    24.9
IIIOII 31UOlt 01v tim?.         5.06     2.11     5.47       10.461  11.53    (2.31)   12.19      1.23    14.74    10.34)
35:0D11C11TION                 3.47     1.68     3.78        2.68     5.88     5.62     6.98     6.02     7.05     6.69
II81 309  IS1l1l38             1.59     0.42     1.69       (3.14)    5.65    (7.94)    5.21     44.80)    6.79    (7.031
11111011111?                    2.74     1.83     2.73        3.27     5.56     4.40     5.70     4.36     7.50     5.43
W11?   (803I318)               (1.15)   (1.41)   (1.0)       (6.41)    0.0    (12.34)   (0.49)   (9.16)   (0.71)  112.46)
o0w3 1  311?10                  0.92     0.97     0.02        1.16     0.80     1.38     0.84     1.21     0.82    1.01
un  01a 110                     1.67     0.66     1.59       43.09)    3.17    (4.65)    2.S    12.581    5.00
11:10  NU 1UM1          M T01  mo0m16



- 28 -
Annx .2
*m lin u JwlaX
ZIQA/lUStII  UlAt  SIUil & siuBm    PROicT
AII 2213 * J0
s CI c  AlAPLIAUTION01 o0f    8
VAT  MImI?! COUOXO&TI
(JD Million)
lI5AL ViA                           1984              1905               198t              1987                 1918
Milo6 DECImll 31             PR    tED   ACTL  PROJIC            L mm OJICTP  CAL         TID ACA    POCID  AbTU
IlITUUL 9Suc
T otulT     INMI                    ;.59     0.42     1.ii    13.14)    5.65    (7.94)    5.21    (4.80)        1.27  (7.03)
flM:MUICPnTION                      3.41     1.68     3.78     2.68     5.88      5.62     6.98     6.02       9.53      6.69
TOTAL ITWAL SlCR8                  -.             i-         1i16    11.53 am 12.11 1 9     2.12           1W.80   (0.34)
6OV.EQiTT CO1TII8UTI0o             10.10     7.39    15.23    18.10    48.14    32.60    10.17    21.65       28.00    22.36
1101110  NOR UA MLuATIGN                                    81.33
CUSTOMER COITRIIUTIOI               0.54     1.00     0.65     1.63     0.95      0.16     0.96     0.68       2.23      0.65
05DID CO 11$8UTIm                                                                 0.83              1.20                 0.18
LIMS                               12.29    19.70    16.12    30.43    19.45    22.58    14.74    16.90       14.15    19.92
0cm11 Lm   InJV)                                                      39.22               4.56
TOTAL saUC1E  of JUNO:             27.99    30.19    37.47   133.20   119.29    54.16    42.62    41.66       38093   42.77
vS5:::::   ::SS:::  :z:::::  :::::::  :3:3323::S        : tglsauzza:  s::::::::  :2:::::a:
CUITAL IIPENDIUsUS                 24.23    22.00    34.00    59.73   110.1S    56.09    32.51    34.57       24.32    24.17
UlAICI a IS1                                                 100.53
INCUASI (DieCIMl)
II 305111 CAPITAL                  (0.45)   (2.00!   (0.90)  (11.15)    0.01    14.08)    0.21    (6.34)       0.50  (6.81)
DIST sRVcA
IINTUIT                             2.74     1.83     2.73     3.27     5.56      4.40     5.10     4.36       9.58      5.43
AOTIUATION                          1.47     3.34     1.63     3.03      3.56     2.58     4.19     9.07        6.40    19.28
"TOU                            -TAL   r  51  WT' -W  liT.  lT  Ml.iT -h   -f    TCf7
TOTAL APPLICATION 01 1a1Ms         27.99    30.19    31.46   133.20   119.28    56.25    42.12    41.66        38.93    42.77
::::::::  :::::::  tsa:z::  :::::S:  uxxS2:S  :xazSt S: 3= *S::S    S:gx  :S::::::   Sx:::S S
DT ssmcI  coiw  I                   1.20     0.41     1.25    10.08)    1.26    (0.31)    1.23      0.09        1.05     0.02
TIM: TOTAL  AY UTBM  Dl. TO ROUDINs



stMGM oi too ung I'm MU1               =
65:11    09:01    Is*:t      6I:l1    8S:t    09:01    Wi)1    t9:tt    OL:It   tL:8t                        O 1m  Ut0 
file     Ot-t      Sl-o      to;t      Oslo      92-1      iS-o      st*l      St0t sit-                          011  a11J
*. . .   ...........   .....        *.. .      ... ...            ..        *     *     *
tSi-lt    St-stl   tiltOt   tItit   001?   ttltL    tiHll            ?9*99t   99n1-     i99tt                31181           mu
Lu-n     00't    9n-u        OLOt    101Ot    911          3 ? tt       6       9'1 tl tt    61     931      1    m11    m11
SWit               TI39t   6IN         6L'L      6t*i      16't      95-t                t9't               SaIuI       a3
Wit?    001t       W11       tt'l      St'tt    L?         Ol-lt    tl-t       WU t      WI                   31111 u&t
nItnn U11111
OSt               oiSt                OSWt                ON1                                     tu11    au  0n
iS'ttt   It-ltt   16Ott  mitLt   KIMt   9H-1Ht   tSoI   I9tOS    60-0S                  09-Lt                   11  11au  51
1)19!   tt'    ILIt        tBt  "t 9inn    tt   W-lSt    0'91t   LO-60t   96't?          ?16                      Ul   "as
t8-0     99'       Ilt       i   Si  WI,    It-           t19t       Ct        00-      ISt ?           31t S1    103 1o110M1
6li33)   Il' ttl  (tt'St1  It'lt)   (WSt'9?   (Zt'Lt)  (titti  (IO'ttl  109l1   (St 5t)                         uuimu  1IN1UI1
Sr:   L9iz  S911  WU in                09:  t  lli   01tlt  WiU  6si   WU U'81o uu111
WIt l tiZ   ttN191   3393t  19'Ott   ILI  lt 'Ittt   IS'16    Lt-l                      Irttl                            Ut1
......... *.... *. _. ....... .fe _                                    ......   .
3WMt   St'lt    3tL't   tt' lttOM   tt9                 Il CLI       t99?    L931    19'9t                 s11      1     1
19'tt 2S-l 81  9t  ti'l    Wt    69St   Wit@ tt'Ot  t2-t tLt   We-t                                       sumS am "a
I'-tt    I'Ot    6t-r        W6        1 I nl     t WI '1            S6-t      t0'2t    01't                311T1T13u  311803
W-S    L1  t       OtL       9 tO t    St        4 61 t     t't    It'?       0L't      W1 t                         $     _a
t2't     12't      611       16l?      It        Lt't      6'        W1t       t O'      S Wt-                              g
-z unun
WM101  E93l6t  0313?  ItWlM   HIM   9S9t  19I02  ItrIS WSt                              WM                  1um 01M11 '11101
5115t    Ir9it UV     06      S18S;    W11       10 01    1511       50'5l   IW   6t        i                  $S15011 it TM
16'1t    W9?6    61'0i    It'tt    WUi    L9'1tt 1         I'S       16'tt    Sit   9tgit               '1s1  1133  m11m  UNI
69'T?   0C         S- 11t   l 3       tt'L      09't      tt- t     LLI       1O't      LI'?         Into JI01IUl1  :u11
eE59     11101t   W09    6019          601t1   It'L       60'tt   It'l    9n'9t    tt' t             '1m13 Su1 0S     3   301
31,  1391   LOS'1t   1011t               M6t      W69ON    WM11   R16   tn-st    tt-0                    11 m3    0I T1 11U
St-St    013 St  It'tt        t'It    N-6        SSU       6U'L      Ot-tl t' t  L'St                 11111 I011311nt :333
tWllt   It'LOt   WM'91   Sit'Stt  tl)            6116t   SStt   W-l(I   tt'Ot    W6-SO                1U1  3113   01t13101
Ulm
......nnC....
...~~~~~~~~~~.... . ...... ._ ..... ..... ..... ~... ..... .....  
ll6t               List              sIlt                   tilt                list
ImIttIN ot) U0    3PT
a01110110103 1111118  111V3
UUIW 0tW  g tO 
Or * tttt311 01
ulro  l    Mil0  .  11??  3101   m/"
11110 10 3005111II 11111331
mmito M II                      -
t'i um ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     6 



- 30 -
Annex S.4
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OFJOfDAN
ZARQA/RUSEIFA WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
IDON 2213-JO
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Water and Sewerage Tariffs
At Time of Aneraisal                     At Time of Project Completion Renort
Water SUDD1Y Corporation                 Water Authority
Water Tariffs
Bulk water supply - 65 fils/u3
Metered retail consumption
Urban areas                              Greater Amman Area
ma per month          Fils per m3        ma per quarter     Fils per ma
0 -  5                 100                0 - 20             100
6 - 15                 120               21 -  40            190
16 - 25                 300               41 - 100            400
Exceeding 25                 400         Exceeding  100            500
Universities                 300         Minimum Charge           1000
Monthly maintenance fee - 125 fils       Quarterly meter fee - 225 fils
Jordan Valley
Rural Areas                              n3 per quarter     Fils per m3
Rural water distribution points                 0 -  s0             65
160 fils per ma                            51 - 100            115
101 - 150          -300  '- ;
Exceeding  150            400
Water supply by tanker                   Minimum charge           1200
5-sma cap.  - 2500 fils per tanker       Quarterly meter fee - 300 fils
10-12m3 cap. - 3500 fils per tanker
Rest of the Kingdom
ma per quarter     Fils per ma
0 -  15             65
16 - 45              90
46 -  75            300
Exceeding   75            400
Minimum charge            650
Quarterly meter fee - 300 fils
Sewerafe Tariffs
Sewerage surcharge  65 fils per ma       Sewerage surcharge - 30 fils per ma
Minimum charge - 300 fils per quarter
Contribution        4X per annum         Same as Appraisal
to construction    of rental value
over 20 years
Connection fee      25* of rental value  Sam  as Appraisal
+ actual cost
of connection
+ application fee



