Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
FILE COh'                           Report No. P-3399-JO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$17 MILLION
TO THE
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
FOR A
ZARQA/RUSEIFA WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
October 26, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1981                        May 1982
Currency Unit                 Jordan dinar (JD)                        JD
US $1.00                          JD 0.33                            JD 0.35
JD 1.00                          US$3.06                             US$2.89
Exchange rate used in the Appraisal Report JD1=US$2.89
Fiscal Year = Calendar Year
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AWSA              =            Amman Water and Sewerage Authority
IDB               =            Islamic Development Bank
JVA               =            Jordan Valley Authority
KfW               =            Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
NPC               =            National Planning Council
NRA               =            Natural Resources Authority
USAID             =            U.S. Agency for International Development
WSC               =            Water Supply Corporation



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
ZARQA/RUSEIFA WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower.                         The Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan
Beneficiary:                      Water Supply Corporation (WSC)
Amount:                           US$17 million equivalent
Terms:                            17 years, including four years of grace at the
standard variable interest rate.
Relending Terms:                  17 years, including five years of grace, at a
fixed interest rate substantially in line with
that of the proposed loan. WSC would bear the
foreign exchange risk.
Project
Description:                    The project would improve water supply and
sewerage services as well as stormwater
drainage in the cities of Zarqa and Ruseifa
and contribute to the institutional
development of the Water Supply Corporation.
It would include: (i) construction of about
133 km of trunk and distribution water mains
and supply of meters; (ii) construction of
about 364 km of trunk and other sewers and
force main, 30,000 house laterals, a sewage
pumping station and a treatment plant; (iii)
construction of about 14 km of stormwater
culverts; (iv) construction of a maintenance
workshop and provision of vehicles and
equipment for operations; and (v) consultant
services for supervising and start-up,
developing an accounting system, carrying out
a tariff study, assisting an organizational
study as well as training WSC staff. The main
beneficiaries of the project would be the
inhabitants of Zarqa and Ruseifa, mostly low
and middle-income families. The Water Supply
Corporation (executing agency) does not have
experience with large sewerage systems. There
is, therefore, a risk of delay in construction
of the sewerage component and adequate
operation of the sewage treatment plant.
Training and technical assistance are included
in the project, and a special monitoring
system has been prepared, to minimize this
risk.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost:                                     Local    Foreign    Total
----$      Milion-------
Water Supply                                     3.2        7.0      10.2
Sewerage Network
and Treatment Plant                           22.5      27.0       49.5
Storm Drainage                                   1.7        1.8       3.5
Consultant Services for Supervision,
Training, Management, and Tariff Study;
Fellowships                                     2.5        3.9       6.4
Base Cost                                 29.9       39.7       69.6
Physical Contingencies                           3.8        6.0       9.8
Price Contingencies                              4.7        7.0      11.7
Total Cost                                 38.4      52.7       91.1
Interest During Construction                     4.1        8.4      12.5
Total Financing Required                  42.5       61.1      103.6
Financing Plan:
Government of Jordan (equity)                   26.5        3.4      29.9
Proposed World Bank Loan                          -        17.0      17.0
U.S. Agency for International
Development                                    1.0       14.C      15.0
Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau                   3.9       10.5      14.4
Islamic Development Bank                          -         7.8       7.8
Customers' Contributions                         7.0         -        7.0
Total                                      38.4      52.7       91.1
Government (For Interest and Other
Ctharges During Construction)                   4.1        8.4      12.5
Total Financing                           42.5       61.1      103.6



- iii -
Estimated Disbursements:    Bank FY   1984   1985   1986   1987   1988   1989
~-~--------------  Million--------------------
Annual                        0.4    3.8    4.7    3.8    2.6    1.7
Cumulative                    0.4    4.2    8.9   12.7   15.3   L7.0
Rate of Return: Not Applicable
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 4049-JO, dated October 5, 1982
Maps:
No. IBRD 16424 - Sewerage and Stormwater Drainage
No. IBRD 16425 - Water Supply Distribution System



I



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN FOR A
ZARQA/RUSEIFA lATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed Bank
loan to the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan of US$17 million equivalent to help
finance a Zarqa/Ruseifa Water Supply and Sewerage Project.  The loan would
have a term of 17 years, including 4 years of grace, at the standard variable
interest rate. The Government would onlend the proceeds of the loan to the
Water Supply Corporation (WSC) for a 17-year period, including 5 years of
grace, at a fixed interest rate substantially in line with that of the
proposed Bank loan. The United States Agency for International Development
(USAID), Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (KfW) and the Islamic Development Bank
(IDB) would participate in the project financing. The balance would be
provided by the Government of Jordan and customers' contributions.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.       A report entitled "Country Economic Memorandum on Jordan"
(No. 3135-JO, dated December 24, 1980) was distributed to the Executive
Directors in January 1981. An economic mission visited the country in
October 1981. Country data sheets are attached as Annex 1.
3.       Jordan is a country of 2.2 million people (East Bank) with limited
natural resources and a traditionally service and trade-oriented economy.
It has enjoyed a high rate of growth and made good progress in diversifying
commodity production, increasing investment, and promoting exports.  This
economic performance has taken place in the context of increasing trade with
neighboring countries and expanding inflow of remittances from Jordanians
working abroad, foreign aid and capital. As a result, employment is high and
foreign exchange reserves have been steadily rising.
Recent Economic Developments
4.       Renewed stability following the disruptions of 1967-71 created a
climate conducive to sustained economic growth during 1975-80, resulting in an
average annual growth of GDP of about 12 percent in real terms. This growth
was in sharp contrast with that during 1971-75, which was slightly negative.
In 1980, GNP per capita reached $1,420.  The upsurge of the economy was due
to: (a) the rapid growth of the mining and manufacturing sectors; (b) the
sharp increase in construction, particularly in housing and large public
works; and (c) favorable external factors including influx of Lebanese
1/  Substantially unchanged from Part I of the President's Report for the
Fifth Power Loan which was distributed to the Executive Directors on
May 6, 1982.



-2-
business activity and booming conditions in the Gulf countries.  In
agriculture, rainfed production was sharply reduced by a severe four-year
drought, but vegetable and fruit production in the irrigated areas increased
significantly. Agricultural output recovered sharply in 1980. The private
sector showed growing strength especially in promoting export-oriented
venture s.
5.        The overall balance of payments remains strong despite a chronic
deficit in merchandise trade.  Exports of goods and non-factor services
increased by 30 percent annually from 1975 to 1980 (about 24 percent in 1975
prices). This growth was due to high demand and prices for fruits and
vegetables in neighboring countries, booming exports of rnanufactured goods and
a sharp increase in receipts from tourism and other non-factor services.
Jordanian goods have been able to compete successfully in Middle East markets
because of the advantages of Arab Common Market and bilateral agreements,
relatively good quality of the products, enterprising marketing and the
favorable geographical location.  Although the growth in the volume of imports
was slower than that of exports, the resource gap increased in current terms
from $560 million in 1975 to about $1,650 million in 1980. These trade
deficits, however, were fully compensated by factor income and transfers from
abroad.  As a result, the Government-guaranteed external borrowing remained
within reasonable limits and borrowing on commercial terms was reduced to a
modest level (para. 15).
6.        Expenditure and domestic revenue of the Government both increased at
a rate of about 20 percent per annum through 1975-80.  The widening of the
overall budget deficit, however, was tempered by a sharp increase in grants
from Arab countries following the Baghdad Summit Conference in 1978. As a
result, the relative size of the deficit increased from six percent of GNP in
1975 to seven percent in 1980.  The expansion of domestic Government revenue
during that period was significantly below the overall rate of growth in
national income.  As a result, the ratio of Government domestic revenue to GNP
declined from 24 percent in 1975 to 21 percent in 1980.  Current expenditures,
excluding defense, were covered by domestic revenues. Defense expenditures
were largely financed by foreign assistance.  During 1976I-80, about 36 percent
of capital expenditures were financed from the current budget surplus,
33 percent by foreign loans, and the rest by other domestic resources.
7.        The main concerns of monetary policy have been mobiLizing savings and
controlling domestic liquidity.  While the savings performance has improved,
gross domestic savings have continued to be negative because of the high level
of defense expenditures. Although the share of foreign grants used for
military imports is not clearly delineated, assuming that at least 60 percent
of net foreign transfers were used for military imports and were therefore
excluded, gross domestic savings would be positive. To promote domestic
savings, greater discretion is being allowed to the Central Bank in adjusting
interest rates and banking commissions. Increases in deposit rates were
effected and have resulted in savings deposits increasing faster than money
supply. Between 1975 and 1980, domestic inflation, measured by the cost of
living index, increased by 11.5 percent annually.



-3-
8.       A diversified banking system capable of meeting the financial
requirements of fast economic growth was developed during the last decade.
The banking system now includes 15 commercial banks and 8 specialized credit
and investment institutions.  The Amman Stock Exchange, established in 1978,
has become an active institution, and the Securities Corporation, created with
IFC assistance, is growing in strength.  The liberal transfer policy recently
followed by the Central Bank has encouraged growth of the financial system,
and Amman has started to emerge as an international financial center.
Medium-Term Prospects
9.       The new Five-Year Plan (1981-85) aims at maintaining the rate of
growth of the economy close to that achieved during the previous plan. In
terms of the investment program, the plan is ambitious--total investment would
amount to JD 3.3 billion (1l1 billion), 53 percent of which is by the
Government.  The announced strategy is to pursue the objectives of the last
decade of economic planning in Jordan, namely to:  (a) reduce the heavy
dependence on external assistance; (b) diversify the economy by increasing
commodity production; (c) reduce the budget deficit; and (d) improve the
distribution of the benefits of growth.
10.      Medium-term economic projections indicate that rapid GDP growth,
about 10 percent annually, can be maintained during the current Plan period.
Because of an expected slowdown in factor income from abroad, GNP is projected
to grow at a slightly lower rate of 8.5 percent per year.  However, full
implementation of the Plan's investment program is a key assumption underlying
these growth rates.  The program would maintain the rate of fixed investment
at its high current level of 33-35 percent of GNP (in 1980 prices) and would
seriously tax available technical and managerial skills in the country.
Industrial growth will benefit from the completion of the major projects now
under implementation (phosphate mining, cement, potash, and fertilizer) and
would maintain an overall average annual rate of about 17 percent, peaking in
1983 and 1984.  Barring serious disruptions in agricultural output through
unfavorable weather conditions, Jordan would realize a significant increase in
the share of commodity producing sectors in total domestic output and thus
correspondingly reduce its traditional dependence on the services sector.
11.      The medium-term prospects for increasing exports are promising.  The
completion of the major export-oriented industrial projects now under
implementation, together with the enterprise displayed by the private sector,
should result in significant increases in foreign exchange earnings after
1982. In agriculture, the expected increase in vegetable and fruit exports
will, however, be more than offset by growing imports of food, and the
agricultural trade deficit would probably increase.  Even though total exports
are projected to maintain a high rate of increase (16 percent p.a. at constant
prices) while imports would grow at a significantly lower rate, the trade
deficit could continue to increase and could exceed the two billion dollar
mark by 1985.  In relation to GNP, however, the resource gap is expected to
show a significant further decline (from 46% to 40%). Unlike the recent
experience, net workers' remittances and foreign grants may not be sufficient
to meet the growing trade deficit.  Jordan would therefore have to rely more
heavily on external borrowing (para. 16).



-4-
12.       Savings from private sources, particularly from workers abroad,
should continue to increase, helped by the expanding banking net:work.  A
reduction of the budget deficit could also be expected.  A working group is at
present preparing recommendations on the fiscal system, but a raEdical
structural reform can only be expected in the medium term.  Although current
expenditure, excluding defense, is expected to grow at a slower pace than the
economy, the demands for increased social expenditure and the need to raise
wages to retain valuable public servants will not permit significant cuts in
current expenditure, except for subsidies for energy and food products.
Social Issues
13.      Due to the continuing migration of Jordanians to neighbDoring
countries and the rapid economic growth, selective manpower shortages have
emerged. In 1980, out of the approximately 800,000 Jordanians (including
Palestinians from the West Bank) residing abroad, a little over 200,000 were
estimated to be workers, compared to a total domestic employmen- of about
440,000. Domestic employment includes a rapidly growing numbe-. of foreign
workers currently estimated at about 80,000 about half of whom are unskilled.
The country has expanded its education and training system rapidlly but still
needs a comprehensive manpower and training plan to help ensure that.  (a) the
economy does not suffer from shortages of crucial skills, while meeting
prospective demand for skilled workers abroad as far as possible; and (b) the
potential labor force is utilized more fully--especially the seasonally idle
workers in rainfed areas and women, whose participation, although growing
fast, is still low.
14.       Social issues are now an acknowledged concern of the Government and
this new emphasis is to some extent reflected in the new National Plan
(1981-85). Although the social indicators provide a relatively favorable
reading in most sectors, the social services are unevenly distributed across
income groups and across provinces.  Thus, while health i'nfrastructure is
adequate and life expectancy is relatively high (61 years), medical doctors
are concentrated in urban centers.  Housing remains a problem despite the boom
in 1978-80, mainly because housing costs have far exceeded the means of the
lower income groups.  The Government's concern about these issues has led to
the setting up of the new Ministry of Social Affairs in November 1979 to
define a coherent social development program.
External Assistance
15.      Due to large foreign inflows of remittances and transfers, the
current account of the balance of payments was on averagea in equilibrium
through 1975-80, and the government-guaranteed external debt has remained
within reasonable limits.  Net workers' remittances increaased from
$166 million in 1975 to $638 million in 1980. Foreign grants e.xceeded
$500 million in 1977 and fell to $335 million in 1978. Following the Baghdad
Arab Summit Conference in November 1978, which pledged assistance of about
$1.2 billion per year until 1983, net foreign aid rose again to a record high
of about $1.0 billion in 1979 and $1.3 billion in 1980.  The external public
debt outstanding and disbursed reached $1.3 billion at the end of 1980; the



-5-
outstanding debt to IDA was $76 million, to IBRD, $26 million, and, to IFC,
$15 million ($85 million, $100 million and $2O million, respectively, when
including undisbursed commitments).  In 1977 and 1978, Jordan borrowed
t224 million and tl00 million respectively on the Eurodollar market, but in
1979, higher foreign aid allowed the borrowing to be further reduced to
$28 million. External debt service payments amounted to t134 mi-llion in 1980
or 5.4 percent of total exports of goods and services.
16.      Jordan's relative stability, pragmatic economic and social policies
and efficient economic management have helped to attract large foreign
assistance. The continuation of foreign economic assistance at the relatively
high levels of recent years obviously depends on international and regional
developments.  Except for aid related to defense expenditures, the grant
component of this foreign assistance is expected to decline over the next few
years. The projections indicate a need for external commitments close to
$1 billion each year over the 1981-85 period, compared to an annual average of
$420 million-for 1976-80. About one-third of this borrowing is expected to be
on concessional terms, significantly below the ratios achieved in recent
years. While bilateral and multilateral sources can be expected to provide
the bulk of external resources, Jordan is likely to resort increasingly to the
financial markets, and this would result in a hardening of loan terms.  On
these assumptions, the debt service ratio as a percentage of exports of goods
and services is projected not to exceed 10 percent by 1985. Beyond the
current Plan period, sustaining the rise in debt and debt service at a prudent
rate would require a slowdown in both the rate of investment and growth,
particularly if foreign grants are gradually phased out. Give,n its record of
prudent management, Jordan remains creditworthy for Bank lending.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS 1!
17.       Jordan has received eight Bank loans totalling $185 million and
fifteen IDA credits totalling $86.1 million (net of cancellations) of which
thirteen credits have been fully disbursed. Project implementation and
disbursement performance are generally satisfactory.  In recent years,
disbursements have consistently amounted to about 80 percent of appraisal
estimates. The difference is essentially due to problems encountered with
local contractors and the construction industry.  The Bank is monitoring the
development of the construction industry and helping to tackle specific
problems through technical assistance.  The IDA credits have financed mainly
physical and social infrastructure projects, such as education, highways,
water supply and sewerage, power, irrigation and tourism. By mid-1978, Jordan
had attained a stage of economic development where it could be considered
creditworthy for Bank lending, and had reached a GNP per capita level that
exceeded IDA limits. IDA lending was thus discontinued after March 1978. IFC
has made investments in Jordan with total commitments of $94.2 million. Annex
II contains a summary statement of Bank loans and IDA credits, and IFC
investments as of September 30, 1982, and notes on the execution of ongoing
projects.
I/ Substantially unchanged from Part II of the President's Report for the
Fifth Power Loan which was distributed to the Executive Directors on
May 6, 1982.



-6-
18.       Bank Group assistance to Jordan has been d irected toward export-
oriented projects on which the Bank Group has cooperated clo6sely with the
Government in project preparation and in the mobilizatiorL of large external
financial assistance.  In addition, the Bank Group has been assisting the
Government in implementing its social objectives of improving the income and
living standards of the rural and urban poor, as well as expanding manpower
training, as enunciated in the first Five-Year Plan (1976-80) and which is
being given an even greater emphasis in the second Five-Year Plan (1981-85).
19.       In line with these objectives, the Bank Group has provided technical
assistance for developing and implementing a plan for expanding phosphate rock
mining, and for preparing a comprehensive program for a second phase of
development of the agricultural potential of the Jordan Valley and for water
supply based on the Maqarin Dam. An engineering credit was made in FY1975 to
help prepare a large project for potash production from t:he Dead Sea via solar
evaporation, for which a loan was approved by the Executive Directors in
September 1978; the project has been successfully completed. In addition,
further support for the Government's social and economic objectives was
provided in recent years by loans for the Third and Fourth Education projects
approved in December 1979 and December 1981, the Cities and Villages
Development Bank (CVDB) project approved in March 1980, t:he Urban Development
project approved in July 1980, and the Fifth Power project approved in
May 1982.
20.       The Government has requested assistance from the Bank to achieve the
Plan objectives with respect to vocational and technical training in order to
meet the manpower needs of the economy.  Two education projects are under
preparation for consideration in the current and the next fiscal years.
Projects are also under preparation in the industry and urban sectors for
consideration in this and subsequent fiscal years.
21.       At the end of 1980, the actual Bank Group share in Jordan's total
external public debt was estimated at 8 percent, and its share in debt service
was 2 percent.  By 1985, the Bank Group's shares in debt outstanding and in
debt service are expected to be about 10 percent and 7 percent respectively.
PART III - THE WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR
22.       Water Resources.  About 80 percent of Jordan's land area is desert.
Availability of water depends largely on rainfall, which is negligible in the
desert areas and up to 600 millimeters/year in other parts.  Most of the
municipal water supply systems and industry depend upon groundwater and
springs. The rapid growth of the economy in recent years and t:he associated
increase in municipal, industrial and agricultural water demand have put
serious pressure on water resources.  Jordan's known water resources may not
be sufficient to meet its future needs and water scarcity may become a
principal constraint to economic development.
23.       Some urban areas, in particular the Amman, Zarqa, Ruseifa
conurbation, are already facing water shortages. The Government has embarked
on a program of large water projects to help relieve water shortage in the
major urban areas.  The Azraq pipeline (in operation), and t'he water



-7-
transmission system (under construction) from the East Ghor Main Canal in the
Jordan Valley are among the principal projects and would provide about 55
million cubic meters of water per annum to the Amman area.  The Government is
also building facilities to reduce pollution in the Zarqa River, which
receives discharge from Amman, Zarqa and Ruseifa.  This river flows into the
King Talal Reservoir, which is an important source of irrigation water.
24.      Sewerage.  Only three cities at present have sewage collection
systems: Amman has a treatment plant utilizing the activated sludge process
which meets part of the capital city's needs; Salt operates aerated lagoons;
Aqaba uses primary treatment.  The three systems serve about 18 percent of the
total Jordanian population. Other towns and villages with piped water systems
(about 60 percent of the total population) discharge their wastes in septic
tanks, cesspools and similar facilities. The remaining population uses pit
privies and latrines or has no sanitation system at all. Individual waste
disposal facilities are inadequate in many urban centers. In cities such as
Zarqa and Ruseifa, the soil is no longer capable of disDosing of the
increasing amount of effluents.  Cesspool overflows and improper disposal of
cesspool waste create major health hazards.  Severe outbreaks of cholera have
occurred in Jordan, the latest in 1981.
25.      Serious contamination occurs in groundwater in Lhe upper aquifer
underlying communities using cesspools.  While this groundwater is not used
for potable water supply, the danger of this polluted water entering water
mains during periods of depressurization exists.  The quality of the
groundwater in the lower aquifer, which is principally used for potable water
supply, has not been impaired.
26.      Sector Organization.  Like most public sector projects, water
development activities are coordinated and assisted at the national level by
the National Planning Council (NPC), which is the central planning authority
of the country.  The Natural Resources Authority (NRA) has overall
responsibility for water resources studies and planning throughout Jordan.
Responsibility for community water supply and sewerage is divided between the
Water Supply Corporation (WSC), the Amman Water and Sewerage Authority (AWSA),
the Jordan Valley Authority (JVA) - all created in 1973, and a number of
larger municipalities.  AWSA is responsible for water supply and sanitary and
stormwater sewerage in the city of Amman, serving in 1981 about 650,000
people. JVA is responsible for development in the Jordan Valley and provides
water supply to communities in the valley. In 1981, WSC operated the water
systems in about 350 large and small communities, and provided bulk water
supply to about 430 communities that operated their own systems. WSC's
charter requires it to provide sewerage facilities to communities as part of
its service. Eight municipalities including Zarqa and Ruseifa operate their
own water systems with independent groundwater sources. The Government has
recently announced its intention to transfer responsibility for all municipal
systems to WSC, except in Amman and in the Jordan Valley. The takeover is
already in progress and systems in the cities of Irbid, Madaba, Aqaba, Salt
and Tafila are now managed by WSC.  Transfer of the Zarqa and Ruseifa systems
is underway and would be completed in early 1983.
27.      Organization and Management of WSC.  WSC was established in 1973 as a
corporation enjoying independent financial and administrative status. It has



-8-
an eight-member Board of Directors, chaired by the Minister of Municipal and
Rural Affairs.  The headquarters in Amman is managed by a Director General and
includes departments in charge of administration, planning, finance, design,
follow-up, operation and maintenance, legal matters and general inspection.
Project implementation units are established for large projects.  Field
operations are conducted through four regional offices. The staff of WSC
numbered about 1,200 in 1981 before the takeover of other municipal systems,
corresponding to about twenty-one employees per one thousand connections
served by its distribution systems.  This ratio will, however, improve with
the takeover of the municipal systems and connections served per employee
would almost double by 1988.  On the other hand, given these increasing
responsibilities, the managerial, engineering and accounting capabilities in
WSC would need substantial strengthening.  Such skills are not easy to find in
Jordan. In addition, experienced sewerage operators are not easily available,
as sewerage operations are at present still very limited in the country.
Management assistance and training (paras. 39 and 40) provided under this
project will address these weaknesses.
28.      Given the growing pressure on water resources and the plans for
inter-basin water transfer, additional coordination among the three major
water agencies (AWSA, WSC, JVA) would be necessary.  Responding to a
Government request, the Bank has made recommendations to the Jordanian
Government to establish a national water organization. The creation of such
an organization has been included in the current five-year plan (1981-85) and
its proposed statute is under review.
IDA/Bank Role In Water Supply and Sewerage
29.      The Bank commenced its assistance to the water supply sector in the
1960s. A $1.5 million credit in 1961 (Cr. 18-JO) and a $2.5 million credit in
1963 supported water supply development respectively in Amman and in the
cities of Ramallah-El Bira (Jerusalem), Nablus, Azraq, Irbid and Zarqa. These
aforementioned projects have been successfully completed.  The Zarqa project
has provided new wells, pumping station, transmission main, storage capacity,
and improvement and extension of the distribution system in part of the area
covered by the proposed project.  In the 1970s the Government concentrated its
efforts on developing water supply and sewerage in iAman.  In this context,
the Bank recommended the creation of an autonomous water supply and sewerage
agency.  The Government adopted this approach and created AWSA.  The $8.7
million credit (Cr. 385-JO) of 1973 and the t14 million credit (Cr. 780-JO) of
1978 assisted the development of AWSA and helped finance investment plans for
water supply and sewerage in the rapidly expanding capital city of Amman.  The
completion report (Sec. 79-491) of the 1973 project (Cr. 385-JO) noted that
while substantial effort had been made in the institutional development of
AWSA, some inherent weaknesses remained., particularly in the financial
department. The institutional development effort was continued and the
remaining problems were addressed under the Third Amman Water Supply and
Sewerage Project (Cr. 780-JO) which is now nearing completion.
30.      The Bank's major objectives in the sector are to support the
Jovernment's efforts to (i) rationalize utilization of scarce water resources,
(ii) develop effective water supply and sewerage services, and (iii) accel-
erate institution building. The Bank's efforts have been fruitful in the



-9-
development of AWSA and the Amman water supply and sewerage network.  Further
assistance to the Amman region is under consideration.  The proposed project
would similarly assist WSC and once again extend Bank assistance to other
cities. A sector study which is scheduled to be carried out in FY83 would
focus on further institutional needs and on developing an integrated
investment plan for the sector.
31.       Water Supply and Sewerage in the Project Area.  The area to benefit
from the project consists of the adjoining cities of Zarqa and Ruseifa which
are located about 20 km northeast of Amman.  The two cities rank second and
fourth in size as compared to other cities in Jordan and are included in the
Greater Amman Region for planning purposes. Their combined population, about
300,000 people, is the largest urban population next to Amman.  The
Zarqa/Ruseifa area is one of the principal industrial centers in Jordan and
many medium-size industries are located there.
32.       Households in the two cities have an average size of seven persons
and are generally characterized as low and middle-income families. Almost all
of them receive piped water from the public water systems. However, the main
distribution system does not reach many newly developed areas, which are now
served by temporary connections laid above ground. The distribution systems
in both cities need strengthening and rehabilitation.  Water is supplied from
wells and it is estimated that demand up to 1986 can be met from these
sources. The planned supply to the Greater Amman area (including Zarqa and
Ruseifa cities) from the East Ghor Main Canal (para. 23) would help meet the
demand beyond that date.  The Government has agreed to allocate sufficient
water to Zarqa and Ruseifa to ensure the operation of the water supply systems
under the project (Loan Agreement, Section 3.04).  All sewerage in the two
cities is disposed of in cesspools, which are periodically emptied by
tankers. The sludge is dumped at an approved site 25 km from Zarqa. The
system is no longer adequate due to soil saturation, and overflows arise from
negligence. The two cities do not have adequate stormwater drainage.
Flooding occurs during rainstorms in low areas and the need to improve
stormwater drainage in frequently flooded areas is pressing.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
33.       Background.  The proposed project was prepared by the Government with
the assistance of the United States Agency for International Development
(USAID) during 1978 - 1980.  The Government requested Bank participation in
the financing of the project in April 1981.  A Bank preparation mission
visited Jordan in October 1981, and the project was appraised in February/
March 1982.  Negotiations were held in Washington from September 13 to
17, 1982. The Jordanian delegation was headed by Dr. Hanna Odeh, President of
the National Planning Council (NPC), and included representatives of the Water
Supply Corporation and NPC.  A Staff Appraisal Report entitled "Zarqa/Ruseifa
Water Supply and Sewerage Project" (No. 4049-JO) dated October 5, 1982, is
being distributed separately to the Executive Directors.  The main features of--
the Loan and Project are given in the Loan and Project Summary at the
beginning of this report and in Annex III.



=10-
Project ObjectivLs and Description
34.       The main objectives of the project are to improve waler supply and to
establish a nmodern sewerage system in Zarqa and Ruseifa (see m; ape). The
project would also help strengthen the institutional structure Df the Water
Supply Corporation (WSC).
35.       The project, which is a least-cost solution, includes the following
main components: (i) water supply - construction of about 133 km of trunk
and distribution mains, and provision of 12,000 supply arid production meters;
(ii) sewerage - construction of about 364 km of trunk, subtrunk and
collection sewers and force main, 30,000 house laterals, sewage pumping
station and sewage treatment plant; (iii) stormwater drainage - construction
of about 14 km of stormwater culverts; (iv) buildings, equipment and
vehicles - construction of a maintenance workshop and provision of vehicles
and equipment required for operations; and (v) institutional assistance -
provision of experts and consultants to develop a public utility accounting
system, conduct a tariff study, and assist in an organizational study as well
as in the training of WSC staff.
36.       The water supply component is the first phase of a program to
strengthen the distribution system in the populated areas of the two cities
and to extend the distribution system to rapidly developing districts. The
sewerage component is also the first phase of a sewerage program and will
serve districts including the commercial centers and the more densely
populated areas of the two cities with a total population in served areas of
over a quarter of a million in 1982, which is expected to increase to about
half a million by the end of this century. The treatment: plant will consist
of primary settling followed by secondary treatment. It will improve water
quality in the Zarqa River. Gas from the treatment process will be used to
generate electricity for use in the plant.  The stormwater drainage component
will provide underground culverts and sewers in six heavily inhabited areas in
Zarqa and one area in Ruseifa to relieve annual flooding. These areas also
contain important road and highway intersections.  The institujtion building
measures would strengthen the organization, operations and financial
activities of WSC, and prepare it for the wider operational responsibility it
is now assuming.
Project Cost and Financing
37.       The project cost (excluding interest during construction) is
estimated at about $91 million including a foreign exchange ccrrponent of about
$53 million. Cost estimates exclude import duties and taxes as WSC is exempt
from these.  Physical contingencies have been estimated at about 15 percent.
Price contingencies are about 15 percent of the base cost: increased by
physical contingencies.  Price contingencies have been calculated at the
annual rates of 8 percent for 1982 and 1983, 7.5 percent for 1984, 7 percent
for 1985, and 6 percent for 1986 and thereafter.  A breakdown c,f cost by
principal components is provided in the Loan and Project Summary.  The cost of
foreign consultant services (380 man-months) is estimated at about $12,000 per
man-month and local consultant services (210 man-months) at about $6,000 per
man-month.  The proposed loan would finance 50 man-months of foreign



-11-I
consultant services at an average cost of $11,200 per man-month including
salary,fees, overhead, international travel and subsistence.  The Government
would contribute about $30 million (33 percent) in the form of equity, and the
customers, $7 million towards project financing.  In addition, the Government
would finance interest and other charges during construction on all loans for
a period of five years amounting to about $12 million. The proposed Bank loan
of $17 million would be made to the Government, which coordinates all foreign
exchange financing for public sector projects, on standard Bank terms
applicable to Jordan:  a 17-year repayment period, including a 4-year grace
period. The Government would onlend the Bank loan to WSC under a subsidiary
loan agreement with a repayment period of 17 years, including a 5-year grace
period, at a fixed interest rate substantially in line with that of the
proposed Bank loan (during first half of FY83). The Government applies these
onlending terms generally to comparable public sector institutions.  Interest
on the subsidiary loan would be capitalized during the grace period as would
the front end fee. An onlending rate substantially in line with the Bank
interest rate would be positive in real terms as the inflation rate projected
for 1982-1984 is 8 percent per annum.  WSC would bear the foreign exchange
risk on the loan. The Bank loan would cover about 32 percent of the foreign
exchange cost and about 19 percent of the total cost. The remainder of the
project cost would be co-financed by USAID - $15 million, KfW - about $14
million, and the Islamic Development Bank - about $8 million.  Project items
to be financed by each co-financier are indicated in Annex 5, page 2 of the
Staff Appraisal Report.  Conditions of loan effectiveness include the
execution of a subsidiary loan agreement between the Government and WSC, and
the signing of loan agreements between the Government and other co-financiers
(Loan Agreement, Section 6.01 (a) and (b)). Co-financing arrangements are in
an advanced stage.
38.      Project Implementation.  WSC will be responsible for project
execution and has agreed to set up a project implementation unit. Establish-
ment of this unit and the appointment of the Project Manager are conditions of
effectiveness of the proposed loan (Loan Agreement, Section 6.01 (c)).  The
unit would be substantially staffed by end September 1983.  WSC has commenced
land acquisition and gaining access to the land for construction purposes
should not pose any problems. For the operation of its future Zarqa/Ruseifa
system, WSC will establish a management unit reporting initially to the
regional office-for the Amman Governorate, to be upgraded to regional office
status at a later date. The project is expected to be completed by end-1988.
An understanding has been reached on an implementation schedule, including
timing of critical project activities.
Management Assistance and Training (WSC)
39.      In view of its country-wide responsibility and growing operations,
WSC intends to strengthen its organization (para. 27). For this purpose it
will conduct an organizational study together with consultants provided under
the project. This study will propose an organizational structure in light of
the Government's sector objectives, provide job descriptions and statement of
objectives for managerial positions, review personnel policies, and develop
administrative, operating and maintenance procedures, and a reporting system.
WSC's salaries are competitive and no major problems are expected in
recruiting and retaining local staff.



-12-
40.      Training for WSC staff will be provided by the United States Agency
for International Development (USAID).  Provision has been made under the
Fproject for the training of 12 managerial and professional staff abroad and
about 100 other operating staff at local training institutions.  Excellent
facilities exist at the Amman Polytechnic Institute which now provides
t:raining for up to 600 technicians per year in the mechanical (including
hydraulics), chemical, electrical and civil engineering fields. Training in
water supply and wastewater engineering is being planned and will be offered
shortly. In addition to the above training effort, consuLtant services will
be available for the on-the-job training of treatment plant operators and for
operational support during start up.  Accounting staff will alsc receive
on-the-job training from the financial advisor to be recruited under the
project.
41.      WSC's Financial Position.  WSC provides water in bulk to urban
municipalities and operates rural water systems and desert water wells. It is
IIow taking over urban water systems.  It has not yet operated full-scale
sewerage; its sewerage revenues are negligible, and its sewerage tariffs and
charges based on rental value do not reflect the cost of service.  The tariffs
charged for water in urban areas are in line with the cost of water supply
services. However, this is not the case for rural water supply. WSC operates
the rural water systems on behalf of the Government, as part of a national
program to enhance living conditions in those areas.  Unit production costs
for some of these systems are about ten times higher than those prevalent in
urban agglomerations because of the lack of economies of scale. Tariffs in
line with these costs would be prohibitively high. Through these rural
operations WSC incurs losses which are absorbed by the Government.  WSC's
overall financial position reflects the nature of its current operations as
described abcive. During the past three years WSC's overall net cash flow
(including compensation for rural operations) was adequate to meet operational
requirements and to provide limited financing for construction.  The Zarqa and
Ruseifa water systems, hitherto operated by the respective municipalities and
now being taken over by WSC, have obtained better financial results due to
lower operating and capital costs associated with economies of scale. A
larger portion of new works was financed out of the net cash flow. WSC has a
low debt/equity ratio (15:85 in 1981) reflecting large Government
contributions to construction in the past. With the tariff adjustments
indicated in para. 42 below, servicing of future debt should not pose any
difficulty.
42.       Future Development.  WSC intends to strengthen its organizational
structure, operational capabilities and financial position. As a first step
towards strengthening its financial position, WSC would establish proper
financial management methods and set up a new accounting system with the help
of a financial advisor. In addition, during 1984 it would carry out a tariff
study in order to review the adequacy of its tariffs, tariff structure and
other service charges in all areas of its operations.  In particular, it would
establish appropriate sewerage tariffs and charges that would ensure cost
recovery. These improvements would take place while WSC"s operations are
rapidly expanding (paras. 26 and 27) with substantial impact on its
structure. Therefore, the Government intends to keep the objectives and the



- 13-
performance of the Corporation under close review.  The completion of the
tariff study towards the end of 1984 would provide the opportunity for an
exchange of views on the Corporation's financial objectives and tariff policy
between WSC, the Government and the Bank (scheduled for March 1985).
Meanwhile, agreement has been reached with WSC on minimum financial
objectives. These would be separate for its urban and rural water operations
as well as its sewerage operations.  For its urban water services its
objective would be to secure, through appropriate tariffs, revenues sufficient
to cover operating and maintenance expenses, debt service or depreciation,
whichever is higher.  Starting with the fiscal year 1986, when a new tariff
schedule would be established, WSC would generate funds from internal sources
sufficient to finance not less than 10 percent of the average investment cost
in each consecutive three-year period (Project Agreement, Section 4.03).  For
its rural water services WSC would, adjust tariffs at the beginning of 1987,
to cover a reasonable portion of operating and maintenance cost to be agreed
upon with the Government in light of the tariff study (Project Agreement,
Section 4.04). The Government would continue to provide supplementary funds
to WSC for operating and maintaining the rural water systems (Loan Agreement,
Section 3.03). With respect to its sewerage operations, WSC would implement a
combination of user charges and tariffs that would, together with Government
payments from fees and specific charges collected from beneficiaries, provide
revenues sufficient to cover operating and maintenance expenses, and debt
service or depreciation, whichever is higher. This policy would apply for all
WSC sewerage operations from the time of their commissioning (Project
Agreement, Section 4.05).  The tariff study would provide recommendations on a
new system of charges and fees to be collected by the Government based on
sewerage improvements.  The study would give due regard to modifications, if
needed, to the existing system of landowner contributions which are based on
annual rental value. The Government would, upon review of the tariff study,
collect user charges and fees on benefits resulting from sewerage
improvements. Such user charges and fees would be in force by the beginning
of 1986 for the Zarqa/Ruseifa system.  For all other areas, they would be
applied when sewerage systems are commissioned (Loan Agreement, Section 3.06).
Accounts and Audit
43.      WSC's present accounting system, which is on a cash basis, follows
the system prescribed for government agencies.  This system does not meet the
accounting requirements of a public utility with country-wide responsibili--
ties.  WSC is considering steps to introduce an appropriate public utility
accounting system. It is in the process of recruiting an expert in public
utility accounting and management, and would use the services of an
independent computer service bureau in the initial years.  This accounting
system would separate the accounts of various branch offices, including those
of the proposed project. Like all government corporations, WSC is subject to
expenditure controls and final audit by the Public Auditing Department.
Nevertheless, with the establishment of the new accounting system, WSC would
introduce a more comprehensive audit that would serve as an effective
financial management and evaluation tool.



-14-
Procurement and Disbursement
44.      Equipment and civil works to be financed by the proposed loan would
be procured through international competitive bidding.  Contracts for these
items of less than S350,000 each up to an aggregate value of t] million can be
awarded through local competitive bidding procedures which are acceptable to
the Bank. For bid evaluation purposes, a margin of preference equal to the
custom duties applicable to competing imports or 15 percent of CIF price,
whichever is lower, would be allowed to suppliers of locally manufactured
goods.  The proceeds from the Bank loan, to be disbursed over 1rhe period
1983 - 1989, would finance: (i) 100 percent of foreign expenditures and
85 percent of local expenditures for locally procured items of machinery and
equipment for the sewage treatment plant and workshop; (ii) 38 percent of
total expenditures (corresponding to about 75 percent of foreign exchange
cost) for civil works related to water supply, sewerage, sewage treatment
plant and workshop; and (iii) 100 percent of foreign expenditures for
consultant services (50 man-months).  The loan closing date would be June 30,
1989.
Benefits and Risks
45.      The project would provide better water supply and sewerage services
in Zarqa and Ruseifa.  It would eliminate hazardous cesspool operations and
protect the quality of water in the lower aquifer. In addition, it would
improve the quality of water in the Zarqa River and the King Talal Reservoir
for downstream use.  Curtailment of untreated discharge into the Zarqa river
would improve health conditions along its banks, and reduce the risk of
cholera and other waterborne diseases. This is an important step towards more
efficient use of scarce water resources.  The project would nelp develop WSC
into a strong sector institution to fulfill its newly assigned responsibil-
ities of operating water supply and sewerage systems in many parts of Jordan.
However, the majority of the benefits cannot be quantif:Led and therefore it is
not possible to compute a meaningful economic rate of return for the project.
Using a discount rate of 10 percent which reflects the opportunity cost of
capital, the average incremental cost of the sewerage system is estimated at
JD 0.286 per cubic meter of water utilized and discharged.  This compares well
with the present cost of operating cesspools which is JD 0.260 per cubic
meter. In view of the substantially better service to be provided by the
project, the beneficiaries are expected to be willing to pay t:he average
incremental cost, thus ensuring economic use of the sewerage system and cost
recovery. The water supply component constitutes about 14 percent of the
total project cost and is only part of the costs required for future water
supply. The major cost of meeting future water demands of the two cities will
be in the purchase of additional water required after 1986, when the allowable
groundwater extraction from the aquifer is expected to be reached. This
external source of water, which is assumed to be from the East: Ghor Main
Canal, would about triple the present cost of water production.  The average
incremental cost (A.I.C.) of water supply has been calculated to be JD
0.341/m3 at a discount rate of 10 percent, of which about JD 0.240/m3 is
attributable to future water purchase.  Thus, prior to the need of WSC to
purchase water from an external source around 1986, WSC's average tariff (JD
0.140/m3 in 1982) will be more than adequate to recover full costs (the



-15-
A.I.C., excluding the cost of water purchase from East Ghor Main Canal, is
estimated to be about JD 0.100/m3). Looking ahead beyond 1986, WSC's tariffs
withi highest block rate of JD 0.400/m3 already reflect the A.I.C. and will
therefore promote conservation and economic water use. The proposed tariff
study will further examine the appropriate tariff structure that will allow
adequate cost recovery, beyond 1986. The water supply and sewerage services
would be affordable for the inhabitants of the project area as combined water
and sewerage charges would be about 3 percent of household income for a family
in the twentieth percentile income level.  This is comparable to what such a
family pays currently for water supply and cesspool operations.  In addition,
low-income inhabitants would have access to credit for meeting sewerage
connection charges.
46.      The project faces no major risks.  Nevertheless, only limited amount
of construction work on sewerage networks and sewage treatment plants has been
executed in Jordan and WSC has no experience with large sewerage systems.
There is, therefore, a risk of delay in construction of the sewerage component
as well as in proper operation of the treatment plant. The measures included
in the project, such as: (i) assistance by consultants for construction
supervision and management and organization; (ii) the proposed training for
WSC staff; and (iii) the Bank's close monitoring of project progress, should
help minimize the risks.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
47.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan and
the Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and the Water Supply
Corporation (WSC) and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being distributed
separately. Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. The execution of a subsidiary loan agreement between the
Government and WSC, the signing of co-financing loan agreements between the
Government and other co-financiers and the establishment of a project unit as
well as appointment of a project manager would be special conditions of
effectiveness (Loan Agreement, Section 6.01).
48.      1 am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
49.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
by Ernest Stern
Attachments
October 26, 1982
Washington, D.C.



-16-                                               ANNEX I
Page 1 of 6
JORDAN - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
JORDAN                               REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVEaAG7
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                                      - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
TOTAL              97.7                                                        MIDDLE INCOME
AGKlCLLTLRAL       14.7                                   MOST RECENT          NORTH AFRICA &              MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b          MIDDLE EAST          LATIN AMERICA 6 CARIBBEAN
ONP PER CAPITA (US$)                       ..        380.0    1420.0/c                1253.6                    1902.0
ENERGY CONSCMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)        185.7        269.0      522.3                  713.5                    1259.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPU'ATION, MED-YEAR (THOUSANDS)  1695.0          2299.0    3244.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 42.7            49.6       56.3                   47.3                      65.7
POPCLATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                            5.8
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                             12.6
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                     2085
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                         17.3          23.5      32.0                   35.8                       35.2
PER SQ. K0. AGRICULTURAL LAND    132.4          163.6      212.7                  420.9                       92.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                           44.4          45.8       46.5                   44.3                      39.7
15-64 YRS.                            51.5         51.0       50.8                   52.4                      56.1
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                      4.1          3.1        2.7                    3.3                       4.2
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 3.1          3.0        3.4                    2.8                       2.4
URBAN                                 S.2/c        4.5        4.7                    4.6                       3.8
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)        47.4         47.6       44.4                   41.2                      31.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)        19.9         15.5        9.7                   12.2                       8.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                 3.5          3.6        3.4                    2.9                       2.1
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..              ..         ..
FOOD AND NUTRITUON
UNDEX OF F00D PROD,CTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)           220.0          79.0     106.0                  100.4                      110.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                     93.2         67.3       61.6/d                108.5                     108.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)            60.9          40.2      40.375                  71.9                      66.0
OF WHICh ANIMAL AND PULSE         14.6          10.7       1l.0/d                18.0                      34.0
CHILI (AGES 1-4) MORIALITY RATE        26.3         12.4        5.8                   15.1                       5.6
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    47.0            54.1       61.2                   56.9                      64.2
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                             135.5         97.5       69.3                  104.3                      64.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                21.3           ..       61.0/c t              59.1                       65.6
URBAN                                48.6           ..       66.o7i                83.1                       78.9
RURAL                                 2.1           . .        .0                   39.8                      43.9
ACCESS TO EXCRETY DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULAIION) /2
TOTAL          -                                                                                              59.3
URbAN                                  ..           ..         ..                     ,,                      75.3
RURAL                                  ..           ..         ..                     ..                      30.0
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN             5804.7       3775.0    1956.4                  4015.5                    1617.3
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON        1930.2/e    1477.5       821.0                 1802.2                    1063.5
POPULATION PER HOSPIUAL BED
TOTAL                               557.0       1351.5    1186.8/d                 641.7                     477.4
URBAN                                  . .      1097.6      687.27W               538.3                      679.8
RURAL                                  ,,       5543.6         . .               2403.3                     1903.4
ADMISSIUNS PER hOSPITAL BED              ..         36.5       45.7/d                 25.5                      27.3
HOESING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                 5.3          6.1        6.7/c
URBAN                                 5.5           ..
RURAL                                 5.1           ..         .
AVEUACE NJYiBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOrAL                                  ..           .         6. .5/c                 .
URBAN                                  ..           ..         ..                     ..
RUKAL                                  ..           ..
ACCUSS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DITELLlNGS)
TOTAL                                17.0            .       66.0/c                   ..                        .
URBAN                                39.2           ..       90.07..
RURAL                                 1.4           ..       30.07-                          
TI7TO--7p7ercent in i982V.
/2  (See para. 24 of this report.)



-17-                                      ANNEX I
Page 2 of 6
JORDAN - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
JORDAN                              REFERENCE GRO!PS (WFI(;H;'ED AUV,fAGES
- MIOST_REENT ESTI MATE) -
MIDDLE INCDME
MOST RECENT         NORTH AFFICA &              MIDDLE ;NCCME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b         MIDDLE EAST         LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  77.0        72.0/c   102.0/c                 88.7                     104.3
MALE                  94.0         79.o07T   106.o0T               104.5                    106.4
FEMALE                59.0         65.0/c    99.0/c                 72.0                    103.3
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  25.0        33.0/c    74.0/c,f               39.7                      41.3
MALE                  36.0         41.07T  8ei.oThT                 49.3                     40.4
FEMALE                13.0         24.0Th    66.0Th7f               29.0                     41.8
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (1 OF SECONDARY)   2.7            3.0/c    12.0/c                 10.1                     33.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             34.1        38.8/c    32.2/c                 34.1                      29.9
SECONDARY                           20.0        23.0oT     20.6Tc                23.7                      16.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         32.4           ..      70.0                  43.3                      79.1
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           3.7         6.7       19.6/d                17.8                      42.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          37.8       160.9      171.5                 131.3                     270.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..        20.0       52.8                  44.1                     107.7
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   18.3         24.4      29.3/d                 31.5                     63.7
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  3.0           0.9        4.0                    1.7                      2.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)        432.3       568.6      768.9
FEMALE (PERCENT)                     5.0         5.6        6.5                  10.6                      24.4
AGRICULTURE- (PERCENT)              44.0         34.0      20.0                  42.4                      31.3
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 26.0          9.0       20.0                  27.8                      23.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 25.5         24.7      23.7                  26.0                      33.6
MALE                                  46.7         45.5      43.4                  46.2                      50.4
FEMALE                                 2.7         2.8        3.1                    5.6                     16.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.9          2.0       2.1                    1.9                      L.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       .            .
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       .            .
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..          ..      230.0/d               279.2
RURAL                                 ..          ..      100.07/               178.6                     184.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..          ..      206.0/d               403.6                     518.0
RURAL                                 ..          ..      135.07/               285.6                     371.1
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE.
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..          ..       14.0                  22.1
RURAL                                 ..          ..       17.0                  30.9
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on ava'ilability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   East Bank only; /d 1977; /e 1962; /f Includes preparatory education ages 12-14 years.
May, 1982



-is-                                                         ~~~~~~~ANINEX I
Page 3 of 6
DtPN:TONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Noenra   Al though the land are drw   free sour.es genera u    udged" the mee .auhoitaivean  reitahe. it should also. be toted elhltat ny na  re  be inter-
noteona  1n naprehir hn nose u  the lan  nf stadardized deEIiris on  an Ien t  used by lIftenent neunrin  in~ nolientng the dun.   t   d. Za ant' nIn-
theles . usoul tndesnnth  nedee  nfmgiue-Jdt.,rns  adnua   eie   eti    an  diff e.ennet be-ene-n-tee-
ef hn  ujtneee   (enep  fur                   ..... Iifb hnnem  Oi    Ieenr' grou thre 'fiu i2 r I-.teem   to-t  Ail  e it   n   udelue lnoe    on   oo   tngrr '
aeuie-ultura1 offmutes).  to ec endenennegrenp  aea ter aveages ae pupianIonneightd  ee'thersi deonegeeieob indtortn  nd urunt ndy t he
oneitd enerotan..ler  amngte  enty  n  rfreurgeI
ABOA fibeusend  sqAn.)                                                               Porulatien err geseiralI IBed.to.-. lItettid  , urban,itatdInforo - -iPiopu.,t.ionh:(-onoh
lesol - Totl auefooe aee nanprie eg lund sea  and Inan  eaterrs;17  daa                  ra,aderi   iie.b   hirese   t   nbr                            uptlbd
'.ri,y .1  he Ir.-I I g...b                                                                    i.dit~~by  t  eas  en  pyalla.t  depnb-adeeortht pro bidieg p Innpd-   ume
Sf11PSRCAPO   15ff- As- peeuatsetias atIor~.         nue gen     Ioe  peoe. i.dio.           .t-T-deltr  ar-nt nnudd ar         luy elmapttp-. boo one, 1.innuehe
AEnd lieee    eee.m.ntr..a.ndhdr-.ueran   etnra  elm-.an  rutrel heniea                                                       eaor  ruralBd     -1  -bespnul  un   euandr. .P,eate-rnLee p
metm) in _igeneo  ee-   eqopinalen  pee napite; ihl ,191,an 1979                             nenners.  tyan ialieed  beeni  eraI in..d... no.  under vocal.               I
Aee.Aatsov  rtflsIns   e       ealnse   fsiteeee  e                                                                                                                           Ilonee
Tota PRCPIrlTiA   , f(-UnS (ee$ana -           hGeNJPy1;09.,190,an  1980.eOSdi.,.I                                .I    'l11              1.                       1It.h.l
deta.                                                                               inerune~~~~~~~~~':k   80o    Stee.. ofHtehntd .t' (perona ree '~ Antti    totli, urbte, Iadel
Orhntopud    non  penetni neal.           tth attord' of unio  no totel ronulation; AIosbldnnit  n80gne  fndodolnot  sae1lbeqatr
Omangd 19u80ro id      O  10,  n  18  duta.                                                         ba -hosn -nl      foe  ..t.tiut inu    uroes .     Mz   -,  ._ dtI
ENERGYCONSUPION tEaR 20PIT -  -.-Ino  yInuv          peenin.un.oedo itffooI- .1" 'Y"               beIfyrneprromn   l   ra    undo Wen~rol nnn ung ournetfn
no,I     ppd ano  byaeadtnad theyemateit  od foehtilt  eeten.                                    Idwelli         itnfs,i     rr.  h.Iynniu l.  Orldtfntntdnvn-eeeaontfeutursaly
yrunnn    perant..pfima;tiity0tet19peis                      o         -tre   lne9o7un           unropedati.I-l.1tI   rioIdd-,-4                                     - .
eng life royro tunoy ot birch mnteeuningoithnuuonrys  pee napito itnema  Anneento fletonini ty (perto..  ..of.dpetaltBed)--Ttote:, unhun oundioneai&-
T neerep ftioe  ee MilnYe  (ene u.so hone)    A thre   Jlenes   196u0io  dent, Ited 18          of INonl,          ,ud  ua   alltgernetOey
fertlt   nerdiogte ofem  lenelend  ent   ellypduoing-prforont-
10h  osne  it thn-osgedon   f  heenin  o'tunos  f  otaie                                                                                                      i"Al
anf-                                                    p-i  t fdofrilt   retsfu   roenotprnse.duea nher ollma   Aetmos                                                II   o   t
Sttonr io.;ta196t-t97a sea fooyppuainthr9nnogot dtnnerimar t-oholdfi   - ot t   i maLe  n   n,t      otn  a    oeedfn
th Irthat   itr equl0  n  theC deoth roe,en   eloho eatru-tnrrr                           oId nlsen r. f. ai. nrn- atth.        nionyleo               ...entry toetifrepne
me in  nopenene.ob thou is  dntia d  thy feir -fertioyrtsenmeopiary.r  '  _g                                 _nholag_  peui nins;l     asoly   rtd o-ilded  eg-        d -lI-
nteneg    npor liafef  oa-iy   The1'       sdioetry'pepuerio s!ice1' .as  I                 A     ountrienot"intttraruttenou tn                         yernaill eren1on
in the yee000  and. te. rat  off denloc ef  Iteni5ny-rat  Te. rplrau-                          Sn-ond-ry sndl- tItol, maLe and femalei  L- Tv n  as- obr  s-etonar
meet level.                                                                                eduna-nthielvetI....ir     -1II   I  o   t 1    require  an leas f.elte  eas  ofuproedprmay,-srutin
Yer  ta Inrd porultoe  ist er-he  - Th peat  ohenl statioeyPoplne                             rvdsgn-a.nnnna,o   ete    eiiiiuentesfnpp
nie'rrnllrybe reobed  -i-    I    phIor                              C..tll                DCTONolyo   lt   1faeo     e   ereynot    one   o   eea
toenerit les_n eunldnd
Pe pn.a.- 911- -II-yo ppleion pee sqy e  b.ileethere(1   enoe)o IInatona"Irnllene  trrnlet  of veo-det- tna  inlot Ido ions l
thebirt ereat1980   -1900 and 1909     h dan.                                                  5nndlu-ahtagoIoinal .  Inunta th,  pro-tyee-Itmop-it  Iprn ofnd.ne"d-
only;        .  . hIIIti.d.I 1961,er19l0tand-1979 dana.                                      boi-tete   aiey   mn  and  ebygor"tI                         Ihstdiln  en Iled Iv1
Pnathnt  _ee Sbutr,nreet hide   01   er)   oh~gar(5                                               emr           ednondor  level dinde   y  utonIfeorr   n  h
64pee)o adreie   IhOyersan doen                i- prnennag.reo   id-yhee-tipoy               hnorreepeeyleg looile.
Panltietv Orne  Rthe  (rrneno ) -horn -etd detnn t erti  rtset          sbn  ue              CSILO-toIION                     d~   1          Ih   ffz,  eh1Io
repsahen  1960,  1970,   and.rt   fdIi.offriiyrt1980 dines.-ailina. t.i.e.... -,-.I   .I      -,e   .I-;"'ll
Crdaomth  oe(r   husn)-AteIdsh-e   issn    ledys                                                adio Ecee _ners  lneIen .esaa      To yeuiton)  -f it) tyva  of ruevey  fee raio
pepIst i-nt96,19y       sodI".  L98 -hdots.      y.r-h.tti..r  ppIt.                              pr-adaes e genera  pa        onpr the-ahd.of  o eno;eo  ue fun- il
cross  ieadell n I.   ederg    ume f....raemv  ilberi                                              manned_ rceein2eL.rs in oea ori  aged   y.rannp vine ea-Istot    of eadio-
bar voml.  repodemn  period if per epe..tanil-s presen   age             r-spoli Ifee              eaasu  eftens;  sta1r      for eran  yearud Roy)  to  he~ n1.Iechittin-e
outy; 19a;sua60         ie-eraeagaedngi,90  1970, sde1991980.                                   mealtue-htei   aboished p ioerasing.d  11dr                         e-11I
Pas  -ie PeAgea-Ae..pt..m,  Annesl  Cthilsdr-  0-1 Aeyinee ...            erprea                T   aeeelreIrs    . losr1oul3j-1. diVid, d n)   -obrnnuee   ore Lradne   ne
fali.Perfna - laces  (rera5  01mea  msn)-Peontg ef                     d meele                   inenries   loendi   er   htroitsino   laaeti                             ef
se6 nofeIldhsn  age                      ... psra) ehuehet-ete   devleea no                    llmaseIPeCiruain(rthsndosaio)-bmshevrgei-
19mae6d0oeni  nama age group. -oulat litne   daily2                                                                     - genral interestrempenr,;  nefiot  am. a. p-iod.e)
Gl~~h   _ ,tel   A ... I U..t   r.t..  f r.r1  id-publIep.oiet.devoted  pma.ity en.. retotin   eneo  noe.It isd tveesr                           de
f,d.ee   t are -nt ped.)    Ag....efdne yreu-1o  of, eehih  perne  is hone.d  en id-O..i             hOpOCt
nat.ional    196r0g p19d70e  prln 1980    ;   916,  90  ad18  dato.TonliLabo  Portelthuod)-Itnmnlyontepro.u   n de
etnlteerreanima..... by PA       .... haede  pisiigta  needs6 lee0 norma  anti-.. fishin  asi. poeneon1ge o   eo   eo   nn;l                                 90ad18   aa
n.ity and h'eolAb neside    A.-g rn frehmante   teApe .at Irs,  bo.p    o  .ei ..s sg.e         T      II,dan  (.rnnt.-.a.         fehnt.i...dTV   noon nentun br...uf etnue
and mend snt hu-        of populatpio,.and ci tioeg  10 preney  forti weace on.... an   eole irpeif   , s,e:Iad gun~, enlle.; uf -                      I -ltota-dh  fote;ir
beutebopld.. level;d 1916,190ad097dt.I90T97Vn 99   aa
Pe_ Iricaap (epra -i.otam nof trieds  -- Penaci  eota"IE of par o its                   Peo  toielnRoefood           n      na     male., ofn TV fanala-P  I tinIp  ion ort
ne ofpl  mlh ooprg  gs. (1al4 supy.. of tee  is deined ser1    .V.. cese   R-'-'Piy   ste  ern ofe  a  tfu   min ), ud   mt 1 ,tabo.-ra erneI-
qui -raset  fe  l iut,  elec amea libe  b  SO   p td   fe  iima                                    oNens-     f   tona I,  mal In t tte le.... po,urInnofal    onrtyo I     indi ly;
sllecraa  f 6  grms  f ttalpraainpeedayend00  ras  ofavici  nd            95,bl1970, end198  dane. ~iyt.ete sn bun g  -.1oW   pat i LpaI ...idt..s
pulse. pear of       ahdiobg.  1,1, 0 gamaminld  a 0aima   roleciof  There steed-eaflo-AtIngI Agte-eon                      perote of"  therY po nIn B-nu le  time tbred   A
ced  sea lonme. than these.  Cof-75 tgsm    tof  eta poesly  and" 23  gamma'of                    la  etsaemoeden aiet..oeoe
ev.imepnd    i  as an- average fedbe tb.ard, pepeadi          pPA  in.g the Thid               leai  eedneOuo-Rteo   ouoinn                                  5sd  Oadee
Soeld. Peed Osrery;91961-65.91970 an  1977 detla.Tto th  total F abee fa--re-e.                                             .-
Peeuapnsproei ....   Pylec fromsema  edt.o -eulee- t Prensuplyof  eedde
tiredg froqaimals end -uae f      r gplees  peeildbl, itilbI,190  anr197 dsa.                191-1110S,19T10
tres   aadnnd r        om  lifer.tables; 1968, 1970 end.b19809deel97ef hdeu9e0nddt.
elITA iT-ke                                                                                  ronteti.-s TARI ee,   Io..Fe1.I.. I                        _OR O    .tl  IbrP.r.
qife  tnrnoaeron tLnn (.dpram       vrg    airofyaeo   ieemitn                                   h   oleifO nIm..atLos-bt..    onL" p" yrtvan,onanso  ponre, 11ty  boyle
en birth; 1961. 170 ond h9f0 duts.end obould ie in E -petd  b                                           laorsdnal  noon; 1360.    0Il90d
al egehper thou sue  tivo births;0  196,170 and 1980"  dno.'                                      Absolute 0 pooen  inton   leed      eta   ntnolo1bty-tt       iia
Areesarn Sfe danee  nerreve ofnoenlaniy) -Itef oSo.       Pn.,rra ISum-                    utitt -aly   dequr-te ir  plu  eet1--ennial v-food .  oequ tp.ire.nt  not
beto  peolefo (net,ub, dy   aNdt rual  atoh           L recantabl  enes  to nafett~it alodel.                           =,e   Ilt~.-t   ,.                 
set resuppy. 'ionludos -torane   suefunesseet  orfU    ennA rated.  hor  aonvtm...o.Isimte  elaiv  Povert  Innom   lev l (0  o"ot                          ta   ue  and roIL -
aste .eth of the  from,    ,,,Inte   rorb        de,spIag,  andS naiof   sells  as                19ool relnin  pedve9ny intom   ed i   n-hr.    Oeoeprnpt
eeeonhlrnnssofoeidh imply Iho         nba hotrif1 enmebe  of the. household                 and-,eat          - tfoentofpopbato )ohaan  noes1)..,a.  c:ig tio  obentA
.de man have      h. tohprdaieroofr7ivnaee  par t ef. thei day    23 fet.-n  the                 poorti l..
fa1il' ssonr   e do;;.'165     "'tZ   9                                                                h    ..    ..   r,
Pum., efit penp.i.e fmatl. sebin, mad psel). serve-b onrene ofspoodl cm
peneesemo   1theid Iu"onnepeult ee.y  19erets             97 diape 197ma   lelde-     ICM    ITIUI
ito ..   I       orlietko tma   disposld...soh em siImat  trauet fof bata  reneel..efp-l    i.er2     -                           ,pr.,2      ..I.    d 
and sooaee  byicterhorse..   Ay- gor the sine of  pit. o rifa  and sf51-.i.                                         ire    t.-          pr.-1                 fP.-            1 1.
lpIafd-   eart.  t  "thin et h-Ppodat      A-n dved..by a   feIbIr el dpaneate    py-alild  b...  . t  I-Inososi  and'  bol'i) d                                                 -1a lIm
ele athford  Era aL abinat. embed  as9anlersIs  level.                                      b.It    -tyII..l- .            thntsLn anonysn an   Pe     bri,,na DeoemeiI
Pepalantos pee Noratang Preen  - Pesianice divided by nosber ef pesela-Ilung..Il     .-.  itp..-                            t~    ...p 1950i.
maer  cad female(.,J gdunsrsem, desiatm to narmas            . .pe tatinal senses ae
aeratin  smaplltsirs ,e     -o    -e.-..rIr..    .                                              .ItdRli                -ryI,              e'   U~  e     .I,         b     dt.



-19-
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 6
JORDAN - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
PpAaito._:  U.s osrloul (nun-lO8N1) 1/
GiN' per saoita:  Ui$ 1,420 (1980)
Amo.unt                                                         Annual Gro.th Rates
1s1ds&or                         Amilison t9  at                         Actoal (at 1975 prices)                           Projected  (at 1980 prices)
curre.it prices)
1980                       1976       1977      1978      1970      1980         1981       1982      1983      1984      1985
NATLONAL AUCOUNTb
Gross donesetc product           2,909                        25.0        5.9       9.8      10.9      10.8         11.6       10.8      10.7       9.8       8.9
Agriculture                   19b                        11,9        .7      15.0    -23.1       19.3           6.0       5.0       4.0       5.0       5.0
ln-uscry                      75,                       22.9        5.2      22.2      27.6      17.1          16.0      16.0      21.0      18.5      14.0
Services                    1,b7G                        12.9      -1.6       9.9      12.4       5.7           7.0       7.0       7.0       7.0       7.0
-olss.,n,cs                      3,391                        16.5       4.1       14.1      12.4       -.3         10.2       9.3       8.1        7.9       7.2
Cross lIlvest.nt                 1,193                        41.6      28.2        1.5      16.9       9.3          8.1      28.1        9.6       2.2       4.2
Epo-rts GhFS                     1,573                        52.0      21.6       9.4       20.1      21.8         15.7      13.7       19.7      16.5      14,9
lpoiLs ci (.NFbO                 3,220                        36.8      17,4       6.9       18.7       4.2         11.8      16.9      12.3       9.7        9.0
Cross  National Pro..ct          3,595                        37.6        3.2       5.2       9.5      10.9         10.4       9.8        9.0       8.2       7.1
PKlIEb
GDP Deflator                                            115.0    129.0    143.9    156.8    172.6
xchange Rate                                             3.0115   3,0373   3.2620   3.3270   3.3478            3.0654
Share of GNP at Market Prices (Z)                                   Average Annsal Increase
(at current prices)                                            (at constant prices)
1971      1975    1980        1985                         1971-75      1975-80    1980-85
Gross Domestic Product                                        95.0      82.1      80.9      27.9                            -O.l        12.3         10.3
Agriculture                                              C2.2       7.6       5.4       3.8                             5.l         3.5         4.9
onus try                                                13.3      19.2      21.0      30.6                            9.7         18.7        17.1
Serv,ces                                                60.0       53.4      46.4      41.9                           -0.5          7.7         7.0
Gons-ptson                                                   113.4    109.3        94.3      92.4                            1.5          9.2         8.5
I;ross Investment                                             18.0      25.9       32.6      34.8                           11.9         18.5        10.i
l.xports of ONFS                                              15.2      35.4      43.7       60.6                           16.1         24.2        16.1
.ports of GNFS                                               49.7      87.8       89.6    100.8                            11.9         16.2        11.7
C;ross National Produst                                      100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0                                3.6         12.6        -8.5
let Factor Incone                                              5.0      17.9       19.1      12.1
Cross National Savings  jI                                   -13.4      -9.3        5.7       7.6
As .   of GNP
(at current prices)
1971          1975           1980          1985
PU8L,1  FINANCE
Domestic Revenues                         18.3           24.1          20.9           20.4
Current Expenadttres                      31.0           36.6          30.3           25.4
Deticit (-)                              -12.7         -12.5           -9.4           -5.0
C:apital Expenditures                     11.4           23.1          17.9
Foreign Financing                         19.9           34.1          23.4
of which foreign grants                 18.1          29.3           19.4
1971-75        1975-80        1990-85
OTHER INDICATORS
GNP Growth Rate                            3.6           12.6           8.5
GNP per capita Growth Rate                - .2            8.0           4.5
Energy Comsonption Growth Rate            12.2           16.5          11.6
ICOR                                      11.4           4.3            4.8
Marginal Saviags Rate  2/                 -3.9           12.7            5.8
Import Elasticity (goods)                    3/           1.2           1.2
1!  East Bank only.                                                                                                                                     EMENA CPII-D
2,'  Gross domestic savings and net factor income excluding foreign grants.                                                                             August 1982
d,' NegatiLve value.



-20-
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 6
JORDAN - BALANCE - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAI CAPITAL AND DEBT
(millions US$ at current prices)
:.oic-at                                                     Actual                                                                    Proj-cted
1971       1975        1976        1977        1978      1979        1980        1981       1982        1983        1984        1985
-ANNb OF P'AYMENTS
.v .orts of goods & services        11          580       1001        1203        1437       1819       2491        2920        3484       4366        5341        6470
. Z wOlcCO  Merchandise f.o.b.   i2        ISJ         207        249         297        402         574        678         823        1174        1532       1936
.-orers re-ittn-ces   15           167        411         470         520        600         792        893        1034        1204       1393        1608
r.rz,orcs  rt goocs s services     275         952        1330       1714        2065      2872        3452        4119        5123        6242       7339        8685
.       lMerc-nudise t.o..  Zi3           729        1020       1376        1497       1957        2393       2741        3489        4227       4874        5895
Wo-kers remitaose           -           -         20          46          65        80         154         196        250         318         397         487
,     .v-ers .                      102         438        381         504         347       1046       1335        120C        1200-       1200        500         500
-. r1Ot acoCsnt balance            -60          67         52          -7        -280         -7        374           1        -439       -677       -1498       -1716
--    oe dir-ct jcvestmeot           -5          20        -10          11          56         26         31          30          33          36         40          44
loas (-et)                      23          88          71         190        189        193         232        38C         542         728        1543       1777
oc;ticial                          --          67         70          86         112       143         240         358         545        733         708         657
vrsvate                             --          21           1        104          77         50         -8          22          -3          -5        835        1120
-cr cupital                         37          b6        -54         -21         278         69       -640        -463         -21           6           6          7
caches in reserves                   5       -241         -59        -173        -243      -281            3         52        -115        -93         -91        -112
tcercutional  reserves            251        492         551         724         967      1248        1245        1193        1308       1401        1492        1604
ht w        Gic l: old              28          33         80          81          81        82         102         107         491        491         491         491
&-cerves av montns oif  mpo-ts    11,0            6.2         5.0         5.1        5.6        5.2         4.3         3.5        3.1         2.7         2.4        2.2
.IL *EhAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
--oss aisb-rsemeots                 25         102         91         214         223        270        308
Lo-essional loass                23          73         80          94         119       151         133
IDA                            3          10           6          9           6         13           9
Ote0r                         22          63          74         85         113        138         124
Non-conc.ssional loans             -         29          11         120         104        99         175
Official export credits        -           4           3           3          8          2          97
IdRD                           -           -           -           -          -          4          23
Otner multilateral             -           -           -           -           -         7          14
Privat.a                       -          25           8        117          96         86         41
_:erc:al debt
Debt outstanding and
.isbursed                        137        340         410         623         841      1048        1266
Otricial                     137         306        361         469         609        765        993
Private  -                     -          34         49         154         232        283        273
Unoisbursed debt                  44        161         274         563        828        881        1237
ebt servio:
Total service payments             6         21          27          38          58        96         133
Interest                       2           7           8         15          24         40          58
Payments as X exports              5.3         3.6        2.7         3.2         4.0        5.3        5.4
-,Uer-ge interest rate
on new loans (X)                  --           4.3        2.4         5.9         6.2        5.4        6.8
Overage maturity
of new ls..s (years)              --          26.8       25.6        14.4        17.9       21.1       14.8
..erage grace
of new loans (years)              --           6.2        6.6         3.5         5.6        4.6        3,9
As X of Debt Outstanding
at end of Most Recent Year (1980)
t6:.rity structure of debt outstanding
.Maturities due within 5 years                                       58.9
Mat-rities due within 10 years                                      122.1
-oterest structure of debt outstanding
Interest doe within first year                                        6.6
-- data not available                                                                                                                                                   EMENA CPII-D
August 1982



-21-
AUNSEX I
Page 6 of 6
JORDAN - EXTERNAL TRADE
Amount
InOiCOtOr                      (million US$ at                                                            Annual Growth Rate
current prices)                            Actual (at 1975 prices)                                  Projected (at 1980 prices)
1980                    1976        1977       1978       1979        1980        1981        1982       1983        1984        1985
EXTERNAL TRADE
Mercnands-e exports  2/                     402.1                    37.4        27.3       6.7        22.5        22.9        13.8       14.2        38.6        24.0        18.0
pr-mary                                 266.0                    32.1        13.1        5.5       16.1        26.2        12.7        13.3       16.0        21.4        16.3
Ma.ofactures                             136.1                   58.3        73.9        9.1       35.6        17.0        15.8        15.8       80.5        27.2        19.9
Merchandise imports                        2396.9                    39.4        24.2      -1.3        10.5         7.8         7.4       20.5        12.0         7.2        12.7
Food                                    431.1                    70.2       -14.2      25.8         8.9         7.1         7.6        17.6       16.3        11.4        13.0
Petroleum                               409.0                    24.3        19.1    -13.2         30.3        42.3        12.6        13.0       12.1        10.8        10.9
Macos- ery and equipment                669.5                    27.1        43.5      -3.4       -11.7        13.6         4.6        19.8         6.7        1.6         2.9
Other                                   887.4                    35.6        39.5       -9.8       27.5        -3.4         7.0        25.9       13.8         7.3        19.6
'KlCES                                                                                  (1975= 100)                                                 (1980= 100)
Export price index                           --                      90.0       86.1       85.8        90.2      106.9       104.9       112.7       123.3       133.4      144.9
Import price index                           --                    104.1       112.2      114.8       133.5      150.4       106.5       112.5       121.7      130.9       140.4
Terms of trade index                         --                      86.5        76.7      74.7        67.6       71.1        98.5       100.2       101.3       101.9      103.2
Compositton of Merchandise trade (ZI                                   Average Annual Growth Rates
(at current prices)                                         (at constant prices)
1971      1975       1980      1985                      1971-75       1975-80         1980-85
E.xport.  2/                                                    100.0      100.0    100.0    100.0                           12.9            22.9           21.4
Pr .-ary                                                      77.0      79.8       66.2      51.0                         14.2           18.2           15.9
Ma-siact-res                                                  23.0      20.2       33.8      49.0                          8.4           36.7           29.8
.,mports                                                       100.0      100.0    100.0    100.0                           11.3           15.3            11.9
Food                                                          28.8      22.2       18.0      17.7                          5.7           16.5           13.1
Petroleum                                                      6.3      10.6       17.1      18.4                          7.9           19.0           11.9
Mach..ery and equipment                                       21.1      31.6       27.9      22.3                         31.0           12.0            6.9
Ot.ler                                                        43.7      35.5       37.0      41.6                          5.4           16.0           14.5
Share of Total Exports (X)           Share of Total Imports (%)
DIRECTION OF TRADE                                                   1971         1975         1979       -1971        1975         1979
De,.loped market economies                                           16.5         17.6         11.7       61.1         62.6        60.0
Des7eloping market economies                                         82.1         70.2         84.7       32.4         29.2        32.4
of whicn Arab countries                                           75.8         42.4         67.5        21.9         19.8        18.8
(entrolly planned economies                                           1.4         12.2          3.6        6.5          8.2         7.6
EMENA CPI I-D
i/  Excluding re-exports                                                                                                                                                August 1982



-22-
ANNEX II -
Page 1 of 6
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN JORDAN
A.  STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(as of September 30, 1982)
--US$ Million-------
Amount
(less cancellations)
Number   Year       Borrower          Purpose           Bank      IDA    Undisbursed
Hashemite
Thirteen credits    Kingdom of
fully disbursed    Jordan                                          66.1          -
639     1975                            Tourism                      6.0          1.1
780    1978          "                  Water Supply III            14.0         2.1
1617   1978           The Arab
Potash Co.       Potash Extraction 35.0                    0.2
1688   1979           Hashemite
King dom
of J'ordan       Power III            15.0                 1.8
1781   1979           "                 Education III       19.0                15.9
1826   1980           "                 CVDB                10.0                10.0
1893   1980                             Urban Development 21.0                  19.8
1986   1981           "                 Power IV            25.0                25.0
2068   1982                             Education IV        25.0                24.9
2162   1982                             Power V             35.0                 35.0
TOTAL                                                     185.0   86.1        100.9
of which has been repaid                   -       1.5
Total now held by Bank/IDA a/             185.0   84.6
Total undisbursed                        97.7    3.2        100.9
a/ Includes exchange rate adjustments.



-23-
ANNEX IIr
Page 2 of 6
B.  STATEMENT OF INVESTMENTS
(As of September 30, 1982)
-------US$ Million------
Year             Obligor           Type of Business        Loan      Equity      Total
1974      Jordan Ceramic Ind.
Co. Ltd.                Ceramic Tiles             1.6       0.2         1.8
1975/    Jordan Fertilizer
78/81/82   Ind. Co.                Phosphatic Fertilizer 79.5 1/   8.7            88.2 1/
1979     Jordan Lime and
Silicate                 Building Materials        2.5       0.7         3.2
1979      Jordan Securities        Money & Capital
Corp.                     Market                             0.7         0.7
1980     Jordan Leasing
Co. Ltd.                 Leasing                __          0.3         0.3
Total Commitments                                 83.6 1/  10.6         94.2 1/
Less Commitments Repaid, Sold or
Cancelled                                         51.1 1/       -       51.1 1/
Total Commitments now held by IFC                       32.5      10.6       43.1
Total Undisbursed                                  9.5       0.3         9.8
1/ Includes a $50.0 million loan managed by IFC on behalf of other
participants.



-24-
ANNEX II
Page 3oof 6
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION I/
Cr. No. 639:    Tourism Project; US$6.0 Million Credit of August 12, 1976;
Date of Effectiveness: July 15, 1977; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983.
The project includes the construction of tourist accommodations and
related facilities near the Petra Entrance, and the construction of visitor
facilities and archaeological preservation works in the Petra Basin as well as
the resettlement of about 96 Bedouin families currently living in the Basin.
The Project also provides for visitor facilities, infrastructure,
archaeological preservation works at Jerash, and technical assistance.
Project completion is expected by end 1982. Construction activity is behind
schedule due to slow implementation by the contractor, the discovery of
several tombs at Jerash, and the necessity for deeper excavations than
originally anticipated at Petra.
Cr. No. 780:    Third Amman Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  US$14.0
Million Credit of May 19, 1978; Date of Effectiveness:
October 17, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
The project is part of the on-going 1978-81 program of the Amman
Water and Sewerage Authority (AWSA), to expand water supply and sewerage
services in Amman, including those areas where the urban poor reside.  The
project consists of the construction of approximately 207 km of water and 225
km of sewerage mains, laterals and house connections, a 4,000 m3 reservoir,
15,000 meters and related equipment, and training. The improved sewerage
services resulting from the project would help to improve sanitation
conditions in the city and protect groundwater resources in the Amman area
from pollution. Overall physical implementation of the project is proceeding
satisfactorily, with principal project contracts completed and additional
sewerage works underway. AWSA, with technical assistance from USAID, has
prepared a program for strengthening its operations.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution and, in particular, to report any
problems that are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them.  They should be read in this sense and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



-25-
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 6
Loan 1617:       The Arab Potash Project; US$35 Million Loan of October 21,
1978; Date of Effectiveness;  May 30, 1979; Closing Date;
December 31, 1984.
The project is the largest industrial project ($428 million total
cost) ever undertaken in Jordan and is aimed at producing 1.2 million tons of
potash from Dead Sea brine via solar evaporation. The project consists of a
solar evaporation and brine transfer system, a harvesting system, a refinery,
infrastructure facilities and an associated township. The project was
inaugurated in March 1982 and the plant started production in September 1982.
The loan is fully disbursed except allocations for two letters of credit.
Loan 1688:       Third Power Project; US$15 Million Loan of May 4, 1979; Date of
Effectiveness: October 11, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
The Third Power Project is an integral part of Jordan's 1979-82 Power
Development Program whose long-range objective is to progressively inter-
connect the Northern, Central and Southern regions of Jordan into an economic
and reliable national power system. Specifically, the project would supply
the power needs of the potash complex at Ghor Safi, the phosphate rock mining
works at El Hassa, the cement plant at Rashadiya and rural distribution
loads in Central Jordan.  The project is largely completed.  No significant
problems have been observed in the project's execution.
Loan 1781:       Third Education Project; US$19.0 Million Loan of
January 21, 1980; Date of Effectiveness: March 12, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The project is designed to assist the Government in training skilled
manpower required in implementing the economic development plan, improving the
quality of education and enhancing the Ministry of Education's management
capabilities. The project would expand technician and vocational training,
increase the supply of teachers, improve agricultural education, expand adult
education, upgrade school building maintenance and establish a computerized
management information system in the Ministry of Education. Construction has
started on five project schools and bids have been called on the remaining
three schools. A contract has been signed for the hardware and software for
the management information system. Procurement of furniture and equipment is
proceeding on schedule, as is the technical assistance program. Although
project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily, disbursements have lagged
behind appraisal estimates because of a delay in the start-up of a management
information system that was programmed as the first item to disburse under the
project. This problem has since been solved and disbursements are expected to
accelerate.



-26-
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 6
Loan 1826:      Cities and Villages Development Bank (CVDB) Project;
US$10 Million Loan of September 8, 1980; Date of
Effectiveness: March 31, 1981; Closing Date: December 31,
1984.
The project would help establish CVDB as a development bank for
municipalities and villages, and provides a line of credit to finance eligible
subprojects over a two-year period.  It also includes a technical assistance
component to: (i) train CVDB staff; (ii) undertake a study of the ways and
means of increasing productive projects in local communities; and (iii)
provide an advisor to assist CVDB's management. CVDB has encountered problems
in staffing its appraisal department. This has delayed CVDB in appraising and
proposing subprojects for financing under the loan. While these constraints
still require close monitoring, CVDB's performance is improving. About
20 percent of the loan is thus committed. Staffing problems and possible
remedial measures are under review. With further alleviation of these
problems, project implementation should accelerate.
Loan 1893:      Urban Development Project; US$21 Million Loan of
September 8, 1980; Date of Effectiveness: May 22, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985.
The project includes: (a) provision of about 5,000 plots under three
sites and services schemes benefitting about 41,000 persons with low to
middle-income; (b) upgrading of four low-income settlements in the City of
Amman; (c) small business assistance and manpower training; (d) consultancy
services for project management, design and supervision and studies; and (e)
provision for maintenance services and purchase of equipment. There has been
good progress in acquisition of sites and staffing of the project executing
entity. Response to bids called in 1981 was unsatisfactory. The bidding was
repeated, and contracts for upgrading works were awarded in June 1982. The
plot development component has not progressed as expected due to the
Government decision to review the design standards.  This issue is under
discussion between the Government and the Bank.
Loan 1986:      Fourth Power Project; US$25 Million Loan of June 22, 1981; Date
of Effectiveness: March 17, 1981; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985.
The project includes: (a) construction of about 160 km of 132-kV
transmission lines; (b) construction and extension of five substations, with a
total transformer capacity of 619 MVA; (c) extension of the urban distribution
network, including power supply to three low-cost housing developments; and
(d) electrification of about 20 villages around Amman and 30 villages in the
Central and Southern regions. Procurement has begun and is proceeding
satisfactorily.



-27-
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 6
Loan 2068:      Fourth Education Project; US$25 Million Loan of
January 20, 1982; Date of Effectiveness: June 17, 1982; Closing
Date: December 31, 1987.
The project includes: (a) construction of a polytechnic, four
vocational secondary schools, one trade training center and one
nursing/paramedical training institute; (b) extension to an existing
polytechnic and conversion of two teacher training institutes to community
colleges; and (c) technical assistance for above schools and for development
of comprehensive secondary school curricula and programs. Architectural
designs are nearing completion.  Contract for the construction of the trade
training center has been awarded, and construction of the center is on
schedule.  Technical assistance activities are underway.
Loan 2162:      Fifth Power Project; USt35 Million Loan of August 6, 1982; Date
of Effectiveness: (not yet effective); Closing Date:
December 31, 1987.
The pro ject includes construction of a power station in.Aqaba, a
transmission lifie between Aqaba and Amman, and consultant services for
engineering, erection, supervision and initial operation. Work on
effectiveness conditions is underway. Bids for power station equipment are
being evaluated. Tender documents for the transmission line and civil works
(power station) are under preparation.



-28-
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare
the project;                                Two years (1978 - 1980)
(b) The Agency which has prepared the
project;                                    National Planning Council
and Water Supply
Corporation (WSC) with the
assistance of U.S.Agency for
International Development.
(c) Date of first presentation to the Bank
and date of first Bank mission
to consider the project;                    April and October 1981
[d)  Date of departure of Appraisal Mission;  February 28, 1982
(e)  Date of completion of negotiations;         September 17, 1982
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness.              April 1983
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
Conditions of Effectiveness:
(a)  Signing of loan agreements between the Government and the
co-financiers (para. 37).
(b) Execution of subsidiary loan agreement between the Government and WSC
(para. 37).
(c)  Establislhnent of a Project Unit and the appointment of a Project
Manager (para. 38).



-29-
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
Other Undertakings:
(d) The Government would allocate sufficient water to Zarqa and Ruseifa
cities (para. 32).
(e) The Government would continue to provide sufficient funds to WSC for
operating the rural water system; collect user charges and fees
related to benefits resulting from sewerage improvements (para. 42).
(f) WSC would set urban water tariffs yielding revenues sufficient to
cover operating and maintenance expenses, debt service or
depreciation, whichever is higher, and beginning in 1986 it would
generate sufficient funds from internal sources to finance not less
than 10 percent of its investment costs; for its rural water services
WSC would set tariffs yielding revenues sufficient to cover a
reasonable portion of operation and maintenance cost (para. 42).
(g) For its sewerage operations, as of their commissioning, WSC would
implement an appropriate combination of user charges and tariffs,
that would (together with Government payments from direct
assessments) cover operating and maintenance expenses, debt service
or. depreciation, whichever is higher (para. 42).






.TeSedhne                             JUNE 1982
;           --                                                                                                                               .1 OD R D AN                                                                                           i < reotnient Ploe ste
roAmman ansA                        ZARQA/ RUSEIFA WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT    /
NX. \' <                              \SEWERAGE AND STORMWATER DRAINAGE
7almon                  \--                    ;      X          \KILOMETERS  0                                                             1                    2                   3                              E
. -ol             71<           1           \-        \a                                        MILES  0                                  1                                 2/B
REFUGEE                          AL           :MLE                                                                                                                                                              K
CAMP                 ~~~~MUSHEIRF    /-\N#
(,                                                     I                                                                                                                                 I        -o )|A  ,5 75
Th~~~~~~~/s                                                                                           nt                                                     a enpe  dbfs   0,,\/ /    -Jv  /             /            /.. 
v~~~~~~~~~~
PI                                                                                                         / tpa t                                            /           DS
dd  not  {snply  rtl  'ht  part o/  the  t  . t _ r \ / D~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Mk                                             1911 0             l -E 
Wo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N                                                                                              d             t       n             n     d      Itsfsha               es an-   ~/yd  o/a  se
anV~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ Aerr rr mvA                                                                                                                                                                    Eonsexen  Side|r     f/|
EBEL           '                    \                                9A-'.                                     PopnqSato
A--j A B I                                                 '$I   AQ3T           4\                                          /          ALW Ni
AWAJAN \                                                                                    \ \  \   \      Ado'sFsg                             -are sn               'V
~~  N   AR JANERI  ~~AL ESHARBI                                                                                                                                               3
This ap h.a bo  p         Asp-d b N _hs
WoRld Hank' tm ent plon t Un1e
Thi  /---- gns-dtts                                                                                                             PI
Mfits /nel                          AR61 oe  itG-L  oreosah
-5t     t   on                   / d and                                                                                                                                                                                                             ra
bErnoe Y Thon eY th        / \mapnoy 
do     b no                     KlLtpEEK5            100 th par o+ rhow
Word Bak ad,'t affh-,_ n-d
ay trioy or Qn otnno5hnrAn_
-- LLIAKIONtd  iho   0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~W4ANi
I P   tSYR AIN AERAB               \IRAO U                                                                                                                                                                                         rIn   rObidr
I   REPSUBLC           <.-
I  &~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-'                                                                                                                                                Inn ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Truk  -eo-r, diamtessi mlimfr
R                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Se-ter, 20ni,ii[tgesp  din,tnpers
-                                                                                                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Tr-arnet plant site
I                           \   SAJS[                                                                 ~~                                                                                                                              Proposed stosmoosIer-p-loeIts
I                    -  ~~~~ARABIARuI-,oa s
URAEB\'P                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Pm   reds
REt                                                      3 /  -
OF    //Se-ono-y roass
EGYPT //
tiiESU         50                                                                                                                                                                               oa~iO3  Rio at on  wdis
Otis; rot' ~    ~         jp                                                                                        - -,h



