Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.:  19951
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF ANGOLA
INFRASTRUCTURE REHABILITATION ENGINEERING PROJECT
(CREDIT 2289-AO)
December 16, 1999
Water and Urban 1
Eastern and Southern Africa
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Readjusted Kwanza (KZR)
US$1 = 60 New Kwanza (at time of appraisal, March, 1991)
New Kwanzas were converted to Readjusted Kwanzas in July 1995
US$1 = 3,527,312 Readjjusted Kwanza (August 1999)
1 SDR = US $ 1.3 (August 1999)
WEIGHTS & MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
Calendar year
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
C FL    Luanda Railway
CFM    Mo,amedes Railway
DNIC  Directorate of Investments and Construction
IA     Implementing Agency
INEA   Angola National Highway Institute
IRE    Infrastructure Rehabilitation Engineering Project
LEWW  Luanda Emergency Water Works
LWSS  Luanda Water Supply and Sanitation Project
MTR   Mid Term Review
iNBHN National Basic Highway Network
NPTS  Namibe Port Transport Systera
PC     Project Coordinator
PIM    Project Implementation Manual
1PSP    Private Sector Participation
PU     Project Unit
TRP    Transport Recovery Project
Vice President                                Callisto Madavo
Country Director                                Barbara Kafka
Sector Manager:                                  Jeffrey Racki
Team Leader                                    Lance Morrell



REPUBLIC OF ANGOLA FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INFRASTRUCTURE REHABILITATION ENGINEERING PROJECT
CREDIT 2289-AO
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY .......................
PART I - PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Project Identity .1
B. Background .1
C.     Statement and Evaluation of Project Objectives.                             2
D.     Achievement of Project Objectives and Outputs.                              5
E.     Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project.              8
F.  Project Sustainability .10
G. Bank Performance .10
H.  Borrower Performance .1 1
1.  Assessment of Outcome .                                                       II
J. Future Operations .                                                             1
K. Key Lessons Learned .12
PART II- STATISTICAL TABLES
Table I    Summary of Assessments .13
Table 2        Related Bank Loans/Credits .14
Table 3A   Project Timetable             ..15
Table 3B   Key Political Events            ..15
Table 4        Credit Disbursements with Graph .16
Table 5        Key Indicators for Project Implementation .17
Table 6        Key Indicators for Project Operations .19
Table 7        Studies Included in the Project .20
Table 8A  Project Costs               ..22
Table 8B   Project Financing             ..22
Table 8C       Base Cost of Components at Appraisal   ..23
Table 9A   Economic Rate of Return            ..23
Table 10    Status of Legal Covenants         ..24
Table 11    Estimated Bank Resources          ..26
Table 12       Compliance with Operational Manual Statements   .    .26
Table 13    Bank Resources: Missions           ..27
ANNEXES
A.     Borrower's contribution to the ICR
B.     Borrower's comments on this ICR
C.     Aide Memoire of Completion Mission
D.     Future Operations
E.     Map
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






REPUBLIC OF ANGOLA
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INFRASTRUCTURE REHABILITATION ENGINEERING PROJECT
CREDIT 2289-AO
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Infrastructure Rehabilitation
Engineering Project in Angola, for which Credit 2289-AO in the amount of SDR 28.3 million was
approved in June 1991, and made effective in February 1992.
At the mid term review in July 1994, the Project was restructured and the Credit was reduced to
SDR 25.5 million as components were cancelled or transferred to the Transport Recovery Project
(Credit 2420 AO) to adjust to significantly changed operating conditions in Angola. At the same
time the Credit closing date was extended by one year to June 30, 1997 to allow time to prepare
and implement a new and complex emergency water works component.
In mid 1997, as implementation delays developed, the closing date was postponed to June 30,
1998. In mid 1998, the Credit closing date was extended again, to March 31, 1999 to allow
completion of delayed works. At this time, the Credit amount was reduced to SDR 23.2 million as
components that could not be reasonably completed in the remaining time were cancelled.
The credit was closed on March 31, 1999, 33 months after the original closing date. The final
disbursement took place on September 7, 1999, and the remaining SDR 0.9 million was cancelled.
The ICR was prepared by Tejbir Singh Phool, Joao Wemans (Consultants) and James Pannett
(Task Team Assistant) under the guidance of Lance Morrell (Sr. Financial Analyst) of the Urban
and Water Group for Eastern and Southern Africa (AFTU 1), and reviewed by Barbara Kafka,
Country Director, and Jeffrey Racki, Sector Manager. The borrower provided comments that are
included in the appendices to the ICR.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the final supervision mission in November 1998. It is
based on material in the project file and interviews with officials of the borrower and Bank staff.
The borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR by inviting the Bank for a mission in
September 1999, by providing appropriate background information, by commenting on the Bank's
draft completion report (see Annex B) and by contributing its own evaluation report (see Annex
A).






REPUBLIC OF ANGOLA
INFRASTRUCTURE REHABILITATION ENGINEERING (IRE) PROJECT
(Credit NO. 2289 ANG)
IMPLEMENTATION COMTLETION REPORT
Summary
Introduction
1. At project inception, Angola had just emerged from a long civil war that had severely hurt the
economy. The economy comprised a large public sector managed by administrative controls, and
a very small private sector conducting mainly trading activities. An exodus of professionals
severely starved the country of human capital. Physical infrastructure was in very urgent need of
repair and sector agencies needed institutional reform and strengthening.
Statement and Evaluation of Project Objectives
2. The Project Objective was "to support the economic recovery andfuture development of
Angola infrastructure by means of the rehabilitation of key transport and urban systems, and
assistance in the formulation of policies, strategies, rehabilitation plans and programs of
continuing maintenance" (report 5529-ANG, p. 12).
3. Project Components included the following:
i. very urgently needed repairs to the Namibe Port Transport System (NPTS) including the
railway corridor, feasibility study, technical assistance, and training, to plan medium and
longer term system improvements;
ii. very urgently needed repairs to the Luanda Port Transport System (LPTS) including the
railway corridor, feasibility study, technical assistance, and training, to plan medium and
longer term system improvements;
iii. studies to improve the National Basic Highway Network (NBHN);
iv. efforts to plan for improvements in the Luanda Metropolitan Area urban infrastructure; and
v. environmental rehabilitation including efforts to review the regulatory framework.
4. Components were significantly revised at Mid-term Review (MTR) which took into account
the renewed civil war and the existence of a more focussed Transport Recovery Project (TRP).
Most sub-components of the Namibe and Luanda port systems that could not be reasonably
completed because of the civil war were either cancelled or transferred to the TRP. At MTR, new
studies for restructuring the Public Companies of Maritime and Aviation transport sectors were
included. Also, since Luanda's water problems had become very acute, sub-components to
prepare designs for the Luanda Emergency Water Works (LEWW), to execute these works, and to
develop the final design for Phase I of the Luanda Water Supply and Sanitation Project were
added. This set of sub-components represented a change from the original design. While the
original design comprised studies, technical assistance, and purchase of critically needed
equipment that would help prepare the Angolans to undertake the future investments, the LEWW
introduced a significant construction component into the Project without providing adequate
preparatory and implementation support. The appraised project cost of US$42.5 million was
reduced to $40 million at MTR and to $36 million in June 1998 as some items that could not be
completed by the extended closing date were cancelled.
i



Implementation Record and Results
5. Achievement of Project Objectives. The Government achieved its broad goal of using the
Project to initiate institutional reform, introduce cost recovery, and strengthen infrastructure
agencies. There has been significant improvement in the dialogue between the Bank and
Government on issues such as Private Sector Participation (PSP), cost-recovery, transport sector
reform, and utility reform. Althou:gh the pace of reforms was slowed by the civil war and the poor
macro-economic environment the Government overcame strong initial resistance to politically
delicate issues. The Project's specific objective of preparing for the rehabilitation of transport and
urban infrastructure and of providing assistance towards the formulation of policies, strategies,
and rehabilitation plans was largely met. The environment for sector reforms improved and the
Government has taken non-reversi.ble steps forward by adopting and implementing new laws and
decrees.
6. The Project's goals were achieved with a changed component mix. The civil war made the
execution of some components impossible and the TRP became a more appropriate vehicle to
implement certain transportation components. The components proposed at the MTR were
completed though there were significant delays in the complex physical works. The Credit closed
33 months late in March 1999.
7. Factors Outside Government Control. The Project was implemented during a period of
great economic and political volatility. The 1991 peace agreement and the momentum for reform
were short-lived as hostilities renewed in 1992. Despite a further period of peace between 1994
and 1998, harmony was never full y achievecl. Fear of renewed civil strife increased military
spending and diverted resources away from development activities. Constant uncertainty on
several fronts inevitably affected critical Project decisions. The civil war delayed implementation
and slowed reforms.
8. While consultants conducting studies performed satisfactorily, performance was less than
satisfactory with some of the consultants ancl contractors working on the LEWW. First, the works
were delayed and costs increased because the technical specifications prepared by the consultants
to identify and define the scope of the rehabilitation were not thorough and complete enough.
Second, this problem was compounded by long delays in starting works that made the original
technical specifications partially outdated. Third, these problems were aggravated by insufficient
transfer of procurement know-how to the Project Unit (PU) staff that were required to procure
major contracts without receiving the requisite training.
9. Factors Subject to Government Control. The Project Coordinator effectively started the
project, but undertook additional ministerial responsibilities starting in 1997. Her increased
responsibilities reduced the amount of time available for project coordination. A part-time deputy
coordinator subsequently recruited to assist the coordinator took time to become familiar with the
new functions. Heads of agencies critical for the implementation of project components were
correctly appointed as Component Coordinators. Unfortunately, the limited technical support they
received and excessive centralization resulted in delayed decision making.
10. Factors Subject to Implementing Agency Control. Overall project implementation took
place in three separate phases. During the first phase that lasted until late 1994, the Project was
implemented as appraised. Communication between the PU and some implementing agencies was
weak due to poor understanding by these agencies of their role vis a vis the PU. These factors
resulted in decision-making delays. In the second phase that lasted between early 1995 and
late 1996, the Govemment entrusted project management to local staff, and immediately
experienced a series of procuremel1t problems caused by the inexperience of the local staff in
ii



executing the complex LEWW introduced at the MTR. During the third phase that lasted from
1996 to Project closing the PU staff and the Bank's project team worked effectively together to
resolve the problems of the second phase. By the end of the project, the PU had become a highly
effective unit capable of making rapid decisions under very adverse conditions. Even after Project
closing, the PU continues it role of supporting the TRP.
11. Project sustainability is rated as likely. It is to the credit of the Government that the desired
policy and legal reforms were achieved despite difficult political and economic conditions. The
Government and Bank staff believe that these reforms have caused beneficial changes of an
irreversible nature and that additional changes necessary to the policy environment will continue.
However, the sustainability of the LEWW is rated as unlikely because important policy measures
such as privatization that were to follow have been delayed.
12. Bank performance was satisfactory. The Bank clearly identified, prepared, and appraised a
project that met the needs of the Borrower and was consistent with the Bank's lending strategy.
Performance during supervision was generally satisfactory as the Bank showed flexibility in
modifying the Project to adapt to the changing needs. At the same time, the Bank did not
implement the intense supervision plan proposed at appraisal and the composition of the
management and supervision teams changed 3 times resulting in poor client support. The Bank
should have exercised more care at the MTR by designing more safeguards for the LEWW
implementation. Borrower performance was satisfactory because major objectives were
achieved even though: (i) the Borrower had no prior experience in implementing similar projects;
(ii) the civil war loomed over all decision making; and (iii) Bank support during implementation
was less than anticipated. During identification and preparation, the Government played an
appropriate role. The PU worked well when it was managed by consultants. The local staff also
managed the PU well, but only after experiencing significant initial problems stemming from their
inexperience with managing the complex LEWW.
13. Project outcome is rated satisfactory since the Project achieved most policy objectives, and
helped the Government effect sector reforms. Further, by the end of the Project the Government
was taking significant steps towards private sector participation in critical infrastructure areas.
Future Operations and Lessons Learned
14. Future Operations. Since the policy reforms achieved have resulted in beneficial changes,
new laws are being implemented, and cost recovery policies are being implemented in several
sectors, it is believed that these reforms will continue in the future. The Government has asked
for Bank support in promoting privatization in key infrastructure areas such as water supply. The
Luanda Water Supply and Sanitation (LWSS) project designed as a follow-up to the IRE was
being prepared until the beginning of 1999. Future operations in Luanda's urban systems should
be considered when the Government and the IMF agree to a program to address the critical
macro-economic issues confronting the country. It is critical to support the continuation of the
reforms and to improve service to the poor. Also, urban and water projects should be considered
for other major coastal cities. Future operations in the transport sector would be risky before the
end of the civil war. Main ports such as Luanda, Lobito, Namibe, etc. may be exceptions if they
remain out of the area of war activity.
15. Lessons Learned:
* The Government's ownership of the Project and strong support from the locally staffed PU
are essential to success. This Project benefited from both.
iii



* Smaller and more focused projects that involve-fewer implementing agencies improve the
management's chances of success in implementation.
* Risks should be carefully identified and managed;
*  Specifically, projects that require intense Bank supervision should be allocated the
necessary resources by the Bank:'s management. Since changes of the Team Leader
disturb project implementation, an overlap of several months and missions should be
ensured;
*  When a project is restructured project risks should be re-evaluated and corresponding
new risk management plans developed. In this project, even though the initial intent
was to finance studies that would lead to sector investments, the objectives were
stated broadly enough to allow the inclusion of construction works. At the mid term
review very complex works were added to the project and the Bank failed to
recognize or manage the risks associated with entrusting them to an new PU staff that
required re-training; and
* During periods of civil war, the Bank should open a dialogue with the Government,
on a project specific basis, regarding the need to minimize project risks, and project
restructuring should be included as a potential tool.
* It is very difficult to effectively transfer knowledge from international consultants to local
staff. It would be more effective to recruit and train local staff supported by the IDA project
teams. Focussed short-term technical assistance should also be used during early phases of
the Project to provide practical training and to solve problems.
iv



REPUBLIC OF ANGOLA
INFRASTRUCTURE REHABILITATION ENGINEERING (IRE) PROJECT
(Credit NO. 2289 ANG)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PART I - PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Project Identity
Name        Infrastructure Rehabilitation Engineering Project
Credit No   2289-ANG
RVP Unit   Africa
Country    Angola
Sector     Infrastructure
B. Background
1. At the time of project inception, Angola had a population of about 10 million growing at about
2.8 percent per annum. The country was well endowed with natural resources such as oil,
diamonds, fertile land, etc. After achieving independence from Portugal in 1975, the Angolan
economy gradually became highly dependent on income from oil and diamonds. The agricultural
sector experienced negative growth in output per capita, and Angola went from being an exporter
of agricultural products in the early seventies to being a net importer in the nineties.
2. Three factors contributed to Angola's poor economic situation in the early nineties. First, a
fifteen year long, post independence, civil war decimated farming, curtailed transportation of
produce to the ports, and required the Government to devote an estimated 25 percent of GDP to
military expenditures. Second, the post independence political and economic system created a
distorted economy that comprised a large public sector managed by administrative controls, and a
very small private sector conducting mainly trading activities. Third, a massive exodus of
Portuguese settlers after independence left the country severely starved of human capital.
3. The civil war damaged facilities, overcrowded major towns including Luanda, and put a major
strain on infrastructure. However, the main reasons for the infrastructure problems were the
distorted economic policies and weak institutional capacity. These resulted in a lack of
investments, maintenance, equipment, and spare parts for the economy in general and for the
sector in particular.
4. The Government made two recent attempts to restructure and stabilize the economy. While
the overall direction of the reforms proposed in 1987 was appropriate, the measures implemented
did not go far enough to address the main structural distortions notably in the area of exchange
rate. An economic action plan in 1990 also failed. In 1991, a major break-through occurred in the
form of a comprehensive cease-fire agreement that included a timetable to integrate the two
armies, and scheduled multi-party elections for 1992. If successful, this process would improve
the economic prospects including reallocation of public resources to development issues.



C. Statement and Evaluation of'Project Objectives, and Quality at Entry
5. Since Angola had joined the Bank only in 1989, and considering recent optimistic political
developments, the first strategic priority was to expand the relationship between Angola and the
Bank by broadening the dialogue on the country 's development needs ... through lending
operations, economic and sector wvork..." (report 5529-ANG p.8). Bank lending strategy
comprised three elements. The first element focussed on technical assistance and pre-investment
operations. The second element focussed on priority rehabilitation and investment projects in the
infrastructure and social sectors. T'he third element would focus on financial support once the
Government demonstrated commitment to comprehensive reforms. In 1990, it was agreed that the
first two operations in Angola would provide technical assistance, training, and engineering
services. One operation (Credit 2274-ANG) would focus on building Government capacity to
formulate and implement sound economic policies and investment projects while this operation
(Credit 2289-ANG) would focus on infrastructure issues. The latter credit would be a key element
iin the Government's program of economic and financial restructuring. IDA "... wouldprovide
badly needed leadership in promoting institutional reform, introducing cost recovery,
strengthening infrastructure agencies..." (report 5529-ANG p.12) in the transportation and urban
sectors.
6. Project Objectives. The main objective of Credit 2289-A.NG was "to support the economic
recovery andfuture development ojfAngola infrastructure by means of the rehabilitation of key
transport and urban systems, and cassistance in the formulation of policies, strategies,
rehabilitation plans and programs of continuing maintenance " (report 5529-ANG, p.12). The
Project was to be implemented between October 1991 and December 31, 1995 and the Credit
closing date was set at June 30, 1996.
7. Project Components comprised the following main elements (See Development Credit
Agreement (DCA) p1 5):
A. Namibe Port Transport System (NPT,3).: Port rehabilitation including feasibility study,
technical assistance, training, spare parts purchase, and administrative support (base cost
of approximately US $3 million);
B. Mocamedes Railway (CFM): Namibe port railway rehabilitation including feasibility
study, technical assistance, training, spare parts purchase, and administrative support
(base cost of approximately US $5.4 million);
C. National Basic Highway Network (NPHN). management study, maintenance studies,
technical assistance, training, and administrative support (base cost of approximately US
$8.4 million);
D. Luanda Port Transport System (LPTS). Port development including feasibility study,
technical assistance, training, and administrative support (base cost of approximately US
$3.8 million);
E. Luanda Railway (CFL). rehabilitation including feasibility study, technical assistance,
training, and administrative support (base cost of approximately US $5 million);
F. Luanda Metropolitan Area: (1) water supply and sanitation system rehabilitation
including institutional study, short term master plan and feasibility study, technical
assistance, training, and administrative support; and (2) Urban Infrastructure upgrading
including land use and infrastructure plan, training, technical assistance, and
administrative support (basei cost of approximately US $8.8 million);
G. Environmental Rehabilitation including technical assistance to support environmental
assessments, review of regulatory frannework, and training (budget not defined); and
H. Project Management (base cost of approximately US $ 1.1 million).
2



8. Mid-term Review (MTR). Project components were significantly revised at MTR which was
scheduled for 18 months after project effectiveness, but took place a year late in July 1994. The
MTR took into consideration two significant post-appraisal developments. The first development
considered was that in October 1992, eight months after credit effectiveness, the civil war
restarted with intensity, and drastically changed the project's environment. Major portions of the
rail system and highway system incurred the risk of war damage to any repairs and maintenance
conducted. In July 1994 the Lusaka negotiations were still on-going and there was some hope that
peace could be re-established. Nevertheless, after the failure of the first peace agreement and
subsequent war, expectations were much lower than in 1991. The second development considered
was that, in 1992, a more focussed Transport Recovery Project (TRP, Credit 2420-ANG) was
approved.
9. Since the civil war resulted in limited access to the railway corridors, and since the TRP was a
more focussed and more appropriate investment vehicle for transport projects, key sub-
components of the NPTS, CFM, and LPTS were dropped from the IRE at MTR while others were
transferred to the TRP. A portion of the funds released as a result were redirected to prepare and
execute the Luanda Emergency Water Works (LEWW). This component was different from the
original components of the Project which were to provide studies, technical assistance, and limited
spare parts to prepare the Angolans for future investment. The aim of the LEWW was to design
and execute significant physical works. In order to allow time for this more complex component,
the Credit closing date was extended by one year to June 30, 1997. The DCA was amended to
allow for these changes, and the final list of components was as follows:
A. NPTS: Transfer of studies and purchase of spare part to the TRP, and cancellation of
technical assistance, and training assistance;
B. CFM: Cancellation of all sub-components;
C. NBH: No Change;
D. LPTS: Transfer of a few unfinished sub-components of technical assistance and training to
the TRP in 1998/99;
E. CFL: Cancellation of all sub-components (base cost in IRE reduced to nothing);
F. Luanda Metropolitan Area: Transfer of the pilot slum upgrading effort to the TRP;
Additions of three new sub-components to prepare the designs for the Luanda Emergency
Water Works (LEWW), to execute the works, and to develop the final designs for Phase- I
rehabilitation of the Luanda Water Supply System;
G. Environmental Rehabilitation: No change;
H. Project Management: No Change; and
I . Transport Studies: Addition of new studies for restructuring the Public Companies of
Maritime and Aviation transport sectors.
It is not possible to provide cost estimates by project component at the MTR because when the
Bank's new disbursement accounting system was installed many of the earlier disbursement
records were not converted and, as a result, are not accessible from the new system.
10. In 1997, it was realized that the LEWW's complexities were causing delays, and the closing
date was postponed to June 30, 1998. In mid 1998, the Project was delayed again to March 31,
1999 to permit completion of delayed water works.
11. Project Cost, Financing Plan, and Implementation Timetable. The appraised project cost
was US$42.5 million, with US$38 million (SDR 28 million) representing foreign exchange
requirements (see table 8B) that IDA agreed to finance. At MTR, the project cost was reduced to
US$ 40 million and the Credit to $35 million (SDR 25 million) with the rest being cancelled. In
3



mid 1998, Project cost was reduced to $36 million and the Credit to $32 million (SDR 23 million),
and the rest was cancelled. Against appraised and MTR projections of $4.8 million, Government
contribution was $4.4 million.
12. Evaluation of Objectives and Quality at Entry. Project objectives were consistent with
contemporary Government priorities and the Bank's country assistance strategy. The Project was
correctly designed as a first step to address Angola's highly deteriorated infrastructure. Key issues
were correctly identified and adequately addressed by providing for studies, technical assistance,
critical equipment, and spare parts for selected agencies. The technical assistance for training
Government staff involved in the Project was also pertinent. However, the Project was complex
and risky because it involved seventeen Governmental units, there was uncertainty with regard to
future progress of the peace and reform processes, Government agencies lacked experience in
implementing Bank financed proj ects, there was inadequate coordination between Government
agencies and state enterprises involved in the Project, and the institutional capacity was limited.
The following implementation measures were designed to reduce risks:
*  Formation by the Govemmenl of a Steering Committee to support Project Coordination and
its liaison with the Ministry of Finance and with the Banco Nacional de Angola;
* Staffing the Project Unit (PU) with four advisors provided by a single international consulting
firm for the expected duration of the Prcject; and
*  Establishing an intensive IDA, supervision plan comprising 3 mission per year to help "detect
as early as possible implementation difficulties and propose corrective actions" (report 5 529-
ANG, Annex A-2, p 1).
13. Two weaknesses of the prepa.ration effort are noteworthy. First, IDA did not require the
development of a Project Implementation Manual (PIM) as a condition for project effectiveness
and thus failed to provide the Government with an important tool to overcome its lack of
experience and the difficulties of coordinating a project involving so many agencies. This
situation was only partially remedied in 1997 when a manual to assist the Government in
preparing the emergency water wcrks was developed. Second, the environmental component,
though well intentioned, was poorly designed and did not meet the conditions existing in Angola
at the time.
14. The quality of the project design is also examined at the MTR which introduced a
significantly large and complex physical component to a project that was originally designed to
conduct studies, provide technical assistance, and purchase critical equipment to channel future
investments. With the addition of large civil works rehabilitation works, the LEWW substantially
increased the complexity of the Project. This increased risk was, however, not adequately
identified or training provided for in such key areas as procurement and contract management.
The design of the remaining components introduced at MTR was satisfactory.
4



D. Achievement of Project Objectives and Outputs
15. Achievement of Project Objectives. The Government achieved its broad goal of using the
Project to initiate institutional reform, introduce cost recovery, and strengthen infrastructure
agencies. There has been significant improvement in the dialogue between the Bank and
Government on issues such as Private Sector Participation (PSP), cost-recovery, transport sector
reform, and utility reform. Although the pace of reforms has been slow partly due to the disruptive
influence of a civil war, and a poor macro economic environment, the Government has overcome
strong initial resistance to politically delicate issues. The Project's specific objective of preparing
for the rehabilitation of transport and urban infrastructure and of providing assistance towards the
formulation of policies, strategies, and rehabilitation plans was largely met. The political and
social environment for sector reforms improved significantly and the Government has taken non-
reversible steps forward by adopting new laws and decrees. At the same time, some Project targets
were missed as several small sub-components were not completed. The Credit was closed 33
months late in large measure because of delays in completing the complex LEWW.
16. Project Outputs by Component. These are discussed below (see Tables 5, 6, 7) in the
sequence adopted in the DCA as subsequently amended.
17. The NPTS logistical and administrative support component was financed by the project
preparation facility and successfully completed during project preparation. The major portion of
this component, the rehabilitation study, was transferred to the TRP because that project was a
more appropriate investment vehicle, and other sub-components were cancelled because of the
civil war.
18. The CFMrailway logistical and administrative support component was financed by the
project preparation facility and successfully completed during project preparation. The other
components that comprised the major financial outlays were cancelled at the MTR because the
railway corridors were not safe and risked additional civil war related damage.
19. The NBHIN logistical and administrative support component was financed by the project
preparation facility and successfully completed during project preparation. Three studies were
successfully carried out and are being followed by repair and maintenance works. Specifically, the
highway management study resulted in the establishment of a legal framework for creating a road
fund to finance future road maintenance. A survey identified 1,000 km of highways in critical
need of rehabilitation and the rehabilitation of approximately 100 km is underway with financing
from TRP. A highway and bridge rehabilitation master plan and highway maintenance plan,
prepared under the Project, is being used as a basis for launching local bids for road maintenance
to be financed by the road fund. Technical assistance was provided on technical, financial, and
management aspects. One training cycle was completed successfully while subsequent cycles
were not prepared to be completed by Credit closing.
20. The LPTS logistical and administrative support component was financed by the project
preparation facility and successfully completed during project preparation. Three studies were
satisfactorily completed. One study prepared an overall port development program, a second study
prepared a program for improvement in port operations including detailed designs for physical
works, and a third study produced recommendations for institutional strengthening and
operational improvements. Recommendations of these studies resulted in the establishment of a
new law and policies for granting private sector participation in ports. Key achievements in this
component are as follows:
5



*  Port Operation and Tariff Regulations approved in 1997 for the Port of Luanda and later
extended to all Angolan ports as national regulations;
*  General Basis for Domain Concessions approved by Council of Ministers (Decree 52/97);
*  General Basis for Port Concessions approved by Council of Ministers (Decree 53/97);
*  Law of Ports Domain approved by Council of Ministers and National Assembly (No.9/98);
*  Preparation of bidding documents for concession of four terminals and various other services
at the Port of Luanda;
*  Port Environment Regulation approved by the Ministry of Transportation and
Communication, cleared by the Ministry of Environment., and currently pending approval of
the Council of Ministers; and
*  Approval by the Council of Ministers of the Statute of the Luanda Port Company. This statute
was used as a model to produce similar statutes for the Ports of Lobito and Namibe and it is
being extended to the other main ports. Similar statutes for the Ports of Cabinda and Soyo are
ready for approval of the Council of Ministers.
These achievements are significanil but further progress has been again delayed by the civil war
that commenced in 1998. Technical assistance was provided in the areas of port administration
and operations. Proposed technical assistance for equipment maintenance and civil works
maintenance was cancelled.
'21. The CFL railway logistical and administrative support component was financed by the project
preparation facility and successful]ly completed during project preparation. Major portions of this
component were cancelled at the MITR because of the risk of incurring war-related damage.
22. Luanda Metropolitan Area Water Supply: The logistical and administrative support
component was financed by the project preparation facility and successfully completed during
project preparation. Technical assistance was provided to strengthen the National Directorate of
Water and the Provincial Water Company of Luanda. The originally anticipated studies of the
wvater supply, sewerage, and solid waste systems were successfully completed and yielded
satisfactory follow-on measures. A. study of the sector's institutional structure served as the basis
f'or the decision to introduce private sector operators to remove Luanda's solid waste. Another
study successfully developed a short-term master plan for the rehabilitation of the Luanda water
supply and sanitation systems and developed the preliminary engineering and feasibility study for
this rehabilitation. Technical assistance and logistical support were provided to the Provincial
(Government of Luanda and the Provincial Water Company. Selected staff received training in the
areas of accounting practices, evaluation systems, audit, and financial management.
23. LEWW: A study was conducted to prepare the final design for the rehabilitation of the water
production and treatment system of'Luanda. This study was followed by the preparation of final
design documents and the emergency rehabilitation program. In mid 1999, the ensuing repair
works that were completed significantly late increased daily raw water production by around 70
percent and allowed for the resumption of normal operations of the two water treatment plants.
The percentage of capacity utilization increased from about 50% in 1998 to about 85% today. The
Ciovemment agreed to a program ol' gradual increases in tariffs to recover the full cost of
supplying the water and electricity ifrom the users. An action plan and timetable for gradual
increases in the tariff levels for the supply of water and electricity were prepared, but the schedule
was not adhered to partly because of the civil war. However, between June 1995 and August
1999, the average tariff level for water in Luanda increased from US$ 0.0015/m3 to US$ 0.35/m3
which represents approximately 100% of the operating and maintenance costs (See Table 6). The
tariff levels for water supply in the other major cities also realized significant rate increases. The
tariff levels for electricity experienced smaller but still significant rate increases.
6



24. Following the recommendations of these studies, the Government clearly expressed its
commitment to the sustainable management of the provincial water supply systems in general and
specifically of the Luanda water supply system. The following steps taken are revealing:
*  In September 1995, an executive decree was issued recognizing water as an economic
good, defining the objectives of cost recovery, and establishing a new legal framework for
updating water and power tariffs (Decree No. 20/90);
* November 1997, Government's Medium Term Economic Recovery and Stabilization
Program that included: (i) private sector participation in transport, water, sanitation and
power sectors; (ii) decentralization of operations to the provincial Governments; (iii)
tariffs to be established to allow for the recovery of the full cost of operations;
* Decree No. 27/98 decentralizing the water tariff authority to Provincial Governments;
* Government successfully implemented private sector participation in the removal of
Luanda's solid waste;
* With the assistance of the Bank and a bilateral donor, the Government undertook water
and sanitation tariff studies in six cities; and
* The Government and Bank have been preparing the Luanda Water Supply and Sanitation
Project (LWSS) aiming to introduce a private operator in the management of water supply
and sewerage systems, and the Government received Bank financing in the form of a
project preparation facility. Currently, preparation has been halted because the Bank
funding for all new projects in Angola are being deferred pending Angolan compliance
with IMF requirements.
25. Luanda Metropolitan Area Urban Infrastructure: The logistical and administrative support
component was financed by the project preparation facility and successfully completed during
project preparation. Technical assistance was provided to strengthen the environment management
staff of the National Directorate of Water. On the job training was also provided to local
counterpart staff. One study that included an urban land use and infrastructure plan and an urban
upgrading project was successfully concluded with the development of an Urban Growth and
Management Plan for Luanda. This Plan formed the basis of the proposed development of an
industrial zone in Viana, and the development of the new project, Luanda - Sul. Implementation
of a pilot slum upgrading effort was transferred to the TRP.
26. Environmental Rehabilitation component was not implemented and a review of the legal and
regulatory framework was not conducted because the Government was not prepared to address the
related issues. However, staff at various ministries were trained in environmental analyses and
monitoring. Also, the water and sanitation works as well as the urban management efforts will
have a long-term positive environmental impact.
27. Project Management activities were successfully carried out. Arrangements for project
implementation included the appointment of a Project Coordinator (PC) and three Component
Coordinators (CCs). The head of the Directorate of Investments and Construction (DNIC) of the
Ministry of Planning was appointed as PC, in charge of project management and coordination.
Studies for the rehabilitation of two main transport systems comprising the ports of Namibe and
Luanda and its associated railway networks were coordinated by the Bureau of Planning from the
Ministry of Transportation and Communications. Studies for the rehabilitation of the NBHN were
coordinated by the Angola National Highway Institute (INEA), an agency of the Ministry of
Public Works and Urban affairs. Studies for the rehabilitation of the Urban Infrastructure of
Luanda Metropolitan Area were coordinated by the Office of the Deputy Governor for Technical
Affairs of the Provincial Government of Luanda.
7



28. Transportation Studies for restructuring the Public Companies of Maritime and Aviation
transport sectors were successfully completed and resulted in the recommendation that these
companies be privatized. The Government is currently making attempts to introduce private
sector participation to these companies.
29. Compliance with Credit Covenants. In general, the Project was in compliance with the credit
covenants, but compliance was frequently partial and/or delayed. The Project was not in
compliance with covenants pertaining to counterpart financing and the efforts to privatize the
transport sector. The Government frequently did not maintain the project account at the agreed
upon level of US$500,000. However, the Government did comply with this section during the last
year of the Project and it contributed its agreed upon share of the project's financing. The
Government has developed plans to increase the tariffs being charged by various transport entities
and to begin to attract private sector operators. However, the timetable and implementation plans
have not yet been announced.
E. Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project
30. The Project was implemented during a period of great political and economic volatility (See
Table 3B). The 1991 peace agreerrient and also the momentum for reform were short-lived as
hostilities renewed after the 1992 elections. I)espite a further period of peace between 1994 and
1998, harmony was never fully aclhieved. The constant fear of renewed civil strife resulted in a
diversion of resources away from (levelopment activities. At various points during this period, the
Government started new reform initiatives, but these initiatives could not be consistently sustained
because of the civil situation. Constant uncertainty on several fronts inevitably delayed project
implementation and contributed to the cancellation of smaller components. The political and
economic volatility also contributed to an uneven pace of implementation.
31. Factors Outside Governmentl Control. Key factors outside Government control included:
(i) the civil war between October 1992 and the end of 1994, and from late 1998 onwards; (ii) less
than satisfactory performance of one consulting company and two key contractors; and (iii)
limited transfer of procurement expertise by some consultants.
32. The intense civil war that ravaged the country and most of its towns, including Luanda,
(lelayed implementation and was partially responsible for the slow-down of the pace of reforms.
The war had a direct negative influence on the Government's performance and also affected the
population and civil servants whose environment shifted from hope in a transition to a "normal
life" to a daily struggle for survival. The Government lost part of its momentum for the reforms
(luring the period of intense civil war (1992 to 1994) and then again in the second half of 1998
when the restart of the civil war became almost inevitable. The war was partly responsible for
Project re-structuring and implementation delays.
33. Contractors responsible for conducting studies performed generally satisfactorily and
produced good quality reports. However, there were three problems in the performance of some
consultants and contractors working on the LEWW. First, the works were delayed and costs
increased because the technical specifications prepared by the consultants contracted to identify
and define the scope of the rehabilitation were not thorough and complete enough. Second, this
problem was compounded by long delays in starting the works that made the original technical
specifications partially outdated. The works were started late because three out of four lots of the
LEWW experienced delays of fifteen months caused by the following:
(i) two contracts were delayed by the disqualification of the initially awarded lowest bidder;
and
8



(ii) the leader of the second placed consortium went out of business and had to be replaced.
Third, these problems were aggravated by insufficient transfer of procurement expertise to the PU
staff. While it was originally anticipated that the PU staff would procure only consulting services,
subsequent to the MTR they were required to procure major civil works contracts without
receiving the requisite training.
34. Factors subject to Government Control. Partly due to the Government's attention to the
civil war and the resulting political turmoil, macro-economic and structural reform issues have
not been given sufficient attention. Because of Government's failure to move forward
consistently with a program of macro-economic stabilization and reform, the Bank has suspended
the preparation of new lending activities pending an agreement between the Government and IMF
on policies needed to correct these problems. As a result, preparation of projects such as the
LWSS has been suspended.
35. The selection of the Project Coordinator by the Government was an important factor affecting
the quality of Project preparation and implementation. The Project Coordinator was a strong and
effective manager who was successful in getting the Project started, but was appointed as Deputy
Minister of Planning in 1997 and as Minister of Planning in 1999. Increased Governmental
responsibilities reduced the amount of her time available for Project Coordination tasks. A Deputy
Coordinator hired on a part time basis in 1997 needed time to become familiar with the new
functions. These issues contributed to implementation delays.
36. Heads of agencies critical for the implementation of Project components were correctly
appointed as CCs. Unfortunately, they received limited or no technical support specifically
designed to help them perform their duties and this resulted in delayed decision making. Further,
excessive centralization was inherited from the previous political system and culture. Low
government salary scales reduced the amount of time staff devoted to their work and also their
ability to absorb new skills. These factors contributed to implementation delays in the later part of
the Project.
37. Factors subject to Control of the Implementing Agency. Overall project implementation
should be seen in three separate phases. The first phase started at the effective date of the credit
and ended in late 1994. During this phase, the Project was implemented as originally designed.
During this phase, the lack of a PIM resulted in implementation delays. Communication between
PU and some implementing agencies was weak due to poor understanding by the lAs of their role
vis a vis the PU. These factors resulted in decision-making delays. The mid-term review made
adjustments based on the implementation experience and introduced a new and very complex
LEWW. Most subsequent implementation problems were centered around implementation of the
LEWW.
38. The second, and transition, phase started in early 1995 and ended in late 1996. The
Government was unsatisfied with the progress of the Project, and in the degree to which local staff
had been trained in management activities. Further, the international consultant's contract had
already been extended twice. As a result, in late 1995, Project management was entrusted to local
staff, and the international consulting firm's contract was not extended. One factor that had a
significant effect during this phase was a series of procurement problems associated with the
LEWW. These procurement problems are attributed to problems with the poor performance of
international consultants, and to the local staffs' inexperience with the Bank's procurement rules.
39. The third phase started in 1996 and continued until the end of the Project. During this phase,
the PU staff and the Bank's project team worked effectively together to resolve the problems of
the second phase. The problems caused by the lack of a PIM were reduced to a reasonable level
9



when a manual was produced for the implementation of the LEWW and the Phase- I rehabilitation
dletailed design. By the end of the project, the PU had become a highly effective unit capable of
rmaking rapid decisions under very adverse conditions. Even after the completion of the Project,
the project team continues to support and benefit the TRP.
F.    Project Sustainability
40. Overall, project sustainability is rated as likely. It is to the credit of the Government's
commitment that it has achieved the desired policy and legal reforms despite the difficult political
and economic conditions created by the civil war. The Government and Bank staff believe that
these reforms have caused beneficial changes of an irreversible nature. Sustainability of the water
emergency works rehabilitation requires that cost-recovery be maintained in the short-term, and
that PSP is effected soon. While the LWSS would have contributed positively to sector
sustainability, its preparation has been suspended pending Angolan compliance with IMF
requirements, and it is difficult to assess if and when the LWSS will be implemented. Therefore
the sustainability of the LEWW is tnlikely.
G.    Bank Performance
411. Overall, Bank performance was satisfactory. Performance was satisfactory during Project
identification, preparation, appraisal, and during supervision. The Bank clearly identified,
-prepared, and appraised a project thLat met the needs of the Borrower and was consistent with the
B3ank's lending strategy. The objectives were appropriate and components provided for flexibility
cluring implementation. However, two weaknesses that make for poor client support are
noteworthy. First, the Bank did not require development of a PIM as a condition for project
effectiveness and therefore failed to provide the Government with an important tool to overcome
its lack of experience and the difficulties of coordinating a Project involving so many agencies.
<Second, the environment component was poorly prepared.
42. The Bank's performance during supervision was generally satisfactory. To the Bank's credit
it took several positive steps during implementation. Specifically, at the MTR and later, the Bank
showed flexibility in accepting the reality of the changed situation in Angola and modified the
P'roject decisively. The Project was designed ito have a PU fully supported by consultants to speed-
tip implementation. However, the (lecision was made to end this support in 1995, and to use only
locally recruited staff in the PU. Also, the LEWW was added. While adding the LEWW, the
Bank did not provide an adequate amount of Iraining and technical assistance to support the
procurement and management of such a complex component. Further, the risks associated with
adding this complex component were not adequately evaluated. Later, when it became apparent
that the transfer of knowledge to th- local staff of the PU had been less than expected, the decision
was made by the Bank project team. and the PU to recruit short-term procurement support for
clocument preparation and "hands-on" procurement training. Additional support was provided to
the PU to assist in the preparation cf a PIM for the LEWW. This manual and procurement
support contributed to the successfuil implementation of this complex civil works component. The
quality of the dialogue between Bank and the Government on sector issues improved after 1995
when the last Team Leader was appointed and held this position without interruption.
43. At the same time, Bank performnance could have been better in some areas. The Bank shares
some of the responsibility of the pcor performance of some consultants. The terms of reference
prepared at the beginning of the Project were too ambitious and resulted in a great deal of work
produced and time spent on long term planning when short term interventions were more
appropriate. Partly because of the high cost of operation in Luanda, the Bank did not implement
the intense project supervision plan proposed at appraisal. Instead of 3 missions per year, the Bank
10



only averaged about two a year. To worsen the situation, the Bank underwent major re-structuring
that resulted in three quick changes in the composition of the senior management team between
1994 and 1995. During this time, the Project Team Leader also changed thrice at a critical period
that included the MTR. The inadequacies in the design of the LEWW have already been
addressed. The combination of these factors made for poor client support.
H.    Borrower Performance
44. Overall, Borrower performance was satisfactory. This evaluation considers that: (i) the
Borrower had no prior experience in implementing Bank financed projects; (ii) the civil war
loomed over all decision-making and devastated the country for more than two years; and (iii)
Bank support during implementation was less than anticipated. Despite these difficulties, project
activities never stopped and the objectives were achieved. During identification and preparation,
the Government played an appropriate role in the identification of Project objectives and on its
design. Implementation was conducted by a small number of overwhelmed people. Limited
procurement experience and procurement problems curtailed disbursements during 1997 and
1998. The Project Unit's performance improved in late 1997 with the increased experience, with
the PIM for the LEWW, and with the support provided by a procurement specialist. Overall, the
performance of the PU was satisfactory. Although weaknesses in scope definition, poor
performance of some contractors executing rehabilitation works, and the resumption of the civil
war caused problems, works were completed by end of March 1999.
I.    Assessment of Outcome
45. The assessment of the outcome is satisfactory since the Project achieved most policy
objectives, and supported the Government in introducing sector reforms, the need for cost-
recovery in sector services such as water supply was recognized and is being implemented.
Further, by the end of the Project the Government was taking significant steps towards PSP in
critical areas such as the Luanda water supply system, in several port services, and in the
electricity sector. The outcome of the LEWW is rated as marginally satisfactory because this
component's sustainability aspects is unlikely.
J.    Future Operations
46. Since the policy reforms achieved have resulted in beneficial changes and the Government is
implementing new laws and executing cost recovery policies in several sectors, reforms are
expected to continue. The Government has asked the Bank for assistance in promoting
privatization in key infrastructure areas such as water supply (See Annex D). The Luanda Water
Supply and Sanitation (LWSS) project designed as a follow-up of IRE was being prepared until
the beginning of 1999. This project is critical to support the continuation of the reforms of the
Luanda Water Supply and Sanitation systems and to improve service to the poorest population of
Luanda living in the slums. Poverty alleviation should be one of the outcomes of the LWSS since
the project would finance the construction of more than seven hundred standpipes along with the
works to begin the rehabilitation of the water distribution network. In order to attract international
investment, the Government will need to increase the confidence of the investment community by
increasing the role of the private sector in this sector, and by addressing the macro economic
issues raised by the IMF. Future operations in Luanda's urban systems should be considered when
the Government and the IMF agree to a program to address the critical macro-economic issues
confronting the country.
47. Future urban operations in the major coastal cities should be considered. In these cities, the
risk of damage from the civil war should be considered as low, and projects in these urban areas
11



would have a positive impact on a large percentage of the population. Projects addressing the
water and sanitation in these cities would also have a significant benefit on women and the poor.
418. The conclusions concerning the transport sector are that while the sector continues to require
international assistance, future operations would be risky before the end of the civil war. Main
ports such as Luanda, Lobito, Namiibe, etc. may be exceptions to these considerations if they
r emain out of the area of war activity. It would be possible to continue with the road rehabilitation
program in areas that are secure.
]K.    Key Lessons Learned.
49. The following lessons can be learned from this Project:
* The Government's ownership of the project and strong support from the locally staffed PU
are essential to success. This Project benefited from both.
"  Smaller and more focused projects that involve fewer implementing agencies improve the
management's chances of success in implementation.
Risks should be carefully identified and managed;
*  Specifically, projects that require intense Bank supervision should be allocated the
necessary resources by the Bank's management. Since changes of the Team Leader
disturb project implementation, an overlap of several months and missions should be
ensured;
*  When a project is restructured project risks should be re-evaluated and corresponding
new risk management plans developed. In this project, even though the initial intent
was to finance studies that 'would lead to sector investments, the objectives were
stated broadly enough to allow the inclusion of construction works. At the mid term
review very complex works were added to the project and the Bank failed to
recognize or manage the risks associated with entrusting them to an new PU staff that
required re-training; and
- During periods of civil war, the B3ank should open a dialogue with the Government,
on a project specific basis, regarding the need to minimize resulting project risk, and
project restructuring s'hould be included as a potential tool.
m It is very difficult to effectively transfer Iknowledge from international consultants to local
staff. It would be more effective to recruit and train local staff supported by the IDA project
teams. Focussed short-term technical assistance should also be used during early phases of
the project to provide practical training and to solve problems.
12



REPUBLIC OF ANGOLA
INFRASTRUCTURE REHABILITATION ENGINEERING PROJECT
(Cr. 2289-ALNG)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Part II. STATISTICAL TABLES
TABLE 1 - SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
A. Achievement of Objectives                Substantial        Partial        Negligible           a  licable
(I)              (/)              (I)               ( )
Macro policies
Sector policies
Financial objectives
Institutional development                         /
Physical objectives                              _
Poverty reduction
Gender issues
Other social objectives                                            'IA
Environmental objectives
Public sector management
Private sector development
Other (capacity building)
B. Project Sustainability                      Likely                   Unlikely                Uncertain
(V)                       (I) (V)
Overall Project Sustainability
Policy Component
Water Component
C. Bank performance                            Highly
satisfactory              Satisfactorv              Deficient
(1)                       (1)                       (1)
Identification
Preparation assistance
Appraisal
Supervision
D. Borrower performance                        Highly
satisfactor               Satisfactory              Deficient
(1)                        (/)                      (^/)
Preparation
Implementation
Covenant compliance
Operation (if applicable)
E. Assessment of Outcome               Highly                                                        Hig
satisfactory       Satisfactory        Unsatisfactory        unsatisfactory
(/)                 V )                   (V)                  (V1
1 3



Table 2 - Related Bank Loans/Credits
lreceding Operations
]'REGE (Cr.2274-AO)    Strengthen capacity to formulate and  1991       U      S   Closed
implement sound economic policies
and investmient projects
]Following operations
Transport Recovery      To restore surface access to major  1992        S      S   Under
Project (Cr.2420-AO)    parts of the country by road and rail,                      supervision
restore portl operations, promote
transport sector and strengthen
institutions
Power Sector            To lay the institutional foundation  1 992      U      U   Under
Rehabilitation (Cr.2385-  for sustainable operations in the                         supervision
AO)                     sector and r eestablish the integrity of
the transmission grid in the Northern
and Central electrical systems that
was destroyed during the civil war.
Lobito-Benguela Urban   Rehabilitation of urban            1993         S      S   Under
E]nvironmental          infrastructure and services in the                          supervision
Rehabilitation Project    major port cities of Lobito and
(Cr.2326-AO)            Benguela.
P'roposed Operations*
Luanda Water Supply                                                                 On hold
and Sanitation          To rehabilitate and extend the water
supply and sanitation in the city of
Luanda by means of PSP.
Water Sector                                                                        On hold
I)evelopment            To rehabiliitate the water supply
system and strengthen the water
institutions in 3 main cities in
_____________________   Angola.
*These two projects were formulated following stadies and preparation work undertaken under the IRE.
14



Table 3A - Project Timetable
Stepsr in Project Cycle        Date Plannued                  Date Actual
Identification                                                May 1990
Preparation                                                   October 1990
Pre-Appraisal                                                 December 1990
Appraisal                                                     February 1991
Negotiations                                                  May 1991
Board Presentations                                           July 1991
Signing                                                       July 1991
Effectiveness                  October 1991                   February 1992
Midterrn Review                                               July 1994
First Extension                                               January 1995
Second Extension                                              July 1997
Third Extension                                               June 1998
Project Completion             December 1995                  March 1999
Loan Closing                   June 1996                      March 1999
Table 3B - Key Political Events
D_te                           Event
May 1991                       Peace Accord
September 1992                 National Elections
October 1992                   Resumption of hostilities
November 1994                  Lusaka Protocol
April 1997                     Govemment of National Unity and Reconciliation installed
May 1998                       Resumption of scattered hostilities
December 1998                  Outbreak of war
15



Table 4: Credit Disbursements
FY92            2.03                   2.03             4.07
FY93             2.82                  4.85             18.82
FY94            3.10                   7.95             32.48
FY95            4.15                  12.10             37.7
FY96             5.5 1                17.61
FY97            4.07                  21.68
FY98             2.67                 24.35
FY99             7.47                 31.82
FYOO            -0.19                 31.62
40
35                           -
30
:3  25                                                         _ _  _  _ _ _  _
20/
E
E lo  --M/                      -                    -Cum.Disbursements
6          /0
5                            __________- - --Appraisal
07
% ~~~~~~~~ 43$  %      5         2)      %       eg       }
16                       00
1 6



Table 5 - Key Indicators for Project Implementation
..... ..           VP                        L       . .. .   _.. .._
A: Namibe Port Transport System (NPTS)
Technical Assistance
Provision of Technical Assistance for Port of Namibe operation                                  Cancelled
Training
Development and Implementation of Training Program for the staff of Port of Namibe.             Cancelled
B: Caminhos de Ferro Mocamedes (CFM) (Railway of Mocamades)
Technical Assistance
CFM - Technical Assistance and training for operation and maintenance of railway system, including  Cancelled
Namibe port transport system.
C: National Basic Highway Network (NBHN)
Technical Assistance
Strengthening INEA through the provision of technical assistance in the following areas: highway  Finished    With satisfactory results
engineering, organization and management, planning and budgeting, environmental assessments, economics,
financial management, personnel training and field maintenance operations
Training
INEA staff training:
First Phase:                                                                                    Finished    Satisfactory
Second Phase                                                                                    Cancelled    Unsatisfactory proposal and
lack of time for implementation.
D: Luanda Port Transport System (LPTS)
Technical Assistance
Provision of technical assistance for the Port of Luanda in the following areas:
(a) Port administration and operations                                                        Finished    Government initiated approval
of legal documents prepared
under this component
(b) Equipment maintenance                                                                    Cancelled
(c) Civil works maintenance                                                                  Cancelled
(d) To fulfill special technical requirements of the Port of Luanda to be identified and agreed between the  Transferred to
Borrower and the Association during Project implementation                                     TRP
Continued next page
17



Training
Provision of staff training for Port of Luanda.                                                I Finished   lWith satisfactory results
Provision of training for staff responsible for Project implementation                         I Finished   lWith satisfactory results
E: Caminhos de Ferro de Luanda (CFL) (Railway of Luanda)
Technical Assistance
Caminhos de Ferro de Luanda - Technical Assistance and training for operation, administration and  Cancelled
maintenance of Luanda railway system.
F: Luanda Metropolitan Area
Technical Assistance
Technical assistance, stafif raining, and acquisition of equiprment to strcng.hen the Nationall Directorate of  Finished    Witth satisfactory results
Water and the Provincial Water Company of Luanda
Provision of technical assistance to improve environmental protection skills in Luanda.            Finished
Provision of technical assistance, including logistical and administrative support and training for the  Finished    With satisfactory results
Provincial Government and the Provincial Water Company of Luanda (Govemo Provinciai and Empresa
Provincial de Aguas de Luanda)
Development of short-term master plans for the rehabilitation and expansion of such systems, including an  Finished    Basis for proposed Luanda
emergency rehabilitation program                                                                               Water Supply and Sanitation
Project
Training
Provision of on-the-job training for local counterpart staff on Luanda Urban Infrastructure        Finished
Components Added at MTR
Rehabilitation, reconstruction and restoration of water production, storage and distribution facilities,  Finished    Increased Luanda water supply
including stand-pipes with storage tank.                                                                       by 70%
Preparation of the detailed designs and bidding documents for the Phase I rehabilitation of Luanda water  Finished    Basis for proposed Luanda
supply system                                                                                                  Water Supply and Sanitation
Project
Equipment and Spare Parts                                                                                       ___ __
Provision, equipping and furnishing of housing for consultants employed under various parts of Project  Finished    Finished during project
_____________ _  preparation
Acquisition of: (i) five vehicles; (ii) office equipment; (iii) equipment for traffic counts, weight control and  Finished    Finished during project
communications; (iv) spare parts; and (v) supplies for Highway section of project.                             preparation
18



TABLE 6 - KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATIONS
Official Planned Tariff (i)   US $/m3                        .24         .49        .63         .72
Actual Tariff at Official     US $1m3                        .18         .14        .26         .35
exchange rates (i)
Actual Tariff at Parallel     US $/m3                        .14         .08        .09         .35
Market exchange rates (i)
Water Produced                 000 m3        41,314       47,844     44,374     40,139  54,000 (ii)
Revenues                      US$ 000           140          822      1,986        892    470 (iii)
Collection Efficiency        Percentage        N/A          N/A          81        N/A         N/A
Cost Recovered               Percentage        13.7         42.2       66.7        33.6        68.8
O&M costs                     US$ 000         1,022        1,950      2,976      2,652    683 (iii)
Staffing
Locals                                       872          908         904        914         942
Note:
(i)    Based on estimated average tariff level. In 1999, gap between official and parallel market
exchange rates became negligible.
(ii)    Estimated results for 1999 based on actual data for 6 months. Production increases of about 70%
occurred effective in May 1999 and capacity utilization increased from about 50% to about 85%.
(iii) Revenues and O&M costs are the actual results for the first three months Jan - Mar.
19



Table 7 - Studies Included in the Project
Study/Design                 r FinIal Status               _              Impact of Study
A: Namibe Port Transport System (NPTS)
Feasibility and basic Eng. study with         Transferred to
environmental assessment for rehab and           TIRP
maintenance of Port of Namibe
B: Caminhos de Ferro Mosamedes (CFM) (Railway of Mo~anmades)
Study of CFM and related Narnibe port transport    Cancelled at
system, including Port of Namibe.          j      Ml'R       _
C: National Basic Highway Network (NBH-IN)
1. Highway management study                     Finishcd    Improvecl the management capacity of INEA;
l-TH-          |Resulted in the Creationi of the Road Fund;
2. Ilighway rehabilitation and maintenance study,  Finished  Permitted creationi of Engenharia Executiva and consequently the bidding to
including a survey of rehabilitation requirements.          rehabilitate about 100km of roads under the Transport Recovery Project.
3. Various studies, including a study for the   Finished  -lighway and Br-idge Rehabilitation Master Plan and Ilighway Maintenance
reconstructing of transport sector corporation              Program - (permitted start of procurement for maintenance financed by Road
owned by the Borrower                                       Fund);
Hlighway Rehabilitation and Maintenance Study - (prepared program to
l______________  |_ Jrchabilitate and maintain 1 000km of roads - financed by the TRlP);
D: Luanda Port Transport System (LPTS)          _
1. Study to:
(a) Prepare port development program            Finished    Preparation of statute for the Port of Luanda, serving as model for other ports;
Port Law; General basis for Port Concessions - approved by Council of Ministers
(Decree 52/97);
(b) Prepare a program for improvement in port   Finished    General basis for the Domain of Concessions - approved by Council of Ministers
operations                                                  (Decree 53/97);
(c) Recommend a financial strategy to improve the  Finished  Environmental Regulation of the Ports - approved by the Ministry of Transport;
profitability of Port of Luanda                             Regulation for Port Operation and Tariff Regulation - texts have been used to
___  _____ -  extend them to all Ports to become a National Regulation; ,
Continued next page
20



Table 7 - Studies Included in the Project
Study/Design               4  Iinal Status      _                       Impact of Study
E: Caminhos de Ferro de Luanda (CFL) (Railway of Luanda)
Study of Caminhos de Ferro de Luanda (CFL) to  Cancelled at
establish the feasibility of transport options.  MTR
F: Luanda Metropolitan Area
1. Water supply, sewerage, storm drainage and
solid waste disposal:
(a) Study of the sector's institutional and    Finished    Water Supply Rehabilitation Program Study supported the Government's decision
organizational set-up                                      to introduce PSP for the Luanda water supply and sewerage systems to improve
efficiency and operational, financial and administrative capacity of the Water
Company, EPAL. Also served as basis for the decision to introduce PSP to manage
the operations of the solid waste collection company, ELISAL
(b) Preliminary engineering and feasibility studies  Finished    Short-term master Plan for Rehabilitation of Luanda Water Supply and Sanitation
for rehabilitation of such systems                         System served as the basis for the proposed Luanda Water Supply and Sanitation
Project.
2. Urban Infrastructure:
(a) Study including: (i) an urban land-use and  Finished    Urban Master Plan for Luanda - (basis for proposed development of industrial
infrastructure plan, and (ii) an urban upgrading           zone in Viana and the development of the new Luanda - Luanda - Sul);
project
Mid-Term Review
C: National Basic Highway Network (NBHN)
Various studies, including a study for the     Finished    Restructuring of the Maritime and Aviation Sectors - (resulted in programs to
reconstructing of transport sector corporation             introduce private operators and investors to the transport sector);
owned by the Borrower
F: Luanda Metropolitan Area
Luanda Emergency Water: Studies to identify and  Finished    Ensuing works increased the daily supply of treated water to Luanda by about 70%
implement the rehabilitation of portions of the            (3/99)
Luanda water supply system.
21



Table 8A - Project Costs (Total Project Estimates)
Studies                           7,510,000           11,966,000          9,489,000
Final design                      4,100,000           I,322,000           1,799,000
Technical assistance              10,360,000          8,826,000           8,496,000
Training                          1,680,000            578,000             125,000
Equipment & spare parts           7,860,000           10,093,000          1,719,000
Admin. & logistical                              _
Office equipment & supplies      1,180,000           716,000             578,000
Vehicles                         760,000             344,000             355,000
Housing                          1,820,000           667,000             307,000
Refund of PPF                                         1,514,000           1,495,000
Civil works                                           1,032,000           7,255,000*
Unallocated & contingency         7,230,000           3,009,000               0
Totals (for all 14 Categories)***  42,500,000         40,067,000         31,620,000**
*      Emergency Water Works were actually disbursed under category 5 (Equipment & Spare parts)
**     These estimates exclude $ 4.4 million Government contribution for which similarly categorized
information was not available by ICR completion.
***    Project cost totals do not correspond exactly with Project financing totals because of rounding.
Source: Memorandum to the President, Midtemi Review, and Disbursement data
Table SB - Project Financing (US$ Million)
Local Foreign   Total   Local  Foreign   Total   Local  Foreign   Total
IDA                   37.7    37.7              34.6    34.6              31.6    31.6
Govemment      4.8             4.8      4.8               4.8     4.4*             4.4
Total**        4.8    37.7    42.5      4.8     34.6    39.4      4.4     31.6    36.0
NOTE:
*      Includes US$ 2.5 million direct contribution by Government to the construction of the Villa
Residential compound.
**     Project cost totals do not correspond exactly with Project financing total because of rounding.
Source: Memorandum to the President and MidterTm Review, and Disbursement data.
22



Table 8C - Base Cost of Components at Appraisal
Component                                                           Cost (S  Million)
A: Namibe Port Transport System (NPTS)                                     2.41
B: Caminhos de Ferro Mosamedes (CFM) (Railway of Mo~amades)                5.47
C: National Basic Highway Network (NBHN)                                    8.47
D: Luanda Port Transport System (LPTS)                                      3.88
E: Caminhos de Ferro de Luanda (CFL) (Railway of Luanda)                    5.14
F: Luanda Metropolitan Area*                                                8.78
G: Environment                                                              N/A
H: Project Management                                                       1.12
Total                                                              35.27
* (i)   At MTR the water works component and rehabilitation design were added to this component
reallocating the funds from cancelled components.
(ii)    The cost for the LEWW is as follows:
Emergency Works: US$ 7.26 million
Supervision of Emergency Works: US$ 0.75 million
Detailed Engineering Design for Rehabilitation of the Luanda Water Supply: US$ 1.23 million
Total: US$ 9.2 million.
(iii)    Cost estimates by component are not readily available either from MTR or at closing because all
accessible systems recorded costs by categories as presented in Table 8A.
Source: Memorandum to the President and Midterm Review
Table 9A - Economic Rate of Return
An economic analysis was not included in the MROP; none is include here.
23



Table 10 - Status of Credit Legal Covenants
3.01 (a)    C      Ongoing   The Borrower shall carry out the project with due
diligence and efficiency and shall provide funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the
project.
3.01 (b)    C      Ongoing   The Borrower shall carry out the project and shall take
all actions to enable project institutions to perforrn their
respective obligations.
3.02      C       Ongoing   Procurement of goods, works and consultants' services
to be in accordance with Schedule 3 of Credit
Agreement
3.03 (a)    C      Ongoing   The Borrower shall open and maintain an account in   Complied with
dollars in a commercial bank (project account).    after delay.
3.03 (b)    C      03/21/92   The Borrower shall make an initial deposit into such  Complied with
account in an arnount equivalent to US$ 500,000.   after delay.
3.03 (c)    NC     03/21/92   The Borrower shall, not later than 30 days after the  Not in compliance
effective date, deposit every six months such amounts as  although sufficient
shall be required to timely replenish the Project account.  funds provided
during last year.
3.04 (a)    C      08/20/93   The Borrower and the Bank shall conduct a midterm
project implementation review.                     Complied with
after one year
delay
3.04 (b)    C      06/30/94   The Borrower shall furnish for review and comments a
report in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
3.04 (c)    CP     Ongoing   Promptly after completing mid-term review, the       Some
Borrower shall carry out the recommendations arising    recommendations
from the said review.                              such as tariffs not
fully complied with
3.05      NC     03/31/98   The Borrower shall prepare and furnish for review and    Implementation of
approval, an action plan and timetable to implement a    tariffs was partial
gradual increase in tariffs that will enable the operators   and policies to
to recover the cost of providing the service and   privatize the
implement all administrative and policy measures   transport sector not
necessary to deregulate and privatize the transport  final
sector.
24



3.06      CP     12/31/97   The Borrower shall prepare and furnish for Bank review   Prepared without
and comments, rehabilitation program for the      realistic
infrastructure sector for the period 1998 to 2000.  implementation
plan
3.07      C      Ongoing   The Borrower shall during the execution of the project
maintain, with functions, responsibilities experience and
qualifications, the staff responsible for project
implementation.
3.08 (a)    CP     09/30/95   The Borrower shall establish a tariff system for water    Policies were
supply allowing for the gradual coverage of the total  adopted but
cost of the provision of water supply.            implementation not
consistent
3.08 (b)    C      Ongoing   The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank for
review and comments, a report containing an analysis of
the eventual contracting of a private company for the
overall management of the Luanda water supply system.
4.01 (a)    C      Ongoing   The Borrower shall maintain records and accounts to
reflect resources and expenditures in respect of the
project.
4.01 (b)    C      Ongoing   The Borrower shall have records and accounts for each
fiscal year audited and furnish to the Bank, a certified
copy of the report of such audit and other related
information.
4.01 (c)    C      Ongoing   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the credit account were made, the Borrower shall
maintain records and accounts reflecting such
expenditures; retain until at least one year after the Bank
has received the audit report, and enable the Bank's
representatives to examine such records.
Status codes: C - Complied, NC - Not complied with, CP - Complied with partially
25



Table 11 --Estimated Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Pre-Appraisal                66.3                    171.5
Appraisal                  27.0                     71.4
Negotiation                 12.0                     32.3
Supervision                254.8                    819.6
Completion                  13.0                     43.0
Total                    360.1                   1137.8
Table 12 - Compliance with Operational manual statements
GD 10.60 Accounting, Financial Reporting,    Audits were submitted regularly. These were generally qualified
and Auditing                             and required follow up action.
OP 6.30 Local cost financing and cost sharing   The Government contributed its share late and the project account
was frequently not maintained at the agreed upon level.
OD 13.55 ICR preparation                 The borrower supported the preparation of this ICR, contributed
its own evaluation, and commented on Bank drafts of the ICR.
26



Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Through appraisal
Identification    5/90
Preparation    10/90
Preparation    12/90
Appraisal   2/91       7        17
Supervision
Preparation for      8/91       1                              Not appl.   Effectiveness delayed,
implementation                                                             consultant proposals
delayed
Preparation for      12/91      1        7                     Not appl.   Request early
implementation                                                            implementation of TA
Supervision 1        3/92       5        16    FA, PE, RE,        I        Work started, but with
SE, TE                     delays.
Supervision 2        10/92      5        20    PE, RE, SE,        2        Progress, but delays.
TE                         Civil War, mission in
Supervision 3        2/93       4        3    FA, SE, TE          2        Paris. Most consultant
contacts signed.
Supervision 4        5/93       1        3    TE                  2        Civil War, update
indicators only
Supervision 5        11/93      1        4     TE                 S        Civil War update
indicators only.
Supervision 6        2/94       5        6    FA, SE, CE          2        Delays in CFM study,
water situation desperate.
Supervision 7        5/94       4        9    TE, SE, CE          S        Counterpart funds
problem.
Supervision 8        7/94       4        9    TE, SE, CE,                  Midterm Review
UP
Supervision 9        11/94      6        10    FA, TE, SE,
CE, EV
Supervision 10       5/95       4        18    FA, TE, SB,        S        Immediate actions
CE                         delayed
Supervision 11       10/95      3        17    FA, CE             S        Operational glitches,
proposal for reallocation
of funds.
Supervision 12       6/96       2              FA, CE
Supervision 13       10/96      4        17    FA, SE, CE,        S
EC
Supervision 14       6/97       4        24    FA, SE, PR,        S
CO
Supervision 15       11/97      2        15    FA, SE             S
Supervision 16       5/98       5        23    FA, SE, EC,        S
CO
Supervision 17       11/98      3        17    FA, SE, CO         S
Completion           9/99       2              FA, SE             S                 ICR
27



Key:
Skills:                                      Performance Rating
CE: Civil Engineer                           1: Minor or no problems
CO: Consultant                               2: Moderate Problems
EC: Economist                                S: Satisfactory
EV: Environmental Engineer
FA: Financial Analyst
PR: Procurement Specialist
RE: Railway Engineer
SE: Sanitation Engineer
TE: Transport Engineer
UP: Urban Planner
Source: Project files and Bank staff estimates.
28



Infrastructure Rehabilitation Engineering Project
Credit 2289-AWO
Annex A
Borrower's Contribution to the ICR






Annex A
Page I of 11
1.   INTRODUCTION
In compliance with Bank regulations, this Report aims to provide a final evaluation of the
IRE Project, from the Angolan Government point of view, as its contribution to drawing
up the Final Report on ICR Project Implementation.
This contribution is made up of a treatment of the following themes: (a) evaluation of
Project objectives; (b) evaluation of Government and Bank performance during Project
implementation; (c) the Government/Bank relationship; (d) lessons learned; (e) economic
and financial information relating to the Project; (f) circumstances of Project
development; and (g) data relating to implementation and operational results.
The origins of the IRE Project date back to September 1989, when Angola joined the
World Bank Group, and the then proposed IRE Project would become the second Bank
operation in the country.
In the economic evaluation of Angola presented in Report n 8906 of BIRD, dated June
29 1990, actions and priorities for the economic recovery of the country were outlined,
with the need to rehabilitate the infrastructure sector emerging as one of the main
concerns. This sector was one of those most affected by the long period of war. The
shortage of resources for the maintenance, rehabilitation and expansion of existing
equipment led to the deterioration of the country's infrastructure and impeding economic
development. The economic recovery of Angola depends on producing viable projects for
the recuperation of this sector, with special attention for basic areas such as ports,
railways and urban infrastructures in the main population centres such as Luanda.
The Bank's loan strategy for the period 1991-93 was based on a technical assistance
programme and pre-investment operations, to be followed by priority rehabilitation
projects and investment, principally in the social and infrastructure sectors.
As for the management and co-ordination of IRE Project activities, three distinct periods
can be discerned: the first was when the UP functioned as Co-ordinator, assistant and
secretary (from February 1991 to May 1992); the second period was when the UP
functioned with technical assistance from the American company Wilbur Smith
Associates Inc. (WSA) (from May 1992 to December 1995); and the final period,
functioning solely with local technical staff (from January 1996 to 30 June 1999).
As the programme ends we would like to offer thanks in particular to two people who
have had a significant impact on the IRE Project - Dra. Ana Dias Louren,o, Minister of
Planning and Co-ordinator for the IRE and TRP Projects, and Dr Lance Morrell, Task
Manager for the IRE Project. We thank them for their commitment, experience and team
spirit, and for their leadership qualities.
Thanks go to all Component Co-ordinators, to the WB team and all the technical, support
and secretarial staff who in each in their way have contributed to the successful
conclusion of the IRE Project.



Annex A
Page 2 of 11
II    PROJECT IDENTIFI(CATION AND MAIN FEATURES
Project Name:                         Infrastructure Rehabilitation Engineering
Project
Project preparation time:              10 months
Prepared by:                          IDA (AF6IN and AF3IN) - GOA
First IDA reconaissance mission:      February 1990
Identification Mission:               May 1990
Preparation Mission:                  October and December 1990
Evaluation Mission:                   February 1991
Negotiations:                          May 1991
Date of approval:                      16 July 1991
Date of signature:                    26 July 1991
Effective date:                       20 February 1992
Mid-term review:                       18-24 July 1994
Closing date for credit:              31 March 1999
Project termination date:             30 June 1999
Project value at outset:                           USD42.5 million
IDA:                                          USD37.7 million
GOA:                                          USD 4.8 million
Project value at Mid-term review:
IDA:                                          USD34.68 million
GOA:                                           USD 4.8 million
Total disbursed by date of Project closure:
IDA:                                           USD30.64 million
GOA:                                            USD 1.3 million
As will be seen later in this Report adverse circumstances complicated the execution of
some aspects of the Project, which led to several amendments to the Credit Agreement in
respect of deadlines for completion and of changes to some clauses to reflect the new
realities inherent in the Project. Briefly, the following amendments were made to the
Credit Agreement:
1.    Amendment to Credit Agreement on 18 March 1993, introducing several changes
to the structure of the Special Account - Section 2.02 (c) and Schedule 5 -
Special Account;
2.    At the time of the Mid-Term Review of 18-24 July 1994, and confirmed by letter
dated 17 January 1995, to Article II, section 2.03, which defines the closing date
of the Project as 30 June 1996: altered to 30 June 1997 and reduces the Credit by
SDR 2.8 million;



Annex A
Page 3 of 11
3.    Amendment to ACD on 15 July 1997, postponing the conclusion date to 30 June
1998, and introduces amendments to sections 3.05, 3.06, and 3.08 of Article III:
Section 3.05
The Borrower shall:
(a)   by 31 March 1998 prepare and supply to the Association for review and
approval a plan of action and a timetable for (i) implementing a gradual
increase in tariffs charged in order to permit the operators to recover the
cost of supplying services, and (ii) implement all political and
administrative measures necessary for deregulating and privatizing the
transport sector in accordance with the sectoral policies of the Borrower.
Section 3.06
The Government of Angola shall by 31 December 1997 prepare and send
to the Association for its comments: (a) a rehabilitation programnme for the
infrastructure sector for the period 1998-2000, including identifying
organizational and financial policies and the necessary mechanisms for
implementing them.
Section 3.08
In respect of part F of the Project the Borrower shall: (a) by 30 September
1995, establish a system of water tariffs indexed to the real exchange rate
and to inflation, permitting the gradual coverage of the total cost of a
satisfactory water supply, and (b) give consideration to the possibility of
contracting a private company acceptable to the Association for the overall
management of the Luanda water supply system (including collection,
treatment, pumping and transmission to supply reservoirs), and
maintenance of the water production system.
4.    Extension of the closing date for Credit to 31 March 1999, in a fax from Ms
Barbara Kafka dated 18 June 1998, and reduction of credit by SDR2.3 million.
Compliance with the clauses of the Credit Agreement is assessed in Annexe A.
III OBJECTIVES AND CONCEPTION OF THE PROJECT
Given the serious state of degradation of the country's infrastructures as a result of the
war which has beset it for several decades, and given the prospects for peace which were
held out at the time, it became urgently necessary to start immediately on planning and
preparing for the rehabilitation of infrastructures in order to: (i) contribute to greater
efficiency and control of public expenditure in the sector; (ii) help in the process of
primary development of infrastructures; and (iii) try to increase the institutional capacity
of the sector. In practice, two principal points of access to the hinterland of the country
would be studied: the basic highway network and the environmental and urban
rehabilitation of Luanda.



Annex A
Page 4 of 11
General Objectives of the Project: The principal objectives of the Project were to sustain
the economic recovery and future development of Angolan infrastructures, planning and
preparing the key rehabilitation of urban transport systems, and assistance in the
formulation of policies, strategies, rehabilitation plans and ongoing maintenance
programmes.
Conception: In order to achieve the objectives of the Project various actions were
planned, viz: execution of studies ancl projects, technical assistance, training and
rehabilitation of equipment in the following Components:
Component                     Implementing Agency
1.    National Highways System            INEA
2.    Luanda Railway                       GEPE of Min. of Transport
3.    Port of Luanda                       GEPE of Min. of Transport
.4.    Port of Namibe                      GEPE of Min. of Transport
5.    Mocamedes Railway                    GEPE of Min. of Transport
6.    Water, Sanitation and Solid Waste
System of Luanda                     GPL/EPAL
7.    Management Plan for Urban Growth     GPL
[n this respect it is considered that the Project objectives were clear, well-thought-out and
necessary for the development of Angola.
However, the outbreak of war at the end of 1992 meant that some elements of the Project,
mainly in the area of transport, could not be started, and were cancelled at the time of the
Mid-Term Review, as follows:
* Luanda railway
* Port of Namibe
* Mocamedes railway
There were also slight adjustments to the working conditions of the highways
'Component.
This situation led to a part of the funds being redirected to strengthening the Water
Component, with the introduction of the Emergency Programme for Water and Sanitation
for Luanda and the introduction of more realistic actions, as the climate at the time
dictated, in the Transport Component, with the execution of Restructuring Studies for the
Air and Maritime Transport Seclor.



Annex A
Page 5 of 11
IV EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES/PROJECT IMPACTS
The cost of not having carried out the Project would without doubt have been greater than
that of the Project itself. The cost savings to be expected in public health, resulting from
substantial improvements in the quality of water, and the existence of feasibility studies
drawn up with the object of assisting the Government in taking important decisions
relative to the infrastructure sector which, if implemented at the appropriate time, will
constitute an important contribution to the efforts to stabilize and re-activate economic
activity in the country.
During the eight years of the Project the dialogue with the Bank on sectoral policy in
transport, water and sanitation, and the studies carried out, have been significant in
supporting the Government's attempts to define a legal framework for the transport
sector, including road transport, and to develop new policies for creating a sustainable
water production and distribution system, embracing the possible introduction of private
operators.
The impact of the most significant policies and strategies for rehabilitation and
conservation for various sectors executed within the context of the Project can be
summarised as follows:
Water and Sanitation Sector
*  The city of Luanda holds the general framework for interventions to start the process
of improving and enlarging the present water supply system in order to restore the
nominal water production capacity (Short-Term Master Plan);
*  In September 1995 the Council of Ministers approved the legal framework for
updating water and electricity charges so as to cover operating costs;
*  In mid-1998 the legal framework for updating water and electricity charges was
decentralized;
*  The Government's Medium-Term  Programme for Economic Recovery and
Stabilization 1998-2000, dating from November 1997, allows for (a) private sector
participation in the transport, water, sanitation and energy sectors, (b) decentralization
of operations to Provincial Governments, and (c) the application of a scale of charges
for recovering operators' costs;
*  The Programme of Rehabilitation of the Water Supply System to Luanda: the study
was very helpful in the Government's decision to introduce PSP for the Luanda
Water and Sanitation Project, and also improved EPAL's operational, financial and
administrative capacity and efficiency;
*  Short-Term Master Plan for the rehabilitation of the supply system of water and
sanitation to the city of Luanda: (basis of the proposed project for water and
sanitation supply to Luanda, is also the basis for the decision to introduce private
sector operators into the management of ELISAL operations for the collection of
solid waste);
* The water treatment and pumping stations of Kifangondo and Kikuxi were
rehabilitated as was the supply main to Viana, within the emergency programme,



Annex A
Page 6 of 11
which brought about an improvement in the quality of water and a 70% increase in
water production;
* An Implementation Manual for the Component was developed to serve as the basis
for future manuals for Bank-financed projects.
Transport Sector, including Road Transport
* Studies were carried out w]hich led to the introduction of management structures ancl
maintenance programmes for roads;
* The Government has already created the legal framework and is putting into effect
the Roads Fund;
* With the assistance of the IDA the Government has implemented a rehabilitation
programme for 170km of roads under the TRP Project; the relevant stretches are
identified in the IRE Project;
* Study for Rehabilitation arLd Road Maintenance: (development of rehabilitation and
maintenance programme for approximately 1,000km of roads - the works, financed
by TRP, began on a stretch of 170km in May 1998;
* Master Plan for the Rehabilitation and Maintenance of Roads and Bridges (made
possible a start on local procurement for road maintenance which will be financed by
the Roads Fund);
* Agreement of a co-operation protocol between the Portuguese roads authority (JAE)
and INEA for professional itraining;
* Drawing up of Statutes Project for the Port Company of Luanda, which served as the
model for the ports of Lobito, Namibe, Cabinda and Soyo. The draft laws for the
Ports of Luanda, Lobito and Namibe have already been approved by Council of
Ministers;
*  Law of the Ports Domain, approved by the Council of Ministers and the National
Assembly (Law n 9/98 of [ 8 September, Diario da Repuiblica Ist series n 40);
*  General Bases for Port Concessions: approved by Council of Ministers and published
in Diario da Republica (Decree n 52/97);
* General Bases for Domain Concessions: approved by the Council of Ministers and
published in Diario da Reptiblica (Decree n 53/97);
*  Environmental Regulations for Ports, approved by Minister of Transport and
submitted to Council of Ministers for approval;
*  Regulations for Ports concessions and Tariff Regulations, the text of which was
approved for application to all ports, and therefore became a nationally applicable
regulation. This awaits allocation of port concessions for port areas to be applied;
* Bid documents and Competition Programme for Concessions: the set of competition
documents which will serve as the basis for concessions for terminals and port
serviceshas been prepared, comprising: competition programme, specimen contract
for concessions. The concessions include the following:
* Concessions for cargo terminals
* Concessions for passenger terminals
* Service concessions



Annex A
Page 7 of 11
Urban and Environmental Sector
* A management plan for Luanda urban growth which will direct future urban
expansion, the development of roads and infrastructures and the pattern of use of
urban land in the Province of Luanda: (basis for the proposal for an industrial zone in
Viana and the development of Luanda Sul);
However, these advantages will only become effective if, within the time horizon of each
of the studies carried out, the necessary measures are taken to ensure the effective
implementation of the actions and recommendations contained therein, i.e. those
provided for in (a) the implementation of specific actions laid down in the Urban Growth
Plan for Luanda, and the necessary effective management, (b) the implementation of
works provided for in phase 1 of the Luanda water and sanitation supply system, etc. etc.
Finance must be sought urgently for these actions
V   EVALUATION AND PERFORMANCE
This analysis deals with the following periods: (a) Project preparation; (b)
implementation with technical assistance from WSA, and (c) Project implementation
with local personnel, and taking into consideration for each period the level of
disbursements for each and respective physical advances.
In general terms it may be considered that the performance at all levels was satisfactory,
given that it was the first infrastructure project with Bank financing, and that technical
assistance did not give any training. Conversely, many of the tasks carried out in the last
two years of the Project, specifically those within the ambit of Emergency Water
Programme for Luanda, were of the "start to finish" type, i.e. each successive task
depended on the conclusion of the previous one before it could start up, hence the time
taken to complete the Project, around 7 years.
A)   GOVERNMENT PERFORMANCE
During the preparation and start-up phases of the Project Government performance was
excellent, as was noted in the "Inception Report" prepared by WSA consultants on 29
April 1993.
As for disbursements, as can be seen from the annexed tables the highest levels were seen
during the period in which the Project was under local personnel management. Similarly,
during this period the Project generated a considerable volume of finished work.
It is noteworthy that during the implementation process the capacity of the Project Co-
ordination Unit improved significantly, as might have been expected.
Government compliance with its commitments in the Credit Accord is shown in Annexe
A.



Annex A
Page 8 of I 1
B)    BANK PERFORMANCE
Bank performance during the p:reparationi and implementation phases was good, although
there was some initial confusion caused by the frequent changes of Task Manager,
especially in the period 1991-1995. From this time on only one Task Manager was used,
which significantly improved Bank performance and also relations between Bank and
Government teams.
The Supervision Missions were adequate, and also helped the Government in the
resolution of certain problems. Response time to No Objections was acceptable.
In its Mid-Term Review mission the Bank showed a degree of flexibility and adaptability
to the new reality. From 1996 onwards the Bank team made an important contribution to
improving Project performance, and the dialogue between the two sides improved from
that time forward.
VI  FACTORS WHICH AFFECTED PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A)   Factors outside Govermnent control
The following were the main events and factors outside Government control which
affected Project implementation:
*     The unexpected new outbreak of war in October 1992, and again towards the end
of 199  affecting a considerable area of the country.
-     Internal wrangles between the consortium of companies responsible for the Water
Programme studies, inc].uding the withdrawal of one of their number.
Problems in carrying out the corntract for Lots 2 and 3 of the Emergency Water
programe caused by the bankruptcy of the company which had won the
competition, and its rep'lacement 'by its main shareholder.
B)   Factors under Government control
-     Government delays in identifying priorities for the Emergency Water Programme.
-     Some Component Co-cirdinators and the Assistant Project Co-ordinator dividing
their time outside the Project.
-     Changes in Project co-ordination, with the consequent need for a transitional
period to the new co-ordination structure.
C)   Factors under the control of the tJCP and the Ais
-     Lack of training and experience in the acquisition process on the part of local
personnel who went on co-ordinate project implementation as of December 1995.



Annex A
Page 9 of 11
The considerable time lapse between the studies and rehabilitation works for the
treatment stations of Kifangondo and Kikuxi, which gave rise to large amounts of
additional work under the four contracts.
Delayed decisions on acquisitions and implementation, principally in connection
with contracting supervision for works under the Emergency Water programme.
VII  EXPERIENCE OF IMPLEMENTATION AND LESSONS LEARNED.
This Project was principally about studies and different types of technical assistance, with
a component for the rehabilitation of water-treatment stations.
As a whole the Project may be considered complex, given that each of the components
was in itself a specific project, with multi-sectoral and multi-disciplinary aspects, spread
around the country, with different implementing Agencies, further complicated by the
fact that it was the first infrastructure Project financed by the Bank, without the
availability of an effective implementation manual.
The unstable situation in the country, the lack of experience in working to Bank
standards, and poor command of the English language on the part of local personnel,
combined with inefficient transfer of expertise by the team of consultants working in the
Project Co-ordination Unit were, among others, the factors which, although they did not
depend on the Unit or the Government, severely affected performance.
However, these constraints did not prevent the Project from developing a level of
performance which may be considered acceptable, taking into account the factors
mentioned above.
In terms of the lessons learnt, the following are the most salient: (a) the contractual
incorporation of Technical Assistance should be improved so that local personnel can be
effectively integrated and technical expertise transferred; (b) procurement activities
should be better supported in cases where local personnel do not yet have the necessary
experience; (c) the Bank should reduce the frequency of changes to the teams responsible
for Project preparation and supervision, especially as regards the Task Manager. Such
changes usually bring in their train negative consequences for implementation and
dialogue with the Bank; (d) the Implementation Manual should be prepared before the
Project gets under way; (e) the current transport and water-supply systems in Luanda will
continue to require considerable amounts of finance for their adequate rehabilitation; and
(f) it is possible to develop and implement projects of this type using only local
personnel, with technical support as and when necessary.
VII SUSTAINABILITY OF THE PROJECT
As has been shown above the Project has had a significant impact on the country, with
implications for its future development. It has doubtless made its mark which will be



Annex A
Page 10 of II
irreversible in terms of the changes in the legal framework of the transport and water
supply sectors (see list of legal instruments already approved or under approval).
New concepts have been introduced, partly as a result of Project works, viz: (a) the
concept of cost recovery; (b) decentralization of decisions on water tariffs; and (c) private
sector participation in the provision of water and sanitation for Luanda, etc.
It is however worth mentioning that if finance is not made available to implement the
works with complete competition documents, there is a risk that they will become
outdated and have to be extensively revised. If such a situation were allowed to come
about it would have a negative impact on the viability of the investment made in studies,
especially in the case of the water supply system for Luanda.
The sustainability of the works of rehabilitation on the production and treatment of water
for the city of Luanda, carried out unde:r this Project, and with a value of some USD7.5
million, is founded on two basic tenets: (a) a policy of cost-recovery for the operation and
maintenance of systems; (b) private sector participation in the use of the systems, with a
view to short- and medium-term improvements. The first of these is guaranteed by the
legislation approved for tariff policies and their implementation by GPL and EPAL. The
second would be developed and implemented under the Luanda Water and Sanitation
Supply Project, which was being prepared by GPL and the World Bank. However, in
March 1999 the Bank suspended its participation in the preparation of this project. It is
critical that this project, which was initially pushed for by the Bank, and which was given
the backing of the GPL, be carried through, for the sustainability of those works which
have been completed.



Annex A
Page 11 of 11
IRF PROJECT
IDA CREDIT 2289 ANG.
COMPLIANCE WITH CLAUSES OF AGREEMENT
Section                 Description                                                                     Observations
Yes       No       Partial
3.03 (a)    The borrower should within 30 days after  X                                    The account was opened at BCI in Luanda
effective date open an account (Project
Account) in a commercial bank
3.03 (b)      The borrower should deposit a sum       X                                           Several deposits were made
equivalent to USD500,000 in this account
3.03 (c)    The borrower should top up on a weekly    X                                                  Completed
basis the amount deposited in the Project
Account to replace withdrawals during that
period
3.04 (a)     The borrower should, not more than 18    X                                     Completed at Mid-Term Review Mission
months after the effective date, make a
critical analysis of Project implemenation in
order to:
I - monitor Project progress
II - monitor performance of Implementing
Agencies
Ill (A) - draw up a finance plan for the
Project
III (B) - complete final engineering plans
III (C) - finance new studies and
programmes identified during Project
implementation
IV - exchange data between team members
responsible for Project implementation, and
propose solutions to problems






Infrastructure Rehabilitation Engineering Project
Credit 2289-AWO
Annex B
Borrower's Comments to the ICR






MINIS TERJO DO PLANEAMENTO
DIRECQAO DE ESTUDOS E PROGRAMAQAO ECONOMICA
PROJECTO DE REABILITA(AO DE
INFRAESTRUTURAS
UNIDADE DE COORDENA(AO / up
CREDITO IDA 2289
LARGO DO PLAcIO - LUANDA - ANGOA. TEL. 244.2.336890 - FAX244.2.393426
AO
BANCO MUNDIAL
ATT.SR.LANCE MORRELL
1818 H STREET, NW
WASHINGTON, DC 20433
USA
10.12.99
NOTA N 191/REfUP/98
ASSUNTO: CR. 2289- PROJEC1 IRE
ICR
Acusamos a recepC5o do vosso Email de 09/12/99, solicitando os nossos comentirios ao Relatorio
do ICR (anexado) ati ao dia 10.12.99. relativamente ao qual nio temos qualquer objeccao.
Melhores cunprimentos
A COORDAL  JUNTA
EGIG5iSLINS






Infrastructure Rehabilitation Engineering Project
Credit 2289-AWO
Annex C
Aide Memoire of Completion Mission






REPUBLIC OF ANGOLA
INFRASTRUCTURE REHABILITATION PROJECT (Cr. 2289)
SEPTEMBER 1999
Completion Mission
1.    From about September 27 -30, 1999, an International Development Association (IDA)
mission consisting of Messrs. Lance Morrell, and Joao Wemans visited Luanda to meet with the
key government officials and the Project Coordination Unit (UCP) to review the draft
Implementation Completion Report (ICR) which had been prepared by the IDA project team.
2.    The mission would like to express its appreciation for the hospitality and cooperation
extended by the management and staff of the Ministerio do Planeamento (MP), the Empresa
Provincial de Agua de Luanda (EPAL), and the Project Coordination Unit (UCP).
3.    The Infrastructure Rehabilitation Engineering (IRE) project closed as scheduled on March
31, 1999. However, due to scheduling difficulties, the completion mission which was proposed
for early March was cancelled. Subsequent attempts to agree on a new mission schedule for
April/May were also unsuccessful. As a result, the UCP and the IDA project team independently
prepared their respective sections of the draft ICR.
4.    The UCP forwarded the Portuguese version of their contribution to the ICR for review
and comment by the IDA project team. In September 1999, the IDA forwarded to the UCP the
Portuguese version of the draft ICR for review by the key officials and for discussion during the
now scheduled September mission. The government officials involved with the project
thoroughly reviewed the report and their comments were conveyed to the IDA project team during
a series of extensive discussions. It was agreed that the comments and corrections provided by the
officials would be included in the revised draft to be reviewed during October by the officials in
the Bank.
5.    During the September mission, the UCP also provided the IDA project team with a copy
of the translation of their contribution to the ICR for inclusion in the final report.






Infrastructure Rehabilitation Engineering Project
Credit 2289-AWO
Annex D
Future Operations






Governo Provincial de Luanda
PARTICIPA{CAO DO SECTOR PRIVADO
NO ABSTECIMETO DE A GUA E SANEAMENTO AS MUNICIPALIDADES
Seminaio/Workshop
Apoiadopelo: Banco Mundial/Instiuto Desenvolvimento Economico
Com o apoiwfinancial do Governo dos Paises Baixos
Os participantes do sernirio e Workshop sobre a Participa4co do sector Privado no
abastecimento de agua e saneamento as municipalidades, que decorreu na cidade de Luanda de
19 a 2 1/Janeiro/99, no final dos seus trabalhos concluiram o seguinte:
1. 0 Govemo necessita de mais recuresos para expandir sistemas, visando atender, o major
nuimero de consumidores; como o Govemo, nao possui recursos, seria necessaifo recorrer a
financiamentos extemos atraindo a parficipaao do sector privado no sistema.
2. Verifica-se, nao exister qualquer impedimento de ordem legal de momento para participaco
do sector privado no sistema.
3. E neccessario criarem-se consensos a varios niveis, para que o processo possa ter exito.
4. 0 Governo, deveri definir estrategias, de acrodo com a situa4o concreta do pais, em real,
ao PSP.
5. Trabalhar na cria,o de um ambiente propicio para atrair capitais privados, estabeleciendo o
quadro regulador institucional e estabelecendo uma nova politica tarifna, bem como, e
ftmdamental tambem criar um ambiente macro-econom6rnico favoravel.
6. A escolha dos parcieros deve ser transparente o maximno possibel, e que estes, sejam
elementos, que se ocupen dese tipo de trabalho especifico.
7. 0 Workshop analisou various tipos de contrato e experiencis practicas implemendadas no
continente, tendo concluido, que o emprego dos diferentes sistemas, deve ser feito de acordo
com a realidade especiifica de cada pais.
8. Que una entidade regualadora dever ser estabelecida no inicio da implementa*ao do
sistema.
9. Constatou-se a necessidade de envolver sempre que poss"ivel, recursos sob a forma de
investimento por parte da entidade privada convidada.
10.E findimental o envolvimento do capital privado nacional e a participa,ao das comunidades
locais no desenvolvimento do processo.
Feito em Luanda, aos 21 Janeiro de 1999.
0 Serninario/Workshop






Infrastructure Rehabilitation Engineering Project
Credit 2289-AWO
Annex E
Map






IBRD 22945
GABON                         RWAN KENYA                                                      ANGOLA
- 7L   BURUNDIU  L8FINFRASTRUCTURE REHABILITATION ENGINEERING PROJECT
CANDCONGO                                       NANIA                                      PROJECT COMPONENTS
(ANGOUAI
L-LL7rsd.                                       MAL< s   <zAL AWI     PROJECT COMPONENTS                      0     SELECTED TOWNS
.4isiC~        A 14NGOL-A          L               J     V                     ;     MAIN ROADS                    0      PROVINCE CAPITALS
PORTS                                NATIONAL CAPITAL
ZAMBIA  ) vG            -        RAILWAYS                     -  -  MAIN ROADS
-/IMMEWBW E    ,X   f   i    _JAN_A  @       URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE        . ' -    RAILROADS
NAMIBIA               s                     1
\            ~~~~BOTSWANA  >     2       Lws=                                                              AROT
t  ,L- FRO_CT COY'OCFNTS SHO';/N          +        AIRPORTS
4     PORTS
16
0                                                        _| t > % _ PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
'.71       /           oBo ,-       V          CONGO                                                                   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
06BlNDA j      ~     -i                                                    MILES  0                100              200               300
CABINDA G            _I \                             _I              
NBANZA --                                          KJLOMETERS  0        100         200        300         400         000
CONGO                                     _    _    _     _    _    _      _    _     _    _    _      _     _    __-
ZAIRE      4                                                                                                                       24
Too)  UIGE
EIGE
O          Th~~~.-,Z T~ h
CA1ff=:L                                                               LUNDA            UA                            , ,        ;
N'D                                                c-g
LUANA                                        MALANJE
,/ ,,'A,} <,\BENG7OSA> / 
12  >               CUANZA,
BENoIJELAmbTfi;>Gobelo     SUL         xy U M                         'OLUNDA  SUL
N'GUNZ8    tF 
NAMIBE / -. -. OL9UABIE OW ENA
12                                                  HT                                                                                                  122 16  20
BENGUEL,!-                AUAMBO- 2    +    )                                       MOXIC9
,   T            g           o\    t         . s~~~~MENON-UE             
KJ  _k^f<  ~~~~~~~t (  ^E  0   +                 <   \           <       _      O Nindo       \Z7\M~~~~~~0  Z BIA
NA^lgEt-  -   _ LUBANGO              ^1      J                       
hwo / lthrongF +  fiCou-d.                                                                CUANDO b 
16 q  NAM^IBE      fs,,%                         CUNENE          ,,    h64                 CUBANGO                                                16,.
T. WInhe          NAMIBIA                               _       ,        
L          1 2                                           16 2O~~\24
M.,ch 1991



