Page  1
 CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2289 ANG
(Infrastructure Rehabilitation Engineering Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF ANGOLA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated July 26, 1991
CREDIT NUMBER 2289 ANG
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated July 26, 1991 between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF ANGOLA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
      WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; and
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend a development credit to the Borrower on the terms and conditions set forth 
in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of 
Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Page  2
Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
      (a)    "CFL" means Caminhos de Ferro de Luanda, the Luanda Railway Company of 
the Borrower, established pursuant to Despacho s/n dated March 15, 1980;
      (b)   "CFM" means Caminhos de Ferro de Mocamedes, the Mocamedes Railway Company 
of the Borrower, established pursuant to Despacho s/n dated March 15, 1980;
      (c)   "Implementation Agreements" means the agreements entered into among the 
Borrower's ministries, provincial governments and central and provincial agencies 
responsible for the implementation of the respective Parts of the Project, as set 
forth in Part C of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
      (d)   "INEA" means Instituto de Estradas de Angola, the Angolan Highway 
Institute of the Ministry of Public Works and Urban Development, established by Decree 
No. 28/90, dated November 17,
1990;
      (e)   "MINOPU" means the Ministry of Public Works and Urban Development of the 
Borrower established by Law No. 2/91, dated February 23, 1991;
      (f)   "MINPLAN" means the Ministry of Planning of the Borrower established by 
Law No. 7/79, dated June 22, 1979; 
      (g)   "MINTEC" means the Ministry of Transport and Communications of the 
Borrower established by Law No. 1/79, dated January 16, 1979;
      (h)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to exchanges of letters dated 
November 16, 1990, and January 29, 1991; and April 17, 1991, and June 7, 1991, between 
the Borrower and the Association; and
      (i)    "FY" or "fiscal year" means the Borrower's fiscal year which runs from 
January 1 to December 31.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to twenty-eight million three hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 28,300,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit.
      (b)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required to 
repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
cancelled.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1996 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after the 
Page  3
date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the Association 
shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the 
territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible 
currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to 
the provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each 
April 1 and October 1 commencing October 1, 2001 and ending April 1, 2026. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on April 1, 2011 shall be one and 
one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter 
shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
      (b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by 
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments 
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each 
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification 
to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such 
installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on 
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, 
provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the 
grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out 
the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial and engineering practices, and shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall: (i) carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set 
forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and (ii) shall take and cause to be taken all 
action to enable its ministries, provincial governments and central and provincial 
agencies to perform their respective obligations under the Implementation Agreements 
as set forth in Part C of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
Page  4
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. The Borrower shall not later than thirty (30) days after the 
Effective Date: (a) open and maintain an account in dollars in a commercial bank (the 
Project Account), on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association;
      (b)   promptly thereafter, make an initial deposit into such account, in dollars 
or such other currency as may be acceptable to the Association, in an amount 
equivalent to five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000) to finance the Borrower's 
contribution to the Project; and
      (c)   deposit every six months, into the Project Account, such amounts, in 
dollars or such other currency as may be acceptable to the Association, as shall be 
required to timely replenish the Project Account.
      Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall not later than eighteen 
months after the Effective Date, conduct a mid-term Project implementation review to:
(i)
monitor progress in carrying out the Project;
 
(ii)
monitor performance of the ministries, provincial governments and 
central and provincial agencies under the respective 
Implementation Agreements;
(iii)
discuss and agree on: (A) an updated Project financing plan, 
including all available cofinancing sources and the reallocation 
of Credit funds set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement, if 
necessary; (B) carrying out of final engineering designs based on 
completed feasibility studies; and (C) financing under the Project 
of new studies and programs identified during Project 
implementation; and
(iv)
exchange information among staff responsible for Project 
implementation and propose coordinated solutions to any current 
issues.
      (b)   Not later than four weeks prior to such review, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association for its review and comments a report in such detail as the 
Association shall reasonably request, including: (i) an evaluation of progress 
achieved in Project implementation by the Borrower in general, its ministries, 
provincial governments and central and provincial agencies, in particular, in 
accordance with the provisions of the respective Implementation Agreements; and (ii) a 
draft action program to be carried out until the completion of the Project, including: 
(A) detailed technical assistance and training plans, (B) appointment of local 
counterparts, (C) a procurement program detailing equipment and vehicles to be 
procured under the Project, and (D) a revised Project financing plan, identifying all 
firmed-up cofinancing sources.
      (c)   Promptly after completing the mid-term review, carry out those 
recommendations arising out of said review as agreed between the Borrower and the 
Association.
      Section 3.05. The Borrower shall:
      (a)   not later than December 31, 1993, prepare and furnish to the Association 
for its review and approval, an action plan and timetable to: (i) develop and 
implement by FY 1994 a cost-based tariff system; and (ii) implement by FY 1994 all 
administrative and policy measures necessary to deregulate and privatize the transport 
sector in accordance with the Borrower's sectoral policies; and
      (b)   promptly thereafter, carry out such action plan in manner satisfactory to 
the Association and in accordance with the timetable agreed upon with the Association.
      Section 3.06. The Borrower shall not later than December 31, 1994, prepare and 
furnish to the Association for its review and comments:
      (a)   a satisfactory investment program for the infrastructure sector; and
      (b)   a satisfactory development program for the infrastructure sector for the 
period 1995 to 2005, including the identification of policy, organizational and 
financing mechanisms necessary to implement such program.
Page  5
      Section 3.07. The Borrower shall during the execution of the Project maintain, 
with functions, responsibilities, experience and qualifications satisfactory to the 
Association, the staff responsible for Project implementation as set forth in Parts A 
and B of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year, a 
certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall 
from time to time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Credit Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditures submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
      (a)   that the Borrower's ministries, provincial governments and central and 
provincial agencies identified in Part C of Schedule 4 to this Agreement have failed 
to perform any of their respective obligations under the Implementation Agreements;
      (b)   as a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall 
make it improbable that the Borrower, MINTEC, MINPLAN, or MINOPU, and other 
ministries, provincial governments, and central and provincial agencies, as the case 
may be, will be able to perform their respective obligations under the Implementation 
Page  6
Agreements;
      (c)   Despacho No. 28/90 dated November 17, 1990, establishing INEA, Despacho 
Conjunto s/n dated March 15, 1980, establishing Mocamedes Railways Company; Despacho 
Conjunto s/n, dated March 15, 1980, establishing Mocamedes Port Company; Despacho 
Conjunto s/n, dated March 15, 1980, establishing Luanda Port Company; Despacho 
Conjunto s/n, dated March 15, 1980, establishing Luanda Railway Company; Law No. 2/91, 
dated February 1991, establishing MINOPU; Law No. 7/79, dated June 22, 1979, 
establishing MINPLAN; Law No. 1/79, establishing MINTEC; Decree No. 48/80, dated June 
23, 1980, establishing MINTEC's Statutes; and Law No. 12/88, dated July 9, 1988, 
establishing MINPLAN's framework law, shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, 
repealed or waived so as to affect materially the ability of the Borrower and its 
ministries, provincial governments and central and provincial agencies to perform any 
of their respective obligations under this Agreement; and
      (d)   the Borrower or any authority having jurisdiction shall have taken any 
action concerning the Borrower's infrastructure sector policies that would materially 
and adversely affect the objectives of the Project.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
      (a)   that the Association has received from the Borrower: (i) a satisfactory 
action plan and a timetable to ensure that housing and office space for consultants 
employed under the Project are available during the execution of the Project; and (ii) 
satisfactory evidence that all necessary action has been taken to legally establish 
and fully staff: (A) the Project coordination entities set forth in Part A of Schedule 
4 to this Agreement; and (B) the Project Unit set forth in Part B of Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement, including the selection and contracting of the General Advisor and 
Administrative/Financial Advisor, with qualifications and experience satisfactory to 
the Association; and
      (b)   that the Implementation Agreements have been executed on behalf of the 
Borrower, its ministries, provincial governments and central and provincial agencies 
responsible for Project implementation, as set forth in Part C.2 of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement, and are legally binding upon the Borrower, and such ministries, governments 
and agencies, respectively.
      Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions issued by the Borrower's Attorney General to be furnished to the 
Association, namely that the Implementation Agreements have been legally executed and 
are binding upon the Borrower, its ministries, provincial
governments and central and provincial agencies in accordance with their respective 
terms.
      Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Minister of Planning of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministry of Planning
            Largo do Palacio
            P.O. Box 1205
            Luanda
            People's Republic of Angola
Page  7
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  MINISTERIO DO PLANO     998 3395 AN/MINPLAN
                  Luanda                  998 3082 AN/MINPLAN
                                          998 3161 AN/DINATEL
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INDEVAS                 197688 (TRT)
                  Washington, D.C.        248423 (RCA)
                                           64145 (WUI) or
                                           82987 (FTCC)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
                  PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF ANGOLA
                  By /s/ Apolinario Correia
Authorized Representative
                  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                  By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Studies                   4,940,000        90%
(2)  Final design              2,810,000        90%
(3)  Technical                 6,270,000        100%
     Assistance
(4)  Training                  1,140,000        100%
(5)  Equipment                 5,360,000        100% of foreign
     and spare                                  expenditures
     parts
(6)  Administrative
Page  8
     and logistical
     support:
     (a) office equip-           510,000        100% of foreign
         ment and                               expenditures
         supplies;
     (b) vehicles; and           510,000        100% of foreign
                                                expenditures
     (c) housing.                170,000        100% of foreign
                                                expenditures
(7)  Refunding of              1,120,000        Amount due pur-
     Project Prepara-                           suant to Section
     tion Advance                               2.02 (c) of this
                                                Agreement
(8)  Unallocated               5,470,000
         TOTAL                28,300,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "Final design" means cost of consultants' services to prepare 
final engineering designs agreed upon by the Borrower and the Association;
      (b)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
      (c)   the term "housing" means: (i) cost of purchasing, importing, installing 
and maintaining prefabricated housing units for consultants employed under the 
Project; and (ii) cost of rehabilitation and maintenance of housing and office space 
necessary for implementation of the Project; and
      (d)   the term "training" means cost of courses, workshops, seminars, travel 
expenses, per-diem and other costs related to the implementation of training programs 
financed under the Project.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement; and (b) expenditures under Category (6) (c), unless the Borrower has 
furnished to the Association satisfactory evidence of the Borrower's ownership of land 
where housing is to be built under the Project.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are to: (a) rehabilitate key transport and urban 
systems of the Borrower; and (b) strengthen the Borrower's capabilities to formulate 
policies, strategies and rehabilitation plans, and to continue infrastructure 
maintenance programs.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Port of Namibe
1.    Carrying out a feasibility and basic engineering study with an environmental 
assessment for the rehabilitation and maintenance of Port of Namibe.
2.    Provision of technical assistance in the following areas:
      (a)   port operations;
      (b)   equipment maintenance;
      (c)   port administration and finance; and
Page  9
      (d)   procurement of supplies and supervision of repairs and maintenance of 
equipment.
3.    Development and implementation of a training program for the staff of Port of 
Namibe.
4.    Acquisition of equipment and spare parts, including, inter alia, 
radio-communication equipment and workshop tools.
5.    Provision of logistical and administrative support, including:
      (a)   equipping, furnishing, and upgrading the water supply system of housing 
for consultants employed under this part of the Project; and
      (b)   acquisition of about four vehicles and office equipment.
Part B:    Caminhos de Ferro de Mocamedes (CFM)
1.    Carrying out a study of CFM and the related Namibe port transport system, 
including the Port of Namibe, to establish the feasibility of various transport 
options and develop a long-term action plan. 
2.    Provision of technical assistance in the following areas:
      (a)   locomotive and rolling stock maintenance;
      (b)   railways operations;
      (c)   track maintenance;
      (d)   strengthening of the supplies department; and
      (e)   strengthening of the finance department.
3.    Development and implementation of a training program for:
      (a)   operating staff, including train staff, station masters, train control and 
train checking staff;
      (b)   locomotive maintenance and operating staff;
      (c)   rolling stock maintenance staff; and
      (d)   maintenance of track and track equipment staff.
4.    Rehabilitation of equipment, including:
      (a)   acquisition of spare parts and tools; and
      (b)   overhaul of main line locomotives.
5.    Acquisition of computer hardware and software to improve planning of, and 
monitor performance in the departments of:
      (a)   locomotive and rolling stock maintenance workshop;
      (b)   operations;
      (c)   supplies; and
      (d)   civil engineering.
6.    Provision of logistical and administrative support, including:
      (a)   provision, equipping and furnishing of housing for consultants employed 
under this part of the Project;
      (b)   renovation of office space; and
      (c)   acquisition of about four vehicles.
Part C:     National Basic Highway Network
Page  10
1.    Carrying out a highway management study.
2.    Carrying out a highway rehabilitation and maintenance study, including:
      (a)   a survey of highway rehabilitation requirements; and
      (b)   a highway and bridge rehabilitation master plan and a highway maintenance 
program.
3.    Strengthening of INEA through the provision of:
      (a)   technical assistance in the following areas: highway engineering, 
organization and management, planning and budgeting, environmental assessments, 
economics, financial management, personnel training and field maintenance operations; 
and
      (b)   staff training.
4.    Provision of logistical and administrative support, including:
      (a)   provision, equipping and furnishing of housing for consultants employed 
under this part of the Project; and
      (b)   acquisition of: (i) about five vehicles; (ii) office equipment; (iii) 
equipment for traffic counts, weight control and communications; (iv) spare parts; and 
(v) supplies.
Part D:    Port of Luanda
1.    Carrying out a study to:
      (a)   prepare an overall port development program;
      (b)   prepare a program for improvement in port operations;
and
      (c)   recommend a financial strategy to improve the profit- ability of Port of 
Luanda.
2.    Provision of technical assistance in the following areas:
      (a)   port administration and operations;
      (b)   equipment maintenance;
      (c)   civil works maintenance; and
      (d)   to fulfill special technical requirements of the Port of Luanda to be 
identified and agreed between the Borrower and the Association during Project 
implementation.
3.    Provision of staff training.
4.    Provision of logistical and administrative support, including:
      (a)   acquisition of: (i) office and mechanical equipment; (ii) communications 
equipment; (iii) spare parts; (iv) workshop tools; (v) about four vehicles; and (vi) 
computer hardware and software; and
      (b)   provision, equipping and furnishing of housing for consultants to be 
employed under this part of the Project.
Part E:     Caminhos de Ferro de Luanda (CFL)
1.    Carrying out a study of CFL to establish the feasibility of various transport 
options and develop a long-term action plan.
2.    Provision of technical assistance in the following areas:
      (a)   locomotive and rolling stock maintenance;
Page  11
      (b)   railways operations;
      (c)   track maintenance; and
      (d)   project reporting, record keeping and documentation.
3.    Provision of training for:
      (a)   operating staff, including train staff, station masters, train control and 
train checking staff;
      (b)   locomotive maintenance and operating staff;
      (c)   tariff and pricing staff; and
      (d)   maintenance of track and track equipment staff.
4.    Provision of logistical and administrative support, including:
      (a)   acquisition of equipment, including one locomotive testing stand, two sets 
of calibration equipment, one test stand for performing running tests on traction 
motors and track trolleys;
      (b)   overhaul of up to four main line locomotives;
      (c)   acquisition of computer hardware and software;
      (d)   provision, equipping and furnishing of housing for consultants employed 
under this part of the Project; and
      (e)   acquisition of office equipment and about six vehicles.
Part F:     Luanda Metropolitan Area
1.    Water supply, sewerage, storm drainage and solid waste disposal systems:
      (a)   carrying out a study of the general institutional and organizational 
set-up of the sector;
      (b)   development of short-term master plans for the rehabilitation and 
expansion of such systems, including an emergency rehabilitation program;
      (c)   carrying out preliminary engineering and feasibility studies for the 
rehabilitation of such systems;
      (d)   provision of technical assistance, staff training, and acquisition of 
equipment to strengthen the National Directorate of Water and the Provincial Water 
Company of Luanda;
      (e)   provision, equipping and furnishing of office space for consultants 
employed under this Part of the Project; and
      (f)   acquisition of about six vehicles.
2.    Urban infrastructure:
      (a)   carrying out a study, including: (i) an urban land-use and infrastructure 
plan, and (ii) an urban upgrading project;
      (b)   provision of on-the-job training for local counterpart staff;
      (c)   provision of technical assistance to improve environmental protection 
skills;
      (d)   acquisition of computer hardware and software;
      (e)   provision, equipping and furnishing of housing for consultants employed 
under this part of the Project; and
      (f)   acquisition of about four vehicles.
Part G:     Environmental Rehabilitation
Page  12
1.    Provision of technical assistance to:
      (a)   develop a data-base to support environmental assessments, planning and 
monitoring; and
      (b)   review and update the environmental legal and regulatory framework.
2.    Provision of training in environmental analysis, planning and monitoring 
techniques.
Part H:    Project Management
1.    Strengthening of the Borrower's managerial and Project implementation 
capabilities.
2.    Provision of training for staff responsible for Project implementation.
*     *    *     *
      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1995.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works estimated to cost the 
equivalent to $500,000 or more, shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the 
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in 
May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.    To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost the equivalent of about $500,000.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Angola may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Local competitive bidding:
      (a)   Works estimates to cost the equivalent of less than $500,000; and (b) 
goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in 
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.    Shopping:
      Items or groups of items estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $10,000 
per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $200,000, may 
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations 
solicited from a list of at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in 
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Administrator.
Part D:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
      (a)   With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of $75,000 
or more, for the procurement of goods and works the procedures set forth in paragraphs 
2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract 
are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure 
that the two conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the 
Page  13
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association 
prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such 
contract.
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the 
Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part 
of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which the Association has authorized withdrawals on the basis 
of statements of expenditure.
2.    The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
      (a)   In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the Borrower 
shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of 
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be 
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association 
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and 
by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
      (b)   The Borrower shall cooperate fully with such consultants in the 
performance of their services for the Project and make available to them all 
information relevant to the Project.
SCHEDULE 4
Part A:   Project Coordination
1.    Project Steering Committee
      (a)    A project steering committee (PSC) shall be established by the Minister 
of Planning with the following members: (i) Director of DNIC (chairperson); (ii) three 
component coordinators; (iii) a representative of the Ministry of Finance; and (iv) a 
representative of Banco Nacional de Angola.
      (b)   The PSC shall meet twice a month;
      (c)   The PSC shall have, inter alia, the following functions: (i) to guide and 
direct the execution of the Project; and (ii) review annual action programs and 
implementation schedules prepared by Component Coordinators, and submit such action 
programs and schedules to the Association for its comments.
2.    Project Coordinator
      Overall Project Coordination shall be the responsibility of the DNIC of MINPLAN.
3.    Component Coordinators
      (a)   There shall be three Component Coordinators (CC) as follows:
            (i)   One CC for Parts A, B, D and E of the Project;
           (ii)   One CC for Part C of the Project; and
          (iii)   One CC for Parts F and G of the Project.
      (b)   The CCs shall report to the Project Coordinator; and
      (c)   Each CC shall be responsible, inter alia, for the implementation of the 
respective Part of the Project, in accordance with the terms of the respective 
Implementation Agreement.
Page  14
Part B:   Project Unit (PU)
1.    The Borrower shall: (a) establish PU within the Directorate of Investments and 
Construction (DNIC) of MINPLAN, reporting directly to the Minister of Planning; and 
(b) thereafter, maintain PU with the staffing and functions described below.
2.    PU shall be responsible for the provision of overall technical and 
administrative support to the Project Coordinator and to the Project Steering 
Committee.
3.    PU shall be headed by a full-time General Advisor with qualifications and 
managerial experience acceptable to the Association.
4.    For the implementation of the Project, the General Advisor shall be responsible, 
inter alia, for the following:
      (a)   coordination and monitoring of all technical and managerial aspects of 
Project implementation;
      (b)   ensuring appropriate compliance with the provisions of the Implementation 
Agreements, annual action programs and implementation schedules for the respective 
Project components;
      (c)   supervision of and making all necessary procurement arrangements related 
to the Project, including calling for bids, evaluation of bids and awarding of 
contracts;
      (d)   overall supervision of all studies carried out, and technical assistance 
employed under the Project;
      (e)   meeting regularly with staff of ministries, provincial governments and 
central and provincial agencies responsible for Project implementation to identify 
implementation bottlenecks and propose possible solutions;
      (f)   overseeing the management and prompt allocation of housing and office 
space for consultants employed under the Project; and
      (g)   supervision of the financial aspects and accounts of the Project, and of 
the timely preparation of auditing reports.
5.    In addition to the General Advisor, PU shall include the following staff, all 
with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Association:
      (a)   Training Advisor, who shall be responsible, inter alia, for the following: 
(i) overseeing the implementation of all capacity building studies financed under the 
Project; (ii) ensuring uniformity and efficiency in the design, implementation and 
supervision of all training programs financed under the Project; and (iii) identifying 
and ensuring the application of local and external staff training resources available 
under the Project.
      (b)   Administrative/Financial Advisor who shall be responsible, inter alia, for 
the following: (i) developing and implementing a system to ensure the appropriate 
compilation and maintenance of Project documentation, files and records; (ii) 
developing and implementing a system to ensure transparency in keeping financial 
records and accounts for the Project, in general, and for each Project Component, in 
particular; (iii) establishing and implementing: (A) reporting procedures, including 
quarterly component progress reports and annual Project evaluation reports; and (B) 
periodic auditing arrangements in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of this 
Agreement.
      (c)   Environmental Advisor, who shall be responsible, inter alia, for the 
following: (i) developing of a data-base to support enviromental assessments, 
including planning and monitoring of such activities; (ii) training of local 
counterparts; and (iii) reporting to the Project Coordinator on the consistency and 
thoughness of the environmental assessments carried out under the Project, and 
proposing corrective actions, if necessary.
Part C:   Implementation Agreements
1.    The Borrower and its ministries, provincial governments and central and 
provincial agencies shall enter into implementation agreements which shall, inter 
alia, include the following:
Page  15
      (a)   identification of the specific ministries and agencies responsible for the 
execution of the respective Project Component;
      (b)   description of necessary coordination mechanisms; and
      (c)   assignment of local counterparts to be made available to work and receive 
training from the consultants employed under the Project.
2.    The following Implementation Agreements shall be entered into:
      (a)   Namibe Port Transport System Implementation Agreement (Parts A and B of 
the Project) among:
            -     Ministry of Transport & Communications
            -     Bureau of Planning, Coordinator
            -     National Directorate of Railways
            -     National Directorate of Merchant Marine & Ports
            -     Mocamedes Railway Company
            -     Port of Namibe
      (b)   National Basic Highway Network Implementation Agreement (Part C of the 
Project) between:
            -     Ministry of Public Works and Urban Development
            -     Angola Highway Institute, (INEA) Coordinator
      (c)   Luanda Port Transport System Implementation Agreement (Parts D and E of 
the Project) among:
            -     Ministry of Transport & Communications
            -     Bureau of Planning, Coordinator
            -     National Directorate of Railways
            -     National Directorate of Merchant Marine & Ports
            -     Luanda Railway Company
            -     Port of Luanda
      (d)   Urban Infrastructure of Luanda Metropolitan Area Implementation Agreement 
(Parts F and G of the Project) among:
            -     Luanda Provincial Government
            -     Office of the Deputy Governor for Technical Affairs, Coordinator
            -     Provincial Water Company of Luanda (Empresa Provincial de aguas de 
Luanda)
            -     Ministry of Planning
            -     National Institute of Physical Planning
            -     State Secretariat for Energy and Water
            -     National Directorate of Water (Direccao Nacional de aguas)
