Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB6061 
 
Project Name 
Private and Financial Policy Based Guarantee 
Region 
EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA 
Sector 
General industry and trade sector (30%);General finance sector 
(30%);Central government administration (20%);General energy 
sector (10%);Capital markets (10%) 
Project ID 
P102651 
Borrower(s) 
REPUBLIC OF SERBIA 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Finance 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[
]
B
[
]
C
[
]
FI   [X] TBD (to be determined) 
Date PID Prepared 
October 20, 2010 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
December 7, 2010 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
January 27, 2011 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
The Serbia Country Partnership Strategy
 “
Dynamic Private Sector Led Growth to Ensure Incomes 
Converge with Europe
”
supports three GoS priorities: (i) private sector led growth to ensure income 
convergence with European levels; (ii) increased opportunities and participation in growth; and (iii) 
management of emerging environmental and disaster risks. The reform program supported by the 
IBRD Private and Financial Policy Based Guarantee (PBG) focuses on (i) and (ii) priorities.  
In particular the PBG is designed to support the government in advancing its financial and private 
sector related reforms, building on the previous achievements, most recently under PFDPL2, as 
well as on the reforms initiated under the earlier Bank-supported operations in the period from 
2002-2006, such as the three prior private and financial sector adjustment credits (PFSAC-I, 
PFSAC-II and PPFDPC-I), and the structural adjustment credits (SAC and SAC-II).  The proposed 
operation will also be complemented by another DPL series aimed at supporting Serbia’s Public 
Expenditure Management.   
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
The objective of the PBG is to support the reform actions in three policy areas: (i) enhancing 
business enabling environment to encourage new private sector investments; (ii) strengthening 
financial discipline by enforcing hard budget constraints and continued reform of enterprise sector 
and public utilities; and (iii) building a stable and more efficient financial sector through continued 
restructuring of state holdings in banking and insurance sectors, enhancing crisis preparedness, and 
encouraging development of the capital markets.   
 
3. Preliminary description 
Page  2
The objectives of the proposed PBG series are to enhance the business environment, strengthen 
financial discipline, build a stable and more efficient financial sector.  
 
The business environment pillar aims to: (i) simplify regulatory requirements and compliance costs 
for business entry and operations; (ii) enhance corporate governance, 
(i
ii) strengthen legal 
framework for competition, and (iv) improve contract enforcement.  
 
The financial discipline pillar supports: (i) further reduction of direct and indirect subsidies to 
socially-owned enterprises and development of a regulatory framework for state aid allocation; (ii) 
privatization, restructuring, bankruptcy and forced liquidation of socially-owned enterprises; and 
(iii) continuation of reforms in the energy sector.  
 
The financial sector pillar supports: (i) crisis preparedness, including assessment of capital 
adequacy, enhancement of bank resolution framework, and strengthening of deposit insurance 
payout functions; (ii) continued restructuring/divestment of the GoS’s remaining holdings in the 
banking and insurance industries; and (iii) deepening of the capital markets. 
 
The proposed PBG equivalent to US$400 million in Euros will be used to enhance the Government 
of Serbia access to international financial markets
.
4. Environment Aspects 
Policies supported under the PBG are not expected to have negative impact on the environment. 
The policies supported by Pillars 1 and 3 are not likely to have any effect on the country’s 
environment and natural resources, while those under Pillar 2 would have a positive impact.  
 
5. Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
Borrower 0 
IBRD Guarantee 
400 
 Total 
400 
 
6. Contact point 
Contact: Aurora Ferrari 
Title: Senior Private Sector Development Specialist 
Tel: (202) 473-3547 
Fax: (202) 522-3687 
Email: aferrari@worldbank.org 
 
