Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB6168 
Project Name 
Private and Financial Sector Policy Based Guarantee 
Region 
EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA 
Sector 
General industry and trade sector (30%); General finance sector 
(30%); Central government administration (20%); General energy 
sector (10%); Capital markets (10%) 
Project ID 
P102651 
Borrower(s) 
REPUBLIC OF SERBIA 
Republic of Serbia 
Serbia 
 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Finance 
Kneza Milosa, 20 
11000 Belgrade, Republic of Serbia  
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[
]
B
[
]
C
[
]
FI   [X] NA 
Date PID Prepared 
December 1, 2010 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
December 22, 2010 
Date of Board Approval 
February 10, 2011 
I. 
Country and Sector Background 
 
1.  The Serbian economy experienced high economic growth following the political 
changes in 2000.  Growth was driven in part by high demand linked to large capital 
inflows and the reforms, including privatization of some 2,400 enterprises, played an 
important role.  In 2009, following the onset of the global financial crisis, the Serbian 
economy went into recession; data for 2010 indicate a modest recovery.  The banking 
system has weathered the global financial crisis well, although not without cost.  The 
slowdown of real economy has impacted the sector via credit contraction and declining 
asset quality, both contributed to falling profitability.   
 
2.  Poverty and unemployment have increased in Serbia since the onset of the crisis.  
After significant poverty reduction between 2006 and 2008 (when the share of 
households in poverty declined from 8.8 to 6.1 percent, equivalent to more than 230,000 
people being lifted out of poverty), in 2009 the rate rose again to 6.9 percent.  Similarly, 
according to labor force survey data, the unemployment rate which had decreased to 14.9 
percent as of April 2008, reached 18.8 percent in October 2009. 
 
3.  In this context the Government of Serbia (GoS) has continued to pursue policies 
aimed at spurring private sector led growth.  In addition, the Government of Serbia has 
put in place a series of successful financial sector policies to minimize the impact of the 
crisis on the financial sector.  
 
Page  2
II. Objectives 
4.  The objective of the Private and Financial Sector Policy Based Guarantee (PFSPBG) 
is to support reform actions in three policy areas: (i) enhancing business enabling 
environment to encourage new private sector investments; (ii) strengthening financial 
discipline by enforcing hard budget constraints and continued privatization in the non 
private enterprise sector; and (iii) building a stable and more efficient financial sector 
through continued restructuring of state holdings in banking sectors, enhancing crisis 
preparedness, supporting insurance sector development, and promoting the development 
of the capital markets.   
 
III. Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
5. 
The Serbia Country Partnership Strategy “
Dynamic Private Sector Led Growth to 
Ensure Incomes Converge with Europe
”
supports three GoS priorities: (i) private sector 
led growth to ensure income convergence with European levels; (ii) increased 
opportunities and participation in growth; and (iii) management of emerging 
environmental and disaster risks. The reform program supported by the IBRD Private and 
Financial Sector Policy Based Guarantee focuses on (i) and (ii) priorities.  
6.  In particular, the PFSPBG is designed to support the Government in advancing its 
financial and private sector related reforms, building on the previous achievements, most 
recently under Second Private and Financial Development Policy Loan, as well as on the 
reforms initiated under the earlier Bank-supported operations in the period from 2002-
2006, such as the three prior private and financial sector adjustment credits, and the 
structural adjustment credits.  The proposed operation will also be complemented by 
another DPL series aimed at supporting Serbia’s Public Expenditure Management. 
 
IV. Description 
 
7. 
The proposed PFSPBG equivalent to US$400 million in Euros will be used to 
enhance a borrowing transaction from the international loan market.  The Guarantee will 
lead to improvements in pricing and tenor, and it will contribute enhancing Serbia's 
further access to international financial markets
.
8.  The objectives of the proposed PFSPBG are to enhance the business environment, 
strengthen financial discipline, build a stable and more efficient financial sector.  
 
9.  The business environment pillar aims to: (i) simplify regulatory requirements and 
compliance costs for business entry and operations; (ii) enhance corporate governance, 
(iii) strengthen legal framework for competition, and (iv) improve contract enforcement.  
 
10. The financial discipline pillar supports: (i) further reduction of direct and indirect 
subsidies to socially-owned enterprises and development of a regulatory framework for 
state aid allocation; (ii) privatization, restructuring, bankruptcy and forced liquidation of 
socially-owned enterprises; and (iii) continuation of reforms in the energy sector.  
 
Page  3
11. The financial sector pillar supports: (i) crisis preparedness, including assessment of 
capital adequacy, enhancement of bank resolution framework, and strengthening of 
deposit insurance payout functions; (ii) continued restructuring/divestment of the GoS’s 
remaining holdings in the banking and insurance industries; and (iii) deepening of the 
capital markets. 
 
V. Financing 
 
Source: ($m.) 
Borrower 0 
Private International Lender(s) 
400 
IBRD Guarantee 
400 
 Total 
400 
 
VI. 
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements
 
12. While Ministry of Finance is responsible for the overall implementation, monitoring 
and evaluation is supported by various data sources collected by different stakeholders.  
Baseline and medium term outcomes are stated in the matrix.  Stakeholders involved in 
monitoring and evaluation include: (i) Ministry of Finance, (ii) Ministry of Economy and 
Regional Development, (iii) Ministry of Justice, (iv) Privatization Agency, (v) National 
Bank of Serbia, (vi) Deposit Insurance Agency (DIA), and (vii) Serbian Business 
Registers Agency.  The baselines and outcomes are objective, concrete and measurable 
indicators of economic, financial and institutional performance.   
 
VII. 
Benefits and Risks 
 
Benefits 
 
13. Key expected results under the program include:  
 
(i)  Improved legal framework for corporate governance in place.  Over the medium 
term, such a framework will support: (a) increased independence of the internal 
supervision body in JSCs; (b) increased shareholders rights; (c) stronger role of 
non-executive and independent members of the board; and (d) increased 
transparency of reporting.   
 
(ii) New set of regulations in place reflecting: (a) the elimination of not less than 190 
unnecessary regulations, and (b) the amendment of 25 regulations and 20 laws by 
the end of 2011.  Implemented recommendations are to lead to annual cost 
savings for businesses of at least EUR 120 million by end 2011.   
 
(iii)Establishment of a comprehensive record of state support measures, including 
subsidies and grants contributing to better expenditure management and more 
transparency.  
Page  4
(iv) CAR of the banking system is maintained at the level of at least 12 percent.  
 
(v) Bank resolution framework improved through the introduction of: (i) bridge bank 
resolution on a closed bank basis for systemic banks; and (ii) financial assistance 
in the form of grants, loans or guarantees based on a least cost test performed by 
the DIA, and emergency funding arrangements for DIA.  
 
(vi) Consolidation of the RoS holdings in banking sector: banks with majority RoS 
ownership reduced from 4 to 2 by 2010.  
 
14. In addition, the usage of the PFSPBG will have the Government of Serbia to gain 
access to international markets at lower costs and longer maturities.  
 
Risks 
 
15. Three sets of risk have been identified: macroeconomic, political and operational. 
 
16. The residual macroeconomic risk is substantial.  Serbia went into the financial crisis 
with a high current account deficit, aggravated by rapid foreign currency credit growth 
and large cross-border borrowing of domestic enterprises.  An ongoing IMF program 
supports ambitious fiscal adjustment targets and requires significant external financial 
support and private sector debt rollover.  Specific risks include: 
 
(i) 
The global economic outlook, while improved, remains uncertain.
 
Economic risks 
are partially mitigated by the multilateral support package including from the IMF 
enhanced stand-by arrangement of EUR 3 billion, developed in close cooperation with 
the proposed PFSPBG. 
 
(ii) Despite external adjustment, Serbia faces considerable balance of payments 
financing needs over the next few years
.
Risks are partially mitigated by Serbia’s robust 
agenda of policy reform, and as above, also by the size of the multilateral support 
package.
 
(iii)
Potential vulnerabilities of the banking sector remain in the context of substantially 
reduced profitability and stable but high non-performing loans
 (
NPLs).
 
Mitigating 
factors include: (i) the high capitalization of the system, which can withstand the current 
level of NPLs, which are high but have stabilized in the past few months, (ii) the 
improvements in the bank resolution framework supported by the PFSPBG.   
 
17. The residual political risk is moderate.  A coalition Government facing prospects of 
elections within a year and a half could be pressured to reduce the pace of reforms.  
Mitigating factors include: (i) the 
economic crisis that has highlighted the urgency 
of reform
,
and (ii) a national consensus on the need for progress towards EU 
membership.  EU Council's decision to forward Serbia's application to the European 
Page  5
Commission for an opinion has boosted Serbia’s membership bid and the stability of 
coalition government.  
 
18. 
The residual operational risk is low.
 
A
preliminary market sounding suggests that the 
PFSPBG would enable Serbia to successfully borrow from markets at longer maturities 
and lower rates.  There is a risk, however, that the transaction would not close as 
expected due to unforeseen events, particularly in terms of market developments.  The 
structure of the borrowing and coverage of the guarantee should reduce such risk.
 
VIII. 
Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
 
Poverty and Social Impacts 
 
19. Poverty and unemployment have increased in Serbia since the onset of the crisis.  
After significant poverty reduction between 2006 and 2008 (when the share of 
households in poverty declined from 8.8 to 6.1 percent, equivalent to more than 230,000 
people being lifted out of poverty), in 2009 the rate rose again to 6.9 percent.  Similarly, 
according to labor force survey data, the unemployment rate which had decreased to 14.9 
percent as of April 2008, reached 18.8 percent in October 2009. 
 
20. Policies supported by Pillar 1 – enhancing business environment - and 3 – 
strengthening the financial sector - of the PFSPBG are likely to have a positive impact on 
job creation.  Reform measures under Pillar 1 are all targeted at decreasing business 
compliance costs, creating better conditions for private local and foreign investments, and 
ultimately leading to job creation.  The reforms supported under Pillar 3 increased the 
safety of savings by increasing deposit insurance coverage and enhancing payout speed.  
Furthermore, measures supporting banking sector capitalization ensure that the system is 
stable and has enough resources to continue intermediating. 
 
21. Enterprise restructuring measures under Pillar 2 could have a potentially negative 
impact on poverty.  However, in practice such policies are likely to have a minimal 
impact on workers and hence on poverty levels.  Under Pillar 2, GoS has committed to 
complete the privatization of socially owned enterprises and to put into bankruptcy 
companies (private and socially owned) with blocked accounts.  Potentially three sets of 
workers could be affected
:
(i)
 
workers of companies with blocked accounts for which 
bankruptcy initiated, (ii) workers of socially owned companies that will be placed in 
bankruptcy/forced liquidation, and (iii) workers of socially owned companies that will be 
auctioned off or sold in tender procedure.  It is not clear how many workers could be 
affected as many of these companies have very low levels of employment; moreover, 
many workers have not been receiving regular salaries for years.  Furthermore, all 
redundant workers are eligible for severance payments from the Transition Fund and to 
participate in active labor market programs. 
 
1) Environment Aspects 
Page  6
22. Policy Based Guarantees are subject to policies applicable to Development Policy 
Loans, as such no environmental assessment is required.  Policies supported under the 
PFSPBG are not expected to have negative impact on the environment.
 
The policies 
supported by Pillars 1 and 3 are not likely to have any effect on the country’s 
environment and natural resources, while those under Pillar 2 would have a positive 
impact. 
 
IX. Contact 
point 
 
Contact: Aurora Ferrari 
Title: Sr Private Sector Development Spec. 
Tel: (202) 473-3547 
Fax: (202) 522-3687 
Email: aferrari@worldbank.org 
 
X.  For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
