                                     Document of
                                    The World Bank


                                                         Report No: ICR 62713


            IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT

                                    (IBRD-G 2040)




                                          ON

        PRIVATE AND FINANCIAL SECTOR POLICY BASED GUARANTEE

                                 IN THE AMOUNT OF

                              UP TO EUR 300 MILLION

            (NOT TO EXCEED THE EQUIVALENT OF US$400 MILLION)



                                       TO THE

                                REPUBLIC OF SERBIA




                                     June 20, 2011




Private and Financial Sectors Development Unit (ECSPF)
South East Europe Country Unit (ECCU4)
Europe and Central Asia (ECA)
                    (Exchange Rate Effective June 16, 2011)

                      Currency Unit =Serbian Dinar (RSD)
                             RSD 1.00 = US$ 0.01
                            US$ 1.00 = RSD 67.417

                   FISCAL YEAR 1 January – 31 December


                    ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

  CAR     Capital Adequacy Ratio
   CPS    Country Partnership Strategy
 DDOR     DDOR Insurance Company
   DIA    Deposit Insurance Agency
   DIF    Deposit Insurance Fund
  DPL     Development Policy Loan
 EBRD     European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
   EU     European Union
   FDI    Foreign Direct Investments
  FSAP    Financial Sector Assessment Program
  FSSP    financial sector support program
   GoS    Government of Serbia
   ICR    Implementation Completion and Results Report
   IDF    Institutional Development Fund
   ISR    Implementation Status and Results Report
   JSC    Joint Stock Company
  LLCs    Limited Liability Companies
 LOLR     Lender of Last Resort
  M&E     Monitoring and Evaluation
MOERD     Ministry of Economy and Regional Development
  MoF     Ministry of Finance
   MoJ    Ministry of Justice
  MoU     Memorandum of Understanding
  NBS     National Bank of Serbia
  NPL     Non-performing loans
    PA    Privatization Agency
  PBG     Policy Based Guarantee
 PDMA     Public Debt Management Authority
  PDO     Program Development Objectives
PFDPLs    Programmatic Private and Financial Sector Development Policy Loans
 PFSAC    Private and Financial Sector Adjustment Credit
PFSPBG    Private and Financial Sector Policy Based Guarantee

         Vice President:                Philippe H. Le Houreou
         Country Director:              Jane Armitage
         Sector Manager:                Lalit Raina
         Task Team Leader:              Aurora Ferrari
         ICR Team Leader:               Gordana Popovikj Friedman
                           REPUBLIC OF SERBIA
          PRIVATE AND FINANCIAL SECTOR POLICY BASED GUARANTEE

                                                      CONTENTS




  Data Sheet
  A. Basic Information
  B. Key Dates
  C. Ratings Summary
  D. Sector and Theme Codes
  E. Bank Staff
  F. Results Framework Analysis
  G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs
  H. Restructuring



Table of Contents

 1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design ................................................. 1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ................................................... 5
 3. Assessment of Outcomes ............................................................................................... 9
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ............................................................. 20
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance.......................................................... 21
 6. Lessons Learned .......................................................................................................... 23
 Annex 1 Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes.................... 25
 Annex 2. Beneficiary Survey Results............................................................................... 26
 Annex 3. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results ....................................................... 27
 Annex 4. Summary of Borrower’s ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR........................... 28
 Annex 5. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders............................. 29
 Annex 6. List of Supporting Documents .......................................................................... 30
A. Basic Information
                                                                     Private and Financial
Country                Serbia                  Program Name          Sector Policy Based
                                                                     Guarantee
Program ID             P102651                 L/C/TF Number(s)      IBRD-G 2040
ICR Date               06/20/2011              ICR Type              Core ICR
                                                                     REPUBLIC OF
Lending Instrument     Guarantee               Borrower
                                                                     SERBIA
Original Total
                       Up to USD 400.0M        Disbursed Amount      N/A
Commitment


Implementing Agencies: The Ministry of Finance
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners

B. Key Dates
Second Programmatic Private Financial Sector Development - P096711
                                                                             Revised / Actual
     Process             Date             Process         Original Date
                                                                                 Date(s)
Concept Review:        09/07/2010   Effectiveness:          04/15/2011          04/15/2011
Appraisal:             12/28/2010   Restructuring(s):
Approval:              02/10/2009   Mid-term Review:
                                    Closing:                04/13/2017          04/13/2017


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
 Overall Program Rating
Outcomes                                       Highly Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome                    Moderate
Bank Performance                               Highly Satisfactory
Borrower Performance                           Highly Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
 Overall Program Rating
         Bank                 Ratings              Borrower                    Ratings
Quality at Entry         Highly Satisfactory Government:                  Highly Satisfactory
                                             Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Highly Satisfactory                              Satisfactory
                                             Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                 Overall Borrower
                         Highly Satisfactory                              Highly Satisfactory
Performance                                  Performance



                                               i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators

    Implementation                                   QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                         Rating:
      Performance                                       (if any)
Potential Problem
                                                 Quality at Entry
Program at any time     No                                               None
                                                 (QEA)
(Yes/No):
Problem Program at any                           Quality of
                        No                                               None
time (Yes/No):                                   Supervision (QSA)
DO rating before
                        None
Closing/Inactive status


D. Sector and Theme Codes
Second Programmatic Private Financial Sector Development - P096711
                                                       Original                    Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Banking                                                             50               50
Central government administration                                   33               33
General industry and trade sector                                   17               17

Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
State enterprise/bank restructuring and privatization               67               67
Regulation and competition policy                                   17               17
Corporate governance                                                16               16




E. Bank Staff
Second Programmatic Private Financial Sector Development - P096711
       Positions                  At ICR                        At Approval
Vice President:      Philippe H. Le Houerou          Philippe H. Le Houerou
Country Director:    Jane Armitage                   Jane Armitage
Sector Manager:      Lalit Raina                     Lalit Raina
Task Team Leader:    Aurora Ferrari                  Aurora Ferrari
ICR Team Leader:     Gordana Popovikj Friedman
ICR Primary Author:  Gordana Popovikj Friedman




                                                ii
F. Results Framework Analysis

Program Development Objectives (from Program Document)
The objective of the PFSPBG is to support reforms in three policy areas: (i) enhancing business
environment to encourage private sector investment; (ii) strengthening financial discipline with
continued reform of the non private enterprise sector with a particular focus on bankruptcy; and
(iii) building a stable and more efficient financial sector through continued restructuring of state
holdings in banking, enhancing crisis preparedness, supporting insurance sector development, and
promoting development of capital markets.

Revised Program Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
N/A

(a) PDO Indicator(s)


                                             Original Target    Formally        Actual Value
                                Baseline      Values (from       Revised         Achieved at
           Indicator
                                 Value           approval         Target       Completion or
                                               documents)         Values        Target Years
                   Improved legal framework for corporate governance in place. Over the
                   medium term, such a framework will support: (a) increased independence of
Indicator 1 :      the internal supervision body in Joint Stock Companies (JSCs); (b) increased
                   shareholders rights; (c) stronger role of non-executive and independent
                   members of the board; and (d) increased transparency of reporting.
                                            Revised Law on                   Revised Law on
Value
                                            Business Entities                Business Entities
(quantitative or
                                            submitted to                     submitted to
Qualitative)
                                            Parliament                       Parliament
Date achieved      N/A                      12/31/2010                       12/31/2010
Comments           This outcome indicator was achieved 100%. Further, the revised Law on
(incl. %           Business Entities was adopted by Parliament on 05/25/2011. It is in
achievement)       compliance with EU directives.




                                                iii
                   New set of regulations in place reflecting: (a) the elimination of not less than
                   190 unnecessary regulations, and (b) the amendment of 25 regulations and 20
Indicator 2 :
                   laws by the end of 2011. Implemented recommendations are to lead to annual
                   cost savings for businesses of at least EUR 120 million by end 2011.
                                                                               Regulatory Impact
                                                                               Assessment in
                                                                               place, resulting in
                                            Elimination of at                  elimination of 192
                                            least 190                          regulations and 304
Value
                                            regulations;                       adopted
(quantitative or   None
                                            amendment of 25                    recommendations
Qualitative)
                                            regulations and 20                 for amendment of
                                            laws.                              30 regulations, 30
                                                                               laws. Estimated
                                                                               savings of EU 142
                                                                               million by end ’11.
Date achieved                               12/31/2010                         12/31/2010
Comments
(incl. %           Achievement of over 100%.
achievement)
                   Establishment of a comprehensive record of state support measures, including
Indicator 3 :      subsidies and grants contributing to better expenditure management and more
                   transparency.
                                           Registry of                       Registry of
                                           Regional                          Regional
                                           Development                       Development
Value                                      Measures and                      Measures and
(quantitative or                           Incentives,                       Incentives,
Qualitative)                               satisfactory to the               satisfactory to the
                                           Bank, established                 Bank, established
                                           within the SBRA                   within the SBRA
                                           and is operational                and is operational.
Date achieved                              12/31/2010                        12/31/2010
Comments
(incl. %           100 Achievement,
achievement)
                   CAR of the banking system is maintained at the level of at least 12% and the
Indicator 4 :      required recapitalizations are conducted using transparent criteria allowing the
                   use of public funds only where there is no private sector alternative.
                                                                                CAR 20.1% in the
                                                                                banking sector and
Value                                       At least 12% CAR
                                                                                three banks were
(quantitative or                            and transparent
                                                                                recapitalized using
Qualitative)                                recapitalization.
                                                                                transparent
                                                                                methods.
Date achieved                               12/31/2010                          12/31/2010
Comments
(incl. %           Achievement 100%.
achievement)



                                                 iv
                   Bank resolution framework improved through the introduction of: (i) bridge
                   bank resolution on a closed bank basis for systemic banks; and (ii) financial
Indicator 5:
                   assistance in the form of grants, loans or guarantees based on a least cost test
                   performed by the DIA, and emergency funding arrangements for DIA.
                                           Amendments to
                                                                              Amendments to the
                                           the Laws on
                                                                              Laws on Banks,
                                           Banks, Bankruptcy
                                                                              Bankruptcy and
                                           and Liquidation of
                                                                              Liquidation of
                                           Banks and
                                                                              Banks and
                                           Insurance
                                                                              Insurance
                                           Companies, and
Value                                                                         Companies, and
                                           Deposit Insurance
(quantitative or                                                              Deposit Insurance
                                           and Deposit
Qualitative)                                                                  and Deposit
                                           Insurance Agency
                                                                              Insurance Agency
                                           enacted. Law on
                                                                              enacted. Law on
                                           Budget for 2011
                                                                              Budget for 2011
                                           includes a
                                                                              includes a provision
                                           provision for
                                                                              for government
                                           government
                                                                              guarantee to DIA.
                                           guarantee to DIA.
Date achieved                              12/31/2010                         12/31/2010
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                   Consolidation of the RoS holdings in banking sector: banks with majority RoS
Indicator 6:
                   ownership reduced from 4 to 2 by 2010.
                                          Banks with                         Banks with
Value
                                          majority RoS                       majority RoS
(quantitative or   4
                                          ownership reduced                  ownership reduced
Qualitative)
                                          from 4 to 2.                       from 4 to 2.
Date achieved                             12/31/2010                         12/31/2010
Comments           Credy Banka was sold to a foreign group, Postanska and Privredna Pancevo
(incl. %           were merged, and Srpska Banka will remain as is. This outcome indicator was
achievement)       fully achieved.




                                                 v
(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                          Original Target                      Actual Value
                                                                Formally
                                           Values (from                        Achieved at
    Indicator         Baseline Value                            Revised
                                              approval                        Completion or
                                                             Target Values
                                             documents)                        Target Years
                             A bank diagnostic and triage exercise is completed for the entire
Indicator 1 :
                             banking sector in Serbia and all banks.
Value                                                                      Bank diagnostic and
(quantitative or                                                           triage exercise was
Qualitative)                                                               completed.
Date achieved                                                              12/31/2010
Comments                     100% achievement. The bank diagnostic and triage exercise is now
(incl. % achievement)        regularly conducted every six months.



G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs

                                                                               Actual
        Date ISR
No.                             DO                        IP               Disbursements
        Archived
                                                                           (USD millions)



H. Restructuring




                                             vi
1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design

The Programmatic Private and Financial Sector Policy Loans (PFDPLs) to the Republic of
Serbia were a series of two operations during the period 2009-2010, totaling EUR 105.7
million (US$150 equivalent) of World Bank funding. The PFDPL series was designed to
support the Government of Serbia (GoS) structural reform program through improvements in
the business environment, continued reform in the enterprise sector and public utilities and
building a more efficient and stable financial sector.

The PFDPL series was originally envisaged to include three operations, however, the plan for
a Third PFDPL was changed to allow for the use of a Policy Based Guarantee in the amount
of EUR 300 million, upon request from the Government of Serbia. The selected lender is
Société Générale.

The use of an IBRD guarantee has helped the GoS gain access to international markets at
lower costs and longer maturities. The Private and Financial Sector Policy Based Guarantee
(PFSPBG) has allowed Serbia to issue a relatively sizable commercial debt in a challenging
environment and help GoS expand its existing investor base. The design of the underlying
financing and of the guarantee coverage has been driven by the GoS need to match its debt
(portfolio risk) management and reduce funding costs. The terms of the commercial loan
offered by Société Générale represent a significant improvement in interest rate charged for
borrowing in hard currency, considerably extend the maturity, and further the process of
Serbia’s full integration into the international financial market. Furthermore, the GoS’ status
as a global borrower has been solidified, which may lead to better terms for borrowing banks
and companies in Serbia.

As a policy based guarantee is not a DPL option under current Bank policies, the PFDPL
series had to be terminated after PFDPL 2, and PFDPL 3 has been transformed in a stand-
alone Policy Based Guarantee operation, with an almost identical policy matrix1 the originally
envisaged PFDPL 3.

1.1 Context at Appraisal

Serbia began its transition to a market economy late and under difficult circumstances. The
1990s was a lost decade for Serbia. Its economy was devastated by regional conflicts,
international sanctions, and trade shocks following the break-up of the former Yugoslavia in
1991. These effects were compounded by delayed transition and poor economic management.
By 2000 recorded GDP had fallen to below one-half of its 1989 level, while other central and
eastern European countries had made significant progress on the transition path.

In January 2001, the new Government launched an ambitious reform program for a rapid
transition to a more market oriented economy, normalization of relations with foreign
creditors, and integration with regional, European Union (EU) and world markets. Fiscal



1
 In consultations with the Borrower, some of the non-core benchmarks of the original matrix of PFDPL3, pertinent to the
energy sector reforms, were omitted and more emphasis was places on the financial and enterprise sectors reforms.


                                                            1
balance was achieved in 2004, as structural reforms began to have impact and expenditure
commitments were reduced, and a surplus of 0.8 percent of GDP was achieved in 2005.

The Serbian economy grew rapidly during the first decade of the century and until 2008,
fuelled by capital inflows, exports and domestic demand, and supported by the economic
reforms mentioned above. GDP growth averaged 5.4 percent per year during 2001-08, with
exports growing at an average annual rate of around 30 percent, albeit from a low base.
Output rose in real terms by nearly 50 percent between 2000 and 2008, as the corporate sector
started to post profits and the banking sector restructured. About 80 percent of growth was
attributed to non-tradable sectors (financial, telecoms, retail).

Strong economic growth was, however, accompanied by a widening external current account
deficit, rapid credit growth, increasing private sector debt and non-performing loans in the
period immediately preceding the financial crisis. Imports grew faster than exports and the
trade deficit reached 22.8 percent of GDP in 2008. The external current account deficit
increased from 8.7 percent in 2005 to 18.3 percent in 2008, driven by a widening private
sector savings-investment imbalance (about 90 percent of the deficit in 2008). The
contraction of global demand and spending largely impacted the real sector and the
competitive position of private sector companies.

The economy also faced the remnants of the previous systems in the forms of cumbersome,
business-unfriendly regulations with legislation not compatible with the EU, slow public
administration and large number of “socially-owned” enterprises in the portfolio of the
Privatization Agency (PA).

The business regulatory environment, a key factor for sustainable and stable private sector
growth and job creation, needed improvement to facilitate firm entry and growth and
approximation to the business regulations of the EU. The Government started a
comprehensive reform program in business entry, adoption of key elements of business
legislation, enhancement of access to finance and introduction of Regulatory Impact
Assessment (RIA) in the legislative process. The new Government in 2008-2009
demonstrated commitment to deepen the reforms and further enhance the business climate in
the country, by streamlining the business registration procedures, improving the legal
framework for corporate governance, commencing the implementation of a comprehensive
regulatory review called “regulatory guillotine”, institutionalizing RIA and strengthening its
role, and strengthening the framework for enforcement of contracts.

For the remaining socially owned enterprises (SOEs), the GoS developed a program to
continue with restructuring, privatization and/or bankruptcy of remaining of SOEs, thus
strengthening financial discipline. In the financial sector, substantial reforms were undertaken
to deal with the state ownership in the banking and insurance sectors, develop the capital
markets, improve the legal framework for supervision and introduce measures to insure
stability in the sector during and following the financial crisis.

The banking sector faced the global financial crisis in a healthy situation, with high liquidity
and capital buffers due to conservative policies by National Bank of Serbia (NBS). However,
the magnitude of the international crisis revealed some challenges. A fast withdrawal of over
15 percent of deposits took place amid false media reports and rumors in late 2008. The GoS
adopted then a set of measures for crisis preparedness. The measures aimed at maintaining

                                               2
consumer confidence and stability in the banking sector and included the launching of a
financial sector support program (FSSP) under the auspices of the “Vienna initiative” (with 10
foreign banks and their home supervisors) and with support from the IMF. In addition, a
comprehensive program for restructuring and consolidation of state-owned banks,
strengthening of the insurance supervision and development of capital markets legal
framework (Securities Law and the Law on Business Entities).

The economy picked up in 2010, despite the fact that it was severely hit by the global crisis.
Strong exports and the adoption of timely and appropriate measures were key in re-
establishing macroeconomic stability.

As far as government borrowing is concerned, Serbia’s experience is limited in terms of
instrument and sources. An assessment of the latter had to be conducted to establish Serbia’s
eligibility for a policy based guarantee.

In particular, GoS has never accessed international markets independently. Serbia did borrow
once, but as Serbia and Montenegro, in 2005, with the issuance of US$1 billion 20-year
Eurobond designed to exchange old London Club debt. However, this bond is currently thinly
traded in markets, and it yields roughly 7 percent, with somewhat limited volatility.
Otherwise, GoS has tapped only the local capital market and the domestic banking sector, the
latter primarily through club loans. Borrowing heavily from local market sources, banks in
particular, has increased the risk of collusion among financial actors. Moreover, reliance on
local markets may lead to some crowding out of the corporate and household sectors in the
context of more deleveraging by subsidiaries of international banks operating in Serbia.

To improve its debt management capacity, the GoS approved a medium-term debt
management strategy and created a debt management agency. The strategy, which covered
the years 2009-2011, was included in the Budget Memorandum. The main objective of the
original strategy was to increase the share of government debt denominated in local currency.
This objective was to be reached in two stages. In a first phase, dinar-denominated securities
would be issued only for short-term liquidity financing, while long-term securities in dinars
would be considered in the medium-term once the dinar-euro interest rate spread had
declined. The establishment of the Public Debt Management Authority (PDMA) in 2009
strengthened the institutional framework for government debt management. The PDMA is
now fully staffed with 23 officials. Its priorities are enhancement of the debt management
system, preparation of a procedures manual, and issuance of more dinar-denominated
securities in the local market.

Subsequent debt strategies were more comprehensive. Increased dinar exposure in the
medium-term was complemented by aims to diversify Euro sources in the shorter-term. The
updated strategy for 2010-2012 continued to focus on increasing local currency exposure in
the medium term. In addition, the 2011-2013 strategy aims to access new sources of
financing in global markets, specifically Euro-denominated debt, in an effort to reduce the
interest paid and lengthen the maturity of the debt.




                                              3
1.2 Original Program Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

Program Development Objective:

The objective of the Private and Financial Sector Policy Based Guarantee (PFSPBG) is to
support reforms in three policy areas: 1) enhancing business environment to encourage private
sector investment; 2) strengthening financial discipline with continued reform of the non
private enterprise sector with a particular focus on bankruptcy; and 3) building a stable and
more efficient financial sector through continued restructuring of state holdings in banking,
enhancing crisis preparedness, supporting insurance sector development, and promoting
development of capital markets.

Key Indicators:

   •   Improved legal framework for corporate governance in place, to support in the
       medium term: (a) increased independence of the internal supervision body in Joint
       Stock Companies (JSCs); (b) increased shareholders rights; (c) stronger role of non-
       executive and independent members of the board; and (d) increased transparency of
       reporting.
   •   New set of regulations in place reflecting: (a) the elimination of not less than 190
       unnecessary regulations, and (b) the amendment of 25 regulations and 20 laws by the
       end of 2011. Implemented recommendations are to lead to annual cost savings for
       businesses of at least EUR 120 million by end 2011.
   •   Establishment of a comprehensive record of state support measures, including
       subsidies and grants contributing to better expenditure management and more
       transparency.
   •   Capital Adequacy Ratio (CAR) of the banking system maintained at the level of at
       least 12 percent.
   •   Bank resolution framework improved through the introduction of: (i) bridge bank
       resolution on a closed bank basis for systemic banks; and (ii) financial assistance in
       the form of grants, loans or guarantees based on a least cost test performed by the
       DIA, and emergency funding arrangements for the Deposit Insurance Agency (DIA).
   •   Consolidation of the Republic of Serbia (RoS) holdings in banking sector: banks with
       majority RoS ownership reduced from 4 to 2 by 2010.

1.3 Revised PDO and Key Indicators, and Reasons/Justification

There were no revisions of the PDOs.

1.4 Original Policy Areas Supported by the Program (as approved):
The objective of the Private and Financial Sector Policy Based Guarantee was to support
reforms in three policy areas:

Pillar I: Enhancing business environment
    • Further simplification of business entry through implementation of a single agency
        approach to business registration;
    • Improving the legal framework for strengthening corporate governance and facilitating
        business operations;

                                             4
   •   Streamlining regulations of business operations and reducing business compliance
       costs;
   •   Improving legal and institutional framework for competition;
   •   Improving effectiveness of enforcement of court decisions and authentic documents.

Pillar II: Strengthening financial discipline
    • Facilitating bankruptcy of Socially-Owned Enterprises (SOE);
    • Improving financial discipline in the socially and state-owned sector.

Pillar III: Building a stable and more efficient financial sector
    • Enhancing crisis preparedness and bank resolution;
    • Restructuring and divestment of state-owned banks;
    • Strengthening the insurance sector; and
    • Supporting capital market development.

1.5 Revised Policy Areas

In relation to the PFDPL series, the policy areas supported under the PFSPBG were
streamlined and focused on the business environment and financial sector reforms, while the
energy sector was excluded from the policy matrix.

1.6 Other significant changes

The PFSPBG emerged from a previous Programmatic Private and Financial Sector Policy
Development Loan (PFDPL) series which was initially envisaged to consist of a series of
three regular development policy loans to support the structural reform agenda of the
Government of Serbia. However, as the international crisis hit Serbia, it was necessary to
adjust the scope and refocus the design of the operations to include measures aimed at
maintaining stability in the banking sector. Furthermore, on request from the GoS, the
PFDPL series was terminated after the completion of the Second PFDPL operation, whereas
the planned Third PFDPL in the series was transformed into a [stand-alone] Private and
Financial Sector Policy Based Guarantee (PFSPBG) in the amount of up to 300 million EUR
(not exceeding an equivalent of 400 million USD). The cancelation of the third PFDPL was
deemed consistent with the overall support to the original objectives of the PFDPL. The
PFSPBG followed up on the implementation of the reforms supported by the PFDPL1 and
PFDPL2. Use of the policy based guarantee allowed Serbia to benefit from access to the
international markets at lower costs and longer maturities, driven by the need to match the
country’s debt portfolio management and reduced funding costs.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Program Performance

This operation is a Policy Based Guarantee from the IBRD. The guarantee covers the
principal amount of a commercial bank borrowing of up to EUR 300 million, not exceeding
the equivalent of US$400 million, with a 6-year bullet maturity on a non-accelerable basis.
The loan proceeds were made available to the Borrower upon the effectiveness of the Loan
Agreement with Société Générale, by ratification of the Law on Borrowing of the Republic of

                                              5
Serbia from Société Générale with a Guarantee from the World Bank, by the Parliament of
Serbia on February 28, 2011 and published in the Official Gazette No.13-11. There were no
changes to the terms of the loan from Société Générale from what described in the program
document.

The guarantee involves no immediate transfer of funds from the Bank but sufficient funds
would need to be provisioned from the Bank assets to meet a call on the guarantee if required.
When called under conditions provided for under the Agreement, the payment from the Bank
will be made as a single payment to the lender or agent of the lender. The indemnity
agreement between Serbia and the World Bank provides that the former will repay the latter
on demand or as the Bank otherwise directs, if the guarantee is called.

Table 1: Prior Actions for PFSPBF

PRIVATE AND FINANCIAL POLICY BASED GUARANTEE
Prior actions from Program Document                                          Status
1) The Borrower’s Government has approved the draft Law on Business
Entities, satisfactory to the Bank, and submitted it to its Parliament for   Completed
adoption
2) The Borrower has completed a comprehensive review of regulations of       Completed
business activities, and the Borrower’s Government has approved the
recommendations of that review
3) The Registry of Regional Development Measures and Incentives,
satisfactory to the Bank, has been established within the Serbian Business   Completed
Registers Agency (SBRA) and is operational
(4) The National Bank of Serbia has completed a diagnostic assessment of
all banks operating in Serbia in accordance with the methodology adopted
under the Second Programmatic Private and Financial Development Policy       Completed
Loan provided by the Bank, and enforced bank recapitalization to a capital
adequacy ratio of at least 12%.
5) The Borrower’s Parliament has: a) enacted amendments satisfactory to
the Bank to the Law on Banks, Law on Bankruptcy and Liquidation of
Banks and Insurance Companies, Law on Deposit Insurance and the Law          Completed
on the Deposit Insurance Agency; and b) enacted the Law on Budget for
the year 2011 which contains a provision satisfactory to the Bank on the
State Guarantee to the Deposit Insurance Agency.
6) Banks with Borrower majority ownership have been merged, privatized
or restructured in accordance with the strategy adopted under the Second     Completed
Programmatic Private and Financial Development Policy Loan provided
by the Bank


2.2 Major Factors Affecting Implementation:

Government Priorities and Commitment: The GoS put private sector development at the
center of its strategy to promote growth and income convergence of European level. To
increase the private sector contribution to growth, the GoS implemented a series of policy
measures to increase productivity and investment, upgrading the physical infrastructure and
its quality, improving the business environment, privatizing non-private enterprises, and
promoting financial sector policies and FDI promotion. In fact, the core of GoS’s growth
agenda was composed of improvements in the business environment, financial

                                                 6
discipline/divestment of non-private enterprises and financial sector development. Although,
by the second PFDPL, emphasis was placed on the financial sector in order to reduce
macroeconomic/financial risks and prepare the country to better cope with a global financial
crisis.

The Government proved its commitment to reforms in the following areas supported by the
PFDPL 1 and 2 and continued under PFSPBG:

   •   further enhance the business climate in the country, by streamlining the business
       registration procedures, improving the legal framework for corporate governance,
       implementing a comprehensive regulatory review called “regulatory guillotine”, and
       strengthening the framework for enforcement of contracts;
   •   in relation to the remaining socially owned enterprises (SOEs), the GoS facilitated the
       restructuring, privatization and/or bankruptcy of remaining of SOEs, by, continuing
       with the privatization/resolution of SoEs and enacting the new Law on Bankruptcy;
   •   further, in response to the global financial crisis, the Government adopted a set of
       measures aimed at strengthening crisis preparedness by maintaining consumer
       confidence and stability in the banking sector and by launching a financial sector
       support program (FSSP) under the auspices of the “Vienna initiative” (with 10 foreign
       banks and their home supervisors) and with support from the IMF. In addition, a
       comprehensive program for restructuring and consolidation of state-owned banks,
       strengthening of the insurance supervision, and gradually extended the maturity of T-
       bills thus improving debt management function.

EU Accession: A major factor affecting implementation was Serbia’s desire to accede to the
EU. Around such desire, major forces seemed to have coalesced. EU accession has come to
be perceived as the key driver of Serbia’s economic reforms, and to some extent as a source
of stability in a region with a history of political instability. The objective of EU accession
was particularly influential in the number of Laws which were developed with the PFDPL
support as well as of other laws and by-laws, which complied with EU requirements. In April
2008 the Government Serbia signed a Stabilisation and Association Agreement (SAA) and in
December 2009, submitted its application for EU membership. In February 2010, the Interim
Agreement on Trade and Trade-related issues between Serbia and the EU (part of the SAA)
entered into force. The importance of EU accession in the commitment of Serbia to the key
reforms supported by the PFDPL (and other WB operations) could not be underestimated.

History of successful cooperation in policy reforms with the World Bank: The reforms
supported by the PFDPL series and the PFSPBG built upon (and continued) previous budget
support policy operations financed by the World Bank which the GoS implemented with a
good degree of success since the early 2000s. The operations included the Programmatic
Private and Financial Development Policy Credit (PPFDPC-1) and a successful series of two
consecutive Private and Financial Sector Adjustment Credits. The PFSAC-I focused on initial
reform measures in five areas: (i) banking sector reform, (ii) reform of socially owned
enterprises; (iii) bank asset and enterprise workouts; and (iv) financial sector regulatory and
supervisory framework. The PFDPL is, to a large extent, a continuation of the PFSAC. The
Serbian institutions designing and implementing the reforms developed a fluid and
constructive cooperation with the World Bank teams.



                                              7
Global financial crisis: The global financial crisis severely affected Serbia and impacted also
the focus of the PFDPL program. First, the pace of SOE privatization slowed down
considerably due to lack of interested FDI. Moreover a number of already signed
privatization contracts had to be cancelled due to lack of investments by the buyers. As a
result the PFDPL program with respect to SOEs focused more on the introduction of a new,
more efficient bankruptcy framework for all companies, including SOEs. Secondly the
program supported by the PFDPL had also to be modified to take into account the impact of
the global crisis on the banking sector. This meant that the financial sector pillar had to
include a new focus on bank diagnostics, crisis preparedness and bank resolution.

Collaboration and coordination with the IMF and other donors: Reforms in Serbia were
supported by the World Bank and other key international development partners in a
collaborated and coordinated approach. The Bank maintained close working relations with the
IMF and other donors (such as EAR, SIDA, USAID, DFID) assisting the GoS for the
purposes of harmonizing policy reforms, seeking synergies among the respective operations
and avoiding overlaps. The international support has been substantial and required intensive
coordination.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

At the Government level, the Ministry of Finance was responsible for the overall
implementation of the proposed operation and for reporting process and coordinating actions
among other concerned ministries and agencies. At the same time, monitoring and evaluation
is supported by various data sources collected by the stakeholders in the implementation of
the program, namely: (i) the Ministry of Finance, (ii) the Ministry of Economy and Regional
Development (MOERD), (iii) the Ministry of Justice, (iv) the PA, (v) the NBS, (vi) the DIA,
and (vii) the SBRA. The Bank has been monitoring actions and reviewing progress of the
implementation of the operation, as well as the subsequent actions of the GoS program by
using [the short term] reform benchmarks and the overall program outcomes outlined in the
Policy Matrix. Baseline and medium term outcomes are stated in the Matrix. The baselines
and outcomes are objective, concrete and measurable indicators of economic, financial and
institutional performance.

As specified in paragraph 31 of BP 14.25 (Guarantees), supervision will be carried out in
accordance with procedures applicable to Development Policy Lending (OP /BP 8.60).
Implementation Status and Results Reports (ISRs) will be completed annually until
Guarantee expiration. These ISRs will assess compliance of the GoS with contractual
undertakings under the financing agreement and whether circumstances exist that would lead
to a call on the guarantee. ISRs will also assess, in more detail as new information comes to
light, the financial impact of the PFSPBG in terms of increased market access, leverage etc.

2.4 Expected Next Phase/Follow-up Operation

The GoS remains committed to completing the substantial reform program implemented thus
far in private and financial sector areas. While, the GoS has made considerable progress in the
business environment, privatization/restructuring/bankruptcy of non-private enterprises, and
in financial sector development, the reform agenda has not yet been completed. In the short
term, the GoS is committed to advancing the businesses environment reforms into further
improving issuing of construction permits and completing the implementation of the

                                              8
recommendations of the comprehensive regulatory review. As far as privatization and
restructuring is concerned, the GoS plans to proceed with the incorporation of Railways and
Post, two large state owned enterprises, and with the privatization of Telekom. Finally
regarding the financial sector, the GoS plans to divest its minority stakes in banks and
eventually privatize the last state owned insurance company, Dunav. On the regulatory front,
the NBS is planning implementation of Basel 2 by the end of 2011.

The current four-year Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) covers the period FY08-FY11, so
that Serbia and the World Bank will soon reassess priorities and cooperation for the next CPS
period. However, it is certain that support to the EU agenda and enhancing competitiveness
will be at the core of the Strategy.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The proposed PFSPBG is consistent with the CPS and the FY09 CPS Progress Report of
Serbia. The CPS supports three GoS priorities: (i) private sector led growth to ensure income
convergence with European levels; (ii) increased opportunities and participation in growth;
and (iii) management of emerging environmental and disaster risks. The reform program in
the PFSPBG focuses on (i) and (ii) priorities. The CPS and CPS Progress Report envisaged
support in the private and financial sector through a series of three Private and Financial
Development Policy Loans (PFDPL).

The envisaged reforms are also in line with the GoS’ aspiration to join the European Union
(EU). PFSPBG continues the successful reforms supported under the Private Financial
Development Policy Loan (PFDPL) I and II: the reforms proposed under the originally
planned PFDPL III form the basis for the PFSPBG. In the context of preparation of the third
operation under the PFDPL series, the GoS has requested to avail of an IBRD PBG rather
than a loan. As a PBG is not a DPL option under OP 8.60 (Development Policy Lending) and
a "Programmatic PBG" option does not exist under OP 14.25 (Guarantees), the PFDPL series
has been terminated after PFDPL 2, and PFDPL 3 has been transformed to a stand-alone PBG
operation, with an almost identical policy matrix to that envisaged in PFDPL 3.

3.2 Achievement of Program Development Objectives

The OVERALL PFSPBG PROGRAM OBJECTIVES were to:
   • Increase international market access of GoS.
   • Improve the business environment.
   • Strengthen financial discipline in the non-private enterprise sector, and
   • Build a stable and more efficient financial sector.

Key reforms supported by the PFSPBG:

   •   Establishment of a single window for registration of employees in the Pension and
       Health Insurance Funds.
   •   Development of a new Law on Business Entities and the new Law on Enforcement
       and Security.


                                              9
     •    Development of regulations for the implementation of the new Law for Protection of
          Competition and regulations for the implementation of the Law on Bankruptcy.
     •    Establishment of a Registry of Regional Development Measures and Incentives within
          SBRA.
     •    Comprehensive review of regulations of business activities and adoption of
          recommendations resulting from that review.
     •    Continuing with resolution of SOEs.
     •    Enactment of amendments to the Law on Banks, Law on Bankruptcy and Liquidation
          of Banks and Insurance Companies, Law on Insurance and the Law on the Deposit
          Insurance Agency.
     •    Diagnostic assessment of all the banks in the system and enforced bank
          recapitalization.
     •    Banks with majority state ownership merged, privatized or restructures.
     •    Strengthened deposit insurance function.

All core and non-core benchmarks under PFSPBG were implemented and the expected
outcomes of the program have been substantially accomplished. In total, 16 outcomes have
been identified, out of which
             • 14 expected outcomes were achieved, or 87.5 percent of the total number of
                 outcomes.
             • 1 was Not Achieved, or 6 percent.
             • 1 was Partially Achieved, or 6 percent.
             • 2 cannot be measured because the government has not had any funding needs;
                 therefore it has not sought to raise funding from international financial
                 markets.


Table 2: Status of Achievement of Outcomes
Subject                                          Outcomes                                               Comments
The IBRD Guarantee will facilitate access to     The GoS will raise funding independently from          GoS has not sought
international markets                            international market: Status: N.A.                     new funding from
                                                                                                        international market, as
                                                                                                        it did not have funding
The IBRD guarantee will assist the GoS to        The GoS will raise Euro loan funding with a
                                                                                                        needs. However, GoS
access longer tenor loans at lower interest      maturity of more than three year at an interest rate   has announced the
rates                                            below euribor plus 500bps. Status: N.A.                issuance of the first
                                                                                                        ever Eurobond in fall
                                                                                                        2011.
                                          Pillar I: Enhancing Business Environment

     Policy Area                                   Outcomes                                Status of        Comments
                                                                                           Outcome
1.1. Further
simplification of          Reduction of the business compliance costs estimated at up      Achieved
business entry through     to EUR 15 million by end 2011.
implementation of a
single agency approach.
1.2. Improving legal       Improved legal framework for corporate governance in            Achieved
framework for              place. Over the medium term, such a framework will
strengthening corporate    support: (a) increased independence of the internal
governance and             supervision body in JSCs; (b) increased shareholders
facilitating business      rights; (c) stronger role of nonexecutive and independent
operations.                members of the board; and (d) increased transparency of
                           reporting.



                                                            10
1.3. Streamlining            New set of regulations in place reflecting: (a) the               Achieved
regulations of business      elimination of not less than 190 unnecessary regulations,
activities and reducing      and (b) the amendment of 25 regulations and 20 laws by
business compliance          the end of 2011. Implemented recommendations are to lead
costs.                       to annual cost savings for businesses of at least EUR 120
                             million by end 2011.
1.4. Improving legal and     Improved competition framework in place which, over the
institutional framework      medium term, will strengthen the authority of the                 Achieved
for competition.             Commission for Protection of Competition in: (a)
                             determining abuse of dominant position and existence of
                             cartels, and (b) imposing enforcement measures.
1.5. Improving               Improved enforcement framework in place which supports,                       A new Law on
effectiveness of             over the medium term: (a) streamlined proceedings; and            Partially   Enforcement and
enforcement of court         (b) introduction of professional enforcement officers.            Achieved    Security was enacted,
                                                                                                           however regulations
decisions and authentic
                                                                                                           have not yet been
documents.                                                                                                 developed.
                                           Pillar II: Strengthening Financial Discipline

                             Improved bankruptcy framework, which, over the
                             medium term, will lead to: (a) an increase of initiation of     Achieved
                             bankruptcy cases of qualified entities, (b) higher recovery
2.1 Facilitating             rates and lower costs, and (c) shorter resolution time.
Bankruptcy of Socially-      Number of entities with accounts which have been                Achieved
Owned Enterprises            blocked for over 3 years reduced by 6,600 by end 2010.
                             The portfolio of companies in the PA restructuring,
                             auctions and tenders is reduced as bankruptcy procedures        Achieved
                             are undertaken, sending an additional positive signal to
                             markets.
2.2. Improving financial     Establishment of a comprehensive record of state support
discipline in the socially   measures, including subsidies and grants contributing to        Achieved
and state owned sector.      better expenditure management and more transparency.
                                 Pillar III: Building a Stable and More Efficient Financial Sector

                             CAR of the banking system is maintained at the level of         Achieved
                             at least 12 percent.
3.1. Strengthening crisis    Bank resolution framework improved through the
preparedness and bank        introduction of: (i) bridge bank resolution on a closed         Achieved
resolution.                  bank basis for systemic banks; and (ii) financial
                             assistance in
                             the form of grants, loans or guarantees based on a least
                             cost test performed by the DIA, and emergency funding
                             arrangements for DIA.
                             Through introduction of payout software and payout              Achieved
                             procedures and implementation of MOU with the NBS,
                             the deposit insurance scheme can make fast payouts.
3.2. Restructuring and       Consolidation of the RoS holdings in banking sector:            Achieved
divestment of state-         banks with majority RoS ownership reduced from 4 to 2
owned banks                  by 2010.
                             Dunav’s social ownership structure is replaced by state         Not           Process started.
3.3. Strengthening the       ownership hence paving the way for subsequent                   achieved      Amendments to the
insurance sector             privatization.                                                                Law on Insurance are
                                                                                                           pending Parliamentary
                                                                                                           approval
                             Life and non-life insurance business lines are separated        Partially     Status to be
                             by end of 2011.                                                 Achieved      monitored by end-
                                                                                                           2011.
3.4. Supporting capital      Increased mobilization of capital by providing more             Achieved
market development           options to investors and longer term funding for the GoS
                             in local currency.




                                                               11
The status of achievement of the outcomes is as follows:

Subject: Increased market access:

Outcomes:
1.   The GoS will raise funding independently from international market. Status: Not
     Achieved.
2.   The GoS will raise Euro loan funding with a maturity of more than three year at
     an interest rate below euribor plus 500bps. Status: Not Achieved.

Upon borrowing from Société Générale with guarantee from the World Bank which was
completed two months ago, the Government of Serbia has not attempted new access to the
international capital market in 2011 as there was no need for such access. However,
preparations are under way for issuance of the first Eurobond of up to EUR 700 million in the
fall of 2011, and the procurement of lead arranger is currently in process. The experience
with the PFSPBG is perceived as significant enhancement of the government capacity to
close this transaction successfully.

Pillar I: Enhance Business Environment

Policy area 1.1. Further simplification of business entry through implementation of a single
agency approach.

Outcome: Reduction of the business compliance costs estimated at up to EUR 15 million
by end 2011. Status: Achieved.

The GoS transformed the Serbian Business Registers Agency (SBRA) into a one-stop-shop
for business registration. The one-stop-shop system for registering a company has been in
place since May 2009. The number of steps to register a business was reduced from 11 to 8. It
now takes up to 5 instead of 23 days to register a business. According to the EU Progress
Report 2010 for Serbia, the number of registered companies stood at 113,000 in May 2010, up
from 106,000 in April 2009. Approximately 225,000 entrepreneurs were registered with the
Serbian Business Registry Agency, i.e. around 5,000 more than a year earlier. The Agency
has also further extended the number of registers, including the Registry for Financial
Statements. A single form is now used to register new workers to the Pension Fund or the
Health Fund which represents a considerable reduction in business compliance costs resulting
in annual savings of approximately EUR 15 million, calculated according to the standard cost
model.

Policy area 1.2: Improving legal framework for strengthening corporate governance and
facilitating business operations.

Outcome: Improved legal framework for corporate governance in place. Over the
medium term, such a framework will support: (a) increased independence of the
internal supervision body in JSCs; (b) increased shareholders rights; (c) stronger role of
nonexecutive and independent members of the board; and (d) increased transparency of
reporting. Status: Achieved.



                                             12
To strengthen corporate governance and facilitate business operation, a new Law on Business
Entities was approved by the Parliament. The new law, in compliance with new EU
directives, includes provisions to: (i) harmonize presently conflicting provisions of the Law
on Business Entities and the Law on Securities Market; (ii) regulate entrepreneurs (at the
same time the existing Law on Private Entrepreneurs will be abolished); (iii) regulate existing
business associations (i.e. Association of Banks), which have been omitted in the existing
Law on Business Entities; (iv) regulate the establishment, operations and closure of branch
offices of foreign legal entities, and (v) define the duties and responsibilities of management
and improve corporate governance by allowing the option of choosing between one- or two-
tier corporate governance system for Limited Liability Companies (LLCs) and JSCs. Reforms
under (ii) alone should lead to a reduction in administrative costs for businesses estimated in
approximately EUR 6 million per year.

Policy Area 1.3: Streamlining regulations of business activities and reducing business
compliance costs.

Outcome: New set of regulations in place reflecting: (a) the elimination of not less than
190 unnecessary regulations, and (b) the amendment of 25 regulations and 20 laws by
the end of 2011. Implemented recommendations are to lead to annual cost savings for
businesses of at least EUR 120 million by end 2011. Status: Achieved and exceeded.

The GoS introduced a Regulatory Impact Analysis (RIA) requirement in the legislative
process in 2004 to improve the quality of new regulations. The implementation of the RIA
will ensure that new regulations (i.e. the legislative flow) are based on a clear rationale and
adequate analysis of costs and benefits. To reduce compliance costs of existing business
regulations (legislative stock), a comprehensive regulatory review was completed in
accordance with the Government Strategy adopted under the PFDPL1. The regulatory review
was initiated in early 2009 and consisted of four phases: inventory, analysis,
recommendations, and implementation. As a result of the inventory, 2,000 laws and
regulations were identified as impacting economic activity. The Council for Regulatory
Reform also formed ten working groups chaired by a representative of the private sector to
further analyze the 2,000 laws and regulations and recommend simplification actions.

Based on the review, 192 unnecessary regulations were abolished and 304 recommendations
for amendment to 30 laws and 30 regulations were adopted. About 195 recommendations
have already been implemented which is estimated to lead to annual cost savings for
businesses of approximately EUR 50.8 million, while the full implementation of all adopted
recommendations by end 2011 is expected to lead to an estimated annual cost savings of
around EUR 142 million.

Examples of the cost savings associated to some of the recommendations are presented
below:
    • Introduction of single window approach for registering workers - EUR 15 million.
    • Simplification of existing procedures such as extending the deadline for businesses to
       place their daily cash revenue into their bank accounts from one to seven days - EUR
       39.5 million.
    • Requiring the Tax Authority to ensure electronic submission of required tax filing
       documents - EUR 8.5 million.


                                             13
   •   Eliminating the requirement for preparing and stamping the travel requests for using
       the company vehicles each time the vehicle is used - EUR 21 million.
   •   Eliminating the requirement for posting the company name on the company vehicles -
       EUR 2.6 million.

Policy Area 1.4: Improving legal and institutional framework for competition.

Outcome: Improved competition framework in place which, over the medium term, will
strengthen the authority of the Commission for Protection of Competition in: (a)
determining abuse of dominant position and existence of cartels, and (b) imposing
enforcement measures. Status: Achieved.

This was a legal-institutional outcome. In the summer of 2009, the GoS enacted a new Law
on Protection of Competition which overcame the deficiencies of the previous Law of 2005.
In addition, GoS adopted eight new regulations required to implement the new Law on
Protection of Competition. These regulations had been originally included in PFDPL 3. The
new Law on Protection of Competition addressed all major business concerns, removed the
disincentives to foreign direct investment, strengthened the independence of the Commission
for Protection of Competition and is fully in line with EU standards.

In addition, eight new regulations required to implement the new Law on Protection of
Competition have been adopted. These include: (i) Regulation on criteria defining relevant
market; (ii) Regulation on content of request for individual exemption; (iii) Regulation on
categories and special conditions for block-exemptions; (iv) Regulation on the form and
content of the official identification; (v) Regulation on content and the manner for
notification of concentration; (vi) Statute of the Commission for Protection of Competition;
(vii) Regulation on criteria for measurement of the amounts of fines, the manner and payment
timeframe under the measure for protection of competition and procedural penalties and on
conditions for definition of other measures; and (viii) Regulation on conditions of relief from
pecuniary fines under measures for protection of competition (Leniency Program).

Policy Area 1.5: Improving effectiveness of enforcement of court decisions and authentic
documents.

Outcome: Improved enforcement framework in place which supports, over the medium
term: (a) streamlined proceedings; and (b) introduction of professional enforcement
officers. Not achieved.

Enforcement mechanisms remain a stumbling block for business operations. According to the
Doing Business 2011 indicators on enforcing contracts, Serbia ranks 94th in the world, with
635 days necessary for enforcement. Therefore, there is no indication of improvement.
However, to speed up enforcement processes, a new Law on Enforcement and Security was
recently adopted by the Parliament of Serbia. The implementation of the new Law will
enhance the enforcement of court decisions as well as enforcement based on authentic
documents, such as contracts and invoices. To this end, the Law introduced the concept of
professional enforcement officers (i.e. private bailiffs) licensed and supervised by the MoJ.
On the basis of the new legislation, it is expected that Serbia will improve its ranking in
enforcing contracts in Doing Business 2012 (to be issued in the fall of 2011). However,


                                              14
regulations for implementation of the new Law and introduction of professional enforcement
officers are underway.

Pillar II: Strengthening Financial Discipline

Policy area 2.1: Facilitating Bankruptcy of Socially-Owned Enterprises

Outcome: Improved bankruptcy framework, which over the medium term, will lead to:
(a) an increase of initiation of bankruptcy cases, (b) higher recovery rates and lower
costs, and (c) shorter resolution time. Status: Achieved.

To increase recovery in bankruptcy in general and especially in the context of non-private
enterprises, a new Law on Bankruptcy was introduced in 2009. The new Law increased
process efficiency, established automatic triggers for bankruptcy, and created new rules for
pre-packaged reorganization. In addition, the new Law also improved the current bankruptcy
framework, particularly in regards to the addition of the set-off provisions, the improvements
to the reorganization process, and the avoidance of pre-bankruptcy transactions. Furthermore,
it clarified issues with respect to licensing, appointment, removal, and disciplining of
bankruptcy administrators. The Doing Business 2011 report credited government efforts in
this area, and Serbia was ranked 86th globally in ‘Closing a Business’ indicator or 15 spots
higher than the previous year.

Following the enactment of the new Law on Bankruptcy, bankruptcy administration is being
enhanced. This effort includes already adopted amendments to the Law on Agency for
Licensing of Bankruptcy Administrators, as well as revisions to the National Standards for
Administering the Bankrupt Estate and the Code of Ethics. Moreover, to track case activities,
an electronic reporting system has been established. Finally, eleven implementation
regulations for the new Law on Bankruptcy have been approved. These include regulations
on the code of ethics, implementation of reorganization, pre-packaged reorganization,
registry of bankruptcy estate, awards and fees of bankruptcy administrators.

Outcome: Number of entities with accounts which have blocked for over 3 years
reduced by 6,600 by end 2010. Status: Achieved.

The Law on Bankruptcy requires automatic bankruptcy proceedings for enterprises with
accounts blocked for over three years. Based on this new procedure, the NBS sends the
candidate list to the commercial courts, which formally declare bankruptcy. The (non-core)
benchmark for this outcome (procedures filed for at least 10,000 with accounts which have
been blocked for over three years) was exceedingly met. The introduction of automatic
bankruptcy triggers has resulted in initiation of bankruptcy for over 13,000 entities with
accounts blocked for over three years. As a result, the bankruptcy process for approximately
9,500 entities has been completed and they were erased from the business register.

Outcome: The portfolio of companies in the PA restructuring, actions and tenders is
reduced as bankruptcy procedures are undertaken sending an additional positive signal
to markets. Status: Achieved.

The non-core benchmark for this outcome (bankruptcy procedures initiated for at least 160
qualifying companies from the PA portfolio between January 1, 2010 and November 30, 2010

                                             15
was exceedingly met. As of early November 2010, there were 955 socially owned companies
in the PA portfolio (see Table 3). Of these 673 enterprises were in bankruptcy/forced
liquidation. In 2010, 162 companies from the PA portfolio were put in bankruptcy and further
81 companies were in auction, tender and restructuring procedure in the PA. Progress with the
latter category is well underway and should be completed by July 2011. Privatization for the
remaining 201 was temporarily stopped for various reasons, such as unresolved ownership
status with former Yugoslav republics. The state owned enterprises reflected in the Table 8
represent previously privatized socially-owned companies for which the privatization
contracts were cancelled.

         Table 3: PA Portfolio - Status as of November 2010

Status                            Number of socially        Number of state owned
                                  owned enterprises             enterprises
Bankruptcy/ Forced Liquidation          673                           0
Auction                                  25                         47
Tender                                    6                          19
Restructuring                            50                          84
Privatization suspended                 201                          50
Under Preparation                         0                          21
Total                                   955                         221
Grand Total                                            1,176
         Source: Privatization Agency

Policy areas 2.2: Improving financial discipline in the socially and state owned sector.

Outcome: Establishment of a comprehensive record of state support measures,
including subsidies and grants contributing to better expenditure management and
more transparency. Status: Achieved.

This outcome was achieved by completion of a core-benchmark (The Registry of Regional
Development Measures and Incentives, satisfactory to the Bank, has been established within
the SBRA and is operational). The goal of establishment of the Registry of Regional
Development Measures and Incentives under the SBRA was to better monitor state aid. The
Registry will record all measures and incentives funds by the GoS and international
organizations to a variety of entities including companies. Further, the Registry will record
the following type of information: type, purpose and form of incentive, providers and users,
financial information, and territorial focus. The government institutions obliged to report to
the Registry include: the MOERD, the Ministry for National Investment Plan, the Ministry of
Infrastructure, the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry, and Waterworks, the Ministry of
Finance, the Development Fund, the National Employment Service, the Serbian Investment
and Export Promotion Agency, the National Agency for Regional Development, the Agency
for Insurance and Financing of Exports and the EU Integration Office.

Pillar III: Building a stable and more efficient financial sector.

Policy area 3.1: Strengthening crisis preparedness and bank resolution.

Outcome: CAR of the banking system is maintained at the level of at least 12%. Status:
Achieved.

                                                    16
The Serbian banking sector is well-capitalised, with average capital adequacy ratio of 20.4
percent as of March 2011. At the end of 2010, only 6 out of total of 33 banks had a capital
adequacy ratio under 15 percent. To ensure that the system was well capitalized to withstand
the shock of the crisis, a bank diagnostic and triage exercise was implemented. In December
2009, the NBS completed the stress testing for the entire banking sector (i.e., 34 banks), under
the methodology adopted under the Second Programmatic Private and Financial Policy
Development Loan to ensure that the banks area adequately capitalized (i.e. CAR of at least
12%). In the recent period, Metals Banka was recapitalized by the Province of Vojvodina,
while Komercijalna Banka, a state owned bank with EBRD minority ownership, raised more
equity from existing and new shareholders, including the IFC. Further, Credy Bank was
recapitalized by Nova KBM from Slovenia. The NBS repeats the stress testing exercise every
six months.

Outcome: Bank resolution framework improved through the introduction of: (i) bridge
resolution on a closed bank basis for systemic banks; and (ii) financial assistance in the
form of grants, loans or guarantees based on a least cost test performed by the DIA, and
emergency funding arrangements for DIA. Status: Achieved.

The PFSPBG supports a complete overhaul of the bank resolution framework to increase
efficiency and reduce the cost of resolving banks. Amendments to the Laws on Banks,
Bankruptcy and Liquidation of Banks and Insurance Companies, and Deposit Insurance and
Deposit Insurance Agency have been enacted. Under the new framework, purchase and
assumption and bridge bank on a closed bank basis have been added, as well as financial
assistance for these tools on a least cost basis. Finally, to ensure that the DIA has access to
emergency funding for bank resolution/payout, the implicit government guarantee included in
the existing Deposit Insurance Fund and the Law on DIA has been made explicit with the
approval of 2011 budget law. RSD 110 million (approximately EUR 1 million) have been
allocated to cover the commitment fee for a EUR 100 million stand-by credit line from
commercial banks to the DIA for contingency purposes. By doing so, the implicit GoS’s
guarantee to the DIA will be made explicit.

Outcome: Through introduction of payout software and payout procedures and
implementation of MOU with the NBS, the deposit insurance scheme can make fast
payouts. Status: Achieved.

The deposit insurance fund has been strengthened. The fund increased in size to around EUR
140 million at Q3 2010 as a result of an initial capitalization by the GoS and raising of
premium. In line with best practices, the DIF current size is adequate to cover the failure of a
mid-size bank. The capacity of the fund to deal with large payouts has been strengthened by
developing payout procedures, introducing payout software, adopting a Memorandum of
Understanding (MoU) on information sharing between the DIA and the NBS. Amendments to
the legal framework to specifically provide for extraordinary funding and equate the
depositors of banks in liquidation with those of banks in bankruptcy have also been approved.

Policy area 3.2: Restructuring and divestment of state-owned banks.

Outcome: Consolidation of the RoS holdings in the banking sector: banks with majority
RoS ownership reduced from 4 to 2 by 2010. Status: Achieved.

                                              17
The GoS has continued the divestment program for state owned banks. To consolidate the
state-owned banking sector and reduce likely capital injections, the GoS adopted a strategy in
May 2009 (under the Second Programmatic Private and Financial Policy Development Loan)
which called for the reduction of majority state owned banks from four to two over the next
two years. Of the four majority state owned banks, Credy Banka was sold to a foreign group,
Postanska and Privredna Pancevo were merged, and Srpska Banka will remain as is. As a
result the number of majority state owned banks has decreased from 4 to 2.

Policy area 3.3: Strengthening insurance sector.

Outcome: Dunav’s social ownership structure is replaced by state ownership hence
paving the way for subsequent privatization. Status: Not achieved.

The achievement of this outcome is expected in the medium term. However, the GoS has
committed to future privatization of Dunav. To this end, GoS has approved and submitted to
the Parliament legal amendments to the Law on Insurance that define the process of
transformation of socially owned capital in the insurance sector into state owned.
Furthermore, the amendments mandate the commencement of privatization of at least 20
percent of state owned capital in insurance companies by the end of 2013.

Outcome: Life and non-life business lines are separated by end of 2011. Status: Partially
achieved.

The non-core benchmark (Amendments to the Law on Insurance requiring the separation of
life and non non-life insurance by the end of 2011 are enacted by the Parliament) has been
met. To reduce the potential for systemic risk in the sector, insurance companies are required
to separate the life and non-life insurance businesses. Amendments to the Law on Insurance
have been enacted requiring the separation of life and non-life business by the end of 2011.

Outcome: Increased mobilization of capital by providing more options to investors and
longer term funding for the GoS in local currency. Status: Achieved.

To increase domestic savings mobilization, the GoS is committed to developing capital
markets. The establishment of a yield curve is essential in this respect. The GoS has therefore
gradually extended the maturity of the GoS T-bills from 3 months to up to 24 months.


==================================================================
3.3 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Highly Satisfactory

The objectives of this operation have been highly relevant to the strategic priorities of the
country. Priority actions were well selected and contributed to the operation’s outcomes. All
prior actions of the Private and Financial Sector Policy Based Guarantee were completed and
over 87.5 percent of the outcomes have been achieved on the short-term. This operation
supported Serbia to implement a structural reform program in the business environment and
financial sector and mitigate the effects of the global economic crisis, while at the same time

                                              18
allowing Serbia to benefit from access to the international financial markets at lower costs
and longer maturities. The use of the IBRD guarantee as an instrument helped the
Government of Serbia to improve its debt management capacity by expanding its creditor
base. In addition, the Serbian Public Debt Management Authority was given an opportunity
to become familiar with the legal requirements of international tenders and global banks.

The results of the PFSPBG, summarized above, suggest that the expected outcomes have been
substantially achieved within 6 months of signing of the guarantee. The two outcomes of
increased market access as well as the outcome related to the privatization of Dunav are very
likely to be achieved in the medium to long term. The law mandating Dunav privatization has
been submitted to Parliament, while Serbia is planning to access international capital market
with the first ever Eurobond in the fall of 2011.

3.4 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

There were no measured poverty impacts specifically related to this operation.

Policies supported by pillar 1 (enhancing business environment) - and pillar 3 (strengthening
the financial sector) of the PFSPBG are likely to help create jobs. Reform measures under
Pillar 1 are all targeted at decreasing business compliance costs, creating better conditions for
private local and foreign investments, and ultimately leading to job creation. The reforms
supported under Pillar 3 increased the safety of savings by increasing deposit insurance
coverage and enhancing payout speed. Furthermore, measures supporting banking sector
capitalization ensure that the system is stable and has enough resources to continue
intermediating.

Enterprise restructuring measures under Pillar 2 could have a potentially negative impact on
workers and hence on poverty levels. In practice it is highly unlikely that such impact will
materialize. Under Pillar 2, the GoS has committed to complete the privatization of socially
owned enterprises and to put into bankruptcy companies (private and socially owned) with
blocked accounts. Potentially three sets of workers could be affected: (i) workers of
companies with blocked accounts for which bankruptcy initiated, and (ii) workers of socially
owned companies that will be placed in bankruptcy/forced liquidation. In practice, over the
past year (the year over which the policy actions supported by this operation took place) the
GoS has focused on filing for bankruptcy socially owned companies that could not be sold
and on putting companies with blocked account into bankruptcy.
The employment impacts of these measures are limited. For example, it is estimated that the
160 socially owned enterprises for which bankruptcy was initiated in 2010 employed 1861
employees. As many workers have not been receiving salaries for years, losing a job might
not necessarily result in an income shock for their households 29. Moreover, as claims for
unpaid salaries rank either first or third in the list of creditors’ priority, employees are likely
to receive part if not all of the due salaries in the bankruptcy process. Concerns for a negative
poverty impact have also been limited by the fact that restructuring of large companies has
been put on hold during the crisis, with the GoS subsidies contributing to keep the firms
afloat.



                                                19
Formal measures to mitigate the employment shock on redundant workers are also in place,
such as the Transition Fund, and active labor market programs. The World Bank is
supporting the strengthening of active labor market programs by building monitoring and
evaluation capacity in this area, and by supporting the impact evaluation of one of the largest
programs in support of self-employment.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

The PFSPBG introduced some changes in the institutional framework and strengthened a
number of existing institutions. Given the long-term nature of institution building, the full
institutional benefits of the PFSPBG reforms are expected in the medium to longer-term.

Among the key institutions strengthened by the PFSPBG, the following could be highlighted:

   •   Serbian Business Registers Agency (SBRA) - one-stop shop for business and
       employment registration and registration of financial, leasing and pledge rights on
       movable assets and rights. SBRA hosts more than 20 types of business registries
       including the Registry of Regional Development Measures and Incentives which was
       established under the auspices of PFSPBG.
   •   The Office for Regulatory Reform and Regulatory Impact Analysis - ensuring
       sustainability of regulatory reforms by advancing the regulatory impact assessment
       and regulatory guillotine, which were formerly managed by temporary government
       bodies.
   •   Deposit Insurance Agency – in addition to strengthening its payout procedures, the
       DIA has acquired new resolution functions for banks once the operating license has
       been withdrawn.
   •   Public Debt Management Authority – For the first time the debt management agency
       run an international tender in the context of very cumbersome public debt laws.

The institutions in Serbia developed a large body of new legislations in compliance with
directives of the European Union which has improved the business environment and
functioning of the financial system. Moreover, redundant regulations have been abolished and
contradictory regulations have been amended in the context of the review of regulations of
business activities.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts

The global economic crisis negatively impacted the process of privatization of the socially
owned enterprises. Therefore, the program with respect to SOEs was shifted to the
introduction of more efficient regimes for bankruptcy and contract enforcement. Moreover, to
support the banking sector at a time of stress, new emphasis on crisis preparedness was added.

3.5 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
N/A

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Ratings: Moderate


                                              20
Reforms already introduced, as well as those that must be introduced in the near future, have
been widely accepted in Serbia. In fact, there is a strong commitment to reforms as a path to
access the European Union. Such commitment seems to percolate the whole political and
societal spectrum. Risks to the sustainability of reforms are therefore modest, particularly now
that some economic growth is taking place. The donor community continues to support this
process. The degree of coordination among donors is substantive and contributes to reduce
risks. Several ongoing projects complement the PFSPBG and contribute to its sustainability.
These include an Institutional Development Fund (IDF) grant for capacity building of newly
established Office for Regulatory Reform and RIA of the Government of Serbia, IDF grant
for public enterprises corporatization. New IMF program is being negotiated and expected to
be in place shortly.

The main risks which have been identified relate to the macroeconomic situation in
Serbia.

Macroeconomic risks remain substantial. Serbia went into the financial crisis with a high
(balance of payments) current account deficit, aggravated by rapid foreign currency credit
growth and large cross-border borrowing of domestic enterprises. Specific risks include:

      •   The global economic outlook remains uncertain. Furthermore, potential fallout from
          weaknesses and risks in eurozone economies could have a significant impact on
          Serbia; Greece in particular has been the second largest investor in Serbia since the
          beginning of the transition. A New IMF program is being negotiated.
      •   Serbia faces considerable balance of payments financing needs over the next few
          years. Risks are mitigated by Serbia’s pursuit of a robust agenda of policy reform, and
          by the size of the multilateral support package.
      •   Vulnerabilities of the banking sector remain in the context of substantially reduced
          profitability and stable but high NPLs (17.1 percent2). Key mitigating factor is the
          very high capitalization and liquidity of the system. As of March 2011, the aggregate
          CAR was 20.4 percent and the banking system’s liquid assets covered 36.9 percent of
          short term liabilities. An increase in the rate of NPLs could pose a risk to the solvency
          of the system.

Mitigation of overall risks is ensured by GoS’s long term commitment to reforms. Serbia
has a good record of continuous reforms and commitment to EU accession. Such a record
creates solid environment for cooperation and confidence with the donor community and
allows stakeholders to focus more intensively on results.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Highly Satisfactory

The design of the guarantee instrument underlying the PFSPBG benefited from lessons learnt
from previous PBGs implemented by The World Bank in Argentina (1999) and Colombia

2
    Status as of end March 2011, quoted by NBS.


                                                  21
(2001). Further, the program supported by the PFSPBG builds on lessons learned from other
transition experiences and other financial crisis. Tailored lessons from the latter (and in
particular on bank resolution) were incorporated in the Financial Sector Assessment Program
(FSAP) that was completed shortly before the PFSPBG was designed. This preparatory work
was instrumental in ensuring that the success of the implementation of the program in such
short timeframe.

Considering the large body of knowledge used by the team to design the PFSPBF and advise
the government on the relevant policy reforms, the quality of entry of the Bank is assessed as
Highly Satisfactory.

Finally donor coordination was ensured throughout. The result was a program design that was
consistent with the national development strategy and focused on EU accession priorities, best
practices in crisis preparedness and on business environment reforms.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Ratings: Highly Satisfactory

The Bank devised an effective approach to work with counterparts in their respective pillars
of the reform program. The Bank cooperated effectively with the Ministry of Finance, which
was the coordinator of activities on the Borrower’s side, maintained close cooperation with
the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development and with the National Bank of Serbia.

The Bank assisted through a number of challenging reforms with persistence and delivering
high level support in all policy areas. By all indications, the counterparts in the Government
of Serbia were very satisfied with the technical support and systematic approach to reforms
provided by the Bank Team. Moreover, the task team monitored the country’s overall
economic performance and the timely adoption and effective implementation of the agreed
program conditions. They also validated the Borrower’s monitoring and evaluation findings
on the progress and results of program implementation. Further, the task team consulted and
coordinated with the IMF in carrying out its supervision work.

The impact of the guarantee as an instrument and the level of achievement of the objectives
are direct results of the very strong cooperation with GoS and of the strong supervision by the
Bank team. Therefore, the quality of supervision has been assessed as Highly Satisfactory.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

The overall performance is rated Highly Satisfactory since the Bank performance in both
Ensuring Quality at Entry and in Quality of Supervision were rated Highly Satisfactory.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

Ratings: Highly Satisfactory



                                              22
The Government developed the institutional and regulatory framework to improve the public
sector governance, the business regulatory environment and ensure financial sector stability.
Cooperation with the Bank Team was very strong. They completed all prior actions and non-
core benchmarks, readily shared information with the Bank team and continue to implement
reforms. For example, the Parliament adopted two key laws, namely the Law on Enforcement
and Law on Business Entities after the issuance of the guarantee.

The Government showed strong commitment to the consultation process (i.e. consultation
with stakeholders on important legislative amendments, now a mandatory requirement, broad
involvement of business community in the regulatory review process).

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Ratings: Satisfactory

In general the implementing agencies performed well. Most agencies followed through on the
program reforms and handled well the challenge of preparing substantial amounts of new
legislation. The Ministry of Economy and Regional Development performed well in leading
work on privatization and bankruptcy, preparation and implementation of the review of
regulations of business activities, reviewing a substantial amount of legislation, and
establishing new practices such as the regulatory impact assessment. Both the PFSPBG and
the EU accession agenda played a critical role in driving the pace of the reforms. In
implementing agreed upon measures, the professionalism and dedication of the Government
Team proved to be determinant factors.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Ratings: Highly Satisfactory

The performance of the Government was highly satisfactory and the performance of the
implementing agencies was satisfactory. The overall rating has been weighted as Highly
Satisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned

The following important lessons were learned during the implementation of this
operation:

      x       It is important to maintain sufficient flexibility, particularly in the case of
              programmatic policy development loans, to adapt and respond to client
              needs and economic realities in the country. As the PFDPL operation was
              implemented and Bank team was preparing the Third PFDPL operation in the
              series, the Government of Serbia requested support with a guarantee, rather than
              a loan, to access international markets and refinance its debt obligations. In light
              of Serbia’s strong track record in macro, structural and social policies,
              sustainable external financing plan and coherent borrowing strategy, a policy
              based guarantee was prepared within 5 months from the time GoS requested it.



                                              23
     x      Good coordination with other partners and providing necessary technical
            assistance on a timely basis. Cooperation among international agencies (i.e.
            World Bank, IMF, SIDA) and with other donors, in particular the EU, is
            essential since extensive technical assistance has been provided and needs to be
            coordinated and aligned with the country’s priorities and strategic goals.. This
            cooperation was underscored by the central role played by the Government of
            Serbia through the Ministry of Finance. Further, the reforms in the financial
            sector pillar of the program, in which the Bank has had a comparative
            advantage, were designed in cooperation with the IMF. The financial sector
            reforms have been also directly supported by the State Secretariat for Economic
            Affairs (SECO) of the Swiss Confederation technical assistance to DIA and by
            investments in undercapitalized banks by the EBRD and the IFC.


Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/Implementing agencies: N/A

(b) Cofinanciers: N/A

(c) Other partners and stakeholders: N/A
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)




                                           24
Annex 1 Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
P102651 - Private and Financial Sector Policy Based Guarantee
                                                                          Responsibility/
Names                        Title                               Unit
                                                                          Specialty
 Lending
Aurora Ferrari               Country Program Coordinator          ECSPF Task Team Leader
Andrej Popovic               Private Sector Development SpecialistECSPF
Irina Astrakhan              Country Program Coordinator          AFCZA
Aida Japarova                Program Assistant                    ECSPF
Eugene Gurenko               Lead Financial Sector Specialist     GCMNB
                             Senior Financial Management
Lewis Hawke                                                       ECSO3
                             Specialist
Nikola Ille                  Senior Environmental Specialist      ECSSD
Alexandru Cojocaru           Consultant                           ECSPE
Marina Wes                   Lead Economist                       ECSPE
Dusko Vasiljevic             Economist                            ECSPE
Caterina Ruggeri Laderchi    Senior Economist                     ECSPE
Nikolai A. Soubbotin         Senior Counsel                       LEGEM
Nicholay Chistyakov          Senior Finance Officer               LOAFC
Gianfranco Bertozzi          Senior Financial Officer             BDM
Tomas Inge Magnusson         Consultant                           BDM
                             Lead Financial Officer/Debt Capital
Hiroshi Tsubota                                                   BDM
                             Markets & CBP
Neil Pravin Ashar            Counsel                              LEGCF
Thomas A. Duvall             Consultant                           LEGCF
Xavier Cledan Mandri-Perrott Senior Infrastructure Specialist     FEUFS
Jasna Vukoje                 Program Assistant                    ECCYU
Supervision
Aurora Ferrari               Country Program Coordinator          ECSPF Task Team Leader
                                                                        Private Sector Dev.
Andrej Popovic               Private Sector Development SpecialistECSPF
                                                                        Specialist
Gordana Popovikj Friedman Private Sector Development SpecialistECSPF ICR Team Leader
Jasna Vukoje                 Program Assistant                    ECCYU Team Assistant

(b) Staff Time and Cost
 P102651 - Private and Financial Sector Policy Based Guarantee
                                    Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage                                                           USD Thousands (including
                                    No. of staff weeks
                                                                travel and consultant costs)
   Lending/Supervision
   FY11                                                                     104.8
   Total:                                                                   104.8



                                             25
Annex 2. Beneficiary Survey Results
N/A




                                      26
Annex 3. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
N/A




                                       27
Annex 4. Summary of Borrower’s ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR




                                     28
Annex 5. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders
N/A




                                       29
Annex 6. List of Supporting Documents

   ƒ   Implementation Completion and Results Report (ICR) on Programmatic Private and Financial
       Development Policy Loans (ICR00001882)
   ƒ   Program Document, Private and Financial Sector Policy Based Guarantee (PFPBG), January
       2011.
   ƒ   Program Document, Programmatic Private and Financial Sector Development Policy Loan
       Two (PFDPL2), October 2009.
   ƒ   Program Document, Second Programmatic Private and Financial Sector Development Policy
       Loan (PFDPL), February 2009.
   ƒ   Implementation Status Report (ISR), PFDPL2, March 2010.
   ƒ   Serbia Country Partnership Strategy for FY08-FY11.
   ƒ   Aide Memoire, Private and Financial Sector Policy Based Guarantee (PFSPBG), Appraisal
       Mission, December 2010.
   ƒ   Aide Memoire, PFDPL Pre-Appraisal Mission – Deferred Drawdown Option, December 2007
   ƒ   Aide Memoire, Insurance Sector Technical Assistance Mission, March 2009
   ƒ   Aide Memoire, Capital Markets Technical Assistance Mission, April 2009
   ƒ   Aide Memoire, PFDPL2, May 2009
   ƒ   Aide Memoire, PFDPL2 Appraisal Mission, July 2009
   ƒ   Evidence of Second Programmatic Private and Financial Development Policy Loan Core
       Conditions Realization of PFDPL, Memo from Ministry of Finance of Serbia, July 2009
   ƒ   IBRD Results Brief, Private and Financial Sector Policy Based Guarantee Briefing
   ƒ   Serbia - Enterprise Surveys, available at:
       http://www.enterprisesurveys.org/ExploreEconomies/?economyid=206&year=2009
   ƒ   BEEPS At-A-Glance 2008 Serbia available at:
   ƒ   http://siteresources.worldbank.org/INTECAREGTOPANTCOR/Resources/704589-
       1267561320871/Serbia_2010.pdf
   ƒ   Doing Business, Serbia, available at:
   ƒ   http://doingbusiness.org/data/exploreeconomies/serbia
   ƒ   Serbia 2010 Progress Report, European Commission, available at:
       http://ec.europa.eu/enlargement/pdf/key_documents/2010/package/sr_rapport_2010_en.pdf
   ƒ   EBRD Transition Report 2010: Recovery and Reform: Serbia Country Assessment, available
       at http://www.ebrd.com/pages/research/publications/flagships/transition/serbia.shtml
   ƒ   Zakon za zaduzivanje kod Societe Generale uz garanciju Svetske Banke, (Law on Borrowing
       from Societe Generale with a Guarantee from the World Bank), Official Gazette 478/11
   ƒ   Interviews and consultations:
         9 Aurora Ferrari, Task Team Leader, PFSPBG
         9 Ms. Irina Astrakhan, Task Team Leader, PFDPL1-2
         9 Mr. Andrej Popovic, Private Sector Development Specialist, PFDPL Team Member,
              ECSPF, WB Belgrade office
         9 Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Serbia
         9 Council for Regulatory Reform, Belgrade
         9 Serbian Business Registers Agency, Belgrade
         9 National Bank of Serbia
         9 Privatization Agency of Serbia, Bankruptcy Unit
   ƒ   Websites:
         9       Ministry of Economy and Regional Development: www.merr.gov.rs
         9       Ministry of Finance: www.mfin.gov.rs
         9       National Bank of Serbia: www.nbs.rs
         9       Privatization Agency: www.priv.rs
         9       Council for Regulatory Reforms: www.srp.gov.rs
         9 Parliament of Serbia http://www.parlament.gov.rs/

                                             30
31
