              REPUBLIC OF SERBIA

Private and Financial Sector
    Policy Based Guarantee




                    Report No. 106176
                            JUNE 6, 2016
© 2016 International Bank for Reconstruction   This work is a product of the staff of The World    RIGHTS AND PERMISSIONS
and Development / The World Bank               Bank with external contributions. The findings,     The material in this work is subject to copyright.
1818 H Street NW                               interpretations, and conclusions expressed in       Because The World Bank encourages
Washington DC 20433                            this work do not necessarily reflect the views of   dissemination of its knowledge, this work may be
Telephone: 202-473-1000                        The World Bank, its Board of Executive              reproduced, in whole or in part, for
Internet: www.worldbank.org                    Directors, or the governments they represent.       noncommercial purposes as long as full
                                                                                                   attribution to this work is given.
                                               The World Bank does not guarantee the
                                               accuracy of the data included in this work. The     Any queries on rights and licenses, including
                                               boundaries, colors, denominations, and other        subsidiary rights, should be addressed to
                                               information shown on any map in this work do        World Bank Publications, The World Bank
                                               not imply any judgment on the part of The           Group, 1818 H Street NW, Washington, DC
                                               World Bank concerning the legal status of any       20433, USA; fax: 202-522-2625; e-mail:
                                               territory or the endorsement or acceptance of       pubrights@worldbank.org.
                                               such boundaries.
                                                     Report No.: 106176




          PROJECT PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT REPORT

                       REPUBLIC OF SERBIA

   PRIVATE AND FINANCIAL SECTOR POLICY BASED GUARANTEE
                          (P102651)


                            June 6, 2016




IEG Human Development and Economic Management Department
Independent Evaluation Group
                                                ii


Currency Equivalents (annual averages)

Currency Unit = Dinar (SRD)

2011                   US$1.00                  SRD 73.22
2012                   US$1.00                  SRD 83.31
2013                   US$1.00                  SRD 85.14
2014                   US$1.00                  SRD 83.67
2015                   US$1.00                  SRD 113.29
2016                   US$1.00                  SRD 113.29

Abbreviations and Acronyms
DIA        Deposit Insurance Agency
DPL        Development Policy Loan
DPO        Development Policy Operation
EC         European Commission
EU         European Union
Euribor    Euro Interbank Offer Rate
IBRD       International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (World Bank)
ICR        Implementation Completion Report
IEG        Independent Evaluation Group
IEGHE      IEG Human Development and Economic Management Department
IMF        International Monetary Fund
M&E        Monitoring and Evaluation
NBS        National Bank of Serbia
OECD       Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development
OP         Operational Policy
OPCS       Operations Policy and Country Services
PBG        Policy-Based Guarantee
PFDPL      Programmatic Private and Financial Development Policy Loan
PFPBG      Private and Financial Sector Policy Based Guarantee
PPAR       Project Performance Assessment Report
RRG        Rolling Reinstatable Guarantee
SIDA       Swedish International Development Cooperation Agency

Fiscal Year

Government:            January 1 – December 31




Director-General, Independent Evaluation                      :   Ms. Caroline Heider
Director, Human Development and Economic Management           :   Mr. Nick York
Manager, Country Program and Economic Management              :   Mr. Mark Sundberg
Task Manager                                                  :   Mr. Zeljko Bogetic
                                                                   iii


Contents
Principal Ratings ................................................................................................................ iv
Key Staff Responsible........................................................................................................ iv
Preface............................................................................................................................... vii
Summary ............................................................................................................................ ix
1. Background and Context................................................................................................. 1
2. Objectives, Design, and their Relevance ........................................................................ 3
   Relevance of Objectives ................................................................................................. 4
   Relevance of Design ....................................................................................................... 5
3. Implementation ............................................................................................................... 7
4. Achievement of the Objectives ....................................................................................... 7
5. Ratings .......................................................................................................................... 20
6. Lessons .......................................................................................................................... 24
References ......................................................................................................................... 27
Annex A. Basic Data Sheet ............................................................................................... 29
Annex B. The Bank’s Experience with Policy Based Guarantees .................................... 31
Appendix C. List of Persons Met ...................................................................................... 34


Boxes
Box 1.1. Major Reforms under Programmatic Private and Financial Development Policy
Loans (PFDPL) 1 and 2 ...................................................................................................... 2

Tables
Table 2.1. Serbia PFPBG - Prior Actions ........................................................................... 6
Table 4.1. Serbia: Protection of Investors Index............................................................... 11
Table 4.2. Privatization Agency Portfolio, November 2010 ............................................ 15

Figures
Figure 4.1. Serbia’s Post-PFPBG International Market Borrowing Terms ........................ 9
Figure 4.2. Serbia: Doing Business Indicators - Distance from the Frontier (100 = Best
Performance) ..................................................................................................................... 13
Figure 4.3. South East Europe: Real Growth of Credit, Year-on-Year (Percent) ............ 17
This report was prepared by Zeljko Bogetic, with the research analyst support of Lancine Conde, who
assessed the project in June - October 2015. The report was peer reviewed by Shahrokh Fardoust and panel
reviewed by Chad Leechor. Viktoriya Yevsyeyeva and Yezena Yimer provided administrative support.
                                                              iv


Principal Ratings
                                     ICR*                           ICR Review*                           PPAR
 Outcome                       Highly satisfactory                   Satisfactory                      Satisfactory
 Risk to
 Development                         Moderate                          Moderate                         Moderate
 Outcome
 Bank Performance              Highly satisfactory               Highly satisfactory              Highly satisfactory
 Borrower
                               Highly satisfactory                   Satisfactory                 Highly satisfactory
 Performance
* The Implementation Completion Report (ICR) is a self-evaluation by the responsible Bank department. The ICR Review is an
intermediate IEGWB product that seeks to independently verify the findings of the ICR.



Key Staff Responsible
                                                                Division Chief/
 Project                Task Manager/Leader                     Sector Director                   Country Director
 Appraisal                 Aurora Ferrari                         Lalit Raina                      Jane Armitage
 Completion                  Aurora Ferrari                        Lalit Raina                      Jane Armitage
                                                           v


      IEG Mission: Improving World Bank Group development results through excellence in evaluation.


About this Report
       The Independent Evaluation Group assesses the programs and activities of the World Bank for two purposes:
first, to ensure the integrity of the Bank’s self-evaluation process and to verify that the Bank’s work is producing the
expected results, and second, to help develop improved directions, policies, and procedures through the
dissemination of lessons drawn from experience. As part of this work, IEG annually assesses 20-25 percent of the
Bank’s lending operations through field work. In selecting operations for assessment, preference is given to those that
are innovative, large, or complex; those that are relevant to upcoming studies or country evaluations; those for which
Executive Directors or Bank management have requested assessments; and those that are likely to generate
important lessons.
      To prepare a Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR), IEG staff examine project files and other
documents, visit the borrowing country to discuss the operation with the government, and other in-country
stakeholders, and interview Bank staff and other donor agency staff both at headquarters and in local offices as
appropriate.
      Each PPAR is subject to internal IEG peer review, Panel review, and management approval. Once cleared
internally, the PPAR is commented on by the responsible Bank department. The PPAR is also sent to the borrower
for review. IEG incorporates both Bank and borrower comments as appropriate, and the borrowers' comments are
attached to the document that is sent to the Bank's Board of Executive Directors. After an assessment report has
been sent to the Board, it is disclosed to the public.


About the IEG Rating System for Public Sector Evaluations
     IEG’s use of multiple evaluation methods offers both rigor and a necessary level of flexibilit y to adapt to
lending instrument, project design, or sectoral approach. IEG evaluators all apply the same basic method to arrive
at their project ratings. Following is the definition and rating scale used for each evaluation criterion (additional
information is available on the IEG website: http://worldbank.org/ieg).
     Outcome: The extent to which the operation’s major relevant objectives were achieved, or are expected to
be achieved, efficiently. The rating has three dimensions: relevance, efficacy, and efficiency. Relevance includes
relevance of objectives and relevance of design. Relevance of objectives is the extent to which the project’s
objectives are consistent with the country’s current development priorities and with current Bank country and
sectoral assistance strategies and corporate goals (expressed in Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers, Country
Assistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers, and Operational Policies). Relevance of design is the extent to
which the project’s design is consistent with the stated objectives. Efficacy is the extent to which the project’s
objectives were achieved, or are expected to be achieved, taking into account their relative importance. Efficiency
is the extent to which the project achieved, or is expected to achieve, a return higher than the opportunity cost of
capital and benefits at least cost compared to alternatives. The efficiency dimension generally is not applied to
adjustment operations. Possible ratings for Outcome: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory,
Moderately Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
     Risk to Development Outcome: The risk, at the time of evaluation, that development outcomes (or
expected outcomes) will not be maintained (or realized). Possible ratings for Risk to Development Outcome: High,
Significant, Moderate, Negligible to Low, Not Evaluable.
     Bank Performance: The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry of the
operation and supported effective implementation through appropriate supervision (including ensuring adequate
transition arrangements for regular operation of supported activities after loan/credit closing, toward the
achievement of development outcomes. The rating has two dimensions: quality at entry and quality of supervision.
Possible ratings for Bank Performance: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
     Borrower Performance: The extent to which the borrower (including the government and implementing
agency or agencies) ensured quality of preparation and implementation, and complied with covenants and
agreements, toward the achievement of development outcomes. The rating has two dimensions: government
performance and implementing agency(ies) performance. Possible ratings for Borrower Performance: Highly
Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly
Unsatisfactory.
                                                     vii


Preface
This Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) was prepared by Zeljko Bogetic
(task team leader) under the supervision of Mark Sundberg (manager, IEG Public Sector
Evaluations). Research support from Lancine Conde and team assistant support from
Viktoriya Yevsyeyeva and Yezena Zemene Yimer in IEG, and Ivana Klencovljevic and
Ana Markovic in the Bank’s Belgrade office are gratefully acknowledged. The PPAR
team wishes to express sincere gratitude to the government officials, stakeholders, and
Bank staff interviewed, who provided their perspective and valuable information in the
course this assessment (see Appendix C).

This PPAR is the first in a series of four currently under way to assess the early
performance of Policy-Based Guarantees (PBGs). The other three operations in the series
include two in the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and one in Montenegro. All
four operations took place in Western Balkan countries during 2011–14.1 Following
completion of the four PPARs, an Independent Evaluation Group (IEG) learning product
is envisaged to synthesize high-level lessons from the early use of the PBG instrument,
with a view to its potentially wider applicability to Bank member countries.

This report evaluates the Private and Financial Sector Policy-Based Guarantee (PFPBG)
to Serbia, which was approved on February 10, 2011. The operational phase of the policy
reforms supported by the operation ended on the effectiveness date of April 15, 2011; this
report takes this as the closing date of the guarantee. By contrast, the Implementation
Completion Report (ICR) refers to April 13, 2017, as the “closing date,” although that is
the date of the expiration of the guarantee.2 This peculiarity about closing/expiry of the
guarantee date is specific to guarantees, in contrast to investment lending operations, for
example.

The total amount disbursed by the underwriting international commercial bank was
US$400 million, as envisaged at Board approval.

This report presents findings based on a review of the project appraisal documents, the
Implementation Completion and Results Reports, Implementation Completion and
Results Review, aide memoires, International Monetary Fund (IMF) and World Bank
reports, and other relevant materials. An IEG mission visited Belgrade during June 22–
26, 2015, to interview government officials, the staff of the IMF, think tanks, Bank staff,
and other stakeholders (see appendix C for the complete list of persons interviewed).
Bank staff members, donor representatives, and other information providers were also

1
 See appendix B for a brief historical overview of Policy-Based Guarantees (PBGs) at the Bank. It should
be noted that in contrast with earlier PBGs, the PBGs approved in the past five years have substantial
policy reform content and they are much closer to standard Development Policy Operations (DPOs) in
design. Indeed, the latest reform of the DPO framework by Operations Policy and Country Services treats
PBGs as a type of DPO.
2
  In guarantees, there is a distinction between two key dates: (1) the closing of the guarantee, which is when
the Bank stops monitoring the program implementation (and starts ICR preparation); and (2) the expiration
of the guarantee, which is when the Bank stops accepting calls on the guarantee. (See, for example, World
Bank 2013a, p. 17, para 52.)
                                            viii


interviewed at headquarters and by telephone. This work was carried out in parallel with,
and benefited from, a separate PPAR of a PBG to FYR Macedonia.

The assessment aims to verify whether the operation achieved its intended outcomes. It
provides additional evidence and analysis of relevant and comparative data for a more
complete picture of the outcomes and the factors that influenced them. By covering the
period between 2011 and mid-2015, it offers an opportunity for broader lessons and a
longer time perspective, beyond the closing of the operation, as well as reflection on the
sustainability of policy reforms and long-term factors that drove outcomes. Finally, the
report draws lessons that are intended to inform future operations of this nature in other
countries.

Following standard IEG procedures, the report was sent to the government officials and
agencies in the Republic of Serbia for review and comments, no comments were
received.
                                             ix


Summary
This Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) reviews the Private and Financial
Sector Policy-Based Guarantee (PFPBG) to Serbia, which was approved on February 10,
2011.

The PPAR provides a fresh look at this operation four years after the completion of the
reform program. It reviews the existing evidence and brings new evidence to light based
on additional country-specific and comparative data and information on institutional
reforms and international metrics, as well as insights from over 40 semi-structured
interviews with stakeholders in the country and at the Bank. This allows the report to
provide some perspective on the sustainability of reforms supported under the PFPBG
over the medium term. This medium-term perspective is part of the Independent
Evaluation Group (IEG) effort to gain greater insights into the impact of budget support
in countries with significant levels and duration of Development Policy Operation (DPO)
support.

The objectives of the operation were to (i) facilitate Serbia’s access to international
markets and assist the country in achieving longer tenor and lower interest terms on its
external commercial loans; (ii) enhance the business environment to support private
sector investment; (iii) strengthen financial discipline with continued reform of the non–
private enterprise sector, with a particular focus on bankruptcy; and (iv) build a stable
and more efficient financial sector through continued restructuring of state holdings in
banking, crisis preparedness, support to insurance sector development, and promotion of
the development of capital markets.

The PFPBG was originally envisaged as the third in a series of private and financial
sector Development Policy Loans (DPL). But the series was truncated, and the third
operation was converted early in the preparation into a stand-alone Policy-Based
Guarantee, while keeping essentially the same policy framework of the original DPL.
Under the Operational Policy governing guarantees, which at the time guided Policy-
Based Guarantees (PBGs), there was no possibility of a programmatic guarantee, hence
the stand-alone design of the PBG. The International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development (IBRD) guarantee covers the principal amount of a commercial bank
borrowing of US$400 million, with a six-year bullet maturity on a non-accelerable basis.
Following tender procedure, the government selected Société Générale as the commercial
bank to provide the loan.

For reasons elaborated below, the relevance, design, and results of the PFPBG largely
met the high expectations of financial and policy reform objectives specified at the outset.
The Bank took a calculated risk with the new instrument in order to deliver to the client
on its request for a much larger volume of financing than was possible under the DPL.
The Bank team worked vigorously to develop the operation using a de facto new
instrument, to maintain broad policy dialogue, to provide ongoing technical support to the
client government, and to act as a facilitator in the discussions between the government
and the external commercial banks that provided the financing.
                                             x


The government showed strong ownership of the reform agenda. A relationship of
partnership and trust characterized the cooperation between the Bank and the
government. As a result, the operation featured good design and outcomes, despite the
difficult external environment in the euro area in the aftermath of the Great Recession
and the escalation of the Greek debt crisis. Most of the reform agenda showed high
achievements. One part of the reform agenda - strengthening financial discipline in the
state enterprise sector - achieved its targeted outcomes, but in the context of a subsequent
hiatus in the pace of enterprise reform, which only picked up in late 2014 with new
International Monetary Fund (IMF) and Bank programs.

The following is a brief summary of the main conclusions of the PPAR assessment with
respect to its key components: relevance of objectives and design, achievement, Bank and
borrower performance, and monitoring and evaluation (M&E).

The relevance of objectives was high. Objectives were closely aligned with the Bank’s
strategic documents and the Bank’s strategy. They were highly relevant to country
conditions and the need to accelerate and complete the transition to a market economy.
Critical policy areas - improving the business climate, enhancing financial discipline, and
strengthening financial sector stability and efficiency - were identified based on
considerable analytical work, especially the Serbia Country Economic Memorandum,
Financial Sector Policy Notes, and Public Expenditure Review.

Design was highly relevant. The financial objectives of the operation in terms of
facilitation of the country’s access to international markets, lengthening maturity, and
improving terms of sovereign borrowing were highly relevant to country conditions,
especially considering the market turbulence and regional and euro area risks at the time.
These objectives were well-linked to the design of the PFPBG, as well as the desired
outcome of the country eventually accessing markets independently. Policy reform
objectives were appropriately chosen based on long-standing policy dialogue, extensive
consultation, and analytical work. Objectives were linked within a broader policy
framework to specific actions. Prior actions were few, clear, and concrete, and they were
linked to outcome indicators, over half of which were quantifiable. Some prior actions
were particularly critical (for example, maintenance of the high capital adequacy ratio) in
view of the high external uncertainty and potential shocks, and they served well to focus
the policy reform and help ensure sustainable reform gains.

Achievement of objectives was satisfactory, and achievement of financial objective was
notable. The government managed to double maturity and substantially lower the cost of
borrowing using the PBG. As anticipated, this subsequently led to Serbia independently
and regularly accessing international markets on favorable terms and longer-term
maturities. Policy reform objectives also showed high achievement. Of the 18 outcome
indicators, 15 were fully achieved and 1 was partly achieved, an overall achievement
ratio of 89 percent. All critical actions and outcomes, especially in the external financial
and financial sector policy areas, were achieved. A field visit, interviews, and additional
evidence indicate that a large majority of reforms were sustained, several reforms were
deepened, and outcomes improved further with the passage of time. In one area -
enhancing financial discipline—required actions were also completed and outcomes were
achieved and sustained, but there was a subsequent hiatus of some two and a half years
                                             xi


before these reforms achieved renewed momentum in late 2014 and 2015, in the context
of new IMF and Bank support programs. This was heavily influenced by the extremely
adverse economic conditions of a triple recession (2009, 2012, and 2014) and very high
unemployment, which limited the government’s political room to maneuver within the
state enterprise reform agenda. Within a medium-term perspective, financial sector
reforms supported by the PBG, especially the bank resolution framework and
maintenance of high capital adequacy, proved critical in strengthening the resilience of
the banking sector to absorb adverse economic and external shocks.

Bank performance was highly satisfactory. Taking into account the difficult economic
and external conditions and risks that the Bank took, Bank performance could be
considered an example of good practice. The Bank took calculated risks with a new
instrument in order to meet the borrower’s need for a larger and timely volume of
borrowing while supporting a broad policy reform agenda. As the first PBG in a decade,
it was a pioneering effort and it was highly successful. It built on a relationship of trust
with the government and a broad policy dialogue. It provided substantial informal
technical assistance to the Public Debt Administration, building on the past technical
assistance as part of the earlier DPLs. The Bank also acted as a trusted partner and
facilitator in the dialogue of the government with commercial banks. Following the
approval of the operation, the Bank maintained monitoring and dialogue and worked to
sustain the reform momentum. The Bank also closely coordinated with the IMF and
several bilateral partners (for example, SIDA, the Swiss government), and there was clear
division of labor and complementarity between the IMF (focusing on macroeconomic
policies) and the Bank (focusing on structural issues).

Borrower performance was highly satisfactory. Government ownership was high. The
government performed well on macroeconomic policies and in structural policy areas.
Quality of the reporting, cooperation, dialogue, and engagement of technical counterparts
was high. Key government agencies, including the Ministry of Finance, the National
Bank of Serbia (NBS), and the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development were
highly cooperative and coordination of the Ministry of Finance was high. A key agency
for the financial objectives of the operation - the Public Debt Administration - worked
closely with the Bank team on a tight schedule to ensure the timely completion of the
many complex details of the financial architecture of the operation, which was new to all
the parties involved: the government, the Bank, and the external commercial
underwriting bank.

The M&E framework was rated substantial. It featured clear objectives, prior actions, and
indicators, and solid linkages among them. Half of the indicators were quantitative and
most were identifiable, clear, and measurable. Many showed sustained achievement over
time. In some cases, indicators could have more clearly and explicitly defined the
baseline, and some indicators were more in the nature of outputs and intermediate
outcomes. Use of some critical indicators informed policy adjustments and
improvements, especially in the areas of improving the business climate and financial
sector reform.
                                            xii


Lessons
With informed hindsight four years after the operation, several lessons are worth
highlighting that may be of broader relevance.

First, PBGs are a potentially important instrument that could expand the tool kit of
Bank assistance in client countries. It could be relevant for many countries seeking to
strengthen access to international financial markets while advancing policy reforms. It
fills the niche between commercial borrowing and traditional DPOs, while providing
client borrowers with better-than-commercial terms and larger volumes than would be
available under a DPO.

Second, this satisfactory operation shows that the Bank can productively take informed
risks with new and innovative instruments in order to support client needs in a timely
fashion that would not have been possible with standard instruments of Bank support.
The Bank had an option to take a low-risk approach and extend a standard DPL, which
would have been in line with Bank strategy. Also, external market turbulence might have
suggested a more cautious approach with a standard DPL. In that scenario, however, the
borrower would have had to borrow additional amounts in the external markets at much
more unfavorable terms, raising its short-term debt service. The Bank’s innovative
approach with a PBG was risky, but it helped strengthen the relationship of trust with the
government.

Third, the PBG can be a particularly effective instrument of budget support under certain
conditions. Those conditions are likely to include the following: vulnerable economies
(large and small) needing substantial external financing on favorable terms and on a
timely basis; a solid track record of macroeconomic performance, debt management, and
policy reform and a good dialogue with the Bank; and a period of heightened
international market risks and worsened access and terms of sovereign borrowing. These
conditions are quite prevalent in international markets. Yet PBG use at the Bank has
been very limited so far. This may suggest that, with more information disseminated
among the Bank Regions and the borrowers, there is scope for a wider use of PBGs in the
future. This could also be helped by recent Operations Policy and Country Services
(OPCS) reform that moved the PBGs to the revised Operational Policy (OP) 8.60
framework governing development policy operations, thereby explicitly recognizing that
PBGs are essentially a unique type of DPL.

Fourth, a PBG can unlock multiple benefits to the borrower, which may not be easily
captured by alternatives such as a standard DPL: The borrower was able borrow the
larger amount (because of the Bank’s set-aside policy, which accounts for only one-
quarter of the PBG against the country’s borrower limit) needed at the right time and on
favorable terms in the context of the PBG, and its short-term debt service was lower than
would have been the case otherwise; it was able to open the door to substantial
subsequent international borrowing at favorable terms; the borrower was able to establish
itself in the eyes of international investors and broaden the investor base; and the
borrower was highly motivated to deliver on reforms, in part because of a relationship of
trust with the Bank, the large volume of borrowing, and perhaps also because of the
presence of a third party (foreign commercial bank providing funding), which provided
additional pressure on the timing and closure of the loan. To guard against the risk of the
                                           xiii


PBG being used to postpone the necessary reforms and adjustment—a potential issue
with any large-scale borrowing––a strong reform program is critical to the success of the
operation.

Fifth, it is important to recognize that risks such as a bullet repayment feature could
add to the borrower’s risk of repayment in the future unless it is accompanied by ex ante
provisions equal to the amount required under a standard annual repayment schedule.
Repayment options and their pros and cons should be discussed at length with the client.
Standard repayment schedules should normally be preferred, and bullet repayments
should be accompanied by a Bank recommendation (or requirement) to the borrower to
make annual provisions.

Sixth, strong and relevant design and high achievement is much more likely when the
operation’s design is informed by considerable knowledge work, intensive and longer-
term Bank engagement and dialogue, and a relationship of trust between the Bank
and the borrower.

Seventh, Bank staff engagement in innovative operations must be more intensive and
accompanied by considerable informal technical assistance to inform the borrower of
the benefits and risks and help it navigate the preparation of a hitherto little-known
instrument or type of Bank operation.




                                                       Nick York
                                                        Director
                                                 Human Development and
                                             Economic Management Department
                                                         1


1. Background and Context
1.1     Four issues are important in understanding the broader development context relevant
to the assessment of this operation: (i) the difficult external environment after the Great
Recession and market turbulence in the aftermath of the escalation of the Greek debt crisis in
2009, (ii) the strong engagement and good policy dialogue that the Bank and the
International Monetary Fund (IMF) had with Serbia in support of its economic reforms, (iii)
the country’s solid track record with economic management and reform momentum at the
time, and (iv) Serbia’s politics and their interplay with economic policy reforms.

1.2    Serbia’s external environment in late 2010 and 2011 was characterized by a very
sluggish euro area recovery and weak trade and capital flows, which stymied the country’s
recovery from a deep recession. Also, many European countries experienced reduced access
to markets and elevated sovereign spreads on external borrowing. The escalation of the
Greek (2009-10), Portuguese (2010), and Irish (2011) crises resulted in a substantial rise in
sovereign spreads of these and some other European countries. Markets curtailed access and
spreads rose, especially for smaller countries outside the euro area, such as Serbia.

1.3      Against this backdrop, the Bank has had a vibrant economic policy dialogue with
Serbia. The broad dialogue reflected government’s ownership and efforts to restart reform of
the economy after an almost two-decade delay brought about by virulent hyperinflation,
regional wars, chaotic disintegration of the former Yugoslavia, economic sanctions, and
massive losses in output and employment. After the peaceful break-up of Serbia and
Montenegro into two countries in 2006, in particular, the Serbian government restarted
reforms, focusing its attention on reintegrating Serbia into the international and financial
markets and jump-starting long-delayed reforms. Despite major shocks during the global
recession, sound macroeconomic management helped the country avoid the major banking
crisis that engulfed some European countries. This solid track record of reforms and
continuity of policy dialogue with the Bank were important prerequisites of the country’s
accessing financing using the Policy-Based Guarantee (PBG).3 Also, An IMF enhanced
stand-by arrangement of EUR 3 billion was developed in close cooperation with the Bank’s
Private and Financial Sector Policy-Based Guarantee (PFPBG).

1.4     The Bank had previously supported Serbia’s reforms through a series of Development
Policy Operations (DPO). Before the PFPBG, the Bank approved two private and financial
sector DPOs - Public Expenditure Development Policy Loans 1 and 2 - which were originally
part of a series of three Development Policy Loans. In the event, the series was terminated
after the second operation, and the third loan was converted into a stand-alone PFPBG at the
request of the government of Serbia, but the policy framework and the policy matrix
remained largely unchanged. The PFPBG has, therefore, helped maintain the continuity of
major policy reforms in the same broad areas of the business environment, state-owned

3
  According to the Operations Policy and Country Services (OPCS) rules at the time, a country was eligible for
a PBG if it met three criteria: (i) the country should have a strong track record of performance, and its structural,
social, and macroeconomic policy package should be satisfactory; (ii) the country should have a sustainable
external financing plan; and (iii) the country should have a coherent borrowing strategy, which will enable it to
become a borrower in its own name without a guarantee in the medium term.
                                                           2


enterprises, and the financial sector (box 1.1); in addition, it allowed the country to access
international markets in the desired volume and on favorable terms. More broadly, the
quality of policies and institutions were improving as measured by the Bank’s country policy
and institutional assessment metrics, especially in the areas of public sector institutions and
social inclusion policies.

1.5    The government’s motivation to opt for a PFPG instead of a Development Policy
Loan (DPL) was to: (i) ensure timely and sufficient volume of external borrowing on
favorable terms at a time when markets were almost closed for small, vulnerable countries
such as Serbia, and (ii) establish favorable benchmarks and broaden investor interest for the
country’s future commercial borrowing.

    Box 1.1. Major Reforms under Programmatic Private and Financial Development Policy
    Loans (PFDPL) 1 and 2
    Business environment: Beginning of regulatory review of business regulations (regulatory impact
    analysis) (PFDPL 1), Laws on protection of competition, bankruptcy, and state aid adopted
    (PFDPL 2).
    Financial discipline and state-owned enterprises: Privatization law passed. About 300 state-owned
    enterprises privatized (PFDPL 1). Sale of remaining shares of 39 socially owned enterprises
    completed (PFDPL 2).
    Financial sector: Deposit insurance agency capitalized (PFDPL 1), diagnostic of all commercial
    banks completed, National Bank of Serbia adoption of liquidity framework and strategy of
    consolidation of banks, law on mandatory traffic insurance (PFDPL 2).
    Most of the reforms and outcomes supported under PFDPL 1 and 2 were achieved (PFDPL ICR
    Review). The PFPBG directly supported subsequent reforms in each of these policy areas, reflected
    in its policy reform objectives.
    Source: Project Documents of PFDPL 1 and 2; World Bank 2011a, and project appraisal documents for PFDPL 1 and 2.


1.6      Important motivation was also provided by Serbia’s ability to obtain a volume of
borrowing under the PFPBG that was four times higher than under the standard DPL; this
was a result of the Bank’s policy of accounting only one-quarter of a PFPBG against the
Bank’s “headroom” country borrowing limit, while 100 percent would be applied against a
DPL. This policy had been put in place by the Bank’s senior management to provide an
incentive to the countries to use the new PBG instrument. Until the Serbia PFPBG, only three
countries had previously availed themselves of this instrument: Cote d’Ivoire, Argentina
(1999), and Colombia (2001).4 The PFPBG absorbed the key lessons from these early PBGs
in that (i) they have the potential to leverage significant financing for client countries facing a
difficult international environment and (ii) they can support completion of a longer series of
reforms. Serbia’s PFPBG was the first PBG in the Bank in a decade; as such, it was a
pioneering operation in the Europe and Central Asia Region.

1.7   To better understand the context - in addition to the regional recession, high
unemployment, and financing constraints - it is important to recognize that the operation’s

4
    See Appendix B for details.
reform program targeted issues that were very difficult politically, including financial
discipline in socially owned and state-owned enterprises. A major consequence of Serbia’s
delayed transition because of regional wars in the 1990s was the persistence of a large and
mainly unreformed socially and state-owned enterprise sector.5 Many of those enterprises,
which lost the markets of a much larger former country of Yugoslavia as well as many
external markets, became unviable, yet they were not restructured or closed. This resulted in
a drain on the budget and pressures on the banking system to extend explicit direct and
indirect subsidies and loans, with little result in terms of financial, efficiency, and
organizational improvements. The social and political dimension of the problem of excess
employment in these enterprises was particularly intractable. Therefore, strengthening
financial discipline in this sector was a key part of structural reforms and needed
improvements in the competitiveness of Serbia’s economy.

1.8     Against this backdrop, the government has shown resolve to pursue reforms
supported by the IMF and the Bank. There was momentum for reforms and hope that the
euro area and Balkan region’s recovery would continue uninterrupted. Also, the government
of Serbia had a record of solid macroeconomic management under difficult conditions. But
there were clouds on the horizon, especially with respect to the pace of euro area recovery,
which provided the key context for reforms. This and major structural constraints, including
long delays in the transition and the unreformed public sector and unfavorable investment
climate, contributed to the very high chronic unemployment, in excess of 20 percent of the
labor force. The youth unemployment rate exceeded 50 percent. In this environment, reforms
over the medium term were vulnerable to changes in the economic environment and political
support for reforms. The reforms under the PFPBG were implemented with high
achievement, as elaborated below. However, starting a year after the closing of the operation,
for a period of two and a half years, between mid-2012 and late 2014, there was hiatus in
reforms, in large part because of fragmented politics during a coalition government. Fiscal
adjustment and structural reforms regained momentum in late 2014 with the support of new
IMF and Bank programs.

1.9      The remainder of the report assesses the PFPBG operation and its key building
blocks. The appendixes provide details on administrative aspects of the operation and
statistical information.

2. Objectives, Design, and their Relevance
2.1       It is important to recognize that the PFPBG combined the elements of:
         A financial guarantee
         A DPO supporting broad policy reform.


5
  Socially owned enterprises had a negative definition of ownership in that no particular group was a residual
claimant, but there was strong employee influence. This ownership structure was less amenable to restructuring,
privatization, and bankruptcy and, partly as a result, these processes were delayed for this category of
enterprises. By contrast, state enterprises were incorporated companies with full or dominant ownership of the
state.
                                                        4


As a result, it featured dual objectives: ensuring financial benefits arising from the financial
guarantee as well as policy reform.

2.2     The financial objectives of the operation were to facilitate Serbia’s access to
international markets and assist the country in achieving longer tenor and lower interest
terms on its external commercial loans. While not explicit in the development objectives, it is
clear from the program document that the key reason for the choice of the instrument and its
timing was facilitation of access to international markets on favorable terms. This is
especially clear in the program summary, program description, and in the policy matrix in
annex 2 of the program document.6 As a result, this Project Performance Assessment Report
(PPAR) adds this key objective to the standard policy reform objectives. Moreover, it takes
the view that all policy-based guarantees should explicitly include financing objectives
within the project’s development objectives. The policy reform objectives were: (i)
enhancing the business environment to support private sector investment, (ii) strengthening
financial discipline with continued reform in the non–private enterprise sector, with a
particular focus on bankruptcy, and (iii) building a stable and more efficient financial sector
through continued restructuring of state holdings in banking, crisis preparedness, supporting
insurance sector development, and promoting development of capital markets.

2.3    Envisaged originally as the third in a series of private and financial sector DPLs, the
operation was converted on request by the borrower early in the preparation into a stand-
alone policy-based guarantee. The policy framework of the original DPL remained
substantially unchanged. Under the Operational Policy on guarantees, which at the time
guided PBGs, there was no possibility of a programmatic guarantee, hence the stand-alone
design of the PBG.

Relevance of Objectives
Relevance of objectives is rated high.

2.4     The objectives were highly relevant to country conditions and the need to accelerate
and complete the transition to a market economy and reintegration into the international
markets. This, indeed, required a strong emphasis on private sector development and
restructuring of a large, inefficient public sector. At the same time, it called for strengthening
of financial sector stability and resilience in the wake of the strong financial spillovers from
the global and euro area crises.

2.5    The operation’s policy objectives were closely aligned to the government’s
development strategy for the period 2006–12, and this remained so at the time of this review.
The strategy emphasized high-level objectives of increasing welfare of the population by
achieving high rates of economic growth, reduction of unemployment, and increased
competitiveness. To this end, the strategy recognizes the need for the country to quickly

6
  The program document notes in the program summary that PFPBG “will be used to enhance a borrowing
transaction from the international loan market. The guarantee will lead to improvements in pricing and tenor,
and it will contribute to enhancing Serbia's further access to international financial markets ” (World Bank
2011b, p. ii). The policy matrix in annex 2 of the document also has explicit reference to the financing objective
as well as outcome indicators.
make up the time lost because of a long delay in the transition in order to offer “support for
private sector development and efficiently restructure and close of non-viable state
enterprises with appropriate economic and social safeguards.” These objectives were part of
a broader government strategy of institutional strengthening and economic convergence on
the road to eventual membership in the European Union (EU).

2.6     The objectives were also substantially relevant for the Bank’s strategy, and they
remained relevant at the time of review. The FY08–11 Country Partnership Strategy (World
Bank 2007) and 2009 Country Partnership Strategy Progress Report (World Bank 2009a)
indicate that Bank strategy supported the government’s policy priorities in three key areas: (i)
private sector–led growth to ensure income convergence with Europe, (ii) increased
economic opportunities and broader participation in economic growth, and (iii) management
of environmental and disaster risks. In particular, the Bank’s Programmatic Private and
Financial Development Policy Loan (PFDPL) series supported the first two policy priorities.
PFPBG objectives were especially geared toward the first objective of fostering private
sector–led growth. PFPBG was closely coordinated with the IMF-supported, three-year
program (2009–11), which also supported macroeconomic stability and fiscal and banking
sector reforms. Several bilateral development partners also supported specific elements of
Serbia’s reforms.

Relevance of Design
Relevance of design was rated high.

2.7     The financial objectives of the operation in terms of facilitation of the country’s
access to international markets were highly relevant to country conditions. They were well
linked to the design of the PFPBG, as well as the desired outcome of the country eventually
accessing markets independently. The other, related financial objective of lengthening the
tenor and reducing interest rates of external commercial borrowing was equally important in
the context of very high sovereign spreads, which penalized small countries even when they
had comparatively solid macroeconomic management.

2.8     Policy objectives of supporting private sector growth were appropriately linked with
reform activities such as simplification of business entry by creating a single window for
registration of employees, improving the legal framework for strengthening corporate
governance by preparing a law on business entities, as well as streamlining business
regulations and reducing compliance costs to businesses. The objective of strengthening
financial discipline was also well linked with the need to facilitate bankruptcy of nonviable
socially owned enterprises and to enforce financial discipline by reducing subsidies in those
enterprises. And the objective of building a stable and more efficient financial system was
appropriately linked with activities aimed at short-term crisis preparedness and bank
resolution, which was, in turn, clearly linked to the diagnostic assessments and bank
recapitalizations leading to the target outcomes of a capital adequacy ratio of at least 12
percent (which was higher than the European norm at the time of 10 percent). Similarly,
restructuring and divestment of state-owned banks was expected to result in the consolidation
of the banking system, a more robust banking system, and a reduction in the number of state-
owned banks.
                                                  6


2.9      All the prior actions were completed as envisaged (table 2.1). The IEG mission
interviews and visits document that behind each prior action there has been a process of
intensive policy dialogue, analytical work, and continuity of reforms. Considered within the
context of broader policy reforms and previous reforms supported under PFDPL 1 and 2,
these actions were appropriately limited in numbers, as well as concrete, significant within
the country context, and measurable. Legislative reforms in prior actions are also significant
(such as passing modern laws on banking, deposit insurance, and the deposit insurance
agency incorporating good international practice), reflecting the efforts to accelerate
institutional reforms within the broader framework of institutional convergence to the EU.
Finally, the PPAR mission visit found that each of these prior actions had been sustained as
of mid-2015.

Table 2.1. Serbia PFPBG - Prior Actions
 Prior actions in Program Document                                                            Status
The borrower’s government has approved the draft Law on Business Entities, satisfactory to   Completed
the Bank, and submitted it to its parliament for adoption.
The borrower has completed a comprehensive review of regulation of business activities,      Completed
and the borrower’s government has approved the recommendation of that review.
The Registry of Regional Development Measures and Incentives, satisfactory to the Bank,      Completed
has been established within the Serbian Business Registers Agency (SBRA) and is
operational.
The National Bank of Serbia (NBS) has completed a diagnostic assessment of all banks         Completed
operating in Serbia in accordance with the methodology adopted under the Second
Programmatic Private and Financial Development Policy Loan provided by the Bank, and
enforced bank recapitalization to a capital adequacy ratio of 12 percent.
The borrower’s parliament has (i) enacted amendments satisfactory to the Bank to the Law     Completed
on Banks, Law on Bankruptcy and Liquidation of Banks and Insurance Companies, Law on
Deposit Insurance, and the Law on Deposit Insurance Agency; and (ii) enacted the Law on
Budget for the year 2011, which contains a provision satisfactory to the Bank on the state
guarantee to the Deposit Insurance Agency,
Banks with borrower majority ownership have been merged, privatized, or restructured in      Completed
accordance with the strategy adopted under the Second Programmatic Private and Financial
Development Policy Loan provided by the Bank.
Source: World Bank 2011a, b.

2.10 The choice of the lending instrument was highly relevant. The government
specifically sought quick-disbursing budget support, and this mandated a DPL-type
instrument. However, the DPL could not be used to deliver the volume of financing needed
by the government. Given the government’s objectives of accessing international markets at
times of market turbulence and its need for a high volume of financing while pursuing a wide
reform agenda, a PFPBG - a hybrid lending instrument combining elements of a guarantee
and a standard DPL - was the right choice. It allowed crowding-in of large, private,
commercial bank financing of the government budget, which would have otherwise been
prohibitively costly to the government - if it was available at all in prevailing market
conditions. And it ensured delivery of a broad DPL policy reform agenda. By increasing
volume of financing to $400 million, well beyond what was possible under the DPL option
($100 million), the PFPBG has probably strengthened the incentives of the government to
stay the course and implement the ambitious reforms

3. Implementation
3.1     The Bank extended the PFPBG in 2011. It was the first such operation extended by
the Bank in more than a decade. Given that there was no recent experience with the
instrument, the Bank team had to engage the government and the Bank’s internal structures
in intensive consultations to ensure that the government made an informed choice and that
the operation was fully in compliance with Bank regulations and that internal processes were
respected. It also required several parts of the Bank to work in concert under the direction of
the country director: task management, country team management, the Financial and Private
Sector Development Network (lead network), the Poverty Reduction and Economic
Management Network, Treasury, and the Finance Credit Risk Department. The PPAR team
interviews and stakeholder consultations indicate that the Bank practiced strong internal
coordination, considerable consultation, and intensive collaboration with the relevant
government agencies, led by the Ministry of Finance.

3.2    The implementing agency for the government of Serbia was represented by the
minister of finance, who was also the prime minister. The government and the Bank closely
coordinated with the Ministry of Economy and the National Bank of Serbia (NBS), which
were other key agencies involved in the reforms supported under the PFPBG. There were no
co-financers. By design, the PFPBG budget support was provided by the underwriting bank,
Société Générale, with the World Bank providing guarantee for the principal.

3.3     No safeguard policies were triggered by the operation. Based on the inspection of
prior actions, no adverse distributional effects are anticipated from policies supported by the
operation. Further, the operation is not expected to result in major direct adverse, or
irreversible, environmental impacts in the short term.7

4. Achievement of the Objectives
Objective 1: Facilitating Access to International Markets – High

4.1     The financial objectives of the operation were to (i) facilitate Serbia’s access to
international markets and (ii) assist the country in achieving longer tenor and lower interest
terms on its external commercial loans. The design of the PFPBG - as a hybrid of a World
Bank guarantee and a DPO - was well suited to the achievement of this objective, because it
guaranteed the principal of the international commercial loan and supported the policy
dialogue and a broad front of reforms. This was especially important because the
international markets were almost closed at that time for smaller European countries, and
market terms for Serbia were prohibitive. The operation helped the country (i) achieve access

7
  This is in part due to the legislative and institutional nature of many prior actions, and also because none of the
actions relate to issues of forestry, agriculture, and mining that might have direct environmental and social
repercussions.
                                              8


to the needed volume of external financing; (i) obtain favorable terms, establishing a
benchmark for subsequent international commercial borrowing; and (iii) access subsequent
international commercial borrowing on reasonable terms.

4.2     Two outcome indicators - appropriately chosen - were that the government of Serbia
will raise funding independently from international markets and raise euro loan funding with
maturity of more than three years, at an interest rate below the Euro Interbank Offered Rate
(Euribor) plus 500 basis points.

4.3     The operation has laid important groundwork for the sustained achievement of both
outcome indicators. Before the operation, Serbia was borrowing only from local commercial
banks, in euros, at interest rates between 8 to 11 percent (with spreads over the Euribor of
about 6–8 percent) and with maturities no longer than three years. By contrast, the PFPBG
provided an international commercial loan from Société Générale, with a World Bank
guarantee, of $400 million, for six years, at an interest rate of 4.5 percent. This meant
doubling of maturity and borrowing at spreads over Euribor of just above 1 percent.

4.4      Beyond these substantial, direct financial benefits of doubling maturity and reducing
cost, the operation had other important, catalytic benefits. By establishing such a favorable
benchmark at this turbulent times in the international markets, the operation has provided an
important positive signal to the markets that this creditworthy country is, indeed, able to
borrow at those terms. This has potentially reduced the perception of the country’s sovereign
risk at a time of extreme risk aversion and generally heightened sovereign spreads. Also, the
operation has helped introduce the country to the markets for the first time, and it helped
broaden its investor base, making it more known and potentially attractive to investors in the
future.

4.5     Subsequent to the PFPBG, the government of Serbia successfully accessed
international markets independently at much longer maturities than before the PFPBG and at
a reasonable cost of borrowing. Serbia has since borrowed about US$5 billion in direct
market borrowing at reasonable terms, substantially broadening the investor base and
establishing itself as a reliable borrower (figure 4.1).
Figure 4.1. Serbia’s Post-PFPBG International Market Borrowing Terms




Source: Serbia, Ministry of Finance (2015).
Objective 2: Enhancing the Business Environment to Support Private
Investments – High

4.6     Considerable Bank analytical work and comparative indicators suggested that the
business environment in Serbia has been one of the binding constraints on domestic
investment and growth (for example, Investment Climate Assessment [World Bank 2004],
Public Expenditure Review [World Bank 2009b], Private Sector Note, Financial Sector
Assessment Report (World Bank and the IMF, 2010), and Doing Business Indicators). There
was also an ongoing policy dialogue and diagnostic work done under the Country Economic
Memorandum that informed the operation, even though the report itself was only completed
later (World Bank 2012a). As a result, the policy focus on the business environment was
highly relevant. This analytical knowledge has also shaped the design of specific policy
reforms and policy actions supported under the operation.

4.7      The following summarizes the assessment of outcome achievement for each policy
reform area: further simplification of business entry; improving the legal framework for
strengthening corporate governance and facilitating business operations; streamlining
regulations of business activities and reducing compliance costs; improving the legal and
institutional framework for competition, and improving the effectiveness of enforcement of
court decisions.

Further simplification of business entry

4.8    To simplify business entry, the government created a single window to register
employees in the Pension and Health Funds. This was expected to result in the main outcome
indicator: reduction of the business compliance costs estimated at up to EUR 15 million by
end-2010. Achieved.
                                               10


4.9      The creation of a single window and a single form for registration of employees in the
Pension and Health Funds resulted in significant simplification and reduction of costs of
compliance, estimated at euro 15 million. This was the last in a series of improvements in
business registration, starting with the establishment of the Serbia Business Registration
Agency as a one-stop shop for business registration in mid-2009. This has resulted in the
significant reduction in the number of procedures required for registering a business in
Serbia, as well as the increase in the number of registered companies (EC 2014). For
example, in late 2011, starting a new business took 13 days and cost 7.9 percent of income per
capita, compared to 56 days and 15 percent in 2005. Business Environment and Enterprise
Performance Surveys also document managers’ views that various processes improved, making
entry easier (World Bank 2012a, p. 67; World Bank and IFC 2012). Discussions during the IEG
mission visit also indicate that these gains were sustained through early 2015 and that there
were no noticeable policy reversals in this regard. Furthermore, the EU Progress Report for
Serbia (EC 2014) indicates that a large number of new companies were established (8,574), and
more than three times the number of companies closed during the period (2,562), suggesting both
significant entry and “creative destruction” in terms of unviable firm exit.

4.10 More broadly, Serbia’s rating on the Doing Business scale advanced significantly
during 2011–13. It has simplified the insolvency process by introducing a series of measures,
such as private bailiffs, reducing the starting prices for the sale of assets, and prohibiting
appeals. The new private bailiff system also made it easier to enforce contracts. Serbia has
also made starting a business easier by eliminating the paid-in minimum capital requirement.
As a result, Serbia’s overall rank has improved to 86th in 2013, up from 92nd in 2012.

Improving legal framework for strengthening corporate governance and facilitating
business operations

4.11 To this end, the government approved the draft Law on Business Entities, satisfactory
to the Bank, and submitted it to parliament for adoption (prior action). Shortly thereafter, the
law was enacted (Serbia 2011, Law on Companies). This was expected to result in the main
outcome indicator: improved legal framework for corporate governance. Over the medium
term, such a framework will support (a) increased independence of the internal supervision
body of Joint Stock Companies, (b) increased shareholder rights, (c) stronger role of
nonexecutive and independent members of the board, and (d) increased transparency of
reporting. Achieved.

4.12 The law was prepared with considerable policy dialogue and input from the World
Bank staff. This law consolidated many aspects of company law that were international good
practice, but in Serbia these had been fragmented among different pieces of legislation with
often overlapping, ambiguous, and conflicting rules. For example, it helped harmonize
conflicting provisions between the existing law on business entities and the law on the
securities market. It also simplified company legislation by eliminating duplication with
another law on private entrepreneurs, which was terminated. It defined legal choices for
corporate governance for various types of business entities.

4.13 Beyond improvements in the overall corporate legal framework, Serbia made major
improvements in the strength of investor protection as measured by the Doing Business
Indicators. It moved up from the 74th among 183 world economies to 32nd in 2014/15.
Specific dimensions of investor protection also compare favorably with the regional averages
and some for Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) countries,
especially the extent of shareholder rights (table 4.1). While the indicator does not measure
all aspects related to the protection of minority investors, a higher ranking does indicate that
an economy’s regulations offer stronger investor protections against self-dealing in the areas
measured. In that regard, the index is strongly indicative of the progress in the outcome
indicators related to shareholder rights, a stronger role for nonexecutive members of the
board, and increased transparency.

Table 4.1. Serbia: Protection of Investors Index
                                                                 Serbia   ECA      OECD
 Doing Business 2015 rank                                         32.0     -         -
 Doing Business 2014 rank                                         32.0      -         -
 Change in rank                                                   0.0       -         -
 INDICATOR (2015)
 Extent of disclosure index (0–10)                                7.0      6.4      6.6
 Extent of director liability index (0–10)                        6.0      4.8      5.4
 Ease of shareholder suits index (0–10)                           4.0      6.7      7.2
 Extent of conflict of interest regulation index (0-10)           5.7      6.0      6.4
 Extent of shareholder rights index (0–10.5)                      10.0     7.8      8.0
 Strength of governance structure index (0–10.5)                  8.0      4.4      4.6
 Extent of corporate transparency index (0–9)                     3.0      5.4      6.1
 Extent of shareholder governance index (0-10)                    7.0      5.9      6.2
 Strength of minority investor protection index (0–10)            6.3      5.9      6.3
Source: Doing Business Indicators 2010–15, World Bank and IFC.

Streamlining regulations of business activities and reducing compliance costs

4.14 In this policy area, the government has completed a comprehensive review of
business regulations governing business activities, and it approved the recommendations of
that review (prior action). Outcome indicator: new set of regulations in place reflecting (a)
elimination of not less than 190 unnecessary regulations, and (b) the amendment of 25
regulations and 20 laws by the end of 2011. Implemented regulations are to lead to annual
cost savings for businesses of at least EUR 120 million by end-2011. Achieved.

4.15 Following several years of reforms that led to the introduction of the Regulatory
Impact Analysis and its mainstreaming in the regulatory review and reform process, the
government implemented additional reforms. The objective was a major elimination and
replacement of many outdated and unnecessary regulations. This resulted in much greater
consistency of regulations (Penev and Marusic 2011). By end-2011, this process of review,
elimination, and revision had been substantially completed, with documented elimination of
                                               12


192 regulations as well as the amendment of 30 laws and the promulgation of 30 new
regulations. This led to estimated annual savings of over euro 140 million. For example,
about one-third of these savings were realized from the simplification of hitherto onerous
procedures and unnecessarily rigid rules on business handling and deposit of cash in their
bank accounts. A one-stop shop for registering workers has also reduced the regulatory
burden on businesses and resulted in an estimated saving of some euro 15 million. Other
savings were generated by eliminating arbitrary requirements on the use of stamps and
official seals of the companies, use of vehicles for official travel, and regulations on the use
of company names on their websites. These reforms eliminated a series of regulatory
requirements whose main impact was to directly increase business costs on a recurrent basis
while contributing little or nothing to the benefits for businesses and consumers.

Improving legal and institutional framework for competition

4.16 This was to be achieved by putting in place regulations for the implementation of the
Law on Competition. Outcome: Improved competition framework in place, which, over the
medium term, will strengthen the authority of Commission for Protection in (a) determining
abuse of dominant position and existence of cartels and (b) imposing enforcement measures.
Achieved.

4.17 The Law on Competition has resulted in a substantial improvement in the regulatory
framework for competition in Serbia and it has been aligned with the EU directives. Nine
regulations were adopted to help implement legal provisions in the areas of definition of
market criteria for competition, requests for exemptions, special group exemptions,
identification, concentration, Statute of the Commission of the Protection of Competition,
determination of fines, penalties, and payments, relief measures, requests, and approval of
proposed concentration. Also, several instructions (for example, on calculation of total
income of parties engaged in merger and concentration of economic activity) and decisions
were adopted to clarify and facilitate implementation of specific articles of the law (for
example, on participants in mergers and concentration in the market for public procurement)
(Serbia, Commission for Protection of Competition site http://www.kzk.gov.rs/en/).

Improving effectiveness of enforcement of court decisions and authentic documents

4.18 These improvements were expected from the approval of a new Law on Enforcement
and Security, which was submitted to the parliament (prior action). Outcome: Improved
enforcement framework in place which supports, over the medium term: (a) streamlined
proceedings, and (b) introduction of professional enforcement officers. Not achieved.

4.19 The Law on Enforcement and Security was adopted. The law streamlines the legal
procedures for enforcement and also introduces professional enforcement officers (private
bailiffs), who are licensed by the Ministry of Justice. So the legal side of these reforms has
been completed broadly as planned. However, this has not yet translated into tangible
improvements in the quality of enforcement measured by relative international metrics.
According to data collected by Doing Business (World Bank and IFC 2012), for example,
enforcing a contract requires 36 procedures, takes 635 days, and costs 31.3 percent of the
value of the claim, figures which were unchanged from 2010. Globally, in 2012 Serbia stood
at 104 in the ranking of 183 economies on the ease of enforcing contracts, a deterioration
from 94th position a year before. This relative deterioration in the measured enforcement of
contracts is also visible compared to the frontier (the best country in enforcement of contracts
of 183 surveyed economies––Ireland) (figure 4.2). Another way comparing Serbia’s
enforcement of contracts is to contrast it with the average for its region of Europe and
Central Asian countries. In this comparison, enforcement of contracts in Serbia takes 36
procedures versus the average of 37.1 in the Region, suggesting that Serbia is about in the
middle of the group. However, it takes substantially longer in Serbia to enforce a contract
(635 days), compared to the average for the Region (411 days).

Figure 4.2. Serbia: Doing Business Indicators - Distance from the Frontier (100 = Best
Performance)

                Enforcing contracts
             Trading across borders
                        Paying taxes
       Protecting minority investors
                       Getting credit
               Registering property
                  Getting electricity
 Dealing with construction permits
                 Starting a Business
                             Overall

                                        0   10    20    30    40   50   60   70   80   90   100

                                              2015     2010

Source: Doing Business Indicators (2010–15), World Bank and IFC.
Objective 3: Strengthening Financial Discipline – Modest

4.20 Overall, institutional reforms and outcome indicators supporting this objective were
achieved. But the field visit suggests that they were slow to translate into tangible gains in
fiscal discipline using other metrics, such as the size of enterprise subsidies. Also, field
discussions and review of policy analysis since 2011 indicates strongly that the overall pace
of enterprise reform has been slow, and in some important areas (such as large state
enterprises) it stalled during the following two and a half years. Limited enterprise reform
was restarted, however, in late 2014, with support of new IMF and Bank programs. Overall,
given the uneven implementation, sustainability of achievements of this objective is in
question, even though it must be recognized that reforms have accelerated since late 2014.
On balance, the achievement of this objective is rated modest.

4.21 Under the PFPBG, this reform agenda was pursued in two main policy areas:
facilitating exit through bankruptcy of socially owned enterprises, and improving financial
discipline in those enterprises. This area of policy reform proved more difficult to implement,
in large part because of the political and social implications of the bankruptcy and exit of
many public enterprises.
                                             14


Facilitating bankruptcy of socially owned enterprises

4.22 This policy agenda was important for the overall restructuring of the economy in
view of the continued soft budget constraints of many socially owned enterprises. Many such
enterprises continued to operate despite becoming unviable because of a permanent loss of
regional markets or technological competitiveness. As a result, they became a considerable
burden on the budget that ex post financed their losses. Yet, the legal and regulatory
framework for effective bankruptcy was lacking.

4.23 The first action under this agenda was putting in place the implementation regulations
for the Law on Bankruptcy, approved by the Ministry of Economy and Regional
Development and/or the Serbian government. The expected outcome was an improved
bankruptcy framework, which over the medium term will lead to (a) an increase of initiation
of bankruptcy cases of qualified entities, (b) higher recovery rates and lower costs, and (c)
shorter resolution time. Achieved.

4.24 Following the passage of the landmark Law on Bankruptcy (2009), the government
put in place a number of implementing regulations to make bankruptcy a more efficient
process. This includes approving the implementing regulations of the law focused on various
dimensions of the process, including reorganization, fees of administrators, code of ethics,
and so on. These regulations helped significantly clarify how the law was to be applied in
practice. It also included a Law on Agency for Licensing of Bankruptcy Administrators. As a
result, many socially owned enterprises entered the bankruptcy process. The Doing Business
Indicators show improvement in the closing business indicator for Serbia by fifteen slots in
relative rankings compared with the previous year. To be sure, the backlog of unviable
enterprises remains large, and the process continues to be relatively slow.

4.25 The second action on this agenda was filing of bankruptcy procedures of at least
10,000 entities with blocked accounts over a three-year period. Outcome was to reduce the
number of entities with bank accounts that have been blocked by 6,000 by end-2010.
Achieved.

4.26 Automatic bankruptcy triggers under the law resulted in the initiation of filing for
over 13,000 bankruptcy cases with blocked accounts over three years. As a result, close to
10,000 entities have been declared bankrupt and erased from business registries. Field
interviews suggest that, indeed, the bankruptcy law resulted a significant upturn in the
closure of many unviable enterprises.

4.27 The third action was the initiation of bankruptcy procedures for at least 160
qualifying companies from the Privatization Agency portfolio between January 1, 2010, and
November 30, 2010. The expected outcome was: The portfolio of companies in the
Privatization Agency restructuring, auctions, and tenders is reduced as bankruptcy
procedures are undertaken, sending an additional positive signal to the markets. Achieved.
Table 4.2. Privatization Agency Portfolio, November 2010
                                         Number of socially      Number of state-owned
 Status                                  owned enterprises           enterprises
 Bankruptcy/ forced liquidation                673                        0
 Auction                                          25                        47
 Tender                                           6                         19
 Restructuring                                    50                        84
 Privatization suspended                         201                         50
 Under preparation                                0                          21
 Total                                           955                        221
 Grand total                                                  1,176
Source: Privatization Agency data.

4.28 The target has been achieved and substantially exceeded. As the table shows, 673
enterprises entered the bankruptcy process. And a number of socially owned and state
enterprises entered various processes of restructuring or privatization. To be sure, one large
group of socially owned enterprises saw their privatization processes suspended, partly
because of competing ownership claims associated with the breakup of the former
Yugoslavia.

4.29 Since late 2011, these processes have continued, although the pace has been
comparatively slow, in part reflecting many competing ownership claims, that some
enterprises were placed under the “protection” of the state from privatization and
restructuring for a long time, and the political constraints. Nevertheless, in mid-2015, there
were 526 companies in the process of ownership restructuring and privatization; many of
these were new companies that entered the process, compared with those entering in 2010. A
large subset of those - 353 enterprises - are in the process of accelerated resolution of their
ownership status through one of the three avenues: bankruptcy (189 enterprises), takeover by
the state into state ownership status (47), and release of protection from
restructuring/privatization, which opens the way for various forms of restructuring (including
bankruptcy) (111 enterprises). (Serbia, Fiscal Council of the Republic of Serbia 2014).

4.30 Looking beyond bankruptcies, it is useful to ask the question whether these processes
led to tangible, broader improvements in the management of public enterprise - for example,
by reducing the direct and indirect subsidies to public enterprises. This would be the next
logical step in reforms. On this score, however, little progress had been achieved until 2015.
The parliament’s fiscal watchdog estimates that since 2011 those enterprises absorbed some
2 percent of GDP annually in direct and indirect subsidies, rising to 3 percent of GDP in
2014 (Serbia, Fiscal Council of the Republic of Serbia 2014).

4.31 In 2015, however, the recently elected government embarked on an ambitious fiscal
consolidation program supported by a three-year IMF program. These reforms, on track as of
mid-2015, may presage accelerated enterprise reforms, especially for some of the largest
state enterprises (including the electricity company, the state gas company, and the state
                                               16


railways) that had been the main source of fiscal burden in the enterprise sector (IMF 2015).
For example, a major source of quasi-fiscal pressures, the issuance of guarantees to public
enterprises, which averaged about 3 percent of GDP, was substantially curtailed to 0.4
percent of GDP in 2015 and going forward (IMF 2015, p. 29). Looking back in this longer
perspective, therefore, the establishment of the legal framework for bankruptcy and
restructuring under the PFPBG has been an important step in the enterprise reform process.

Improving financial discipline in the socially and state-owned sector

4.32 A major consequence of the large socially owned and state-owned sector has been the
lack of financial discipline reflected in various fiscal and quasi-fiscal subsidies. As a result,
these enterprises represented a considerable burden on the government budget. The lack of
comprehensive and updated information on various forms of state aid (direct subsidies) and
other forms of subsidies and their enterprise beneficiaries contributed to the lack of financial
discipline. To help begin resolving this problem, under this policy area, the government
completed the following prior action: The registry of Regional Development Measures and
Incentives, satisfactory to the Bank, has been established within the Serbian Business
Registers Agency and is operational. Expected outcome: Establishment of a comprehensive
record of state support measures, including subsidies and grants contributing to better
expenditure management and more transparency. Achieved.

4.33 This institutional outcome has been achieved, in that the Registry of Regional
Development Measures and Incentives has been established and is operational. The registry
centralized an electronic database of measures and incentives of significance for regional
development. It became operational as part of the Serbian Business Registers Agency on
February 1, 2011. It contains information on the type of documents required for providing
incentives for regional development, intended purpose of incentives, financial characteristics
of incentives, incentive providers and beneficiaries, territorial allocation of incentives,
sources of funding, and other information (Serbian Business Register Agency 2015). All
government ministries and agencies involved in the provision of state aid are required to
provide the relevant information and data to the registry. Again, while the measures and
outcome indicators have been achieved, within the medium-term perspective, the government
has been slow to tighten financial discipline and make substantial progress on enterprise
restructuring. After a hiatus between 2012 and 2014, it is only in 2015 - in the context of the
ongoing IMF-supported work - that a substantial program of structural reforms, including
enterprise restructuring, is now under way.
Objective 4: Building a Stable and More Efficient Financial Sector – High

4.34 This objective was pursued through three sets of policy areas: strengthening crisis
preparedness and the bank resolution framework, restructuring and divestment of state-
owned banks, and strengthening of the insurance sector.

4.35 Under the strengthening crisis preparedness and the bank resolution framework,
the government completed the prior action: The NBS has completed the diagnostic
assessment of all banks operating in Serbia in accordance with the methodology adopted
under the Second Programmatic PFDPL provided by the Bank and has enforced bank
recapitalization to a capital ratio of 12 percent. The expected outcome was: Capital Adequacy
Ratio of the banking system is maintained at the level of at least 12 percent. Achieved.

4.36 The NBS and the government of Serbia have, from the outset of the global crisis,
implemented conservative regulatory and oversight policy, which helped the country weather
the impact on the banking system. The credit boom-and-bust in Serbia was moderate
compared to some other countries in the Western Balkan region (figure 4.3). The NBS
carried out a comprehensive bank diagnostic in 2009 and a regular exercise is carried out
every six months. As a result, Serbia has managed to maintain a high capital adequacy ratio
since the global crisis, for both the system as a whole and for most individual banks. In 2011,
Serbia had a capital adequacy ratio (regulatory capital as percentage of risk-weighted assets)
of 19.1, the highest in the Western Balkans and much higher than many European banking
systems. It has since increased gradually and it stood at 20.3 as of first quarter 2015. Other
indicators of capital adequacy––tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets, and capital to assets––
show equally strong levels and trends (NBS 2015; World Bank 2014).

Figure 4.3. South East Europe: Real Growth of Credit, Year-on-Year (Percent)

    55
                                                                                  ALB
    45                                                                            BIH
                                                                                  KOS
                                                                                  MKD
    35                                                                            MNE
                                                                                  SRB
    25                                                                            SEE6 median

    15

     5

    -5

   -15
      Dec-06     Jun-07     Dec-07   Jun-08   Dec-08   Jun-09   Dec-09   Jun-10     Dec-10   Jun-11

Source: World Bank 2012b.

4.37 In recent years, a few smaller banks have been recapitalized in an orderly fashion,
essentially by raising capital from existing or new shareholders (Metals Banka, Komercijalna
                                              18


Banka, and Credy Banka). These recapitalizations did not have a noticeable impact on the
overall capitalization or the confidence of the public in the banking system. At a time when
banking systems in many European countries were under pressure, including from systemic
risks, Serbia’s banking system has maintained capital adequacy, liquidity, and the confidence
of the public.

4.38 The second prior action under the crisis preparedness and resolution framework was:
The borrower’s parliament has (a) enacted amendments satisfactory to the Bank to the Law
on Banks, Law on Bankruptcy, Law on Bankruptcy and Liquidation of Banks and Insurance
Companies, Law on Deposit Insurance, and the Law on Deposit Insurance Agency, and (b)
enacted the Law on Budget for the year 2011, which contains a provision satisfactory to the
Bank on the State Guarantee to the Deposit Insurance Agency (DIA). The outcome was:
Bank resolution framework improved through the introduction of (i) bridge bank resolution
on a closed bank basis for a systemic bank, and (ii) financial assistance in the form of grants,
loans, or guarantees based on a least-cost test performed by DIA, and emergency funding
arrangements for DIA. Achieved.

4.39 The amendments satisfactory to the Bank to the Law on Banks, Law on Bankruptcy,
Law on Bankruptcy and Liquidation of Banks and Insurance Companies, Law on Deposit
Insurance, and the Law on Deposit Insurance Agency have been enacted as envisaged. The
new resolution framework was substantially improved, and bridge bank resolution on a
closed-bank basis for a systemic bank and financial assistance on a least-cost basis was
introduced. It is also important to note that the previously implicit government guarantee was
made explicit. A euro 100 million credit line from commercial banks was committed to
support DIA in case of contingencies. Field discussions indicate that this bank resolution
framework was, indeed, important in dealing with some subsequent cases of bank resolution
and recapitalization, all of which were orderly and did not result in systemic risks or loss of
confidence in the banking system.

4.40 The third action under the crisis preparedness and resolution framework (which was
not a prior action) was: strengthened deposit insurance payout functions, as evidenced by (i)
Managing Board approval of a satisfactory procedure for payout of insured deposits, and a
concept paper on adjustment of premiums to the optimal size of the DIA, (ii) the DIA
designed and tested an adequate payout software, and (iii) provisions of the DIA and the
NBS Memorandum of Understanding on sharing of information have been implemented. The
outcome: Through introduction of payout software and payout procedures and
implementation of a Memorandum of Understanding with the NBS, the deposit insurance
scheme can make fast payouts. Achieved.

4.41 Increases in the size of the insurance fund and payout ratio made the fund much
larger, at euro 140 million, capable of handling a failure of a midsize bank, following good
international practice. Payout software has been tested and implemented, and provisions of
the DIA and NBS Memorandum of Understanding on sharing information as well (NBS
2015).

4.42 Restructuring and divestment of state-owned banks has been the second policy
area under this objective. To this end, the main reform action (prior action) was: Banks with
borrower majority ownership have been merged, privatized, or restructured in accordance
with the strategy adopted under the second PFDPL provided by the Bank. Outcome:
Consolidation of the Republic of Serbia holdings in banking sector: banks with government
ownership reduced from four to two by 2010. Achieved.

4.43 The governments pursued a policy of bank divestment and restructuring. Government
ownership was reduced from four banks (Credy, Postanska, Privredna Pancevo, and Srpska
Banka) by a combination of approaches, including sale to a foreign buyer (Credy) and
merger (Postanska and Privredna into a consolidated state bank). This resulted in the
consolidated Postanska and Srpska Banka in state ownership. As of 2015, these policies were
sustained. There are currently 30 banks with operating licenses in Serbia, with the same two
in majority state ownership. Additional bank privatization is being planned under the
ongoing IMF-supported reform program.

4.44 Strengthening of the insurance sector has been the third policy area under this
objective. The first action was: Amendments to the Law on Insurance, setting the framework
for converting state insurance company Dunav’s ownership from social to state-owned, is
approved by the government and submitted to the parliament for approval. Outcome:
Dunav’s social ownership was replaced by state ownership, paving the way for subsequent
privatization. Not achieved.

4.45 While the legal action was complete, this did not lead to the expected outcome of
ownership transformation of Dunav. It was expected that privatization would be initiated by
2013, but as of mid-2016, this had not happened.

4.46 The second action was: Amendments to the Law on Insurance requiring the
separation of life and non–life insurance by the end of 2011 are enacted by parliament.
Outcome: Life and non–life insurance business lines were separated by end-2011. Partly
achieved.

4.47 The action was completed and the amendment of the law required separation of life
and non–life insurance. This was not completed by the end of 2011, but it was eventually
done.

4.48 Supporting capital market development was the fourth policy area under this
objective. The main policy action here was as follows: Range of longer-maturity T-bills
issued to establish a benchmark yield curve: maturities of T-bills will increase from 3 months
to 6, 12, 18, and 24 months. Outcome: Increased mobilization of capital by providing more
options to investors and longer-term funding for the government in local currency.
Achieved.

4.49 The government made considerable, steady progress in increased mobilization of
capital at longer-term funding in local currency. Compared with the situation in late
2010/early 2011, when mostly short-term T-bill financing was available, government T-bills
are now available in all short-term maturities. Moreover, the government is now issuing
bonds in local currency in maturities of 2, 3, 5, and 10 years. This gave rise to a regular,
positively sloped yield curve over long maturities. In addition, the government is also issuing
                                               20


53-week T-bills in euros and government bonds denominated in euros in maturities of 2, 3, 5,
and 10 years at favorable rates, from 1.49 percent (53 weeks) to 4.5 percent (10 years)
(Serbia, Public Debt Administration 2015).

4.50 Beyond the government paper, there is now a much wider menu of options available
to investors in Serbia’s capital market. For example, the Belgrade stock exchange has
expanded the number of listed companies from only 6 in 2011 to 66 in 2015, of which 42 are
included in the BELEX line index. Market capitalization had reached over 6 billion euros as
of August 2015 (see Belgrade Stock Exchange website: http://www.belex.rs/).

5. Ratings
Outcome: Satisfactory

5.1     The objectives of the operation were highly relevant, both in terms of the
government’s strategic priorities and the Bank’s strategy, at the time of the operation’s
approval and closing and at the time of review. Similarly, design was highly relevant,
combining the objectives of facilitating access to international markets with policy reform
objectives in the areas of business climate, financial discipline in state-owned enterprises,
and financial sector and capital market development. These policy areas represent a
continuum of reforms from the two previous PFDPLs, and the associated policy actions
rested on a considerable body of analytical work that informed the operation’s design.

5.2     Relevance was heightened in the context of the international market turbulence and
the government’s need for larger financing of the budget. The PBG was a hybrid
(guarantee/DPL), innovative instrument that met the government’s need for greater
budgetary financing than would have been possible under a standard DPL, while supporting
policy reform in key areas.

5.3     Efficacy was strong. Out of 18 target outcome indicators, 15 were fully and one partly
achieved, resulting in an 89 percent achievement ratio. In particular, the critical indicators
under objectives 1 (facilitating access to international markets), 2 (enhancing business
environment), and 4 (building a stable and more efficient financial sector) were achieved.
Achievement of objective 3 (enhancing financial discipline) in terms of actions and
indicators was also complete. But these actions did not translate into further reform progress
until the most recent re-start of structural reforms under the new IMF-supported program in
2015. In other reform areas supported under the PFPBG, PPAR field visits found that policy
reforms and target indicators were sustained, and some reforms advanced further.

5.4     The achievements and sustainability of these reforms and outcomes should be seen in
the context of the particularly difficult external and domestic environment that prevailed
between 2011 and mid-2015. At the time of approval of the operation, the macroeconomic
framework, based on the prevailing euro area and regional projections, envisaged strong
recovery of the Serbian economy from a low base, achieving growth rates of about 5 percent
in the medium term. In the event, however, since the deep recession in 2009 (with real GDP
declining by over 3 percent), the Serbian economy experienced a new double-dip recession in
2012 and 2014, in the context of extremely sluggish euro area recovery and new concerns
about the euro area banking and debt situations, as well domestic supply shocks (for
example, major droughts and floods) (see World Bank 2012b, 2013b, 2014). As a result,
Serbia’s real GDP level has yet to recover to the pre–global recession level in 2008, and
unemployment has only very recently started to decline from very high double-digit levels. In
this difficult context, the achievements in the reform areas of maintaining stability of the
domestic financial sector, accessing international markets, and improving aspects of business
registration are particularly important. At the same time, these developments, and fragmented
domestic politics and political support for structural reforms in the state enterprise sector,
help explain why more progress was not achieved compared with expectations at the time of
PFPBG approval in 2011.

Risk to Development Outcomes: Moderate

5.5     Most reform actions and outcomes supported under the operations were sustained
over the past four years under difficult external and domestic conditions. This suggests
resilience in maintaining development outcomes in the face of adversity. Still, Serbia’s
economy faces substantial macro-financial, external, and policy implementation risks. But
the overall sense is that those risks are moderated by improved capacity of the government to
deal with them, as well as the new reform program that is currently under way with strong
international support. As a result, risk to outcomes is rated moderate.

5.6     On the macroeconomic side, while the banking system remains well capitalized and
provisions are high, the large level of nonperforming loans poses a threat under conditions of
new major shocks. This risk is mitigated by continuous, close monitoring of the banking
sector risks and stronger capacity of the NBS and the government to deal with banking sector
shocks than was the case four years ago. There are also significant fiscal risks, with public
debt levels currently exceeding 70 percent of GDP and difficult fiscal consolidation under
way, which relies in large part on the ability of the government to maintain tight control over
public sector wages and pensions, something that had proved difficult in the past. The new
government’s majority in parliament and strong ownership, backed by the new IMF and
Bank budget support, help moderate these risks.

5.7     External risks, including those from the new spillovers from the Greek crisis or other
vulnerable European economies, remain. But the government’s monetary and fiscal tools and
capacity to cushion these impacts are now stronger than four years ago, in large part because
of the intervening reforms.

5.8     Finally, despite strong ownership and ongoing reform with substantial international
backing, the scale of Serbia’s fiscal consolidation in the coming years and structural reforms
in the enterprise sector will require continued political support in the medium term. It is
noted that reforms and fiscal consolidation have accelerated since late 2014 with the support
of the IMF and the Bank. However, risks of slow implementation and erosion of political
support remain.
                                              22


Bank Performance: Highly Satisfactory

Quality at entry: highly satisfactory

5.9     The PFPBG was an innovative, pioneering operation in the Western Balkan region
that met the critical need of the borrower for larger financing than would have been possible
under a standard DPL. This required considerable investment of the time of Bank
management and staff––over and above what would be required under a standard DPL. This
included explaining the potential benefits and costs of the operation to the borrower, as well
as providing considerable informal technical support to the Ministry of Finance and the
Public Debt Administration in preparation for accessing international markets in this set-up
for the first time. This has built on the continuity of past technical assistance to the
administration under the PFDPL 2. The team also invested considerable efforts in navigating
the Bank’s internal processes to prepare a de facto new instrument operation.

5.10 Field interviews indicate a long-standing relationship of trust between the Bank and
the borrower and strong appreciation of the Bank staff’s intensive engagement with the
client. Particularly appreciated was ongoing technical support to the Public Debt
Administration to make sure that the operation was put together in a timely fashion to meet
the budget cycle of the government. The Bank closely coordinated with the IMF and had a
clear division of labor and complementarity of focus: the IMF concentrated on macro
policies, and the Bank on structural reforms.

5.11 The Bank provided timely and critical support to the client for a broad front of
structural reforms in the areas of business climate, financial discipline, and financial sector
reforms. Preparation of the operation was rapid (under six months), but this did not
compromise the quality of design and the dialogue, both of which were of high quality and
reflected continuity of reforms and engagement. The Bank has held a vibrant policy dialogue
building on past PFDPL 1 and 2 as well as public expenditure DPLs and considerable
analytical work focused on aspects of investment climate, public expenditures, and growth
and financial sector diagnostics.

Quality of supervision: highly satisfactory

5.12 Finally, the Bank team remained engaged and provided continued monitoring of the
reform program and dialogue with the government following the approval of the operation
and the completion of the operational portion.

Borrower Performance: Highly Satisfactory

5.13 Government ownership was high. It reflected the borrower’s trust in the Bank’s
ability to deliver and its need for the timely and large volume of financing the instrument was
able to provide. Key government ministries and agencies––Ministry of Finance, its Debt
Management Department, NBS, and Ministry of Economy and Regional Development,
among others––were closely engaged in the policy dialogue. They were able to coordinate to
put together and implement a broad reform program.
5.14 Borrower reporting and provision of information to the Bank staff was highly
satisfactory. Cooperation with the Bank team was strong throughout. Productive and direct
virtual communications with the Bank’s technical counterparts were frequent and helped
maintain continuity of dialogue between missions. All prior actions were met, as well non-
prior actions, which were part of the policy matrix, and the achievement of outcomes was
high.

Monitoring and Evaluation: Substantial

5.15 Design. Objectives of the operations were clearly specified and linked to actions, and
outcome indicators reflected those objectives. Indicators were generally measurable and
identifiable. Eight of 18 outcome indicators were quantitative, making their assessment
relatively straightforward. Several are high-value indicators that are monitored in the course
of government economic and financial monitoring (such as financial adequacy ratios, yields
on government paper, and number of banks with majority state ownership). The others were
identifiable legislative or regulatory events or institutional actions or improvements. In many
cases, the same or related indicators could be tracked and updated four years after operation
approval, which made it possible to obtain a sense of sustainability of reform actions and
outcomes. Data required were generally available from the government’s public sources from
the relevant ministries and agencies (such as the Ministry of Finance, NBS) and/or
comparative international indicators (Doing Business Indicators and others). While in most
cases the relevant baseline is clear or implicit, baselines could have been defined more
clearly and made more explicit.

5.16 Indicators were embedded within the institutional frameworks in that they were
clearly associated with data and information available from the relevant ministries and
agencies (for example, capital adequacy ratio data monitored and publicly and regularly
reported by NBS; yields on government’s T-bills that are monitored and publicly and
regularly reported by the Public Debt Administration of the Ministry of Finance).

5.17 Implementation. Slightly more than half of the indicators in the project appraisal
document were quantitative and measured. Indicators were owned by the borrower agencies
and there was considerable consultation and agreement with the borrower on the choice of
the indicators. There was also wide consultation with other stakeholders (IMF and the Swiss
Agency for Development and Cooperation, for example). The Ministry of Finance, Public
Debt Administration, NBS, and Ministry of Economy and Regional Development were
responsible for monitoring and evaluation (M&E) and reporting, with a coordinating role
played by the Ministry of Finance. This function was carried out effectively. Finally, because
it is embedded in the existing institutional structure and often relies on existing, highly
monitored indicators, M&E indicators in place are sustained over time.

5.18 Utilization. Use of outcome indicators informed the direction and outcomes of some
important reforms. For example, it was critical for the financial sector reform pillar for the
NBS and the government to maintain a high capital adequacy ratio throughout the post-
approval period. This highly monitored indicator influenced NBS activities with respect to
monitoring and diagnosing the health of the banking system and in its periodic stress tests.
Similarly, information on yields on government paper is used by the Debt Management
                                                 24


Administration and the Ministry of Finance in calibrating implementation of its debt
management strategy and its regular issuance of domestic debt. In the area of investment
climate, Doing Business Indicators are closely monitored by the government and Ministry of
Economy and Regional Development and Ministry of Finance in particular, and actions are
formulated in response in order to reduce perceived and real costs of doing business.

6. Lessons
6.1    With informed hindsight four years after the operation, several lessons are worth
highlighting that may be of broader relevance.

6.2     First, PBGs are a potentially important instrument that could be used effectively to
support client countries in tapping international markets on favorable terms in combination
with other lending and advisory instruments to help countries meet the development
challenges of the twenty-first century. These challenges included the need to make structural
reforms necessitated by global or regional crises, fund and manage large and complex
development projects, work toward meeting the Sustainable Development Goals, and address
issues related to climate change. Through this and similar guarantee instruments, the Bank
Group could raise its leverage ratio, particularly if it fails to raise its capital base, in order to
help its clients meet their development challenges of the next 15-to-20 years. Learning about
the PBG in the context of Serbia and other client countries is both timely and important to the
Bank Group’s business model and strategy going forward.

6.3     Second, this highly satisfactory operation shows that the Bank can productively take
informed risks with new and innovative instruments to support client needs in a timely
fashion in a manner that would not have been possible with standard instruments of Bank
support. The Bank had an option to take a low-risk approach and extend a standard DPL,
which would have been in line with the existing Bank strategy. Also, external market
turbulence could have suggested a more cautious approach with a standard DPL. In that
scenario, however, the borrower would have had to borrow additional amounts in the
external markets at much more unfavorable terms, raising its short-term debt service and
fiscal pressure. The Bank’s innovative approach with the PBG was risky, but it helped
deliver the benefits to the client when needed. As a result, it strengthened the relationship of
trust with the government.

6.4     Third, this operation shows that the PBG can be a particularly effective instrument of
budget support under certain conditions. Those conditions are likely to include the
following: a small, vulnerable economy needing substantial external financing on a timely
basis; a solid track record of macroeconomic performance, debt management, and policy
reform and a good dialogue with the Bank; and a period of heightened international market
risks and worsened access and terms of sovereign borrowing. The instrument should also be
relevant for larger countries facing similar borrowing and reform challenges. These
conditions are quite prevalent in international markets. Yet PBG use at the Bank has been
limited so far. This may suggest that, perhaps with more information disseminated among the
Bank Regions and the borrowers, there is scope for a wider use of PBGs in the future. This
could also be helped by recent OPCS reform that moved the PBGs to the revised OP8.60
framework governing development policy operations, explicitly recognizing that PBGs are
essentially a sui generis type of DPL.

6.5     Fourth, the PBG can unlock multiple benefits to the borrower, which may not be
easily captured by alternatives such as a standard DPL: the borrower was able borrow the
larger amount (because of the Bank’s set-aside policy, which accounts only one-quarter of
the PBG against country’s borrower limit) needed at the right time and on favorable terms in
the context of the PBG, and its short-term debt service was lower than it would otherwise
have been; it was able to open the door to substantial subsequent international borrowing at
favorable terms; the borrower was able to establish itself in the eyes of international investors
and broaden the investor base; and the borrower was highly motivated to deliver on reforms,
in part because of a relationship of trust with the Bank, the large volume of borrowing, and
also perhaps because of the presence of the third party (that is, a foreign commercial bank
providing funding) supplying additional pressure on the timing and closure of the loan.

6.6     Fifth, it is important to recognize that risks such as a bullet repayment feature could
add to the borrower’s risk of repayment in the future unless it is accompanied by ex ante
provisions equal to the amount required under a standard annual repayment schedule.
Repayment options and their pros and cons should be discussed at length with the client. A
standard repayment schedule should normally be preferred, and bullet repayments should be
accompanied by a Bank recommendation (or requirement) that the borrower make annual
provisions.

6.7     Sixth, strong and relevant design and high achievement are much more likely when
the operation’s design is informed by considerable knowledge work, intensive and longer-
term Bank engagement and dialogue, and a relationship of trust between the Bank and
the borrower. Developing and maintaining a relationship of trust with the borrower should be
explicitly high on the agenda of country management. In its absence, ownership, quality of
the dialogue, and the design and implementation are likely to suffer.

6.8     Complex and comprehensive reforms of large socially or state-owned enterprise
sectors take time to implement. They also involve political, social, and fiscal risks. This calls
for a carefully phased approach and realism in what can be accomplished in the short term
and the time frame of a single operation.

6.9     Seventh, Bank staff engagement in innovative operations must be more intensive
and accompanied by considerable informal technical assistance. Such stepped-up
assistance can be used to inform the borrower of the benefits and risks and help it navigate
the preparation of a hitherto little-known instrument or type of Bank operation.
                                                    27


References
Business Register Agency. 2015. Belgrade, Serbia. Website:
        http://www.apr.gov.rs/eng/Registers/RegionalDevelopmentMeasuresandIncentives.aspx)
Commission for Protection of Competition. 2016. Belgrade, Serbia. website http://www.kzk.gov.rs/en/.
EC. 2014. “Serbia: 2014 Progress Report.” Brussels.
        http://ec.europa.eu/enlargement/pdf/key_documents/2014/20140108-serbia-progress-report_en.pdf
Fiscal Council. 2014. “Analysis of State Enterprises: Fiscal Aspect.” Belgrade, Serbia.
         (www.fiskalnisavet.rs)
IEG. 2009. The World Bank’s Group Guarantee Instruments, 1990–2007: An Independent Evaluation.
        Washington, DC: World Bank.
______. 2011. ICR Review: Serbia Private and Financial Sector Policy Based Guarantee. Washington,
        DC: World Bank
IMF. 2010. “Republic of Serbia: Financial Sector Assessment Program Update.” Washington, DC
______. 2015. “Republic of Serbia: First Review under the Stand-By Arrangement.” Country Report No.
        15/161. Washington, DC: IMF. http://www.imf.org/external/pubs/ft/scr/2015/cr15161.pdf
NBS. 2015. “Quarterly Review of Dynamics of Financial Stability Indicators for the Republic of Serbia.”
       Financial Stability Department, NBS, Belgrade, Serbia.
       http://www.nbs.rs/export/sites/default/internet/english/18/pregled_grafikona_e.pdf
Official Gazette of the Republic of Serbia. 2011. “Law on Companies.” Nos. 36/2011 and 99/2011.
         Belgrade, Serbia.
———. 2015. “Fiscal Strategy for 2015 with Projections for 2016 and 2017.” Belgrade, Serbia.
Penev, Slavica, and Andreja Marusic. 2011. “Progress in Transition and Reform Implementation in Serbia:
        Comparing with Other Western Balkan Countries.” Report No. 62401. Investment Climate
        Advisory Service, the World Bank Group. Washington, DC: International Finance Corporation.
Public Debt Administration. 2015. Ministry of Finance. Belgrade, Serbia.
        http://www.javnidug.gov.rs/default.asp?P=89
World Bank. 2004. “Serbia - Investment Climate Assessment.” Report No. 35198. Washington, DC.
______. 2007. “Serbia - Country Partnership Strategy for the Period FY2008 –2011.” Report No. 41310.
        Washington, DC.
______.2009a. “Serbia - Country Partnership Strategy Progress Report for the Period FY08–FY11.” Report
        No. 51150. Washington, DC.
______. 2009b. “Serbia - Doing More with Less: Addressing the Fiscal Crisis by Increasing Public Sector
        Productivity. Public Expenditure Review.” Report No. 48620. Washington, DC.
______. 2011a. “Implementation Completion and Results Report on Republic of Serbia: Private and
        Financial Sector Policy Based Guarantee.” Report No. ICR 62713. Washington, DC.
______. 2011b. “Republic of Serbia: Private and Financial Sector Policy-Based Guarantee Program.”
        Program Document. Report No. 58222. Washington, DC.
______. 2012a. “Republic of Serbia: Road to Prosperity - Productivity and Exports. Country Economic
        Memorandum.” Washington, DC.
______. 2012b. “South East Europe: Regular Economic Report No. 3 - From Double-Dip Recession to
        Accelerated Reforms.” Washington, DC.
______. 2013a. “Enhancing the World Bank’s Operational Policy Framework on Guarantees.” OPCS
        Report No. 82741. Washington, DC.
REFERENCES                                        28

______. 2013b. “South East Europe: Regular Economic Report No. 4 - From Double-Dip Recession to
        Fragile Recovery.” Washington, DC.
______. 2014. “South East Europe: Regular Economic Report No. 5 - First Insights into Promoting Shared
        Prosperity in South East Europe.” Washington, DC.
World Bank and IFC. 2012. “Doing Business 2013: Smarter Regulations for Small and Medium-Size
       Enterprises.” Washington, DC.
                                             29


Annex A. Basic Data Sheet
PRIVATE AND FINANCIAL SECTOR POLICY BASED GUARANTEE
(P102651)

Key Project Data (amounts in US$ million)
                                           Appraisal        Actual or        Actual as % of
                                           estimate      current estimate   appraisal estimate
Total project costs                         400.00           400.00               100%
Loan amount                                 400.00           400.00                  100%


Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
                                                                            FY11
Appraisal estimate (US$M)                                                   400.00
Actual (US$M)                                                               400.00
Actual as % of appraisal                                                    100%


Project Dates
                                                Original                      Actual
Concept review                                 09/07/2010                   04/15/2011
Appraisal                                      12/28/2010                   12/28/2010
Board approval                                 02/10/2011                   02/10/2011
Signing                                        04/08/2011                   04/08/2011
Effectiveness                                  04/15/2011                   04/15/2011
Expiration of guarantee                        04/13/2017                   04/13/2017


Staff Time and Cost
                                       Staff time and cost (Bank budget only)
Stage of project cycle                                 US$ thousands (including travel and
                           Number of staff weeks
                                                                consultant costs)
Lending and supervision
FY11                               104.8                               104.8
TOTAL                             104.8                                104.8
ANNEX A                                      30


Task Team Members
Name                                              Responsibility/specialty
Lending
Aurora Ferrari                Country Program Coordinator                     ECSPF
Andrej Popovic                Private Sector Development Specialist           ECSPF
Irina Astrakhan               Country Program Coordinator                     AFCZA
Aida Japarova                 Program Assistant                               ECSPF
Eugene Gurenko                Lead Financial Sector Specialist                GCMNB
Lewis Hawke                   Senior Financial Management Specialist          ECSO3
Nikola Ille                   Senior Environmental Specialist                 ECSSD
Alexandru Cojocaru            Consultant                                      ECSPE
Marina Wes                    Lead Economist                                  ECSPE
Dusko Vasiljevic              Economist                                       ECSPE
Caterina Ruggeri Laderchi     Senior Economist                                ECSPE
Nikolai A. Soubbotin          Senior Counsel                                  LEGEM
Nicholay Chistyakov           Senior Finance Officer                          LOAFC
Gianfranco Bertozzi           Senior Financial Officer                        BDM
Tomas Inge Magnusson          Consultant                                      BDM
Hiroshi Tsubota               Lead Financial Officer/Debt Capital Markets & CBP BDM
Neil Pravin Ashar             Counsel                                         LEGCF
Thomas A. Duvall              Consultant                                      LEGCF
Xavier Cledan Mandri-Perrott Senior Infrastructure Specialist                 FEUFS
Jasna Vukoje                  Program Assistant                               ECCYU
Supervision
Aurora Ferrari                Country Program Coordinator                     ECSPF
Andrej Popovic                Private Sector Development Specialist
                                                    31


Annex B. The Bank’s Experience with Policy Based
Guarantees
Although the Bank introduced the PBG in 1975 and has completed eight operations, there is
very little independent evaluative evidence on the instrument’s effectiveness and
development impact.8 Between 1975 and 2015, the Bank implemented PBGs in Côte d’Ivoire
(1975), Argentina (1999), Colombia (2001), Serbia (2001), the former Yugoslav Republic of
Macedonia (2012, 2013), Montenegro (2012), and Albania (2015) (see table B.1). IEG (then
OED) evaluated the $5.6 million Côte d’Ivoire operation in 1985, rating its development
outcome as unsatisfactory.9 The $250 million PBG for Argentina, which was an innovative
use of the guarantee instrument was called, but the ICR does not seem to be publicly
available.10 There is, however, a brief ICR Review for the Argentina Special Structural
Adjustment Loan, in which part of the second tranche was cancelled and allocated to a
separate $1.1 billion PBG. IEG rated this operation’s development outcome and borrower
performance as unsatisfactory.11 A more extensive discussion of the Argentine experience
can be found in IEG’s evaluation of the guarantee instrument at the World Bank Group.12 No

8
 For a list of policy-based guarantees, see
http://www.worldbank.org/projects/search?lang=en&searchTerm=Policy-Based%20Guarantee.
9
 http://www.worldbank.org/projects/P001113/small-scale-enterprise-project?lang=en. Neither the ICR Review
nor the PPAR for that operation is publicly available.
10
     http://www.worldbank.org/projects/P068845/argentina-policy-based-guarantee-operation?lang=en
11
  IEG ICR Review – AR Special SAL (SSL), 2003,
http://lnweb90.worldbank.org/oed/oeddoclib.nsf/DocUNIDViewForJavaSearch/8525682E0068603785256C540
06BA2D0?OpenDocument
12
   http://siteresources.worldbank.org/EXTGUARANTE/Resources/guarantees_eval_full.pdf. According to this
IEG evaluation (2009), in the case of the two PBGs, for Argentina and Columbia, the guarantees exerted
considerable leverage—generating financing of 4.7 times the value of the PBG in Argentina and 6.3 times its
value in Colombia. The Colombia operation achieved investment grade status, which enabled the country to
reestablish access to international capital markets at a time when investor interest was low or nonexistent. In
Argentina, although the country was able to access both U.S. and non-U.S. capital markets at similar terms, the
PBG enabled it to issue a significantly larger bond ($1.2 billion) than would otherwise have been possible at the
time. In Argentina and Colombia, although both countries had previously accessed international capital markets,
the PBGs effectively reintroduced their large bond issues to international markets at a time when they were
either closed to emerging market economies or constrained to small volumes. Following the collapse of the
Argentinean financial system, the country’s adjustment program went off track, and reforms that were intended
to be supported by a Bank adjustment loan as well as the PBG financing were not achieved. In Colombia, when
the PBG was issued, the government had been implementing a broad reform program supported by a Bank
Financial Sector Adjustment Loan. The Bank’s self-evaluation of the project noted that in this context, hybrid
policy loan/guarantee operations might provide more policy leverage and better sequencing than stand-alone
policy guarantee operations. The Bank’s decision to extend repayment terms on the cal led PBG in Argentina
effectively ended its ability to use rolling, reinstatable PCGs. The Rolling Reinstatable Guarantee (RRG)
mechanism for PCGs was introduced on a pilot basis in 1999, and three PCGs were issued using it between
1999 and 2001—in Thailand, Argentina, and Colombia. However, according to IEG’s 2009 evaluation of the
World Bank Group instrument, given difficulties in modeling and valuing the credit enhancement, RRGs were
seen as being penalized by the market. This, in turn, was seen as affecting the value placed on direct Bank bond
issues, thereby potentially raising the cost of borrowing for the Bank. In this context, in 2000 the Bank adopted
a very cautious approach to future transactions using the RRG structure. Then, in 2002, the PBG in Argentina
was called when Argentina failed to service the outstanding bond. Rather than enforce the 60-day period in
ANNEX B                                             32


PPAR seems to have been prepared for this very complex and large operation, which was
large to fill the financing gap in the IMF program defending Argentina’s peg to the dollar
(through its currency board). For the Colombia PBG ($230.3 million), there is an ICR
Review13 which rates the development outcome as moderately satisfactory and is critical of
the guarantee operation, arguing that international capital market inefficiencies were not in
Colombia’s favor despite the PBG (mainly because of the collateral damage from the
Argentine guarantee debacle, which resulted in immediate downgrading of Colombia’s bonds
(backed by the World Bank guarantee. The PPAR for the Colombia FSAL rates the overall
operation as satisfactory, but does not evaluate the PBG portion of the financing operation.14
ICRs were conducted for the Serbia PBG operation, the two Macedonia operations, and the
operation for Montenegro (the Albanian PBG is too recent to have been reviewed).

Table B.1. World Bank Policy-Based Guarantee, 1975–2015
                                                             Commitment         Status as of
                                                 Project                                          Approval
 Project title                  Country                         (US$            September
                                                   ID                                               date
                                                               millions)           2015
 Albania Public
                                                                                                  March 27,
 Finance Policy-Based           Albania          P149765         226.7             Active
                                                                                                   2015
 Guarantee
 FYR Macedonia
                              Macedonia,
 Public Expenditure                                                                               January 8,
                           former Yugoslav       P133791         201.5             Active
 Policy-Based                                                                                       2013
                              Republic of
 Guarantee
 Montenegro Financial
                                                                                                   June 28,
 Sector Policy-Based          Montenegro         P130157          79.2             Active
                                                                                                     2012
 Guarantee
 FYR Macedonia                Macedonia,
                                                                                                  November
 Policy-Based              former Yugoslav       P125837         134.9             Active
                                                                                                   10, 2011
 Guarantee                    Republic of
 Private and Financial
                                                                                                   February
 Sector Policy-Based             Serbia          P102651         400.0             Active
                                                                                                   10, 2011
 Guarantee



which Argentina had to repay the Bank for the guarantee to roll over, the Bank rescheduled the loan, causing
the guarantee to lapse. The market immediately downgraded the issue and also downgraded the RRGs in
Thailand and Colombia.
13
  Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review for Colombia FSAL
(2003).http://imagebank.worldbank.org/servlet/WDSContentServer/IW3P/IB/2014/06/07/000020051_2014060
7172723/Rendered/PDF/000020051_20140607172723.pdf
14
  The PPAR for the FSAL simply mentions that “most of the resources of the FSAL second tranche were used
to fund a PBG in March and May 2001” and then goes on to indicate that “this assessment does not cov er the
outcomes (nor Bank and borrower performance) under the PBG, as the PBG has not yet closed and remains
active today." http://ieg.worldbankgroup.org/Data/reports/PPAR-40139-P006884-
Colombia_Financial_SALs.pdf
                                                               33                                                    ANNEX B


                                                                          Commitment              Status as of
                                                            Project                                                     Approval
 Project title                         Country                               (US$                 September
                                                              ID                                                          date
                                                                            millions)                2015
 Colombia Policy-                                                                                                        March 8,
                                      Colombia              P072723             220.3                Closed
 Based Guarantee                                                                                                          2001
 Argentina Policy-
                                                                                                                        September
 Based Guarantee                      Argentina             P068845             250.0                Closed
                                                                                                                         16, 1999
 Operation
 Small-Scale                                                                                                           August 21,
                                    Côte d’Ivoire           P001113               5.6                Closed
 Enterprise Project                                                                                                      1975
Source: World Bank (http://www.worldbank.org/projects/search?lang=en&searchTerm=Policy-based%20guarantee).
Note: For active and closed projects, the commitment amount at Board approval is shown in U.S. dollars. These figures do not reflect any
cancellations.
                                              34


Appendix C. List of Persons Met
World Bank Staff
Mr. Dusko Vasiljevic, PBG Private Sector Economist, World Bank
Ms. Jasna Vukoje, Senior Program Assistant, World Bank
Mr. Lazar Sestovic, Senior Economist, World Bank Group
Ms. Aurora Ferrari, Practice Manager, Finance and Markets Global Practice, PBG Task Team Leader,
    World Bank
Mr. Andrej Popovic, Private and Financial Sector Specialist, World Bank
Ms. Marina Wes, former lead economist for Serbia, World Bank
Ms. Jane Armitage, former Country Director for Western Balkans, World Bank
Mr. Gianfranco Bertozzi, lead specialist, World Bank Group

Government of Serbia and Experts
Mr. Dusan Vujovic, Minister of Finance, Ministry of Finance
Mr. Nenad Mijailovic, State Secretary, Ministry of Finance
Mr. Diana Dragutinovic, Former Minister of Finance, Ministry of Finance
Professsor Miroljub Labus, independent expert and professor emeritus, Former Deputy Prime Minister
    and Minister of Economy of Serbia, Ministry of Finance
Professor Pavle Petrovic, President of the Fiscal Council of Serbia, Government of Serbia
Mr. Nikola Altiparmakov, member, Fiscal Council of Serbia, Government of Serbia
Professor Milojko Arsic, member, Fiscal Council of Serbia, Government of Serbia
Mr. Vladimir Vuckovic, Faculty of Economics, University of Belgrade
Mr. Branko Drcelic, Head of the Public Debt Management Agency
Mr. Milosch Dragic, Head of the Public Debt Management Agency
Mr. Dejan Soskic, University of Belgrade, Former governor of the National Bank of Serbia (NBS)
Mr. Luka Andric, Law Office, PBG Lawyer
Mr. Mirko Cvetkovic, Former Prime Minister and Finance Minister of the Republic of Serbia
Ms. Tanja Kuzmanovic, Former Advisor to the Prime Minister and Minister of Finance, Ministry of
    Finance
Mrs. Goran Radosavljevic, Advisor to the former Prime Minister and Minister of Finance, Ministry of
    Finance
Office of Société Générale, Belgrade, Serbia

International Monetary Fund
Mr. Bogdan Lissovolik, Former IMF Representative
Mr. Kim Daeheng, IMF resident representative, Belgrade office, International Monetary Fund (IMF)
Mrs. Desanka Nestorovic, Economist, Belgrade Office, International Monetary Fund (IMF)

International Commercial Banks
Ms. Sonja Miladinovski, Executive Board Member, Société Générale Bank
Mr. Dragoljub Veljic, Société Générale Bank
