CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 757 HA
Development Credit Agreement
(Provincial Towns Water Supply Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF HAITI
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated January 23, 1978


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 757 HA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 23, 1978, between REPUBLIC OF HAITI
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association.)
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Project will be carried out by the Service National
d'Eau Potable (hereinafter called SNEP) with the Borrower's
assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make
available to SNEF the proceeds of the Credit as hereinafter
provided; and
(C) the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia of
the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms
and conditions set forth hereinafter and in the Project Agreement
of even date herewith between the Association and SNEP;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "SNEP" means the Service National d'Eau Potable, an
autonomous agency of the Borrower established and operating
pursuant to the Law of the Borrower dated August 20, 1977 pub-
lished in Moniteur No. 70A of October 10, 1977;


﻿- 2 -
(b) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and SNEP of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time; and
(c) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and SNEP pursuant to Section
3.02 (a) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time
to time.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to six million six hundred thousand dollars ($6,600,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Associa-
tion, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the procurement of goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions
of Schedule 1 of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1981
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on February 1 and August 1 in each year.


﻿-3-
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each Febru-
ary 1 and August 1 commencing February 1, 1988, and ending
August 1, 2027, each installment to and including the installment
payable on August 1, 1997, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of
1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to
be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
Section 2.09. SNEP is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or per-
mitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction upon
any of its other obligations under the Development Credit Agree-
ment, the Borrower shall cause SNEP to perform in accordance with
the provisions of the Project Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement all the obligations therein set forth, shall take and
cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds,
facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate
to enable SNEP to perform such obligations, and shall not take or
permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere
with such performance.
(b) The Borrower shall provide such funds as shall be
required by SNEP to cover any cash deficit of SNEP during the
construction period of the Project.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall relend to SNEP the
proceeds of the Credit under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including repay-
ment of principal in 30 years (including 3 years of grace) with
interest at 6% per annum.
(b) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsid-
iary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of
the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes of


﻿the Credit, and except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall assign to SNEP exclusive responsibility
for all future investments in Haiti in the water supply sector
other than those in the Port-au-Prince metropolitan area.
Section 3.04. (a) Repayments of principal and payments of
interest under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and any other funds
allocated to investments by SNEP, shall be credited to a revolving
fund to be used for financing future investments in Haiti in
water supply and sanitation projects, or in such higher priority
development projects as the Borrower may determine;
(b) the Borrower and the Association shall exchange views
on the establishment and operation of such revolving fund.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) SNEP shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement or under the Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ment;
(b) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which
makes it improbable that SNEP will be able to perform its obliga-
tions under the Project Agreement or the Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ment;
(c) the Law establishing SNEP shall have been amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived in such a way as to
materially and adversely affect the carrying out of the Project or
the obligations of SNEP under the Project Agreement or the Subsid-
iary Loan Agreement; and
(d) the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestab-
lishment of SNEP or for the suspension of its operations.


﻿-5-
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a) any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 4.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period
of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Association to the Borrower and SNEP; and
(b)  any event specified in paragraph (c) or (d) of Section
4.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and SNEP;
(b) consultants have been appointed in accordance with
Section 2.02 of the Project Agreement;
(c)   personnel satisfactory to the Association have been
appointed as the heads of SNEP's Sections of (i) Operations and
Maintenance, (ii) Project Design and Construction and (iii)
Administration and Finance; and
(d)  a detailed implementation schedule satisfactory to the
Association for carrying out Part G of the Project has been
prepared.
Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a)   that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by SNEP and is legally binding upon SNEP in accor-
dance with its terms; and


﻿- 6 -
(b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly autho-
rized or ratified by the Borrower and SNEP and is legally binding
upon the Borrower and SNEP in accordance with its Lerms.
Section 5.03. The date April 24, 1978, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections
3.03 and 3.04 of this Agreement and the provisions of paragraph
(d) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate
or on a date thirty years after the date of this Agreement,
whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this
Agreement, the Secretary of State for Finance and Economic
Affairs of the Borrower is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Condi-
tions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purpose of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Secretairerie d'Etat des Finances
et des Affaires Economiques
Palais des Finances
Port-au-Prince
Haiti
Cable address:
Secretaires d'Etat des
Finances et des Affaires
Economiques
Port-au-Prince
Haiti


﻿-7-
For the Association:
International Development Association
1'.3 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                                  440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                         248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF HAITI
By Is! Georges Salomon
Authorized Representative
I!TERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s! Eugenio F. Lari
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿- 8 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Materials and               3,150,000         100% of foreign
equipment for                                expenditures
water supply
systems, main-
tenance and
office building
(2) Civil works for             1,500,000         56%
water supply
system and
office building
(3) Technical Assis-              490,000         100%
tance under Part
G of the Project
(4) Engineering                   770,000         89%
consultants
(5) Unallocated                   690,000
TOTAL       6,600,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule the term "foreign expendi-
tures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other
than the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other thin that of the Borrower.


﻿- 9 -
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or ii. the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures: (i) prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent
of $200,000 may be made in respect of Categories (3) and (4)
on account of payments made for such expenditures before that
date but after October 1, 1977; (fi) under Categories (1) or (2)
above for items related to SNEP's office building until the
engineering designs, specifications and procurement documents for
the building have been approved by the Association and SNEP has
been given clear title to land adequate for its construction; or
(iii) under Categories (1) or (2) for any other item until the
engineering designs, specifications and procurement documents for
the supply systems have been approved by the Association.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that
the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Association are not needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if
such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such expen-
ditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category may
continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is incons1stent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no


﻿- 10 -
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way re-
stricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Associ-
ation's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expendi-
tures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project which is designed to assist the reconstruction
and improvement of the Borrower's water supply systems consists
of the following Parts:
Part A:   1.   Construction of wells at Cap-Haitien (3) and
at Gonaives (1).
2.   Pump replacement in existing well at Gonaives.
3.   Rehabilitation of spring sources at Cap-Haitien.
4.   Installation of water meters at all production
sources at Cap-Haitien, Gonaives, Jeremie, Port-de-
Paix, Jacmel, Miragoane and Aquin.
Part B:   1.   Installation of chlorination facilities at Cap-
Haitien, Gonaives, Jeremie, Port-de-Paix, Jacmel,
Miragoane and Aquin.
2.   Rehabilitation of pumping facilities at Cap-Haitien.
3.   Reconstruction   of  the existing intake work/
structure at Cap-Haitien, Jeremie, Port-de-Paix,
Miragoane and Aquin.
Part C:    Construction of transmission and/or distribution pipes
totalling about 112 km at Cap-Haitien, Gonaives,
Jeremie, Port-de-Paix, Jacmel, Miragoane and Aquin.
Part D:   1.   Construction of additional storage tanks at Cap-
Haitien, Jeremie, Port-de-Paix, Jacmel, Miragoane
and Aquin.
2.   Construction of a storage reservoir at Gonaives.
3.   Rehabilitation of the steel storage tank at Cap-
Haitien and repair of the existing storage tanks
at Jr6mie and at Port-de-Paix.
Part E:   1.   Construction of about 10,500 house connections
at Cap-Haitien, Gonaives, J6remie, Port-de-Paix,
Jacmel, Miragoane and Aquin.


﻿- 12 -
2.   Construction of about 109 public standpipes at
Cap-Haitien, Gonaives, J6remie, Port-de-Paix,
Jacmel, Miragoane and Aquin.
Part F:   1.   Construction of SNEP's office building at Port-au-
Prince, including storage and shop maintenance
facilities.
2.   Acquisition of basic maintenance equipment, vehicles
and spare parts and office equipment.
Part G:   Strengthening of the management of SNEP, including its
design and construction capabilities and its adminis-
trative, financial and engineering practices and the
training of SNEP's staff, utilizing about 100 man-months
of technical assistance.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1981.


