Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 9156-ZR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ZAIRE
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
JULY 30, 1991
Africa Region
South-Central and Indian Ocean Department
Agricultural Sector Operations Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their oflicial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY AND EXCHANGE RATES
Currency Unit      =     Zaire (Z)
Z 1000        =     US$ 0.222 a/
US$ 1        =     Z 4500_/
SDR I        =     USS 1.352 b/
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I are (a)          =     0.0247 acre
I hectare (ha)     =     2.47 acre
1 kilometer (km)    =    0.62 mile
1 square kilometer
(km2)        =     0.39 square mile
1 kilogram (kg)          2.20 pounds
1 liter (1)        =     0.26 US gallon
0.22 Imperial gallon
I ton (t)          =     2,240 pounds
GOVERNMENT OF ZAIRE
FISCAL YEAR
January I to December 31
a) As of May 31, 1991. Average market exchange rates of previous years:
1990- 719; 1989- 381; 1988 - 187; 1987 - 112; 1986-60
b) As of March 31, 1991



FOR OMCIAL USE. ONLY
ZAIRE
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
AGCD        Administration Generale de la Cooperation de Developpement
(Belgian Adminisration for Development Cooperation)
BU          Biometrics Unit
CIAT        International Center for Tropical Agriculture
CIMMYT    Inteinational Maize and Wheat Improvement Center
CIP         International Potato Center
(Ministry for Higher Education and Scientific Research.)
FAO         Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
FSR         Farming Systems Research
[ARCs       International Agricultural Research Centers
IBPGR       Internatioanl Board for Plant Genetic Resources
IITA        International Institute of Tropical Agriculture
ILCA        International Livestock Centre for Africa
INEAC       Institut National pour l'Etude Agronomique au Congo
(Agricultu:al Research Institute of former Belgian Congo)
INERA       Institut National pour l'Etude et la Recherche Agronomiques
(National Agricultural Research Institute of Zaire)
IPM         Integrated Pest Management
ISNAR       International Service for National Agricultural Research
PME         Programming, Monitoring and Evalution (Unit)
RAV         Recherche Agronomique Appliquee et Vulgarisation
(Applied Agricultural Research and Extension Project)
SENARAV   Service National dc Recherche Agronomique Appliquee et Vulgarisation
(National Applied Agricultural Research and Extension Service)
SNV         Service National de Vulgarisation
(National Extension Service)
UNDP        United Nations Development Program
USAID       United States Agency for International Development
See Annex II for research-related organizations and .;;stitutions in Zaire.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ZAE
NTIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
STAFF  AI'PRAISAL  REPR
Table of Contpnts
page
Credit and Project Summary  ................................ ............   i
1. BACKGROUND                 .....................1......... 
A. Project Backgound ............................    1
B. Economic Resources and Management ..........................   1
Sector Background  ....................................   1
Economic Performance  .................................   2
Structural Adjustment Policies and Results  .....................  2
C. The Agricultural Sector . ......  ...........................   3
Sector Profile  .......................................   3
Bank Group Involvement in Agriculture .......................  4
IDA Strategy for Agriculture ..............................  5
II. AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH .......                    ......................                          6
A. Research - Past, Present and Future ............................   6
Tme Period of Decline ..................................  6
Attempts Towards Rehabilitation ............................   6
The Present Situation ...................................   7
Major Remaining Constraints ..............................  8
B. The New Agricultural Research Strategy .........................  8
General strategy ......................................   8
The Master Plan for Agricultural Research  .....................  9
This report is based on the findings of a Bank appraisal mission which visited Zaire in May
and June 1990, comprising Messrs. E. Los, (agronomist and mission leader), J. Weijenberg
(agronomist), D. Prevoo (IDA) and J. Sarraute, M. van Bu'laere, N. Chabeuf, J. Snoeck, and
L. de Cornelissen (consultants). A peer group, consisting uf Messrs. H. Walters, M. Toure
and D. van der Sluijs, has revisewed the project from the Initial Executive Project Summary.
This report has been prepared by D. Aw and D. Prevoo from drafts by E. Los and C.
Trapm n. Ms. Monique Piette provided secretarial suppor in the preparation of the report.
Messrs. Otten and Aguirre-Sacasa are the managing Division Chief and Department Director,
respectively, for the operation.



111.   THE   PROJECT    ...............................    .................                                 10
A. Vroorv. (bj-'.ive .                                                                      10
B. Sunm:im >' -ject Description .10
C. Detas .A5 Features  ................ ...............    ......    12
1.   Executiorn of priority research programs   .               .12
a) Food Crop Research Programs .12
s') Industrial Crop Research Program  ..................   14
c) Perennial Crop Research Programi .                                        14
(d) Livestock Research Program .15
(e) Thematic Research Programs . ......................    15
2.  Human Resources Development   .                          .17
3.     Rehabilitation and Improvement of Physical Plant and Equipment . .   18
IV. COST AND FINANCING .20
A. Cost Estimates                                    ?.0
B. Financing ..........................................   21
C. Budget Implications for Government  ..........................    23
D. Procurement ......................  ..................   23
E. Disbursements ............                  .      .    ..................   25
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT   ...............................   27
A. Research and Station Management ...........................    27
B. Programming, Monitoring and Evaluation  .......................   27
C. Accounting and Auditing  ..................                      ..............    29
D. Interministerial Concertation and Donor Coordination   ...............   29
E. Reporting .30
F. Training, Recruitment and Technical Assistance .....  .............   30
G. Station Rehabilitation and Civil Works .....            ............... .                3 i
H. Project Implementation Schedule                            .        .         .          31
I. Status of Project Preparation ................................   31
VI. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION   ................ ............                                          .   33
A. Project Benefits  .......................................    33
B. Impact on Employment and Poverty ...........................   33
C. Environmenta' Impact ...................... 34
D. Project Risks .........................................    34
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED WITH THE BORROWER   ...................                                             35
TABLE WITHIN TEXT
Table 3.1  Projected Research Staff 1990-2000 ................................    18
Table 4.1 Summary Account Cost Table by Component .....                    .............  .......   20
Table 4.2  Project Financing Plan by Cost Category   ............................   22
Table 4.3  Impact of project on Government budget ...                      .........................   23
Table 4.4  Procurement Procedures .......................................    24
Table 4.5  Disbursement Categories .......................................   26



TABLES ANNFXES. CHARTS AND MAP
Table 1  Major Ecological Zoues ................................. ......    37
Table 2   Station Network and Mandates ....................................    38
Table 3   Development of Research Statikn Network  ......... ................                                         40
Table 4   Statistical data on crops and livestock   ....             .......  .................    .   41I
Table 5   Indicative Distribution Pattern Research Staff per program    ....                 ......  .......    43
Table 6   Indicative Training Requirements  ....                 I           ..........................    45
Table 7   Indicative Technical Assistance Plan  ................................                                      46
Table 8   Evolution of the execution of the Research iJudget  .......................    47
Table 9   Consolidated Profit and Loss Accounts of INERA  .......................                                     48
Table 10  Estimated Sche.dule of IDA  Disbursements  ............................   49
Table 11  Summary AccGunts   ..........................................    50
Table 12  Packaging of Civil Works Contracts  ................................    55
ANNEXE5
Annex I  Summary of recent research output .................................    56
Annex II Organizations and Institutions related to Agricultural Research in Zaire  ....                     ......   57
Annex III Institutional Arrangements for Research/Extension Interaction  ................   60
Appendix to Annex III Overview of the parameEers for farmer/extension agent/researcher
communications .                                                                                   ..........................................   64
Annex IV  Implementation Schedule   ......................................    66
Annex V   Supervision Plan   ...........................................    70
Annex VI Lessons Learned from  Previous P!ojects .............................    72
Annex VII Selected Data and Documents Available in the Project File  ..... ..                          ..........    74
CHARTS
Chart  Organigram of INER ......................................  75
Chart 2   Implementation Schedule of Civil Works for Station Rehiabilitation   .............   76
MAP
No. IBRD 22614   Location of Research Centers and Stations .77



ZAIRE
NATiON L AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT.
Credit and Project Summary
Bwe         Republic of Zaire
Beneficia:  Ministry for Higher Education and Scientific Research, National Agricultural
Research Institute (INERA)
Arnount:    SDR 12.4 million (USS 16.7 million equivalent)
Terms:      Standard terms, with 40 years maturity
Project
Description: Objectives and Content; The Project would constitute the first five-year phase of
a long term support program to strengthen the national agricultural research system
in Zaire in order to make it more responsive and relevant to farmers' needs and
constraints. The project would:
(a) Support the reorganization of INERA through (i) the integration of all
Government executed agricultural research activities under a single structure
(INERA); (ii) the separation of research and station management; (iii) the
improvement of communication and information systems and the
development of research data bases.
(b) Strengthen lNERA through (i) providing support for priority research
prog, mis focussing upon improved quality and better technology transfe'
to fami  s; (ii) rehabilitation, construction and re-equipping of a network
of ten research stations and INERA's headquarters; (iii) support to human
resources development through training, scholarships and irnprovenient of
conditions of service.
Boeefits
and Risks:  Improved technology generation and better research/extension/farmer interaction
would lead to (i) accelerated agricultural growth and increased productivity from
higher returns to farmers; (ii) increased foreign exchange earnings and reduced
food imports; and, (iii) less degradation and more efficient use of natural resources.
The principal risk is a possible inadequacy of Government funding from a
deterioration of the economic situation or a shortfall of donor-generatcd counterpart
funds. Other risks are: (i) the difficulties for the research establishment to adopt
the new demand-driven approach for programming and executing its work; and (ii)
lack of discipline from Government or donors leading to a dilution of efforts by
going beyond the priority programs and the network of research stations which
have been agreed.



ii
!stlmatod Projoct Costs:
(USS Nillion)
Totas      X of Total   | Foreign
Local    Foreign    Costs      base costs      Exchang
irntitutioal Developen t              8.09        4.19      12.28          23.3         34.1
lu .m  Resources Developaent           3.60       3.97       7,57           16.4        52.5
Com_unication  nd Documentation        0.48       1.46       1.93            3.7         73.3
Priority Research Programs             9.65       7.76      17.41           33.0        44.6
Rehabilitation of PhysIcal Plant
and Eauipment                          8.30       5.24      13.54           25.7        38.7
Total Base Costs                     30.11       22.62      52.73          100.0        42.0
Physical Contingencies                 1.63       0.44       2.07            3.9        21.2
Price Contingencies                    5. CO      3.57       8.57           16.3        41.7
Taxes and Duties                       1.82       0.00       1.82            3.4         0.0
T1tat Pro act Costs                  38.56       26.63      65.19          123.6        40.8
Financino Plan:
FUSS million)
Locel      roreion      Tothl
Goverraent                         18.50                     18.50
INERA (own resources)               1.00                     1.00
IDA                                 7.40         9.30       .6.70
Other Donors                       11.66        17.33       2899
Total wit'. Taxes and Duties       38.56        26.63       65.19
Estimated IDA disbursements:
(US million)
IDA Fiscal Yeer       FY 92  1/            FY 93       FY 94       FY 95         FY 96        FY 97         FY 98
Annual                        2.0           1.67        1.84        2.01          3.67          4.17         1.34
Cumilative                    2.0           3.67        5.51        7.52         11.19         15.36        16.70
X Cumulative                 12            22          33          45            67            92          100
Rate of Return    Not applicable.
l/Including an advance of USS 1.3 million from the Project Preparation Facility.



I
7AIRE
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PgQlE.
STAFF EPRAISAL REPOR
!. BACKQFjLJkM
A. Erojec Backgrund
1.1   At independence in 1960, Zaire inherited an agricultural research institute, Institut National
2our l'Etude Agronomigue auCongo (INEAC) of world repute. Research was conducted on 26
stations, covering all crops and ali major areas of agricultural research. During the period of civil
unrest in the 1960s, most experienced swca !mft and activities came to a standstill. In 1970, the
institute was renamed Institut National pour l'Ewtud et la Recherche Agrmnomiques (INERA).
Numerous proposals wete made to revitalize INERA but none received the necessary international
support, due to Government reluctance to place the scope of rehabilitation within realistic limits,
the lack of human and financial resources and weak management. Only a small percentage of
s;aff was directly involved in research work, which was poorly coordinated and had an on-station
rather than an on-farm focus. After several changes, which furthe; weakened INMERA, it was
placed under the Ministry for Higher Education and Scientific Research in 1983.
1.2  In 1984, Government appointed a high level interministerial study group to analyze the
national agricultural research structure. The study group, assisted by the International Service for
National Agricultural Research (ISNAR), made proposals to reduce INERA's scope of activities
in line with national priorities. Main recommendatiors were the transfer of INERA's headquarters
to  isnasa, the discontinuation of its commercial activities and the integration of all Government-
executed agricultural research in a single research structure.   Government accepted these
reccmmeradations in 1985 but adopted a plan of action only two years later with the transfer of
INERA's headquarters, the reduction of its research stations to nine, an inicrease in qualified statf
and the establishment of ani informal donor coordination group.
B. Economic Resources and Management.
Sector Background
1.3   With a land area of 2.3 million km2, Zaire is the second largest country in Sub-Saharan
Africa. It has a vast wealth of mineral and energy resources and great agi'icultural production
potential. Because of differences in climate, soils and topography, Zaire produces a wide range
of cultivated crops. It has the largest tropical rain forest reserve left in Africa. 'rhis forest, which
covers about 50 percent of the country, is as yet, practically untouched. The vast Zaire river
basin provides abundant fish resources which are largely under-exploited. O)utside the rain forest
areas, the wood and grass savannas offer conditions favorable to cropping und livestock grazing
and largely free from droughts. Agriculture accounts for 30 percent of GDP, but only for six
percent of total export earnings. The popula:ion estimated at 34 million in 1989 is growing at
three percent per annum. About 40 percent of the population lives in urban areas (with about 1I
percent in Kinshasa) and 45 percent is under the age of 15. The population density averages 15



2
per km2 but varies from 10 in the south, the north and the Zaire basin, to 45 in the easterra
highlands. Per capita income of USS 260 in 1989 is among the lowest in Africa.
f,.onomic Performanc
1.4   Though richly endowed with natural resources, Zaire's economic performance has been
poor. Civil unrest after independence caused severe imbalances in the economy. Production
levels and export earnings dropped, particularly in agriculture, %which declined 40 percent between
1959 and 1967. Growth resumed from 1968 to 1974 durirg a period of relative political and
economic stability, but in 1974 falling copper prices and "zairianization" of economic assets
caused major disruptions in the economy. Zairianization had a negative effect on the long term
development of the country, particularly in agriculture. It undermined the private sector's
willingness to invest (critically delaying investment in the rejuvenation of perennial crcps), and
disrupted the marketing and distribution network in rural areas. At the same time Government's
macro-economic policies led to an overvalued exchange rate, strong inflationary pressures and
distortions in prices and interest rates that inhibited the development of the agricultural sector.
Structural Adiustment Policies ard Results
1.5  In 1983, Zaire initiated a far reaching adjustment program. It included a 78 percent
currency devaluation in SDR terms, tighter controls on public expenditures, and substantive
exchange rate, trade, and price liberalization, particularly the decontrol of agricultural prices and
interest rates. In 1986, IDA approved a quick-disbursing Industrial Adjustment Sector Credit (Cr.
A019-ZR), to support trade and tax reforms and liberalize industrial prices. As a follow-up, in
mid-1987 IDA approved a Structural Adjustment Credit (Cr. 1831-ZR) to strengthen macro-
economic management, reorient sector policier and improve the private sector incentive
framework, emphasizing the improvement of the transport system. The implementation of the
adjustment program was undermlirned by the lack of fis^al discipline. With Clovernment failing
to meet its adjustment targets, IDA suspended in 1990 its support to structural adjustment and
limited its in-. estment lending to a core program of projects designed to maintain Zaire's long-term
development potential.



C. The Agricultural Sector.
Sector Protil;e
1.6   Agriculture is the most important sector in the economy, providing direct and indirect
employment to about 75 percent of the active population and contributing about 30 percent of the
GDP.  About 35 percent of the iand area is suitable for agriculture, but only 3 percent is
cultivated and 1.5 percent is grazed. Most of the 3.5 million farmers in the traditional sector are
smallholders with one or two hectares, who account for about 65 percent of agricultural GDP.
Most are subsistence farmers wIho follow a bush-fallow p'oduction system and use farming
techniques that rely on family labor (mostly women), low inputs and simple tools.  Animal
production is rapidly spreading and the traditional sector now accounts for about 60 percent of the
national cattle herd. Livestock products account for about 15 percent of the value of agricultural
production. The relatively small herd (1.5 million cattle, 3.5 million small ruminants, 700,000
pigs and 16 million fowl) is steadily expanding. There are some 300,000 medium-sized farms (10
to 50 ha), producing most of the coffee, tea, cotton and meat as well as more than 10 per cent of
the marketed palm oil. TIhe estate sector consists of about 800 enterprises primarily engaged in
perennial crop production, sugar cane cultivation and ranching. Around urban areas the pressure
on the land shortens the fallow period and entails lower productivity and soil degradation. Out-
migration from rural areas, in particular of the male population, increases labor shortages ;n
agriculture and accentuates the vital role of women in food production and marketing.
1.7   The country is divided in six major agro-ecological zones as shown on the Map (IBRD
22614) and as described in Tabie 1. Most crops can be giown in all these zones though farming
techniques must be adjusted to the ecciogical conditions (climate, soils and ground cover).
Although agriculture's share in the total value of exports has declined steadily (para. 1.8) the
export potential for pererimaial crops remains hiigb. In 1987, coffee accounted for 60 percent of
the value of agriculturai exports (1987), followed by forest products (17 percent), oil palm (5
percent), and rubner and quinine (4 percent each). In the food crops sub-sector, cassava is the
main staple, accounting for 42 percent of the value at the farm gate, followed by leguminous crops
. percent), plantains/banana (11 percent) and other root crops (10 percent).
1.8   From  1960 and until the early 1980's, Agricultural production has basically stagnated.
Annual growth of output varied between -1.7 percent and 2.3 percent, well below the average
pe tulation increase of about 3 percent. This has resulted in an increase of food imports frem 7ero
(1960) to 20 percent (1985) of total imports and in a steady reduction uf the share of agricultural
exports from 41 percent (1960) to 6 percent of total exports (1989). This steady de:line reflects:
(a) a loss of private investor confidence; (b) biased macroeconomic policies, including marketing
and price controls, cheap food imports, and an overvalued currency; (c) the deterioration of the
transport network. and (d) the decline in support services to agriculture, notably research and
extension.
1.9   The liberalization measures of 1983 and the strong devaluation of the currency marked a
real departure from the serious decliine due to macro-economic mismanagement. The growth of
output improved slightly to around 3 percent per annum, bat supply response wa.s below
expectations because, the underlying constraints of poor rural roads and inadequate agricultural
services were not addressed and a host of macroeconomic constraints remained.



4
1.10 IOJQ Financed Investment Projects. Since 1974, IDA ha. financed 16 operations in the
agricultural sector for a total of US$ 165 million. Given the size of the courtiy and its diversity,
prk-jc- have tended to take account of specific regional circumstances and resources. IDA has
also played an important role in helping to coordinate the activities of external financing agencies
in the sector and setting up cofinancing arrangements. Tb^ Bank Group's agricultural portfolio
nas concentrated  on  several subsectors: livestock 2/, insial       l/, smallholde
aericulture and agricultural services A/,  it1tonal stng3rtening an  agricultural services
5/ and a rural road rehabilitation project (Cr. 2178-ZR, 1990).
1.11  Performance Evaluation. Six projects are ongoing, and tie Project Completion Reports
of all but two (Cr. 1040-Zi and Cr. 1244-ZR) of the closed projects have been prepared. A
FLoject Performance Audit RepWrt is available for one project (Ituri Livestock Development). The
implementation experience has been generally poor with economic rates of return ranging from
negative to marginally positive. Common problems encountered have been inadequate counterpart
funding, weak management and inadequate staffiug. Insufficient internal control has led to a few
cases of misprocurement, misuse of goods procured with IDA credits and payments out of special
a"-,ount; for expenditures or amounts not eligible The Project Manage.n.ent Unit approach of area
development projects failed to produce lasting institutional results becauise financing and staffing
could not be sustained once external financing ended. Crop-orieinted projects with less direct or
indirect Government involvement and mixed or private management performed well technically,
although they contributed little to regional development. Financial results were disappoi.?ting due
to the devaluation of the local currency and foreign currency-linked reimbursement terms. The
consequence of this mixed performance led to a fundamental change in the Bank's strategy for
agricultural development as detailed below. The present project design incorporates lessons
learned from previous projects as detailed in Annex VI.
2/Livestock I (Cr. 398-ZR), 1974, $8.5 million; Ituri Livestock Development (Cr. 697-ZR),
1978, $8.0 million; Ituri Noitheast Rural Development (Cr. 1325-ZR), 1983, $13.0 million.
3/Cotton Rehabilitation I (Cr. 660-ZR), 1977, $8.0 million; and 11 (Cr. 1264-ZR), 1982,
$10.7 million; Kwilu-Ngongo Sugar (Cr. 1089-ZR), 1981, $26.4 million; Oil Palm
Rehabilitation (Cr. 796-ZR), 1978, $9.0 million.
4iSmallholder Maize (Cr. 1040-ZR). 1980, $11 .0 million; Kwango-Kwilu Technical
Assistance (Cr. 1152-ZR), 1981, $2.6 million: Lulua Rural Development (Cr. 1540-ZR),
1985, $12.5 million; South Shaba Rural Development (Cr. 1790-ZR). 1987, $4.4 million.
I/Agriculture Technical Assistance I (Cr. 1244-ZR), 1982, $5.0 million and II (Cr. 1958-ZR),
1988, $11.6 million; Seeds Project (Cr. 1609-ZR), 1985, $14.9 million; Pilot Extension
Project (Cr. 2096-ZR). 1990. $5.9 million.



5
IDA Strategy for Agriculture.
1.12 IDA's strategy, elaborated in 1988 6/, aimed at strengthening and rebuilding
institutions. The goal was to create and maintain a policy environment conducive to sound public
and private investment in the productive sectors, with the Government providing essential
infrastructure and services. This included improving the planning and administrative capacity in
the sector, and the provision of a framework for effective donor coordination. Important elements
of this strategy were: (a) support to basic public services such as extension, agricultural research,
feeder roads and agrici;tural education to help improve the environment for private investment;
(b) improved public investment planning, including sector-wide coordination of existing activities
and donor intervention; (c) development of procedures aimed at effective control of public
expenditures; (d) institutional reforms including human resource planning; and (e) improved
environment, conservation and forestry management. Because of the difficult macroeconomic
situation the implementation of this strategy is currently limited to a core program, which focusses
on activities with a longer-term payoff on the grounds that their postponement would impair a
future supply response when economic conditions improve; they include support for research and
extension, and for natural resource conservation and forest management.
§/"Agriculture Sector Memorandum - Zaire: Toward Sustained Agricultural Development'
Agriculture Division, South Central and Indian Ocean Department, World Bank, September
26, 1988



6
11. AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH
A. Researc - Past, Present and Future
The Period of Decline
2.1   Since independence, agricultural research in Zaire has suffered a crippling decline in output
and productivity. The reasons for this decline can be summarized as follows. First, the pre-
independence research establishment INEAC consisted overwhelmingly of expatriate researchers
(of the 300 researchers, only one was Zairian). As most of this staff left the country during the
disturbances of the early 1960s, the system lost its critical mass of know-how, experience, and
institutional efficiency. Second, research had been principally oriented towards export crops (oil
palm, cocoa, coffee, rubber, cotton) and marketed foodcrops (maize, cassava). The decline in
marketed agricultural production, due to weak macroeconomic management and deteriorating
transport networks, reduced the demand for new technology. Third, Government funding of
agricultural research was reduced in real terms over a long period to a level where it now barely
covers salaries.  As a result, not only was it impossible to maintain the large research
infrastructure but researchers became more station-bound and vital outreach programs as well as
research-extension linkages were largely lost.
2.2   The implicatioi s of weakened agricultural research on the sector's output have been
serious. Non-renewal of seed varieties and planting material has led to stagnating and declining
yields for many crops. Disease resistance has also weakened. Valuable research results are in
danger of being lost; conservation of germplasm/food cultivars has been neglected and is now in
a critical stage. In these conditions, the research establishment was unable to provide new
messages for technology improvement, which depresses the potential supply response even if
market conditions improve, as in the 1983-87 adjustment period.
Attempts Towards Rehabilitation
2.3   Between 1965 and 1985, several attempts were made to revitalize agricultural research.
Proposals to reform the research system as a whole were not successful since the Government
insisted on maintain ng and rehabilitating the entire pre-independence research establishment (26
stations, covering 3XO,000 ha), which was quite unrealistic for managerial, technical and financial
reasons.
2.4   Initiatives in slapport of agricultural research before 1985 have included:
(a)   applied research components in a number of donor-funded projects, mostly in
support of food crops. The impact of results achieved has been diluted due to poor
quality base seed material and lack of funding once donor-financing expired;
(b)   better results have been  achieved  through  cooperation  with  International
Agricultural Research Institutes (IARCs), such as the International Maize and
Wheat Improvement Center (CYMMIT), the International Institute of Tropical
Agriculture (IITA) and the International Potato Center (CIP), which carried out
varietal selection progiams for maize, cassava and potatoes. This research was



7
organized by the Ministry of Agriculture under three autonomous crnn research
programs (Programme National MaTs, Programme Natlo- al Manir-  rogramme
National Legumes). In several cases, new varieties have been widely adopted, such
as composite maize varieties developed in Shaba and the KasaT Regions and higher-
yielding, disease-resistant cassava cultivars (Kasal, Bandundu);
(c)   the Belgian Administration for Development Cooperation (AGCD) provided support
fo: rice germplasm conservation and cotton varietal research; and,
(d)   the private sector has carried out research on the development of dwarf, wilt-
resistant oil palm varieties, and the selection of new clones of sugarcane.
2.5   Since 1985 efforts have concentrated otz adopting a functional and more permanent research
structure. In 1985, USAID funded a research project under the auspices of the Ministry of
Agriculture called RAV (Recherche Agronomique Appliquee et Vulgarisation), which established
the National Applied Agricultural Research and Extension Service (SENARAV), separate from
INERA. SENARAV would concentrate its research efforts on basic food commodities (maize,
cassava and grain legumes) on INERA stations, but with a separate management structure. Also
in 1985, an interministerial study group, assisted by the International Service for National
Agricultural Research (ISNAR) with USAID funding, was set up to develop an agricultural
research master plan. Its main recommendations were: (a) the integration of all research efforts
to ensure that scarce resources are used rationally to address national priorities; (b) the
establishment of programming, budgeting and accounting procedures designed to adjust programs
to results; (c) the transfer of INERA headquarters fiom Yangambi to Kinshasa, and the reduction
in the number of research stations from 26 to 9; (d) systematic training of research staff and
review of salary and benefit system; and (e) separating research from commercial activities.
These recommendations were accepted by Government in 1987.
The Present Situation
2.6   Between 1987 and 1990, Government has carried out its commitment to reduce the
research station network. It: (a) transferred INERA headquarters from Yangambi to Kinshasa;
(b) transferred the agricultural and veterinary faculty from Yangambi to Kisangani; (c) handed
over eleven research stations to the ministry responsible for the public entreprise sector; (d) rented
out four research stations to private enterprises that will be responsible for maintaining existing
assets, and designated four more stations to be rented out under similar conditions; and (e) added
one research station, in Shaba, Kaniameshi, specializing in maize research. Details are prov ided
in Table 3 in Annex. Some improvements in staffing have also been initiated. INERA abolished
400 positions between 1985 and 1989. However, the combined INERA/SENARAV staff of about
2,000 is still approximately 600 persons in excess of requirements. Further retrenchment is
therefore required. However, while there is redundant unskilled staff, skilled staff are in short
supply. Hence the need for a human resources development plan.
2.7    Based on the favorable results of a recent review of the first RAV project, USAID
signed a new agreement with Government to continue its support under a second project to be
executed by SENARAV. The agreement became effective in July 1990 with a commitment of
US$ 20 million over eight years. One of the first items to be funded under the new project is the



8
audit of INERA's 1987 and 1988 financial accounts. USAID has accepted the principle that the
secondi RAV project should be executed within the framework of the agricultural research master
plan. This master plan was completed in 1989, and adopted by the Government and by donors
and now forms the basis of the new research strategy. It includes the integration of SENARAV
and INERA. UNDP has also signed an agreement to support INERA, with a commitment of
about USS 10 million over six years, mainly on technical assistance and training, starting from
July 1990.
Maigr Remaiinir Constraints
2.8   Despite recent improvements in the institutional climate for agricultural research and
strengthened donor support, there remains a numbe; of important constraints that will need to be
addressed to improve research relevance and implementation capacity. Further improvements in
the efficient utilization of resources and facilities will require fundamental changes in research
focus and priority setting (through improved programming and monitoring); human resources
development (including the adjustment of skill mixes to changing research priorities); personnel
management (new policies to be developed with respect to hiring, and layoffs, career
development, salary scales and incentives); research station and laboratory management (the
adjustment to changing research requirements, and the management of facilities and grounds); and,
in financial management (including changes in budgeting and accounting procedures and research
funding). These are the constraints that the proposed project intends to address.
B. The New A2ricultural Research Strategy
General strateg
2.9   Zaire requires a continuous increase in agricultural production to keep pace with population
growth, generate a better standard of living, supply basic materials for local industries and
increase agricultural exports. At the same time, improvements are necessary in the preservation
and the productivity of the natural resource base and in the development of farming systems which
improve the productivity of labor. The great diversity in growing conditions (Table 1, map IBRD
22614) calls for a strengthened research capacity adapted to different regional conditions. To
achieve these goals, research will pursue the following  three broad objectives: (i) increase
responsiveness to farmer constraints and farmer needs for appropriate technology; (ii) develop
sustainable agricultural production systems; and (iii) safeguard and improve the natural resource
base through a focus on agro-forestry, integrated pest management, and control of soil
degradation.
2.10 The specific actions to achieve these goals include: (i) clear definition of national research
priorities and long term planning of research programs; (ii) rationalization of station management
and mandates; (iii) improved organization of research; (iv) appropriate human resource
development; (v) continuity and regularity irn research funding; (vi) interaction with extension
services and development organizations; and (vii) effective cooperation with regional and
international agricultural research organizations.  The two prerequisites for an efficient
implementation of these strategies are timely execution of the proposed institutional restructuring
of the research system, in particular the integration of SENARAV and INERA; and effective
coordination between donors.



9
The Master Plan for Agricultural Research
2.11 In December 1989 INERA completed, with ISNAR's assistance, the first draft of a Master
Plan for Agricultural Research. This was subsequently amended in taking into account comments
frorn the Office of the President, user ministries and donors involved in agricultural research.
2.12 The Master Plan is a 10-year plan to guide the development of agricultural research in
harmony with the strategy outlined above (paras 2.9 and 2.10). It proposes research priorities as
a function of: (i) Zaire's agricultural development objectives; (ii) the presently available research
results; (iii) the analysis of the constraints faced by the farming population, including degradation
of the natural resource base; and (iv) the likelihood of returns to investments or the time frame
within which new technologies are expected to be generated. The Plan is intended to be used as
a yardstick rather than a strict action program, allowing government and donors to focus on
priorities in a changing economic environment where financial resources are limited.
2.13 The Master Plan identifies 12 priority programs. Four are already operational: maize,
cassava, grain legumes and potato; five programs have already some ongoing activities: rice,
cotton, coffee, oil palm, and livestock; and three new programs have been identified: conservation
of natural resources, farming systems research and germplasm conservation. The new programs
bring together ongoing research and provide the focus to mobilize human resources for their
execution.
2.14   The ten stations making up the rationalized research network (para. 2.6) are
representative of the six major agro-ecological zones of Zaire. (Table I, Map IBRD 22614). The
work programs of these ten stations and the functions of the laboratories will have to be redefined
prior to their rehabilitation. This may lead to a reduction in the size of some existing stations.
Implementation of the Master Plan will require the rationalization of INERA's organization and
management structure (Chapter V).
2.15 The Master Plan also sets up a human resources development framework for the 1990 to
2000 period (Table 3. 1). It is anticipated that the management and scientific staff would increase
from 124 at present to 217 by 2000, which still is low for a country like Zaire. Expatriate staff
will be kept low at a level of about 10 to 15. Short term consultants will be requested to solve
specific issues or train staff on the job. The Plan provides indications of the general staff
distribution over the various programs. As to non-scientific staff, the plan is based on a ratio of
one technician, one administrative staff and four to five permanent laborers for each researcher.
Experience during this first phase would provide a basis for future staffing policies.
2.16  The regularity and sustainability of research funding would be an important strategic goal.
This requires a clear understanding and commitment from Government on its obligations to
provide the budgetary support for INERA and a clear indication from donors on their
commitments to multi-annual programs and to long-term financing of research. On its part,
INERA would have to demonstrate sound financial management and accept accountability for the
resources entrusted to it. To avoid discontinuity in research financing, the Master Plan projects
that Government would finance all costs related to staff remuneration.



10
111. THE PROJECT.
A. Project Objectives.
3.1   The National Agricultural Research  Project comprises the first five-year phase of
implementation of the Agricultural Research Master Plan. It would provide a means to integrate all
ongoing research activities, and support Government's policy of food security and increased cash crop
production. It would focus primarily on adaptive and applied research, and give priority to small
farmers needs. The specific objectives of the Project are:
(a)  to develop multi-disciplinary research programs capable of delivering early returns;
(b)  to develop and disseminate technologies that contribute to increased farmer income and
respond to real farmer constraints;
(c)  to develop sustainable agricultural production systems, supported by on-farm research
and effective interaction with extension and farmers;
(d)  to increase research efficiency through quality improvement, strengthening of INERA,
rationalization of the station network and its operations, and improvement of the
research information system;
(e)  to ensure continued action of research funding, through the establishment of
interministerial concertation and donor coordinatron mechanisms.
3.2   The project's main target would be to get the following twelve research programs fully
operational while fulfilling the above objectives:
(a)  five food crop research programs: cassava, maize, grain legumes, rice and potato;
(b)   one industrial crop research program: cotton;
(c)  two perennial crop research programs: oil palm and coffee;
(d)   a livestock research program, including cattle and small ruminants; and,
(e)  three thematic research programs: a natural resources program, including the sub-
programs of soil management, erosion control, agroforestry and integrated pest
management; farming systems research program and germplasm conservation program.
B. Summary Project Description
3.3   The above objectives would be achieved through the following components:



11
1.    Execution of Priority Research Programs.
(a)   take stock of past research results of each programn, and prepare or update technical
bulletins incorporating those results;
(b)   for each program, establish its long term objectives, strategies and priority action, over
five years;
(c)   provide technical assistance and operating funds;
(d)   enhance output qua!ity through the appointment of national program  coordinators,
improved research design and data analysis and periodic programn evaluation; and,
(e)   improve l.nks with the extension service and development projects through increased
on-farm research and the establishment of research/extension/farmer monitoring
committees.
2.   Institutional Strengthening.
(a)   integrate all ongoing agricultural research activities into the NationAl Research Program;
(b)   strengthen INFRA's research management through the creation of a programming unit
and a biometrics unit under the scientific directorate;
(c)   strengthen INERA's station management through the creation of a research support
services directorate, responsible for the management of station services and laboratories;
(d)   strengthen INERA's financial management and accounting capability;
(e)   strengthen INERA's links with universities, research institutes of neighboring countries
and International Agricultural Research Centers (IARCs);
(f)   provide technical assistance and operating funds; and,
(g)   strengthen donor coordination through the establishment of a steering committee, which
would include representatives of ministries and donors involved in agricultural research.
3.    Human Resources Development.
(a)   establish a training and long term manpower development plan for scientific, technical
and administrative persoanel;
(b)   provide for systematic on-the-job training by outside experts in research planning and
experimental design; and,
(c)   provide for post-graduate training of scientific staff.



12
4.    Rehabilitation and Improvement of Physical Plant and Eguinment.
(a)   rationalize INERA's station and laboratory network and reinforce research station
development and project implementation capability through the creation of technical
support services;
(b)   strengthen and rationalize the structure for germplasm conservation and breeder seed
production; and,
(c)   rehabilitate or construct, and equip INERA's Headquarters and laboratories, ten
research stations and essential access roads.
5.   Communication and Information Systems Development.
(a)   establish a radio-communication network between INERA headquarters and research
stations, and computerize administration scientific documentation, and research results;
(b)   provide basic scientific documentation and updated information on agricultural research
progress to research staff at the stations; and,
(c)   publish technical bulletins, a national agricultural journal and annual reports.
C. D2etailed Eeatures
1.   Execution of priority research programs.
(a) Food Crop Research Programs.
3.4   Cassava Research Program. Cassava is a subsistence crop of increasing importance in a high
risk environment, because of its availability during periods of food insecurity and its easy storage in
the ground. In Zaire it has acquired additional importance through the generalized consumption of
its leaves, which are relatively rich in proteins (3-5 percent). Important cassava research has been
going on since 1977 with the IITA technical assistance. The PRONAM (National Cassava Program)
has released seven high yielding varieties, and undertaken substantial agronomic experimentation.
However, adoption rates among farmers remains low, and data on the impact of new varieties on
planting techniques, labor requirements, post harvest processing, marketing and taste preference of
the final product and the leaves are incomplete. Therefore, the program would concentrate on
farming systems research with a focus on acceptable food and taste quality, and develop improved
production and intercropping technology, while continuing its selection program on high yielding
varieties with disease and pest tolerance (bacterial blight, mosaic virus, anthracnose) and developing
biological control techniques, (mealy bug and spider mites). In addition, it would intensify its
research of multiplication techniques at the station and farm level, to accelerate the distribution of
rooted cuttings and reach more farmers with high yielding varieties, promote the planting of sweet
cassava of equal yield potential and improve processiig techniques. IITA would contribute to this
program.



13
3.5   Maize Research Program. Maize is a major food crop, for rural as well as urban areas.
Maize research, started under the PNM (National Maize Program), already has a wide ecological
coverage of five growing zones, each with its own well defined breeding priorities, for yield, grain
color and texture, resistance characteristics, ear placement and cover, and physiological efficiency.
However, it was not very responsive to farmers' constraints in terms of pests and disease resistance
and soil fertility management. The maize research program will continue previous research activities,
but undfr a modified work plan, prepared by the PNM and INERA in 1989. Changes include: (i)
selection for disease and insect resistance, in particular to streak virus, downy mildew and stem
borer; (ii) control of the steadily increasing parasitic weed, Stiga; (iii) improvement of the production
of breeder seeds; (iv) soil fertility maintenance research, through legume intercropping, crop rotation
and alley cropping with multipurpose leguminous trees and shrubs; and (v) husbandry techniques.
Also, the number of on-farm trials would be increased. Further, the selection and the production of
hybrid maize seeds in Zaire, already started, would be intensified. CIMMYT would collaborate in
this program.
3.6   Grain Legumes Research Program. This program includes research on groundnut, Phaseolus
bean, cowpea and soja. Research on grain legumes initially focussed on beans and soja, but shifted
under the PNL (National Grain Legumes Program) to the most wide spread small farmer crop, the
groundnut. Since 1985 PNL has intensified its activities and undertook an intensive breeding and
agronomic program. It will continue under two separate breeding programs, one for beans/cowpeas
and one for groundnut/soja, and in two distinct ecological areas, one in the highlands based at the
Mulungu station in Kivu and the other in the lowlands centered at Gandajika in Eastern Kasai (see
map IBRD 22614). Research priorities especially in the regions of Bas-Zaire and Bandundu would
follow a farming systems approach. In addition the program would concentrate on the improvement
of phytosanitary techniques, provision of high quality breeder seeds, crop rotation to achieve
sustainable production systems, intercropping with other food crops (maize, cassava), and integration
with agro-forestry, through contour hedging and alley cropping with multipurpose trees or shrubs.
The International Center for Tropical Agriculture (CIAT) would contribute to this program.
3.7   Rice Research Program. Upland rice is an important food crop in eastern and northern 7aire.
In response to growing urban demand, it has also become an important cash crop. In spite uo the
country's aptitude for rice cultivation, rice is imported in increasing quantities (Table 4). This is due
as much to the difficult economic and marketing environment as to low yields resulting from poor
cultivating techniques, shifting cultivation systems and poor seed quality (purity). Past research has
identified promising foreign varieties which are being tested. However, research needs to increase
on-farm yields, improve the competitiveness of rice cultivation and to promote rice growing as part
of a sustainable production system. While some successful trials on irrigated rice have been carried
out, possibilities for expansion are limited and net returns of upland rice are higher. Therefore, the
rice program would limit itself to upland rice, and focus activities on agronomic constraints such as:
(i) farming techniques using optimal planting density, improved weed and disease control, and
reduction of labor constraints; (ii) selection of varieties suitable for different production systems, as
well as for acidity, diseases and pests, and drought tolerance; (iii) improved production of breeder
seeds; and (iv) development of a strategy for high yielding rice production systems.
3.8  Potato Research Program. The project would support the continuation of a regional research
program on potato initiated with USAID assistance based at the Mulungu research station. Work



14
would include farming systems rcsearch and germplasm conservation. CIP would contribute to this
program.
(b) Industrial Crop Research Program.
3.9   Cotton Research Program. The cotton sector has declined dramatically, and the number of
cotton growing farmers has fallen from 877,000 in 1960 to about 120,000 in 1988. From a cotton
exporter at independence, Zaire now iniports more than half of its needs, mainly due to low farm gate
prices compared to food crops, late collection and payment of the crop, poor extension services, and
weak infrastructure. However, there are also research constraints: ineffective distribution of better
quality seeds, lack of extension messages for production systems, crop rotation, and crop protection.
The short term focus of the cotton research program would be on: (i) seed distribution through
purification of tested cultivars, and a varietal selection program giving priority to disease and insect
resistance; (ii) site-specific messages, integration of cotton production in maize, rice and groundnut
production systems, and integrated pest control, including threshold treatment and biological control
measures; and (iii) on-farm trials and farming systems research. It would also carry out maintenance
research of past results (e.g. fiber quality) and the selection of high yielding and glandless cultivars
over the long term.
(c) Perennial Crop Research Program
3. 10 Coffee Research Program. After independence (1960) planted areas and production of coffee
doubled, and coffee became an important smallholder crop (over 50 percent of small farmers grow
coffee). However, the country is far from realizing its potential for coffee prodiction and quality,
partially due to lack of availability of high quality rooted cuttings, concentration of research work on-
station and a divided responsibility for extension work. The crop also faces a serious disease
(Tracheomycosis) and several pests. There will be separate programs for Robusta and Arabica coffee
which will focus on: (i) preservation of elite cultivars and development of multiclonal gardens for
distribution of seeds or cuttings; (ii) intensification of the links with the extension services and the
provision of site specific technical bulletins, through on-farm adaptive research, in particular on
disease and pest control; (iii) on-farm research to establish the potential for intercropping with food
crops (during the early years or after back-pruning) and the integration of agro-forestry systerns. The
coffee research program would also establish the basis for future medium-term research programs,
emphasizing the reduction of high seasonal labor requirements, post harvest practices, and varietal
selection responding to market requirements, disease and drought tolerance.
3.11 Oil Palm Research Program. Once ari important exporter, Zaire now faces the need to import
palm oil. Palm oil production has steadily declined due to a lack of investment in the sub-sector,
which has delayed the replanting of over-aged plantations and has led to a failure to take advantage
of improved seedlings. In the past, research focussed on the selection of Tenera seeds and on
cultivation techniques for commercial plantings. At Yangambi, the evaluation of second generation
genetic material (slowed down due to lack of funds) should be completed, because it includes high
yielding and wilt-tolerant palms. Research would concentrate on exploiting the latent production
potential of natural palm groves and would focus on: (i) wilt disease ;ontrol measures to be based
on an epidemiological survey to be carried out under the project, on-farm replanting experiments,
and testing of disease tolerant crossings; (ii) the potential for intercropping with food crops and for
enriching natural groves with Ienera palms, through on-farm experiments; (iii) development of crop



15
husbandry messages in cooperation with the commercial companies and the extension service.
Assurances were obtained from INERA that the epidemiological survey on oil palm would start by
June 30, 1992.
(d) Livestock Research Program.
3.12 In spite of the steady growth of the livestock sector, Zaire still imports 30 percent of its meat
requirements. While pig and poultry raising could provide rapid increases in meat production, they
face severe constraints most of which are not research-related. The livestock research program would
give priority to research on ruminants (cattle, sheep and goats) and start activities on grassland
improvement. The research would concentrate on two main areas: one in the north-east in Ituri, at
the Nioka station working with the 'ocal Alhr breed, and the other in the west, based at the Mvuazi
and Kyaka stations, working with the N'drma breed. It would focus on: (i) disease resistance, tick-
born diseases in the east and trypanosomiasis in the west; (ii) improved husbandry and nutrition for
all ruminants; and, (iii) transferring research work to the farm level, in constant cooperation with the
development agencies and veterinary/extension services. The stations would serve as testing sites and
would maintain brucellosis-free, local elite breeds. The research program would be based on an
initial stocktaking of available research information a livestock disease survey and an analysis of
farmer constraints. The International Livestock Centre for Africa (ILCA) would contribute to this
program. Assurances were obtained from INERA that the disease survey on livestock would start
by June 30, 1992.
(e) Thematic Research Programs
3.13 Research Program for Conservation of Natural Resources. This program would prep"-e a
detailed description of the agro-ecological zones and sub-zones in Zaire and would bring togethe, the
current work of individual agencies on four sub-programs: soil management, erosion control, agro-
forestry and integrated pest management:
(i)   Soil management. In the past much work, has been done on soil classification,
the results of which are not readily available. Work on soil suitability and actual
land use requires updating. The soil management sub-program would: (a) take
stock of available information and make maps for the stations and scientists; (b)
prepare more detailed soil maps fur areas surrounding research stations and
heavily degraded areas (Kivu); (c) develop a strategy for scil analysis services
to the various research programs.  The project would provide consultant
assistance to plan and set up a soil laboratory network and its equipment.
(ii)   Erosign control. Soil erosion has reached critical proportions in some areas
(Kivu).  Research results from  elsewhere are applicable in Zaire, and the
program would start introducing them directly at the farm level in close
collaboration with extension services. The program would assist in identifying
appropriate measures (contour planting, terracing, bunding, alley cropping,
vegetative hedging) and in propagating planting material. It would cooperate
with the farming systems research program to develop strategies for the
introduction of erosion control by farmer groups and communities.



16
(iii) Agro-forestry is increasingly important in areas with a high degree of
deforestation and soil degradation. Practical experience has been gathered in
alley cropping with maize and cassava, tree interplanting in coffee and cocoa,
soil and pasture improvement and fencing, but such activities have not yet been
fully evaluated. The sub-program would coordinate ongoing research, and
promote on-farm triais in collaboration with the crop research programs and the
extension service. The on-station activities would identify useful local species,
build up collections and import new species, giving preference to multipurpose
species, studying their agronomy and propagation techniques. Staff under this
component will collaborate closely with the Forestry and Environment Project
currently under preparation, which includes a major agro-forestry component.
(iv)  Integrated Pest Management (IPM). The average use of pesticides (0.2 kg/ha)
is very low and rrostly limited to commercial farming. In Zaire, integrated pest
management (1PM) is in its infancy, though biological pest control has been
started under some crop programs (cassava, maize). This sub-program would
(a) make an inventory of existing practices; (b) develop messages on the use of
pesticides; and, (c) train staff for the extension of these messages.
3.14  Farning Systems Research (ESR). This program would concentrate on ensuring that ongoing
crop and livestock research programs take account of farmer needs and constraints. The program
would aim at speeding up the transfer of technology to farmers and would encourage a shift from
bush fallow techniques to more sedentary sustainable agricultural systems. In collaboration with
extension services, the FSR program would identify technical and socio-economic constraints at the
farm level and direct research efforts towards finding solutions to these constraints. There will be
overlaps, to be worked out in the annual research programming of the crop programs and by
improving the link between research and extension. As a first step, a national workshop will be
organized no later than twelve months after credit effectiveness, to reach a consensus on strategies
to be adopted. It would focus first on the description and constraint analysis of existing farming
systems, cooperate with the crop programs in testing the impact of research recommendations on
these systems, and finally develop a program to test recommended changes in farming systems.
3.15  Research. Extension and Farmer Interaction.  The project would institutionalize the
involvement of farmers and extension agents in the design of on-farm and farming systems research,
Currently contacts betweeii researchers, extension agents and farmers are sporadic and lack broader
feedback to a wider audience. The project would, within each agro-ecological zone, adopt a program
for improving contacts and develop a more continuous information flow. Both INERA and the
National Extension Service (SNV) have agreed to decentralize their activities to the extent nossible
in order to be responsive to local demands. Participation of researchers in the extension iaining
workshops would be an integral part of their assignments. Funds are provided for trave13 .equired
for diagnosis surveys, training and on-farm research. Progress in such coopeiation would be
reviewed annually by the National Agricultural Research Programming Committee (para. 5.6,.
Details of the institutionalization of research/extension interactions are in Annex 3.
3.16 Gerninlasm Conservation. This program would preserve or purify breeding results of the past
conserve cultivars and increase the pool of local varieties or species. This task has been s!arted wiwi
Belgian support, following the system of yearly planting of annual crop varieties, storing seeds under



17
controlled conditions, and maintaining collections of perennial crops. Since this system is expensive,
a more advanced system, using cold storage and tissuu culture techniques as well as clonal gardens
for perennial crops, would be introduced. The project would provide consultant services to develop
a conservation strategy and to plan and assist with the implementation of the required laboratory
network and facilities. The International Board for Plant Genetic Resources (IBPGR) would
contribute to this program.
2.   Human Resources Development
3.17  During appraisal, it was agreed that INERA would reinforce its human resources management
unit to serve both INERA and SENARAV for the preparation of a human resources development plan
in line with the recommendations of the Master Plan. TIe consolidated human resources development
plan for both INERA and SENARAV is expected to be completed by end 1991. The plan would
describe functions under the new integrated INERA organization, including responsibilities and extent
of accountability. It would also include profiles describing education, training, experience and other
specific skills. After staff evaluation, a skills gap analysis would match profiles with the results oV
the evaluation. The exercise would result in a new scheme of service and a training program for
existing staff. It is also expected to lead to some staff reductions, a better definition of career paths
and procedures for promotion, annual evaluation and clear recruitment criteria.
3.18 Incentives for hiring and retaining staff. The Project would aim at attracting, training and
reta;'ing scientists and managers of high caliber. Because of its autonomous status, INERA is
already offering a compensation package that is substantially better than that of civil servants. In
addition, UNDP and USAID funding include adequate provision for fellowships. The forthcoming
amendments to INERA statutes would further improve staff benefits and prospects of career
development. With the integration of all research activities under INERA, the former SENARAV
staff would immediately tenefit of above conditions of service. The project would provide additional
incentives to staff serving on research stations in financing rehabilitation and expansion of housing
and water and electricity supply. Regular payment of travel expenses is also expected to induce better
perforniance. Interactions with extension staff and farmers would enhance the professionalism and
self-esteem of researchers.
3.19  Staff Reductign.  F3llowing the closing of stations (para 2.16) and the integration of
SENARAV, there would be a serious problem of reduiidant, mainly, lower level staff. During
appraisal, general agreement was reached on the overall reduction of staff and improvements in skill
mix in accordance with the Agricultural Research Master Plan. During negotiations, assurances were
obtained that Government would complete the whole process of staff reduction by December 31,
1992: para. 7.2 (a). As conditions of credit effectiveness. Government is required to have: i) actually
separated from INERA all the staff on the stations other than the 10 stations agreed as the rationalized
network. except for a maximum of 25 employees on each of the research stations which would havv
not been rented out: and. ii? reduced INERA and SENARAV staff by at least 300 positions from the
June 1990 staffing: para. 7.2 (a). Projections of total research staff between 1990 and 2000 are
presented in Table 3. 1.



18
Tsable 3.1 Projected Research Staff 1990-2000 research
end
1990     1992      1995    2000
Management                                   18       18       24        27
Research Staff                              124      135       170      217
Technicians                                 118      132       160      218
Administrative staff                        416      169       169      206
Permanent labor                            1316      942      942       942
Total                                      1992     1396      1465     1610
Raio
Admin staff per research worker               3.4      1.3       1.0      0.9
Technicians per research worker               1.0      1.0       0.9      1.0
Permanent labor per research worker          10.6      7.0       5.5      4.3
3.      Rehabilitation and Improvement of Physical Plant and Eguipment
3.20    The objective of this component is to provide the appropriate working conditions to carry
out productive research and to retain qualified staff. It includes the improvement of INERA's hlead
office and rehabilitation of the stations. The latter would cover new buildings and houses (about one
third of total civil works costs) and rehabilitation of existing infrastructure (energy and water supply,
access roads and internal communications). Works for station rehabilitation would be contingent
upon the elaboration of a station design plan, tha would take account of the increased empLasis on
on-farm research, the proposed new staffing levels, a rationalized laboratory network, the production
of breeder seeds and cuttings and the upgrading of germplasm conservation. The new laboratory plan
assumes that only minimal laboratory services remain at the individual station level. Central
laboratories would be established only at sites where a supply of energy is guaranteed 24 hours per
day. Size, scope and equipment of laboratories would reflect the needs of priority programs. The
project would provide consultant support to INERA to supervise construction design and execution.
3.21    The development of a good communication and information system is critical to the success
of nationally coordinated multidisciplinary research. The project, would:
(a)   promote the development of editorial services and training, including the
establishment of an editorial committee to advise on scientific publications;



19
(b)   develop decentralized library services 7/ that would make scientific publications
and journals readily accessible;
(c)   organize regular peer group meetings of scientists;
(d)   develop a research programming, monitoring and evaluatiorc system (para. 5.5);
and,
(e)   develop a management information system as a two-way exercise for management
and staff to be mutually informed, including the publication of a regular information
bulletin.
3.22    These activities would be accompanied by the installation of a radio communication network.
The computerization of the various management and accounting functions should also improve
communication and information flows. To reorganize its library, publication and editorial services,
INERA would employ a consultant to design a coherent system that would be introduced by June 30,
1992.
7/ The vast INEAC library a, Yangambi would be transfeTTed to INERA's headquarters and
organized to make it accessible to scientists.



20
IV. COST AND FINANCING
A. Cost Estimate
4.1      The costs of the National Agricultural 1Pesearch Project include both existing and new
activities of INERA and SENARAV over the first five years of a long term research program. Given
the existing or proposed participation of other donors, IDA will be financing part of an overall
national research program. Costs include all activities to be undertaken over the project period, on
the assumption that programs with donor commitments for shorter periods would be expanded to the
five-year project period, if implementation performance is satisfactory. The costs also include
preparation and start-up activities financed under the PPF 502-ZR since 1988. The cost table
calculations present the ongoing and future costs to the country of a comprehensive agricultural
research program.
4.2      Costs calculated on this basis are summarized in Table 4. 1, in Annex Tables A. 11 (a) and
(b), and in a separate Working Paper. They total the equivalent of US$ 65.2 million including taxes
and contingencies. The foreign exchange element of the project accounts for 41 percent of total costs
and taxes and duties account for 3 per cent of total costs. Base costs have been calculated using June
1990 prices. Taxes and duties were only calculated on the part of the project financed by IDA, as
UNDP and USAID have tax exemption clauses in their agreements with the Government of Zaire.
Table 4.1  Summary Account Cost Table by Conponent
(USS miLlion)
X Foreign|
Totat      X of Total     ExchangeI
______          LocaL    Foreign   Costs     base costs                 l
Institutional Development             8.09       4.19      12.28          23.3         34.1
Human Resources Development           3.60       3.97       7.57          14.4         52.5
Communication and Documentation       0.48       1.46       1.93           3.7         73.3
Priority Research Programs            9.65       7.76      17.41          33.0         44.6
Rehabilitation of Physical Plant
and Equipment                         8.30       5.24      13.54          25.7         38.7
TotaL Base Costs                     30.11      22.62      52.73         100.0         42.9
Physical Contingencies                1.63       0.44       2.0't          3.9         21.2
Price Contingencies                   5.00       3.57       8.57          16.3         41.7
Taxes and Duties                      1.82       0.00       1.82           3.4          0.0
Total Project Costs                  38.56      26.63      65.19         123.6         40.8-J
4.3      Physical contingencies have been included at the following rates:
Civil works                            15%
Supplies, research trials              10%



21
4.4    Project costs are expressed in US dollars only, as considerable uncertainty exists about future
inflation levels and exchange rate policies. The following price contingencies were used:
Price Confingencies
1990        1991        1992         1993        1994        1995 and beyond
6.3%        9.0%         1.1%        -0.4%       1.6%        3.8%
4.5    Project costs were estimated on the assumption that prior to credit effectiveness: (i) funds
would be provided by Government to meet outstanding debts to personnel and third parties estimated
at Z342 million; and (ii) that Government would make reductions in personnel as mentioned above
(para. 3.19). Payment by Government of all outstanding debts incurred by INERA before December
31, 1989 would be a condition of credit effectiveness: para. 7.1(b).
B. Financing
4.6    The financing structure and allocations from different funding sources to the project aim to
achieve the following three objectives: (i) continuity and stability in Government's budgetary
support; (ii) transparency and increased accountability in total research funding; and (iii) better
coordination between the different financiers (Government, INERA, bilateral donors, UNDP and
IDA) during implementation. As a means to ensure the timely availability of Government funding,
assurances were obtained during negotiations that the Government would make available the
contributions of the research investment and recurrent budgets on a monthly basis: (para. 7.2(b).
4.7    Transparency and accountability in research funding would be improved by the creation of
an Agricultural Research Steering Committee (para. 5.12). Each year INERA by end of October
would present to IDA and the Steering Committee members budgets and annual work programs,
separated under the following chapters: remuneration, investment, training and TA, communication
and publication, fixed operating costs and recurrent operating costs, with separate details for each
research program. The budget would be analyzed by source of finance and by type of procurement.
If actual budget appropriation, in .eal Lerms, are less than those agreed upon, INERA would adjust
the work progi am and corresponding budgets according to priorities set by the Steering Committee.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations on these programming and budgeting procedures: para.
7.2(c). At the time of the mid-term evaluation scheduled to be carried out by June 30, 1994, the
scope of the project would be modified based on the financing experience of the previous years.



22
4.8    The Project Financing Plan is as follows:
Table 4.2 Project Financing Plan by Cost Category 8/
(US$ million)
Government  of
Zaire and INERA    Cofinanciers  IDA    Total
Investment Costs:
Civil Works                                       1.0          0.7    9.1    10.8
Vehicles/Equipment                                0.1           7.7    1.8    9.6
T.A., Consultants, Studies and Audits             0.3          12.1    1.6   14.0
Training                                          0.1           7.4    1.0    8.5
RecuffentCot
Staff Costs                                       9.2          0.0    0.0    9.2
Operating Costs                                   6.9           1.1    3.2    11.2
Of which, incremental                            (5.1)         (1.1)  (3.2)   (9.4)
Taxes                                             1.8          0.0    0.0      1.8
TOTAL                                            19.5         29.0   16.7   65.2
4.9    Breakdown of funding for different cost components of the project have been agreed as
follows: (i) all investment costs would be met by the external co-financiers, including IDA, except
for domestic costs of transporting IDA financed vehicles and equipment, a small part of technical
assistance and training costs in local currency and 10 percent of the costs of civil works program (net
of taxes and duties), which are financed by the Government of Zaire; (ii) recurrent costs would be
financed in part by the Government (staff costs and part of office, agricultural and laboratory
supplies, operating and maintenance costs), in part by INERA from revenue mainly from rent
payments from tenants of leased rescarch stations and in part by UNDP and IDA. Concerning
operating costs, IDA would participate only in the financing of incremental costs. The Government
contribution would come from regular budget sources and counterpart funding, such as the
USAID/PL 480 generated funding.
4.10    The financing of project costs from different sources, including taxes and duties, would be
as presented in Table 4.2 above. Besides UNDP and USAID, other donors may provide technical
assistance. Their contribution has not been included in this analysis.
1/ Numbers may not add up due to rounding.



23
C. Budget Implications for Government
4.11    The Governrment's participation (including INERA's own resources) would be US$19.5
million or 30 percent of the total project costs inclusive of taxes. The average annual budget for the
past three years for INERA and SENARAV combined was US$2.96 million per annum. During
project implementation, the average annual budget would increase to US$3.9 million, primarily as
a result of the SENARAV salaries financed up till now by USAID which will have to be borne by
INERA from 1991 onwards. The impact of the project on the Government budget is shown below
in Table 4.3.
4.12    The budget excludes the one-time payment of INERA's outstanding debt to suppliers and
personnel separation charges (para 4.05).
Table 4.3 Impact of project on Government budget 2/
(US$ millions)
Average  1990   Project   Total
1988-90         Average  Project
! _____    ____    Year   Period
Investment Budget IQ/           0.00   0.00      0.30       1.50
Salary Budget                    1.48   1.22     1.84       9.22
Operational Budget              0.17   0.31      0.35       1.75
Counterpart Funds                1.31   1.43     1.03       5.15
Total Government Contribution   2.96   2.96      3.52      17.62
Taxes                           0.0M   0.00      0.36       1.82
TOTAL (incl. taxes)             2.96   2.96      3.89      19.45
D. Procuremen
4.13    Procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 4.4. Procedures would follow BanK
guidelines for procurement of goods, works and consultants. Figures include physical and price
contingencies. Because of the uncertainties concerning the counterpart funding, amounts are only
indicative as the details of procurement to be financed by IDA will be set each year as a function of
the actual funding (para 4.7).
2/ Numbers may not add up due to rounding.
jQ/ During 1988-90 investments were financed by USAID, World Bank PPF and the
Government of Japan.



24
4.14. The civil works are spread over 10 sites and will be phased over the duration of the project.
All large new civil works and major rehabilitation contracts to be financed by IDA and estimated
to cost USS 2S0,000 or more (total of US$6.1 million) would be procured under ICB. Other civil
works contracts (US$3.0 million), relatively small in value will be procured under LCB procedures.
These procedures would include local advertising, public bid opening, clarity of evaluation criteria,
award to lowest evaluated bidder and possibility of bidding by foreign firms. This would equally
apply to procurement of goods. Details of bidding package of civil works are in Table 12) of
Annex.
Table 4.4 Procurement Procedures
(In USS millions) 1/
ICB    LCB      ILS Z/      Other   N.A.      Total I/
Civil Works               6.1   3.0                            1.7           10.8
(6.1)  (3.0)                                       (9.1)
Vehicles and Equipment    1.4   0.4           0.1              7.7           9.6
(1.3)  (0.4)        (0.1 )                         (1.8)
Consultants and Training                               2.6   19.9            22.5
(2.6)                 (2.6)
Operating Costs                                               11.2           11.2
(3.2)         (3.2)
Local salaries                                                 9.2            9.2
Total (net of taxes)      7.5   3.4           0.1      2.6   49.8            63.4
(7.4)  (3.4)        (0. 1)   (2.6)   (3.2)        (16.7)
4.15. For vehicles and equipment, INERA will define technical specifications for bid documents.
For this purpose, it would use the Sample Technical Specifications of Equipmnent available at the
Bank. Lots estimated to cost more than US$100,000 would be subject to ICB (US$ 1.4 million).
All other lots would be subject to LCB(US$400,000). IDA would review report bidding documents,
1/ Figures in brackets reflect IDA financing.
Z/ International or Local Shopping.
2f Numbers may not add up due to rounding.



25
advertising procedures, the bid evaluation reports and draft contracts prior to contract award. In the
case of limited numbers of suppliers, such as for highly specialized laboratory equipment, ILS
procedures may be followed (US$ 100,000). In the latter case, IDA would review the procurement
procedures and draft contract prior to contract award.
4.16    Recruitment of technical assistance, consultants and auditors to be financed by IDA will
follow IDA Guidelines for Use of Consultants (US$1.6million, of which 1.1 million are for
engineering studies and supervision of civil works).
4.17    The threshold value of contracts requiring prior review by IDA will be USS 50,000. The
aggregate amount of procurement under the credit not requiring prior review would not exceed US$
3 million. Procurement not subject to prior review, will be subject to random post-review by the
Bank after contract award. Under ICB procedures, margins of preference will be allowed for
domestic manufacturers and contractors according to Appendix 2 of Bank Guidelines on Procurement.
E. Disbursements
4.18    The disbursement categories for the IDA credit are presented in Table 4.5 below. IDA will
finance 100 percent of all categories of expenditures, excluding identifiable taxes and duties, up to
the amount agreed in the annual work program. The proportion of the annual work program to be
financed by IDA will be decided each year after review and diiscussion of the proposed budget and
research program by the Agricultural Research Steering Committee (para. 5.6). Agreed levels of
funding will be closely linked to tne commitnient of Government and of other donors to meet their
share of project costs, as identified above in Table 4.1. The credit closing date is scheduled for Tune
30, 1997.
4.19    Operating costs are defined as the costs of operating and maintaining vehicles, of travel
expenses, of office, agricultural and laboratory supplies, of utilities (electricity, telecommunications
and water) and of any other item approved for financing by IDA in the process of the annual review
of work program and budget by the Steering Committee. Although IDA is financing 100% of
selected items of operating costs, annual allocation to this category of expenses would be made on
a declining basis, the rate of which would be agreed upon during the annual review of work program
and budget. Once programs and the budget have been agreed upon, it is important that disbursements
follow promptly during the year, which is the reason why IDA wili disburse at 100%. In order to
ensure project execution in a timely manner, assurances were obtained at negotiations that
Government would make its contribution in monthly installments: para. 7.2(b). The disbursement
schedule is planned over 7 years. It is expected that the credit will be fully disbursed by December
31, 1998. Annex Table 10 shows the estimated disbursement schedule.



26
Table 4.5 Disbursement Categories
Category              Percent    IDA        Category      SDR
Financing |_Allocation   Equivalent
I    Civil Works             100       9.10        7.56            5.59
II    Vehicles and           100        1.80        1.44           1.07
Equipment
IlI   Consultant Services    100        1.60        1.49           1.10
and Audits                              _
IV    Training               100        1.00       0.66            0.49
V    Operating Costs        100         3.20       2.55            1.89
VI   Refinancing of PPF                             1.30           0.96
VIl   Unallocated                                   1.70           1.30
Total                            16.70       16.70          12.40
4.20    Special Accou. To ensure that funds for project implementation are available in a timely
manner, a Special Account in US dollars will be opened with a commercial bank under terms and
conditions acceptable to IDA. This Special Account will be managed by INERA. IDA will advance
an initial amount of US$100,000 into this account. The Special Account will be replenished by IDA
on the basis of document evidence of payments for goods and services by INERA, including the
origin of goods and the payment date. During project implementation, the Special Account may be
increased if conditions so warrant.
4.21    Contracts for goods and services or single purchases of less than US$ 20,000 and all
operating costs will be submitted against Statement of Expenditures. All other disbursements will
be fully documented. The Statements of Expenditures and all records, such as contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and all other documents evidencing such expenditures, will be retained by the
Borrower for inspection by supervision missions and reviewed by the annual audit (para 5.11).



27
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Research and Station Management
5.1    The Project would implement the Master Plan's recommendations for institutional
strengthening through (a) integration of all Government-executed agricultural research activities under
a single structure: INERA; (b) separating research and station management; (c) devising various
mechanisms to enhance research relevance and quality.
5.2     The integration of SENARAV and INERA has already been agreed to in principle. The
process is jointly monitored by the secretary generals of the ministries of Agriculture and Scientific
Research. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the integration of SENARAV into
INERA would be completed by December 31, 1992: para. 7.2 (c).
5.3    Improving research station management would be achieved by upgrading the present logistics
function ("intendance") to a research support services directorate. This would relieve scientists from
the daily chores of station management. Supply of inputs and spare parts, management and
maintenance of stations, investments ir station development and equipment and all remaining
commercial activities (sale of station produce, breeder seeds and other planting materials, and
breeding animals) would be the responsibility of the new directorate. Another important function of
this directorate would be to prepare the design for the new layout of stations and to review drawings
of buildings and specifications of equipment. INERA's new organizational structure is presented in
Chart 1. Creation of the research support services directorate is a condition for credit effectiveness
: para. 7.1 (c).
5.4    The separation of research and station management entails the appointment of national
research program coordinators and of stations managers; the former reporting to the scientific director
and the latter to the research support services director. The station managers are responsible for the
maintenance of all station assets, the operation of vehicles and plan, land preparation, crop
husbandry, assistance to planting and harvesting of experimental plots, livestock management, fodder
production and other services as required. Each station manager would operate a separate budget,
distinct from the research budgets allocated to each research program. The station manager would
have no authority over budgets of research programs which are the responsibility of national research
program coordinators. On the stations, responsibility for the research management would be delegated
to program chiefs. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that at all times during execution of the
Project the positions of Director General, Scientific Director, Research Support Services Director,
Administrative and Financial Director and national research program coordinators would be filled
with staff with adequate experience and qualifications: para. 7.2 (e).
B. Programming. Monitoring and Evaluation
5.5     Research management and quality would be strengthened through the creation of: a
Programming, Monitoring and Evaluation (PME) Unit; and, a Biometrics Unit (BU). Both units
would report to the Scientific Director.  The PME unit would:  (a) continue the research
programming system introduced during the preparation of the Agricultural Research Master Plan, and
(b) develop a coherent cost controls. In the first instance, the unit would develop a methodology for



28
establishing research priorities. Subsequently, it would monitor research orientation and results.
Ultimately, it would develop the capacity to measure research impact. The BU would review all
research protocols and be responsible for data analysis not being done directly by the research worker
concerned. The unit would also assist research workers with experimental design questions and the
selection of appropriate data analysis methodologies. Prior to publication, the unit would review the
quality of data analysis. An important function of the unit would be the selection and introduction
of available new software for research data analysis and to train INERA scientists in its use on
individual PCs. For the start-up of the unit INERA would ensure appropriate back stopping and
facilitate staff training in experimental design and data analysis, through an arrangement with a
university or other specialized international institution. During negotiations assurances were obtained
that INERA would set up biometrics and programming, monitoring and evaluation units by June 30,
1992: para. 7.2(f).
5.6    Programming and budgeting would originate at the station level, based on standard unit costs
and operational procedures established by central management, guidelines from the national program
coordinators and recommendations made at the research review seminar. The programming and
biometrics units would assist the national program coordinators and the station managers in drawing
up the budget proposals. Work programs and budgets proposals would be reviewed internally and
consolidated in May by INERA's management. Inputs from end-users of research would be sought
through the establishment of a national agricultural research programming committee which would
consist of about 15 members from INERA, extension services, farmers representatives and relevant
non-governmental organizations. This committee would meet at least once a year, to review the
research achievements of the preceding year and the proposals for work program for the following
year. The recommendations of this committee would be presented to the Agricultural Research
Steering Committee (para. 5.10).  The establishment of the National Agricultural Research
Programming Committee is a condition for credit effectiveness: para. 7.1 (d).
5.7    Subsequent steps in annual programming and budgeting would be the meeting of the Board
of Directors of INERA, final budget appropriation and eventually adjustment of work program and
budget according to actual funding.
5.8    Because most research programs are designed to be implemented over several years, a mid-
term review would be carried out in order to make necessary adjustments. The mid-term review
teams would inciude scientists involved in the program implementation, consultants of international
repute in the topic and representative of end-users. The reports of the mid-term reviews would be
submitted to the National Agricultural Research programming Committee and the Agricultural
Research Steering Committee. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that INERA would submit
to the Association by June 30, 1993 a timetable tor the mid-term review of major research programs,
and that, at least three months before the beginning of each mid-term review, INERA would submit
to the Association proposals of terms of reference, composition of the team and budget : paras 7.2
(g) and 7.2 (h).
5.9    A mid-term evaluation of the overall project activities would be carried out by Government.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that Government would carry out a mid-term evaluation of
the project by June 30, 1994, under terms of reference acceptable to the Association: para. 7.2 (i).
The evaluation would pay particular attention to: physical implementation, funding by Government
and donors, research achievements, research-extension-farmers interactions and impact of research.



29
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that Government would take all necessary measures
to implement the recommendations resulting from the mid-term evaluation. In accordance with
Section 9.06, paragraph (c) of the General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements
Government would also be required to submit a Project Completion Report not later than six months
after the credit closing date.
C. Accounting and Auditing
5.10   INERA's accounts for the years 1987 through 1989 could not be certified by the auditors.
It is likely that the 1990 accounts would also be found unsatisfactory. Deficiencies that have plagued
INERA's accounting and financial management are: insufficient budgeting, inexistant internal
control, unreliable accounting and inadequate amortization procedure. To correct this situation, as
a condition of credit effectiveness, INERA will hire consultants to draw up procedures acceptable to
the Association for accounting and internal control and to assist in the revaluation of assets: para.
7.1 (e). The accounting system would be applied in such a manner that it would take into account
the effects of the merger between INERA and SENARAV. During negotiations, assurances were
obtained that INERA would create an internal audit unit by June 30, 1992: para. 7.2 (f).
5.11   INERA will prepare year-end financial statements, incorporating all resources put at the
Institute's disposal, and including statements of expenditure by program, station and donor. These
financial statements will be audited and presented to IDA and the donors, within six months of the
end of the year to which they refer, together with a copy of the long form audit and management
letter. Terms of reference for the annual audit will be agreed upon by all cofinanciers. The credit
would include funding for the annual external audit and auditors will be recruited according to
procedures acceptable to IDA.  The audit report would include a statement certifying that
disbursements of funds against the Special Account and reimbursements of expenditures against
Statements of Expenditure are in accordance with terms and conditions of the Development Credit
Agreement. The audit report will also include a statement to the effect that procurement procedures
for goods, civil works and services have been carried out in accordance with IDA guidelines.
Assurances to this effect were obtained during negotiations from INERA: para. 7.2 (i).
D. Interministerial Concertation and Donor Coordination.
5.12    During the preparation of the Master Plan, informal mechanisms of interministerial
concertation and donor coordination have been successfully initiated. To strengthen this process,
Government would formally set up an Agricultural Research Steering Committee, including
representatives of the ministries of agriculture, livestock, forestry, scientific research, finance and
planning. Donors funding agricultural research would be invited to participate in this committee,
whose mandate would be to review INERA's proposals of annual work programs and budgets, work
out financing plans for the annual budgets and review recommendations of mid-term reviews of
research programs and overall project. Agreement has already been reached between Government
and the Bank on a draft decree for the establishment of the Agricultural Research Steering
Committee. The establishment of the Steering Committee is a condition of credit effectiveness: para.
7.1 (d).



30
E. Reporting
5.13    Project formal reporting would include the annual audit report, the annual report of activities
(to be prepared by INERA and SENARAV before the integration process i. completed) within six
months after the end of the year, and the proceedings of the meetings of the National Agricultural
Research Programming Committee and the Agricultural Researh Steering Committee. INERA wouild
prepare a project completion report no later than six months after the closing date of the Project.
During negotiations assurances were obtained from INERA that it will submit an annual report of its
activities not later than six months after the end of each year: para. 7.2 a).
F. Training. Recruitment and Technical Assistance
5.14    Human resources development would be the responribility of a separate human resources
management unit, under the INERA Director General. The unit would coordinate training activities
and recruitment of national staff and technical assistance.  The unit would serve INERA and
SENARAV jointly until the two institutions have been integrated. During negotiations assurances
were obtained that INERA would set up a human resources management unit by June 30, 1992:
para. 7.2 (f).
5.15    The unit would align its training policy on the human resource development plan. Training
programs and study tours would be agreed upon in consultation with the donors and the project
advisors of the UNDP and USAID teams. An overview of projected training activities is given in
table 6. During negotiations, assurances were obtained from INERA that it would:
(a)   prepare for each year a detailed training program and submit it by June 30 of each year to
IDA for its review and comments;
(b)   promptly carry out said trainiijg program as agreed upon with IDA;
(c)   submit to the Association, for its approval, the names and qualifications of candidates
selected to undertake any upgrading training; and,
(d)   take all necessary measures to secure, for at least four years, the services of fellowship
recipients in the positions for which they shall have been trained: para. 7.2 (k).
5.16    Three types of technical assistance would be provided under the project: (i) long term
assistance for two years or more, (ii) short term assistance provided for on-the-job training or solving
specific problems; and (iii) cooperation with universities. Most of the technical assistance would be
channeled through the UNDP and USAID projects. These donors would employ executive agents
(partenaires operationnels), who would assist INERA and SENARAV in identifying TA needs and
procuring consultant services. INERA's human resource development unit would participate in the
selection process. Technical assistance would primarily support scientific development and during
the initial period would also support financial, management and engineering activities. (see Table 7
for details). The Bank will finance only one long-term technical assistant: para. 5.18. Te-ms of
reference of all long-term technical assistants financed by UNDP and USAID have been agreed with
the Bank. It is expected that all this staff would take up their assignments before the effectiveness
of the IDA Credit.



31
G. Station Rehabilitation and Civil Works
5.17    The directorate for research support services would comprise the following support units:
(a)   Infrastructure maintenance
(b)   Equipment and vehicles maintenance
(c)   Procurement
(d)   Station rehabilitation
(e)   Laboratory management
The maintenance units would be responsible for preventive and corrective maintenance. They would
develop station-specific maintenance procedures and would keep necessary records to help with
budget preparation. The procurement unit would operate in close cooperation with the administrative
and financial directorate for the preparation of bidding documents and would be responsible for
ordering research supplies. The administrative services would be responsible for payments. After
bid awards, the procurement unit would be responsible for the reception and transport to destination
of purchases. The laboratory unit would manage the central laboratories servicing all the stations
(e.g. soils lab, tissue culture lab). Specialized field laboratories (e.g. for oil palm) would eemain
under relevant national program coordinators.
5.18    Once the station conceptual plan has been accepted, the station rehabilitation unit would
evaluate needs, prepare detailed technical plans and handle procurement and civil works supervision.
Given the volume of work and the dearth of available local expertise, INERA would hire a civil
engineer or an architect before June 30, 1992, for a period of three years on terms and cnnditions
acceptable to IDA. The rehabilitation plan would cover requirements for the programs included in
the first phase of the project. The project would finance up to 10 per cent of the total costs of full
rehabilitation for immediate critical improvements or rehabilitation, before the study and planning
phase has been completed.
H. Proiect Implementation Schedule
5. 19    Annex V outlines the phasing of the execution of the project, including project evaluation
and supervision, over a five year period. Chart 3 presents the timetable for construction over an 8-
year period. The project will cover the first five-year phase of the construction program, while the
remainder will be funded under a possible follow-up project.  Successful execution of the
implementation schedule requires an effective coordination of technical support services and of donor
interventions.
I. Status of Project Preparation
5.20    The project design is based on the Master Plan for Agricultural Research prepared with the
assistance of ISNAR. The project proposal has been prepared with the assistance of FAO/CP.
USAID and UNDP financing have already been agreed upon. The technical assistance financed by
USAID is already in place. The recruitment of that financed by UNDP is expected to be completed
before the effectiveness of the IDA credit. Feasibility studies of all civil works proposed in the
project were completed at the time of appraisal. There are funds within the proposed project for the
preparation of bidding documents and supervision of works. Two Project Preparation Facilities,



32
totalling USS 1.3 million have been approved by IDA for stat-up activities. Agreement has already
been reached on the principle of the integration of SENARAV into INERA, the implementing agency
of the project.



33
VI. BENEFlTS AND JUSTIFICATION
A. Idoject Benefits
6.1    Projects benefits are expected from: (a) increased agricultural productivity and growth; (b)
higher returns to farmers, increased employment and reduction of seasonal labor constraints; (c)
improved access to new technology by a larger proportion of the farming population; and, (d)
increased foreign exchange earnings. Most of these benefits are indirect and would result from the
setting of clearer priority objectives, improved quality and efficiency of research and extension,
contribution to better nutrition, and improved breeder seed supply . Even a small increase in average
yields would greatly reduce the need for food imports. Given the large gap between actual and
potential on farm yields, (Table 4) the project is expected to significantly improve the country's food
supply.
6.2    As in most Baz k Group-assisted agricultural research projects, no attempt has been made
to quantifv the economic rate of return ex ante, due to (i) inherent uncertainties regarding the timing
and value of research findings, and the extent of their adoption by farmers; (ii) the difficulty in
separating potential benefits cf research and compleinentary investments, such as input supply,
extension and training; and (iii) the problem of assessing negative research results, which nonetheless
add to the pool of knowledge and frequently benefit subsequent research efforts. Considerable
evidence from ex pgst analysis shows that investment in agricultural research in both developed and
developing countries has generated economic rates of return which have exceeded 40 percent in many
cases. 14/ As part of its assignment, the Programming, Monitoring and Evaluation Unit (para.
5.5) would develop criteria for assessing the impact and benefits of research which would be
reviewed during mid-term evaluation and at project completion.
B. Impact on Employment and Poverty
6.3    The project would have a comparatively small direct impact on employment generation
during the implementation period. Far more important would be its possible indirect long term
impact on employment, expected through the expansion of cultivated areas under more remunerative
production systems and the increase of ancillary activities such as processing, transport and trade of
incremental production. The project is also expected to alleviate women work load in contributing
to reduce out-migration from rural areas which mainly affect the male population.
6.4    The project emphasis being on smallholders' constraints and needs, close collaboration with
extension services and farmers it is expected that the improved technology it would develop would
promptly be adopted by farmers and lead to increased output, additional income and better nutrition
status to a large majority of the Zairian population.
J4/ Agricultural Research (Sector Policy Paper, World Bank, June, 1981) Annex 3, pp. 64-
65.



34
C. Environmental Impact
6.5                  Through its emphasis on soil fertility management, erosion control, agro-
forestry, integrated pest management and farming systems research, the project would contribute
substantially to the adoption of environment-improving farm practices. In particular the development
of sedentary agricultural production systems, one of the project's main objectives, will be essential
to arrest enviromnental degradation and sustain growth in the agricultural sector. Other fundamental
questions such as protection of Zaire's forests, finding solutions to land tenure problems affecting the
environment (in particular in Kivu), and pesticide use (legislation and control) are beyond the scope
of this project, but are the main focus of an Environment project, under preparation. The project
would provide an input to these efforts through conservation of tree collections agro-forestry research
and setting rules for pesticide use.
D. project Risks
6.6     The success of the project requires a fundamental change in the approach taken by the
agricultural research establishment so far. All agricultural research activities should be demand-
driven.  Benefits expected from  the project could be jeopardized if the agricultural research
establishment dces not fully adopt this new approach. To minimize this risk the project emphasizes
a close collaboration with extension services and farmers through on-farm research participation of
researchers in extension training workshops and inter-agency meetings. It is    expected that the
opportunity given to end-users of agricultural research results and representatives of donors to be
involved in the decision-making process of the programming and evaluation of agricultural research
works would greatly contribute to enhance their relevance.
6.7     Another risk which may hinder project effectiveness could be the non-adherence to agreed
priorities either from pressure for political reasons by Government or from insistence by donors to
pursue their own agenda. It is expected that interministerial concertation and donor coordination
mechanisms which are being established would minimize this risk.
6.8     The main risk threatening a successful implementation of the project is inadequate
counterpart funding from Government, which may result from a deteriorating economic situation or
a shortfall in donor-generated counterpart funds. This could seriously slow down project execution.
However, in that event, the effect would be reduced as there is enough flexibility built in the project
design to scale down activities according to priorities, in an orderly fashion.



35
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED WITH THE BORROWER.
CONDMONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS.
7.1    Conditions of Credit Effectiveness:
(a)   Actual separation from INERA of all the staff on the stations other than the 10 stations
agreed as the rationalized network, except for a maximum of 25 employees on each of the
research station, which would have not been rented out and separation of 300
INERA/SENARAV staff at headquarters and operational research stations, from the June
30, 1990 stafring level (para. 3.19);
(b)   Payment by Government of all outstanding debts incurred by INERA before December 31,
1989 (para. 4.5);
(c)   Creation of the Research Support Services Directorate within INERA (para. 5.3);
(d)   Establishment of the National Agricultural Research Programming and Agricultural Research
Steering Committees (paras. 5.6 and 5.12).
(e)   Hiring of consultants to draw up procedures acceptable to the Association for accounting and
internal control and to assist in the revaluation of INERA's assets (para. 5.10).
7.2    At neeotiations assurances were obtained from Government on actions to be taken during
Project Execution:
(a)   Separation of 300 INERA staff at headquarters and on operational research stations, and all
the remainder of staff on non-operational research stations, by December 31. 1992 in
addition to the layoff set as a condition cf credit effectiveness (para. 3.19);
(b)   Payment of Government contribution to INERA in monthly installments in advance (para.
4.19);
(c)   Adherence to programming and budgeting procedures allowing approval of work programs
which could be fully funded (para. 4.7).
(d)   Completion of the integration of SENARAV into INERA, by December 31, 1992 (para.
5.2);
(e)   Staffing of INERA key positions (Director General, Scientific Director, Administrative and
Financial Director, Research Support Services Director and national research program
coordinators) with persons having adequate experience and qualifications (para. 5.4);
(f)   Setting within INERA  of the audit, human resources management, biometrics and
programming, monitoring and evaluation units, by June 30, 1992 (paras. 5.5, 5.10 and
5.14);



36
(g)   Submission by June 30, 1993, a timetable for mid-term reviews of major Research programs
(para. 5.8);
(h)   Submission of proposals of terms of reference, composition of the team and budget for each
mid-term review at least three months before it is scheduled to start (para. 5.8);
(i)    Carrying out of a mid-term  evaluation of project activities under terms of reference
acceptable to the Association, by June 30, 1994 (para. 5.9);
(j)    Submission of annual reports of INERA activities and audit reports not later than six months
after the end of each year (para. '.13).
(k)   Arrangements for training (para. 5.15).



TABLE I
ZAIRE
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROGRAM
Najor Ecotoaicat ZorWs 1/
zone                 Region           Station Ne   Altitude         Rainfall       Dry Stn    Princiout Soils  f    Primcilmt Croo
(Morthbs)
I   - Southwest      la) Bas-ZaIre,   Luki            0 - 500       800 - 1500 /       3        Ferrisols/              hanioc/wsize/tice/Grain
Central           Kinrshse e     vuazi                                                   Ferralsots/Areno-       legmues/Ol lopJlCoff ee
ferrisols If           Platntaln/Llvestock
lb) Bndundu X1   Kiyake         300 - 700    1200 - 1600         3
11  - South          Kasa1             Gandajika      500 - 1000   1200 - 1800         2        Ferrisols/Areno-        1mize/Manioc/Grain/
Central        (V and E)                                                                 ferritols/Areno-       Cotton
Shaba (N)                                                                  ferratsols
III - Southeast      Shaba             Kaniameshi    1000 +         1200 - 1500        6-7      Arenoferrlsols/         Moize/Grain legumes
(South-Central)  Kipopo                                                    Arenoferrals
IV  - Zaire River   Equateur,          Tangnbi        0 - 400       1800 - 2200        -        Nydromorphic soils    Rice/Naize/Pltntair/
Basin        Bandundu (N).                                                               on Slluviut            OitlpalnfCoffel/RIhber/
Haut-Zaire,                                                                Ferrasols/Armno-       Cacao
manim,                                                                     ferrasols
Kasai
V   - East           North Kivu,       Nulungs        1700 .        1500 - 180W        0-2      Volcanic solls/         Naize/lroundsmt/Coffee/
South Kivu,       Nioks                                                    Ferrisols/Black         Grain leguees/Livestock/
Haut-Zaire (NE)                                                            and brown soils on    Dairy y
Shabs (NE)                                                                 mllwuviu
VI  - North          MAut-Zaire (N)   Banbesa         600 - 900    1200 - 1800         2-3       Ferralsols             Manloc/Maize/Groundwut/
Equateur (N)                                                                                      Rice/Cotton
Source: Preparation Report, WB.
1/ Vegetation types not mentionned; to be included in future work on sub-zoning.
21 Irregular and uipredictable rainfall distribution.
3/  For Zone lb, Bandundu: galeries forestitres and savanas on Katahari; sards on the plateaus; forests on the lowlands.
4/ FAO classification
5/ Bananas in Kivu
&:Azr-e. .em.4Sm
Tdlbl



TAILE 2
Page 1 of 2
UIRE
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
station letwork cnd Mabtes
Centers/Stations                       zbesa   Yangbi   Nioks   Nultwgu   Luki  Nvuazl  KIyaks   Gandjika   kmimu_h1   Kipopo
1. PRIORITY RESEARCH PROGRAMS I/
F22gEropqt                                                                                   t          tt
Rice                                           e t                *t
Cassava                                                                           +.
Grain LeguLes I/                    +          +         +        *               t                   ,tt
Rootcrops (potatoes) A/                                          +t
Perennial Crops
Oi lpl* l                                     4 *
Coffee 5/                                     +*                  4t
Indastrial Crops
Cotton                              4                                                                  4
Livestock
Cattle, smll rulinants                                  *tt                       44        *          *
Themtic Progrm                                                                                                                                            OD
Conservation of Natural
Resources W                        +          ++                         *
Research/Develop.ant                *                             *+      +       *         *          t                        +
Germ olasm conservation Z
I1. SECONDARY RESEARCH PROMAS
Foodcroos
Other Rootcrops fl/
Plantains/Benanas                                                                ...
Fruitcrops                                     +                  *               4*.
Perennial Crops
Cacao                                           +
Forestry                                        + 
Livestock                                                                                                                       ++
Fishculture
Thematic Programs
Climac   g_                                               ____gy  ...__



TASLE 2
Page 2 of 2
CentersfStations                       Banbesa   Yangambi   Nioka   Mulungu   Luki   Mvuazi   Kiyaka   Gandajika   Kmniemeshi   Kipopo
1II. TERTIARY RESEMRCH PROGRA4S 
Nillet. sorghs.u0_f
wheat ! i
Horticulture 10/
Perennisl crops
Rub~ber
Tea                                                                +
Quinchina  I                                                      ++ 
Industrial Crops
Sugar fl/
Tobacco j1/                                                                 -
Source: IERA, Hasterplan, Mission.
x main location or research center
= important supportive research center
* = supporting adaptive research at station or development entity
1/      To be included in the proposed project.                                                                                                                   %
2/      To include:  beans, coupeas. groundnuts, sojo, pigeon peas.
3/      The potato is currently being researched uider a regional USAID supported program, and by CIDA at the Luotu seedfarm.
.I      Partially carried out at Binga by PLZ and SCZ.
5/      Robusta coffee in Yangambi and Arabica coffee in Mulungu.
6/      To include:  soil fertility, soil classification, soil suitablility, erosion control, agroforestry, Integrated Pest  Management (1PM).
7/      Could include activities to preserve collections of secondary and tertiary research programs; to be carrfed out prim_rily at the main stations.
a/      To include:  seet potatoes, yams, Colocasia
9       To eventually receive financial and institutional sipport uider a Forestry/Environment project now under production in Zaire.
10/    Not yet defined.
11/    Currently being carried out by private enterprise.
IOTE:  a)       There are important herbaria at Tangambi, Kipopo, Luki, and Kinshasa.
b)      Research/Devetopment is currently being carried out at the Coopagnie de DOvEloppement Integrd (CDI), Bwamand (Equateur) and at the Luotu
seedfarm with CIDA support.
eAwp6 l nif.e .re-t*bieg
TabM2



40
Table 3
NATIONAL AUICULtLTRAL RESACH PROJECT
Develoint of Research Station Network
Station N_        Location       Dote of         Observation
_ _Sion) ~Cen
Bongabo           Equeteur        07/28/87  For future privatization
Bokets            Equataur        07/28/67  For future privatization
Lokes             Eqatour        03/02/U
Kutubongo         Equsteur        03/02/86  To CDA Gbedolite
Eala              Equeteur        03/02/U  To Institut des Jardine
Botniques
Nangb o           Nut ZaIre       03/02/U
(Uele)
Tukpwo            Nut Zaire      03/02/U
(Uele)
Benalonpo         Ki             03/02/U  To CEDERII-project of Ministry
Occidental                    of Agriculture
LuA,rike          South Kivu     03/02/U
s-i_              Shabe          03/02/0
Kisangs           Shab.           03/02/U  In 1980, placed at disposal of PtNM  and later on to DAIPM I/
Date of
IAse contract
Mont-Hea          Naut-Zaire           02/05/90       To PETRANSCOZA compeny
Ngazi I/          Haut-Zaire          to be lesed
Mukumri           Kasai Oriental       to be leased
Kirxngula         South Kivu           to be Leased   Pocsibly ESTAGRICO copny
N'dihire          North Kivu           09/01/89       To NIDENA coapny
Giabi              es-Zaire            09/01/89       To MIDE1SA comny
Kondo             Bas-ZaTre            01/03/90       To SOPAFOR compwny
Kani_ae           Shaba                to be leased
Source: INERA
1/  PNN (Progrme National Mats); DAIPN 0D6velopoent Agro-IrndutrieL-Pr6sidentieL)
2/ substations
*:AwPS11\2vg. rs.-tablO
TabW3



TAKLE 4
Pag 1 of 2
UIRE
NATIONAL AGAICULTURE RESEARCH PROWECT
Statistical data on crops and livestock
Role in economy                                     DOvletp  nt
CRCP                    Se tl f arer   Are*          Volume of                                       Average     Potentiet
(and livestock)          participants   planted    production            E plomer.t                  on-form      on-form         volt*     Dsevariyc       Volt.       value
____________                ______________    __________   _____________    yiyield      yield                     rate
in Labor     Frmrs Z/
unIt I/                                              I 
I          000 ha    000 ton               000       000 agr.           torn         torn      000 tons          X        000 ton    millian S
Cessav                           100        2054        16892            1200            3500                7.0        15
Ceasve leaves                    100        -           4200  I          n.a.          3000  1/              1.0       n.s.                                     3)
Maize                            97         854         729              550             2200                0.8      1.5-3.5        90            11
Rice                             100        331         274              160              600                0.5     0.8-1.S         63            19
Groundasts                       100        565         310              180             2000                0.5     0.8-1.S
So"y                             100        5           8                30               n.s.               0.6     0.8-1.0
Sern  3/                         100        207         165              235              400                0.6     1.0-1.5
Other grain legumes              100                    60               10               n.c.               0.3     0.5-0.o
Seone                            100        n.a.       9                 n.s.             n.s.               n.s.      n.s.
Potato                           100        35          220                                S0                6.2      10-1f
other rootcrop                   100                                                                         n.s.      n.e.
Plantaimn                                   366         1834             n.e.            2000                0.5       S-10
lammn s                          100        95          340              n.s.             400                3.7      10-20
lh st                          99"          7           7                16                                  O.S     1.5-1.8        144           99
Niltetlsorghum  y                100        41          37               n.e.                                0.8     1.0-2.5
Vegetables                      100         n.e.        200              n.c.                                n.a.      n.e.
Fruits                          100        n.s.         100              n.s.                                n.e.      n.s.
I/ Calculated on 220 effective working days of 6 hours.
_/ Defined as individuals responsible for a farmer plot.
2/ In the Kivu area with private enterprise support.
4/ No data available, some cros, border exports.
1I Mostldy intercropped.
f/ Estimated at 25% of tuber production.
7/ Exclusively women.
I/ Common bean and cowpeas.



Pe   Z ef 2
NAT!OIAL AGRICUtTURE RESEARCH PROJECT
Stat I t c I  oata   on  Cr06   an     Livestock     _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _    _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Role in economy                                   D*veLepq nt
pot_  Ilot     .-           Iec tot                    Ex ortc
CROP                9ol  famerr    Area          Voluee of                                 Averae       Volum  of                   DegienimEy
(wnd livestock)      participation   pltnted    production        Employment                on-farm      production       Volt=     Rate             Voline     Value
in Labor     Farmers g)
X           000 he    000 tons          000       000  gr.         tons         tone       000 tewn          X         000 tons   mfIlion s
I"DUS1RIAL AND                                                                    )
Cofe    Rchusta
Coffee Arabica               20         287         95            100           200                 C 3      0.5-0.8                                 90         167 JU /
Cotton                       80                                   600           400                 0.1      0.2-0.5
Oil palm                     100        60          19            190           200                 0.3      0.6-1.2        l
Kemnels of oilpalu           20         88          110 j1/                     130                 n.e.      n.e.                                   -
Surgar cone                  20         n.e.        15i   /       50                                0.2        0.4                                   17          I
Cocos                       0lJQ        20          61            10            50                  n..       n.e.           30            32        -
Rubber                       20         22          6.3           4.5           4.5                 0.1        0.3                                  6           2.6
Tea                           5         29          29            10            10                  0.2       na.                                   12          5.5
Tcbacco                      20         a           8             7             7                   0.6     0.8-1.2                                 2           0.3
Ouinquine                    100        2.5         2.5           11            11                  0.6      0.8-1.2                                 1          n.e.
20         7           4.8           30           30                  n.e.       n.e.                                  7           2.3
LIWESTOCK _/
Cattle                       65         2300        83            35            35                  n.e.      n.e.           27            24       0           0
Small nminants               100        n.e.        n.s.          60            60                  n.e.      n.s.           0             0        0           0
Pigs                         100        n.e.        n.e.          32            32                  n.s.      n.e.                                  0           0
Poultry                      90         n.e.        n.e.          60            20                  n.e.      n.e.          n.e.          n.s.      0           0
Fish (Inlend)                99         n.e.        n.e.                        n..                 n.e.      n.e           1I3           6         0 
Tb4
2/ UuWber of livestock in millions: cattle 1.3m; small ruminants 3.5.; pigs 0.7.; poultry 16.0m.
IQ/ Onily farmers in smaIl garden patches for fodder and "caine de bouche".
II/ Includes artiswnal production from naturat groves.
1/ Kernels are also collected ns soldsaepratetly from natural groves.
f1l Excludes haired labor.
14/ Recently swe cotton has been imported uider PL480 aid.
15/ Export quentities do not follow production voiuses due to irregular sales of Large stocks.



4~
TABLE S
p I of 2
MAT RCAL AULAi!L              N PRJECT
Indicative Distribution Pattern R rch  tof  ne  eerm
pCRM          Maize                                              12       14        16      1          20         20        26
Nice                                                S        5         71       a          9          9    110
Casa                                               Is       20        22       22         22         22        26
Grain Legums                                       27       23        23       2          23         30       30
Rootoroe                                            3        3         3        3          4          6        8
(Other)                                            j        A         A        J          a          a    1O4
PEtENIAL    Of tlpul                                              3        3         3        4          4          4         5
cams          Coffee                                              4        4         4        5          6          6         a
(Other) V/                                                                                            i J  1
INMUITRIAL   Cotton                                               7        7         7        a          a          a        9
FORESTRY      Forestry                                            2        2         2        2          3          3        9
Agroforestry                                                                               I
LIVESTOCK    Cattlte  *e1t rumiwants                             12       12        12       14         15         16       20
(Pfecicutture) 1/                                  A        1         3                               1        4
THEMATIC      Consevation of naturat
PROGRAMS      resources
soil/water   r"Puement                              8        8         8        8          8
Erosion control                                     0        0         1        1          1          1         1
IPM                                                0         0         1        2          2          2        3
Cli.mtology                                         2        2         2        2          2          2        2
Forming System                                      9        9        10       11         12         13       1S
Gorapsom Cnservtion 1                         5                  1          71        7         7
C  splmo o Con rv tion lV                          24       24        28       31         32         33       41
SI-TOTAL                                                     24       1la      140       151       ilS         170      217
OVERHEAD TASKS ,                      18                                 20        21       22         23         24        27
TOTAL                                                                                                          194
Total MSc and PhO.                               is5t.
Source: IERA, Maaterpltn. Mission *sti_mts.
1    Exlude  e*xpatriates; include  Ao  WSc. and PhD.
For purposes of collection presrvation only; during 1991-1995 period.
Including seed specialtsts.
Includes INERA hodquorter staff and stotion iniegsrs.



44
TABLE 5
Page 2 of 2
ZRE
NATIONAL AGRCIULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
;Distribution pattern research staff per discipline
Discipli                                12              199 
Planthroeders                            32              40              45
Agronomists                              51              52              56
Plant physiologists                      0               4               4
Entomologists                            7               10              15
Phytopathologists                        4                8              14
Biologists                               2               2                4
Zoo technicians                          6               6                7
Zoo pathologists                         6                8              13
Fish specialists                          1              2                4
Foresters                                2               5               11
Pedologists                              8                8              10
Climatologists                           2               2                2
Agricultural systems
analysts                                 0               13              15
Agro-economists                          3               8               12
Seed technologists                       0               2                2
Others                                   o               0                3
Total Scientists                        124             170             217
Management                               18              24              27
Total Research Staft                    142             194             244
Total MSc and PhD.                       38              65              85
Source: Masterplan, mission.
a:\wp51\zr-ag.ms. -tables
Tablc5



ThAK 6
ZAIRE
NATIONAL ACRICULTURAL UESEAtCH PROJECT
Indicative Training *ewuiremmnts
_unit costs                                                 Costs (USS '000)
Type of Training                       USS 003        * of           Uof
per cotarse    courses      trainees       1991         1992        1993       1994       1995      TotaL 1/
Training Abroad
Lons-teno
PhD training (24 - 26 mnth ? )        68.5           14            14           28         143         248        292        248         958
NSc training (26 mnths)               72.5           29            29          160         437         595        531        30W        2,110
shwrt -ter
Stages (3 - 6 onths)                  13.3          63             62          213         267         213        160         -          853
Study visits (1 eonth)                 8.0          75             75          240         168         120         24         24         576
Trainins in Zaire
Short-ter  (4 - 6 uees)                 2.5          25            256          112         168         156        134         62         632
Seminrs (1 - 2 weeks)                  17.0          50            750          136         20C         272        136        102         850                      4>
English Languge training                18.0           5            30          196         140         140         90         90         660
(9 amths)
Yeartv Cron Pro2ram Canventiomw
12 progrm (3 - 5 deys)                  6.0          60           1,800          72          72          72        72          72         360
Total                   -            -          3,016         1.159       1,599       1.816      1,439        966       6.999
Source: Mission, donor project docuinents.
1/ Of which USAID S 3.5 sillion, tIMDP S 2.7 miLlion, IDA S 0.5 miLlion, Others S 0.6 miLlion.
2/ PhD only provided after USc training.
3/ participants; 30.
Tab"



TA10E 7
ZAIRE
NATIONAL AGRICULTURE RESEARCH PROJECT
Indicative Technical Assistance Ptw
(in  n-months)
Long-tern  1/                      Short Term Consultancit     l                        TOTAL
ACTIVITY                                                                                                                                     marin-sonths
|ear/Period          199. - 1993         1991         1992         1993          1994         1995
CENTIM  OFFICE
_Mnagement  3j                                              60              -             -            -            -             -             60
Integration Assistance                                     24               -                         6             6                           36
Internal Auditing                                           12              -                          1            -            1              14
Caumnication. Informtion                                    12              -                          1            1             1             15
Comuter Services                                            36                    1-                   -                          1             38
Civil Engineering                                           36              -             -            -            6            6              46
Research Progr_ming                                         12              -            2             1            1             -             16
Laboratory Services                                          6              2            2             -            -                           10
Station Managemnt                                            -              1            1             1            1            1               5
RESEAJCN PROGRAMS
Casava, rootcrops                                          36               -            -                          1            1              36
maize                                                       36              -             -                         1            1              36
Rice                                                        48              2            2             1            1             -             54
Grain Legums                                               36               1             1            1            1            1              41
Cotton                                                      24              1            1             1            1            1              29
Coffee                                                       -              2            2             1            1             1              7
Olipal-                                                      -              2            2             1            1             1              7
Livestock                                                  48                                                                                   48
Conservation of Natrwal Resources
Soil Management                                          36  f/           2            2            2             2            1             45
Agro-forestry                                             6               1            1             1            1            1              11
Integrated Pst anagmmnt                                   6               1            1            1             1            1             11
Farming System  Research                                   48               1            1             1            1            1              53
Post Narv-st Technotogy                                      -              1            1             1            1            1               5
OTHERS
Gerpl asim Conservation                                      -              6            1             1            1            1              10
Research/Extension Interaction                             36  _/           2            2             2            2            1              45
Amuat Seminars                                               -              2            2             2            2            2              10
Training Courses in Zaire                                    -              1            1             1            1            1              5
Evaluation                                                 48               2            3             7           12            a              s0
TOTAL                                                      606              30           28           .             447          34             779
TOTAL COSTS  £/  (USs 000)                               8,484             420          392          476           658          476          10,906
Source: Mission, donor project do(-uments.                                                                                                                  0:%W*pI6-.t"8
1/ One year or more.
2/ One month or more.
3/ Includes man-months for staff of executive agencies of donor projects.
4/ In combination with FSR.
5/ In combination with crop-program and FSR.
6/  Based on an average cost of USS 14,000/months (Donor estimates vary between $12,000 and S18,000).



TAKLE S
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Evolution of the executlon f the Rewearch *udelt
1964         1985         1966          1987        1966  1/     1969  2/       1990  I/
A. Release  §udht INRA
lnwestmmnts                           8             0            0           133           24          266            571
Saleries                             a0m          596          904           942        1,743         1,489         1,212
operation                            265           79            33        __°             71           109           322
TOTAL                              1,081          677          937         1,304        1,838         1,8t          2, 05
I of pWovea  xudget                  n .e          92            44           39           88           116 j/         19 i/
S- tlu      ! Wi
Inwest mnt                           175           27           38            67           43          265            523
Counterpart Funds                    925        1,520         2.015        1.603        1,283         1,209         1.427
Cerstruction Funds                 1L               0 32                       I .  .2_.                            --
TOTAL                              2,427        1,547        2,121         1.745        1,511        1,760
C. Recapitulation
IERA                               1,061          677          937         1,304        1,838        1,864          2,105
RAV                                2427         1.547         2121         11745        l.511        LWA              1
TOTAL                              3,500        2,224        3,058         3,049        3,348        3,644          4,263                                         s
D.  Conwerslon Rate                                                                                                                                                   _
Currencies                           35.59        50            59.52       112.36       175.44       384.62         602.41
Source: IERA, RAV, Mission.
1/ Un-audited blesce.
2/ Preliminary IERA date.
3/ Figures indicate approved budget.
4/ Due to selary increases.
5/ Realized per 5/1/90.
6/  Source RAV adcinistration. Additional USAID Urants are not included.
e:XupS k r-eg.ree -tables
Tabled



TABLE 9
ZAIRE
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Consolidated Profit and Loss Accounts of INERA
1984-1990
(USS 000)
1984    [    1985          1986          1987         1988  1/      1989  ?J      1990  3f
Receipts          -
own Resources                             812            422           528           343           413                          123  _.
Governewnt Support                      1.073            676         1 070         1.122         1768                         L534
TOTAL                                   1,885          1,098         1,598         1,465         2,181                       1,657
Material, Equipment                       320            256           276           244           161                           34
Transport                                  47             38            35            34            65                           9
Other services                             65             52            60            77           111                          35
Various losses                             39             34            39            36            72                           56
Salaries                                  936            678         1 119           935         1.7U                          882
TOTAL                                   1,407          1,058         1,529         1,326        2,177                        1,344
Gross Results                              478             40            69           139             4                         313                                      JS
Parameters
Salaries in X of Total                     66.5           64.1          73.2          70.5          81.2                        90.0
Expenses
own Resources in I of Total                43.1           38.4          33.0          23.4          18.9                          7.4
Receipts
Current Ratio  21                                                                                    0.67
Conversion Rates - Zaire/USS                35.39          50.0          59.52        112.36        17.i44      384.62          602.41
Source: INERA
1/ Provisional balance sheet 1988.
2/  Financial statement not yet available.
3/ Provisional budget.
4/  Drop in own resources due to cession of some stations with coamercial exploitations, and lack of organizing sales.
5/ Current assets/current liabilities.
&:Wzr-e9.rm-tsbIu
T-bleS



49                                                   TABLE 10
NATIOhAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Estimated ScheduAte of IDA Disbursements
Financiat    Semester      Estimeted           Projected
Year                       Cwmutative          Cumulativ*
Disburs_ment       Disbursements
Percentese         (USS  000)
92            1                    9            1503  1/
92            2                   12            2004
93            1                   16            2672
93            2                   22            3674
94            1                   26            4342
94            2                   33            5511
95            1                   39            6513
95            2                   45            75i5
96            1                   56            9352
96            2                   67            11189
97            1                   75            12525
97            2                   92            15364
98            1                   95            15865
98            2                  100            16700
mAwp51\zr-ag. r..-tables
TableO 0
1'    Including an advance of USS 1.3 million from the Project Preparation Facility.



ZAIRE                  TabLe 11
50                  PROJET RECHERCHE A8UDOIOUE         Paqe 1 of
SL8IARY ACCOUNTS COST SWVIARY
(US DOLLAR)
Z Total
Z Foreign Bast
Local       Foreign       Total      Exchnre   Costs
T. INUSTNET COSTS
A. CIVIL UORKS
REHABILITATION PISTES                    452,991.0    135.309.0    588    .0          23       1
REHABILITATION BE BATINENTS            3,444U441.0  1,028.859.0  4.473.300.0          23       8
rFONSTRUCTION BE BATIIENTS             1.821.435.0    544,065.0  2,365,500.0          23       4
EAU ET ELECTRICITE                       405P251.0    121,049.0    526,300.0          23       1
Sub-Total CIVIL VORKS                     6,124,118.0  1.929M282.0  7,953,400.0          23      15
B. EUEIrS
I!IFOR1ATIOUE                            461,500.0    461.500.0    923.000.0          50       2
bJREAU                                   287,500.0    287,500.0    575,000.0          50       1
P3CUNtENTATION                            20,000.0    20,000.0       40,000.0         50       0
REPROGRAPHIE                               10.000,0     10,000.0     20,000.0         50       0
MICRCGRAPHIE                              62,500.0      62,500.0    125,000.0         50       0
MATERIEL DE LABORATOIRE                  777,930.5    777,930.5  1,555,861.0          50       3
MATERIEL D'EXPERIMENTATION               624,807,5    624,807.5  1,249N615.0          50       2
Seb-Total E WUIPEKENTS                    2,244U238.0  2,244,238.0  4,488,47h.0          50       9
C. MATERIEL ARRICOLE (ROULANT)               233,212,0    233,212.0    466.424.0         50        1
D. ACHAT ANIIMAUX                             20,00.0             -     20,000.0          -       0
E. VEHICULE                                1,396,180.0  1,396,180.0  29792,360.0         50       5
F. ASSISTANCE TECHNIQUE
----- -  -- ---
I.ONWUE DUREE                            823P200.0  7,408.800,0  8,232,000.0          90      16
COlRTE DUREE                             2914800,0  2,653,200.0  2,948,000.0          90       6
ETUDE ET CONTROLE
TRAVAUX PUBLICS                       101,950.0    917,550.0  1.019.500.0          90       2
S.jb-Total ASSISTANCE TECDNIQUE            1,219.950.0 109979.550.0 12,199,500.0         90      23
(. FORMATION
IONGUE DUREE (a I *tranger)                       - 3.070.000.0  3,070,000.0         100       6
COURrE WUREE (a I etfafiwr)             1,143,200.0    285800.0  1,429,000.0          20       3
FORMATION AU ZAIRE                     1,711,200.0    427.800.0  2P139.000.0          20       4
CONVENTIONS ANNUELS                       720,000.0            -    720,000.0          -       I
Sub-Total FORNATION                       3,574,400.0  3.7834600.0  7,358,000.0          51       14
H. DOCUMENTATION                             1278440.0    511,360.0    639,200.0         80        1
Total IVESTMENT COSTS                        14,939.938.0 200977,422.0 35,917,360.0         58      68
Phv.'ical Contingencie                       918.617.7    274,392.3  1,193P010.0         23        2
Price Contingencic                         2,7274810.2  3.164,967.0  5,892,777.2         54      11
Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                18.586,365.9 24416,791.3 43.003.147.2          57      82
ZUEGSSZSZZZZ 33S3132323   z::      :s_ a    =   :z
Exclusive of USS1.8 miLLi;  -  f1-- '.: 7-s  ---' "i es.



51                                         TabLe 11
Page 2 of 5
I1 RECURRENT COSTS
A. PERSONNEL INERA et RAY
RECHERCE                             3b492i920.0             -  3s492,920.0          -       7
SOUTIEN A LA RECHERCHE                4,151,124.0            -  4.151,124.0          -       8
CH,ARGES SOCIALES ET SOINS HEDICAUX     417t228.0            -    417,228.0          -       1
q'jb-Total PERSONNEL INERA et RAY        8,061.272.0            -  8P0619272.0                 1S
l, VOYAGES INTERIEURES                     830.0850             -    83C,08S.0         -        2
C. FOURtITURES                             446.000.0            -    446O000.           -        1
D# FONrTIONNENEN'
CIVIL WORKS                             516,740,0    221,460.0    738,200.0         30       1
INFORNATIOUE                            350,000.0    1504000#0    500OOO.O         30       1
MICROGRAPHIE  T REPRT 6RAPHIE            13,650.0      58O50.0      19,500.0        30       0
LA8ORATOIRES                            729820.0    312,780.0  1p042,600.0          30       2
MATERIEL D'EXPERINENTATION              203,000.0     87,000.0    2904000.0         30        1
MATERIEL AGRICOLE (ROULANT)             105,000.0     45,000.0    15O,000.0         30       0
VEHICULES                             1.907o239.2    817P388.2  2,724,627.4         30       5
;sib-Total FONCTIONNEMENT                3.825,449.2  1639.478.2  5,4646927.4          30       10
E. ESSAIS                                2.008,002.0            -  2,008.002.0          -       4
Total RECURRENT COSTS                       15,170,808.2  1,639,478.2 16,810,286,4         10       32
Phvsical Continsencies                      710,953.6    163,947.8    874,901.4         19       2
Price Continsencips                       2,519,295.0    318,720.6  2838,015.6          11        5
Totol INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES               18,401,056.8  24122P146.7 20P523.203.4         10       39
S=z==zz=S=ZS 5S==--SS=S== SS=SS-==__S=S zzZS A--- SSSS_
Tot4l 8ASELINE COSTS                         30110,746.2 22,616,900.2 520727t646.4         43      100
Phvsica1 Continsencies                     1,629,571.3    438o340.1  2,0674911.4         21       4
Prit,a Contingencies                       5,247,105.2  3,483,687.6  8,730,792.8         40       17
Total PROJECT COSTS                          36,987,422.6 26.538t928.0 63P526,350.6         42      120
==========S=:- -----.        -- - -=SSS===-  lzg=zu.- *:2



52                                          TabLe 11
Page 3 of 5
ZAIRE
PROJET RECHERCE AO OIOU
PROJECT COST SU
(US DOLLAR)
Z Total
Z Foreign Ib
Local      For-in        Total    Ex          Costs
A. REFORCEENT INSTITUTIONEL
SIEGE KINSHASA                                                       871i965.O    234=S85.i 1,106Y450.0        21       2
JIANESA                                                              1846173.0    684211.0   252,390.0         27       0
G41DAJrKA                                                            261,313.0   101,277.0   362PS90.0         28       1
KANIANESHI                                                           236113.0    90,477#0   326,590.0         28       1
KIPtO                                                                223,513.0    85,077.0   3086,90.0         29       1
KIYAl(A                                                              190,333.0    704857.0   261,190.0         27       0
LUKI                                                                 190,333.0    70,97.0   261,190.0          27       0
141lUUNUl                                                            260,263.0   100.827.0   361,090.0         28       1
MVUAZI                                                               286,S13.0   112,077.0   398P590.0         28       1
NIOKA                                                                219P663.0    83,427.0   3030O90.0         28       1
YANGAMSB                                                             261,313.0   101,277.0   362P590.0         28       1
ASSISTANUE TFCHNIQUE                                                 341,000.0  3,069,000.0  3r410Y000.0       90       6
PERSONIEL ADMINISTRATIFS                                           4i568f352.0           - 4,568,352.0          -       9
Sajb-Total RENFORCEMENT INSTITUTIONEL                                 8P0949747.0  4,187P955.0 12P2820702.0       34      23
8. COUNOICATION ET DOCUMENTATION
CrOMMICATION ET DOCUMENTATION                                        403,840.0   787p360.0  1^191,200.0        66       2
MSSISTANCE TECHNIQUE                                                  74,200.0   667,800.0   7429000.0         90       1
Sub-T,utal COhUNICATION ET DOCUMENTATION                               478w040.0  1,455,160.0  1,933,200.0       75       4
C. FORMATION
FORMATION                                                          3W574P400.0  3,783,600.0  7,358,000.0       51      14
¶SSISTANCE TECHNIOUE                                                  21,000.0   1894000.0   210w000.0         90       0
Sub-Total FORMATION                                                   3595,400.0  3,972,600.0  7P5684000.0        52      14
0. Rechreche
1. Prgranae Riz
BAMBESA                                                            58,114.0    27,161.0    85,275.0         32       0
KIYAtI                                                             60w463.0    270787.0    88,250.0         31       0
MVAZI                                                              81,863.0    36,387.0   118t250,0         31       0
Y G   I                                                           140,903.0    57,767.0   198,670.0         29       0
Sub-Total Prorme Riz                                                 341,343.0   149,102.0   490,4450          30       1
2. Prograw  Ieguineuses
MA#18ESA                                                           65833.5    30r241.5    96075.0         31       0
GANDAJIKA                                                         127,161.5    68,048.5    195,210.0        35       0
PIJLUWGU                                                          112,134.0    53,021.0   165,155.0         32       0
MkUZI                                                             ISI313.5    53,741.5   205,055.0         26       0
YANOANBI                                                          112,179.7    39P042.0   151,221.7         26       0
Sub-Total Promram   leuusinsus.s                                     568t622.2   244.094.5   812,716.7         30       2
Exclusive  of USS1*8 millic-  for taxcs en-. d4uli-s.



TabLe 11
3. PM?"r"  tu. rNln                                   53                                       Paoe 4 of 5
NioKA                                                            52,298.9    22,073.8    74,72.7          30      0
Sub-Total Programs tuhrciujls                                       52,299.9    22t073.8    74,32.7          30      0
4. Proas   "is
69^rleJ2tA                                                       53,992.0    25,593.0    79,585.0         32      0
KANIAIESHI                                                       125,355.0    54.185.0   179,540.0        30       0
KITAKA                                                           52,992.0    24,593.0    77485.0          32      0
KWUAZI                                                           66,786.0    32,189.0    98,975.0         33      0
Sub-Total Proiam     is a                                          299,125.0   136,560.0   435,685.0         31      1
5. Programme eleva
WUUAZI                                                          B49,M70    186,588.0  1,036,365.0         18      2
NIOKA                                                           0134257.5   160,068.5  M9,326.0           16       2
Sub-Total Prorame elevae                                         1,663,034.5   346,656.5  240094691.0        17      4
A. Pro_rms cate - cacao
NUUNGtU                                                          59,472.0    29,083.0    88,M55.0         33      0
Y(V4"BI                                                         177,607.5    90,417.5   258,025.0         31      0
Sub-Total Prournam  cate - cacao                                   237,079.5   109,500.5   346,580.0         32      1
,. Program ralmier
KIYAKA                                                           66,944.0    22,396.0    89,340.0         25      0
YANGANDI                                                        3464582.0    64,508.0   411,090.0         16       1
SuIb-Totul Protrau  Palsisr                                        413,526.0    86M904.0   500,430.0         17      1
8. Protras cot4n
IAlDESA                                                          66,499.5    31,577.5    99,077.0         32      0
Sub-Total Protrames coton                                           66,499.5    31,577.5    98,077.0         32      0
9. Prorm   mnioc
GANDAJIKA                                                       21S,009.0    67,616.0   282,625.0         24      1
KIYAKA                                                           84,122.5    19,172.5   103,295.0         19       0
MUAZI                                                           209,609.0    62,216.0   271w825.0         23       1
Sub-Total Proram  mnioc                                            501,740.5   149,004.5   657,745.0        23       1
10. Porams redwrehe dvloment
RA QAJIKA                                                       85,888.5    54466.5   140w355.0          39      0
KWIANIESHI                                                      90,501.5    56,446.5   146,955.0         38       0
NIJLUNGU                                                        85,888.5    54,466.5   140,355.0         39      0
MIUAZI                                                           73n388.5    413966.5   115P355.0        36       0
NIOKA                                                           234581.5    16,933.5    40,415.0         42      0
Sub-Total Prorams  eherhes dmelompwt                               359,255.5   224,179.5   583p435#0         38      1
11. Prolram Fortilite dos Sols
4I?ESA                                                          R1,250.5    61t129.5   142,380.0         43      0
IIDAJItKA                                                       197v808.9    99,640.2   297,449.0        33       1
1ULUNGJ                                                        208,628.8   110A460.2   319089.0         35       1
IMJZI                                                           64,218.0    44,097.0   109,315.0         41       0
YANGAllN                                                       184t302.5   109,127.S   293Y430.0         37       1
------------------------------
Sub-Total Pograme F.rtilit ds Sols                                736,208.5   424,454.4  1,160w662.9        37      2



54                                 Table 11
Page 5 of 5
1. Pioram cr_  n ytsion SPlas
MUAJ!KA                                                         46,793.0    31,522.0    78,305.0        40       0
IU.WSU                                                          46,783.0    31,522.0    78t305.0        40       0
wmNzX                                                           57,963.0    37,742.0    95,705.0        39       0
TAIUAI                                                          39,263.0    25.442.0    64,705.0        39       0
KIMPPO                                                          27,221.0    17,864.0    45,085.0        40       0
LUKI                                                            27.221.0    17,864.0    45.065.0        40       0
Sub-Total Prorau  con rvation grmoalpue                            245.234.0   161,9S6.0   407,190.0        40       1
13. Prorw  aro-fe,wts
KIPFO                                                           17,221.0      7,864.0    25,0SS.0       31       0
LUKI                                                            17,221.0      7,864,0    25,085.0       31       0
ASSISTANCE TEOMIUC                                             623,600.0 5657.400.0 6,286,000.0        90      12
Sub-total Progra     ajro-for t                                    663P042.0 5,673,128.0  6,336,170.0       90      12
14. PE_SOIL   BE KEIOE                                           3,492,920.0           - 304924920.0         -      7
Sub-Total bWr*rcw                                                   9,646,929.2  7,759,191.2 17.406r120.4      45     33
E. REIAtLITATIaN DES IWPSThIJCTURS ET DE L EGUIPE3DET
S1EGE KINSHASA                                                   1.450,649.0   793,451.0  2,244,100.0       35      4
BAGESA                                                             262,977.0   177,225.0   440.202,0        40       1
rGADAJiKA                                                          646,972.0   424,932.0  1.071P904.0       40      2
KANIAMESNI                                                         651I461.0   345,041.0   996,502.0        35       2
KIPOPO                                                             204,405.0   169,197.0   373,602.0        45       1
KIYAKA                                                             237,048.0   217.954*0   455,002.0        48       1
LUWI                                                               217,586.0   2039416.0   421.002.0        48       1
NILUNSU                                                          1.594,586.0   724,916.0  2.319.502.0       31      4
YuUAZI                                                           1,180,261.0   5U,641.0  1,726,902.0        32      3
NIWKA                                                            1.075,934.0   552.768.0  1,628,702.0       34       3
YAIIGANI                                                           720,551.0   607,653.0  1,328,204.0       46      3
ASSISTANCE TECONIWE                                                 53,200.0   478,800.0   532,000.0        90       1
Sub-Totil RE8ILTATIoN DES INFRASTRUCTUlIRES ET DE L EGUIPEWJET     8,295,630.0  5,241,994,0 13.537,624.0      39     26
ial PASELINE COSTS                                                 30,110,746.2 22.616.900.2 52,727,646.4      43    100
Ph'sical Continjsmcie                                              19629,571.3   438,340.1  2,067,911.4       21      4
Price Contin bcin                                                 5,247,105.2 3,483P687.6  8,730,792.8       40      17
tal PROJECT COSTS                                                  36,987,422.6 26,538,928.0 63,526,350.6      42    120
ehd 5, tm   12:22



55                                           TABLE 12
Packosfnc of Civil Works Contracts
sit"s                                 I.C..                                                c L.C. /2
No. of   Amounts       Types of Works      No. of   Amounts          Types of work
lots    (US$OOO)                          Lots      (USSOOO)
Kinhasa                 1        1670       Atl MC                 3          221          NC:187; REH:34
Rbes                                                              4          219          All REN.
Gande ike                                                          4          743          Al REN.
Kanimashi j
Kipopo                                                             1          90          All REN.
Kiysys                                                             2          163         All REN.
Luki                                                               2          139         All REN.
Nulungu                 2        2108        C: 560;REN: 1562      3          553          REN:194;ARD:359
Nvuazi                  2         1434      NC:480;REN:953         6          380          REN:234;ARD:129;WES:17
Hioko                   1         665       All MC                 7          7J3         REN:22(;NC:14;ARDi311;bES:238
Kisangani                                                          2          141         MC:35;REN:106
YangoSi                                                            4         668          REN:166;ARD:25;WES:477
TOTAL Works            6         6077                             38        4100 2)
C:    Now construction
REN:    Rehabilitation of building
RD:   Access road
WES:   Rehabilitation of water and electricity suppLy system
j/Works in the amount of US$1.0 million, to be financed by USAID.
a/ of which the Government of Zaire is to finance US$1.0 million for small civil works
contracts under its own procurement proceJures.



56                                         ANNEX 1
ZAIRE
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Summary of recent research output.
A. 10 o19Q8
1.      Foodrop prod qjo. With CIMMYT assistance the PNM developed a breeding program for open
pollinated white maize - one for the ecological zone in the south (Shaba 1), one for the center (Kasai 1), and
one for the second season maize (Salongo). For the Bandundu area, where yellow maize is preferred,
preliminary work indicated that high-input cultivars were not suitable for the low-input production system of
most small-scale farmers. General cultivation guidelines were prepared.
2.      Industrial and perennial crops. The cotton variety Zaire was further developed. Wilt disease tolerant
varities of oilpalm were identified.
B. 1980 to l99
3.      Foodcrop production. The main results were obtained under the National Commodity Programs,
under the the first RAV Project. The project was succesful in developping 20 varieties (seven cassava, five
maize, five peanut, two cowpea and one soybean) and selecting eleven. It also started to cooperate with the
SENASEM (the national seed service) to arrive at proper variety description, in order promote better seed
distribution. It also reactivated the conservation of previously selected maize varieties, with CIMMYT
assistance (para 1), which had been neglected. The PNM started work on the maize hybrid selection and
imported disease resistant IITA maize varieties.. The adoption rate of those varieties remained below
expectation. For example, only the F 100 cassava cultivar is widely accepted by farmers in the area where it
gives the best results. At the Mvuazi station, the AGCD assisted INERA in purifying the R60 rice variety
(selected in the sixties) and selecting two imported rice varieties for further distribution.  The wheat imports
promoted and succeeded .n the selection of wheat varieties in the high mountain areas.
4.      Industrial crop production. One new cotton variety has been selected. In order to reduce the
dependance of the sugar industry on only two cane varieties, the Cie. Sucribre private industry selected four
varieties for testing in production blocks. The private Cinchona plantation advanced in developping Fusarium
tolerant cuitivars. Perennial crops. Using, amongst others, material from the Yangambi station, the Binga
station, managed by two plantation companies, developed a production scheme for oilpalm seeds tolerant to
Fusarium Wilt disease.
5.      Agro-forestry. The Natio.aal Maize Program developped system for alley-cropping in maize and
cassava.
C. INERA maintained uninterrupted since 1960 the climate dat of their stations, providing one of the longest
series in SSA, and succeeded in conserving its perennial crop collections.



57                                    ANNEX 11
Page I of 3
ZAIRE
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Organizations and Institutions related to Agricultural Research in Zaire
IntroduQtn
1.   INERA is responsible for the coordination and programming of all agricultural research activities in
Zaire. One of the major project objectives is the integration of research activities and programs into one
national research structure: INERA. However, there are research activities which will be continued by other
organizations or institutions on the grounds that they would then be carried out more effectively. Neverless,
it is INERA's mandate to remain informed about these activities, to seek publication of the research results and
to dissiminate these within the research community. Consequently, INERA would seek to establish formal
agreements with the institutions to achieve these goals.
Organizations and Institutions in Zaire
2. The following entities are either directly or indirectly engaged in research related activities. Those having
concluded an agreement of cooperation with INERA are marked with an asterix.
AGCD           Administration Generale de Cooperation au Developpement (Belgian Cooperation).  It
financed a program for rice variety purification at Gandjika, and agrostology in Kinshasa.
*APEK          Arriere Pays Economique de Kinshasa (Kinshasa Hinterland Development Project, European
Economic Community-supported). It develops, among others, the planting of fruit trees and
cooperates with M'vuazi station for the production of planting material.
CESNOV         Centre d'Etudes des Substances Naturelles d'Origine Vegetales (Study Center for Products
of Plant Origine).
CGEA           Commissariat General de l'Energie Atomaire (see CREN-K).
CIDA           Canadian International Development Association (Canadian Cooperation). Maintains a station
at Luotu (in Kivu) for seed production (mainly potatoes) and some other trials.
*CODENORD  Compagnie de Developpement du Nord (Development Company in the North of Zaire).
Carries out cotton trials in the Dingila area and cooperates at the Bambesa Station.
CRAAL          Centre de Recherche Agro-Alimentaire de Lubumbashi.
*CREN-K        Centre de Recherche d'Etudes Nucleaire I Kinshasa. Carries out trials to create mais (and
other plans) mutations through radiation.
CRM            Centre de Recherche du Mais. Created in 1987 with a view to promote hybrid maize seed
production. Located in Lubumbashi. Assisted by Yugoslav consultants. Integration with
PNM is envisaged.
CRSN           Centre de Recherche en Sciences Naturelles.



58                                    ANNEX 11
Page 2 of 3
CSG            Caisse de Stabilisation Cotonniere (Cotton Price Stabilization Fund). Cooperates in carrying
out cotton trials at seed stations, and assists in extension of farming techniques and seed
distribution.
*DEPAGRI    Departement de l'Agriculture et du Developpement et de l'Animation Rurale. Research
activities financed under its budget would be managed in technical aspects by INERA.
*DECN          Departement de l'Environnement et de la Conservation de la Nature.  Agreement on
programming of forestry research.
ERTS           Programme d'Etudes des Ressources Terrestres par Satellite. Provides airphotographic
services.
*IFA           Institut Facultaire des Sciences Agronomiques de Yangambi. It has been transferred recently
to Kisangani, where previously the first two general curricula were already given. Mutual
support between the Yangambi station and Kisangani is being studied.
ILCA           International Livestock Center for Africa. It maintains a test-station in Idiofa (Bandundu
region) for testing Tripasonomiasis tolerance. It would probably expand its activities to the
Kiyaka and M'vuazi stations.
*IRAZ          Institut de Recherche Agronomique et Zootechnique. It is the regional institution cf the
CEPGL (Communaute Economique des Pays des Grands Lacs) which coordinates revsearch
for the ecologically similar areas in Rwanda, Burundi and Zaire. Zaire would be primarily
responsible for potato research.
ITURI          A Bank-supported livestock project in Haut-Zaire, which has done work on tick control, and
test trials of annual crops. It would cooperate closely with the Nioka station.
IZCN           Institut Zairois pour la Conservation de la Nature.
*MAB           Projet 'Man and Biosphere." It conserves and studies forest reserves at the stations Luki and
Yangambi.
OPEZ           Office de la Petite et Moyenne Entreprise au Zaire. It would be helpful in carrying out the
Farming System Research Program.
OZACAF         Office Zairois du Cafe. It has an official - but not very effective - Coffee Extension Service.
PDHS           Projet de Developpement Hinterland Shaba. It finances farm trials to be carried out by the
PNM in the Shaba region.
PLZ            Plantations Lever au Zaire. Private company carrying out oilpalm research and producing
high yielding seeds and will tolerant seeds. Cooperation on agronomic research should be
sought, and also in palm cloning.
*PNM           Programme National MaTs. Part of SENARAV, and responnsible for maize research. It
would be fully integrated in the national structure.
PNL            Programme National de Legumineuses. Part of SENARAV, responsible for research on grain
legumes. It would be fully integrated in the national structure.



59                                      ANNEX II
Page 3 of 3
PNR            Programme National du Riz. Its research activities will be taken over by INERA.
*PRONAM        Programme National de Manioc.  Part of SENARAV, and responsible for research on
cassava. It would be fully integrated in the national stiucture.
SCZ            SociWte des Cultures au Zaire. Private plantation company. Cooperated at its Binga - site with
PLZ in oilpalm seed selection.
*SENAFIC       (Formerly PNE) Service National des Fertilisants et Intrants Connexes. Carries out
denonstration plots for the promotion of fertilizer use; it imports and distributes fertilizers.
*SENARAV       (Formerly RAV) Service National de Recherche Agronomique et Vulgarisation. It manages
the commodity project PNM, PNL and PRONAM. It will be integrated with INERA, see
Annex IV.
*SENASEM       Service National de Semences. Multiplies controlled seeds, using base-seeds produced by the
research stations; it carries out test-trials at the research stations; cooperates with the research
programs in defining the cultivars description; 1/ and is responsible for the variety
catalogue. It has also the mandate to certify base-seeds.
*SNV           Service National de Vulgarisation (National Extension Service). Cooperation es developing
in improving the technology transfer from station to farmer. See Annex III.
*SPIAF         Service permanent d'Inventaire et d'Amenagement Forestier (Forest Inventory Service). It
would with station personnel, currently at Kipopo.
UNIKIN         Universite de Kinshasa, gives agro-economy courses.
UNILU          Universite de Lubumbashi.  Its veterinary faculty prepares veterinarians in a six year
curriculum. Cooperation could be sought with the Kiporo-station.
UNIKIS         Universite de Kisangani (see IFA).
Universities   Cooperate with INERA in carrying out Zaire-based studies for
of             their graduate students.
Louvain,
Gembloux,
Gant
This would include the DHS (Distfnction-Homogeneity-Stabiity) and the ATV (Agricultural and Technical Value).



60                                     AlsN,isX Ill
Page I of 4
ZAIRE
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Institutional Arrangements for Research/Extension Interaction
1     The final test of the relevancy of research is the adoption by the producers ot Woe iescarch
recomiiiendations, as measured in agricultural statistics of production, productivity and the pecentage ot
farmers applying the recommended technology. Currently the agricultural statistical informatioii is unreliable,
in particular on its site specificity. The main avenue taken to improve the feedback from the farmers and the
field would be one that strengthened the extension services (private and public) so that an efficient
research/extension interaction can take place. This interaction has the support of Government, INERA and
the SNV, and it would be planned and carried out within the objectives of the Research Master Plan, which
includes a sVparate chapter of: " Lison avec la vulgarisation et les organismes de developpement, which gives
general objectives and guidelines.
2.   The objectives of the research/extension interaction are: to ensure that the research piograms respond
effectively to farmer needs; to expand on-farm research; to expose farmers and extension agents to research
developments and to seek continuous farmer evaluation of research results. The strategy to achieve this would
he to: (1) involve extension agents, and eventually farmers, in research programmming; (2) organize this
involvement as a continuous process on a regional basis; (3) include a separate farming systems research
program in the research budget; (4) increase on-station training of extension agents; and (5) evaluate the
results of the process and the technology transfer to farmers as a separate monitorable subject.
3.   Ezxperience in other countries with research/extension interaction has demonstrated the ditticilty in
achieving short term results. A concensus exists that the research/extension interaction should develop as a
proce-ss, depending on the quality of the participating and the number of institutions involved. It should also
remain flexible. In the past, several models for technology transfer were tested in Zaire, but they did not
always prove to be satisfactory, being too much top down or too rigid. Recent experience has been obtained
under the National Commodity Programs, which carried out: (i) multi-location on-farm trials; (ii) on-farm
demonstration tests; (iii) technical surveys among farmers; (iv) economic surveys among farmers; and (v)
close consultation with development programs. Although valuable insights were obtained, it appeared that
complementary action was needed to study farmer priorities because crop programs are not equipped to
encompass all farmer problems, -n particular at the socio-economic level. This would be carried out through:
a) structuring in general the research/extension interaction, and b) implementing a site-specific farming
systems research program.
Re,earch/Extension Interaction
4. Participating institutions. Two Zairian Ministries are involved: the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural
Development through the National Extension Service (SNV) and the Ministry of Scientific Research, through
INERA, which started a specific program in Mulungu. The USAID supported SENARAV includes farming
systems research programs in the Kasai, Bas-Zaire and Bandundu regions, as well as extension (outreach)
activities, The researcr/extension interaction would therefore closely cooperate with SENARAV. The research
also cooperates with NGOs and private enterprises (e.g. the CDI in Equateur). This cooperation will be
essentially based on the same ideas, and where possible, they would be invited to participate in the activities
carried out by the project.
5.   Institutional arrangements.  The INERA and the SENARAV concluded in the 198') a cooperation
agreement, which included, in particular, the participation of a researcher in the monthlk workshop s of the



61                                      ANNEX Ill
Page 2 of 4
extension agents and the SMS's (Subject Matter Specialists). The SNV would finance the workshops and the
researchers' participation.  Under the Project the interaction would include periodic meetings between
researchers and extension agents, from which would evolve gradually a standard pattern of cooperation. 'lThe
development would be guided by a small group consisting of representatives from INERA and the SNV. Each
research statio, would appoint one researcher responsible to monitor the collaboration with the extension agents
active in the area covered bv the stations. Since the interaction would be based on a regional basis, a formal
regional planning committee would be appointed (para. 9). Given the evolving character of this cooperation,
there would initially be three committees: for Kasai at Gandajika; for Bandundu at Kiyaka; and for Kivu at
Mulunga.
6. Interaction process. The process should constantly define and adjust the contact points between researchers
and farme;s, and the available tools to work together. It should also: identify the main participants; assure
proper financing; and provide timely evaluation results or feedback.  Although the process is evolving
continuously, it will be useful to use initial parameters against which progress can be measured. (Given in the
appendix.)
7.   The points of contact consist of field visits, execution of field trials, training sessions, joint committee
work, pre-seasonal planning sessions of the extension, research progranrming meetings, and evaluation visits
and committees. While there will be continuous contacts at various levels, there remains a need to create
specific institutional tools to ascertain that decisions are taken and controlled. These tools would be:
a) monthly extension workshops;
b) extension/research regional planning committees;
c) annual research program conference;
d) research program reviews carried out by the National Programming Committee; and,
e) program/budget review carried out by the INERA's Board of Directors.
8.   Mhe concept of monthly extension workshops is well established. In these workshops, the researchers
discuss with SMS's the progress and/or issues of the extension work. The participation off ieserciheis are
assured on the basis of the INERA/SNV agreement. These workshops are now being held in the aieits of
Kivaka and Giandajika.
9.   The extension/research regional planning committee aims at rationalizing the planning of on-farm trials
and demonstration plots. Whereas these are often planned and executed independer.tly by researchers, extension
agents, and NGO's, overlaps, repetition and irrelevant trials are likely to occur. The committee would try to
avoid duplication, reduce costs, and assure tne relevance for farmers and researchers. It would try t) find a
balance between the research needs and the farmers demand to study relevant technical farming issues and
relevant production problemns encountered by farmers. The committee would be composed of an equal nimber
of extension agents and researchers, who would decide on a chairman (the chairmanship could alternate hetween
a researcher and an extension agent.) The committee would meet three times a year, once before each season,
and once for the budget review. Experience shows that it will take several years for such committees to work
smoothly.
10.  The research/extension planning and monitoring committees would participate in the anniLal research
prograrn conferences, whose objective is to review past results and formulate future research programming
guidelines. The planning committee would contribute to tl.ese conferences by submitting written discussion
material and make a pr_sentation on the status of technology transfer. At the central level, the te hnzology
transfer would be a subject oi senarate seminars, and the annual report of INERA woul(I inclodt-   -1 -, Mte
chapter on the subject.
The Farming Systems Research Program



62                                       ANNEX III
Page 3 of 4
11. This Program would address two major areas; (i) the study and analysis of existing production systems,
with a view to teed the results back to the crop programs in order to set the proper research priorities, carry
out relevant research experiments, and direct their research to farmer needs (e.g. shorter term varieties,
reduction of chemical fertilizer need, taste/toxicity of cassava); (ii) to study and evaluate the introduction of
changes in -oduction systems, as a result of progress in crop research (e.g. disease control measures, new
varieties, mixed cropping planting techniques, mixed farming); and (iii) experiment with participative research.
For the study of existing systems, the FSR programs would obtain information from farmers, NGOs, private
companies, extension agents, administrative authorities and commercial agents. Their studies would be
reviewed with the extension services and researchers of relevant research programs. The FSR new experiments
would preferably be designed in cooperation with the farmers, the extension agents and other researchers, and
they would be executed by farmers/extension agents, and evaluated by researchers and farmers.
12.  Apart from the FSR program (which can only be effective if supported by effective crop/livestock
programs), the crop programs would include in their subprograms the technology transfer as a separate
objective, by ensuring that:
(a)   researchers maintain direct contact with a selected number of farmers and extension agents (about
a minimum of 10);
(b)   review with extension agents technical recommendations before dissemination;
(c)   include in their overall research evaluation an analysis of the degree and quality of technology
of the transfer of its results; and
(d)   include in the programming exercise, the discussion the results, and quality of technology transfer
(adoption rates, extension links, training progress) as a standard agenda point.
Implementation Constraints
14. The major constraints are:
(a)   the capability of extension agents to formulate and articulate farmer needs and demands in a
manner that research can respond;
(b)   the attitude of researchers to focus exclusively on fully controlled experiments;
(c)   the lack of exposure of farmers to research activities;
(d)   the timely financing of efforts to improve the farmer/extension/research liaison; and,
(e)   the lack of information and publications on technology transfer and adoption rates.
To reduce financing constraints, it has been agreed that on-farm activities or seminars initiated by research
programs would be fully financed under such a program. On-farm visual test and demonstration initiated by
extension agents would be fully financed by the SNV or the responsible NGO or private agency.
17. The Project would take the following measures to reduce these constraints:
(a)    Organize training courses for extension agents to improve their grasp of the requirements
ofscientific research and for researchers to improve their analytical skills of farmer constraints,



63                                      ANNEX III
Page 4 of 4
complemented by induction courses and seminars in the field to test progress and get hands-on
experience.
(b)   Include in each research protocol under the heading of the experiments justification, also its
relevance to farmer needs;
(c)   Organize farmer visits to research stations;
(d)   Provide sufficient funding in the annual research budget to carry out the proposed on-farm trials
and farmer contacts;
(e)   Carry out a stock-taking program  in each research program, identifying available relevant
information and recover the backlog in reviewed site specific cultivation messages.



64                            Appendix to Annex Tll
page 1 of 2
Overview of the parameters for farmer/extension agent/researcher communications
1. EFmr
-     visited by extension agents under TV I x/2 weeks regular weekly visits by agronomist of NGO/
private programs/demonstration plots;
-     10% of farmers participate in extension led tests; in NGO/private programs percentage is higher;
-     1 % of farmers participate in research led trials; and,
-     participate 2 x/year in group encounters (e.g. farmer days at stations, study-visits).
2.  Extension agents
His/her 2 week work schedule includes:
-     7 days field/farmer visits
-     1 day training in workshop with SMS
-     1 day unallocated for monitoring/trials
-     1 day for special events (social contacts, etc.)
His/her area covers 400 farmers, and it would include 30 on farm demonstrations or tests.
3.  Subiect matter specialist (SMS)
His/her work schedule would include:
-     30% for training of extension agents
-     30% for monthly field visits to farms and discussion of extension messages
-     30% for research station visits for training and updating and personal contact with researchers
-     10% for special events
4.  On-station researcher
The researchers work schedule would include:
-     on-station experimental work according to annual budget/program
-     off-station (non-farm) trials, varying between 25-75%  of number of trials, depending on
priorities of research programs, also according
-     training of SMS and NGO/private agronomists: 2 days/month
-     advice for and evaliation of extension led demonstration plots or tests, on the average I
week/year
-     discussion of technical recommendations with extension agents, before their official release
-     designing/leading farm surveys for developing future experimental work; 2 weeks/year
5.  Off-station researcher
He/she will have a similar work schedule but the time for on-station work will bt substituted by on-farm
trials, support to extension led demonstrations/tests, and station visits to report on results and update his/her
knowledge.



65                             Appendix to Annex III
Page 2 of 2
6.  On-farm trials
The subjects include: (1) testing of on-station research results at the farm level; and (2) study or
analysis of on-farm practices. The objective is to obtain scientifically valid results, which are comparable to
similar trials elsewhere.
Responsibilities would be divided as follows:
-     general planning     :      researcher and extension agent
-     design               :      researcher with ex-post review extension agent
-     execution            :      by extension agent under research supervision, and by farmer,
depending on type of trial
-     measurements         :      extension agent and researcher (as needed)
-     evaluation           :      researcher with comments by extension agent.
-     financing            :      research programs
7.  Demonstration plots or farm tests
T-he subjects include: (1) demonstration at the farm level of on-station tested research results (e.g.
varieties, fertilizing, erosion control, measures, rotation systems); and (2) testing of farmer originated
techniques (e.g. mixed cropping system, planting techniques, labor saving systems).
The objective is to improve adaption rates of proven technology and to study the validity of locally
developed techniques.
Responibilities would be divided as follows:
-     planning             :      extension agent
-     design               :      farmer/extension agent with advice/review by researcher
-     execution                   farmer/extension agent
-     measurements               farmer, extension agent/monitoring agent
-     evaluation                  extension agent with researcher participation
-     financing            :      extension services
8.  Extension/researcher seminars or meetings
-     monthly workshops           SMS, researcher, possibly farmer representative
-     discussion extension
messages            :      once before seasons; SMS, extension agents, researchers
-     regional extension/research: 3x/year, 2 day workshops; committees extension agents, SMS and
researchers
-     research
programming         :      once a year per program, researchers, extension, private
-     national meeting
technology                 once a year; extension, research, private NGOs
-     release of technical
bulletins           :      preparation by  researcher, and  recommendations review  by
extension before release
The first three activities are financed by Extension; the last three by Research.



66                                    ANNEX IV
Page I of 4
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
Agency
Task                                        Responsibl        Produ.
1992 - First Semester
- reduction of staff                        INERA
on rented out stations                      SENARAV
and on operational
stations
- recruitment of a civil                    INERA             IDA approved
engineer to assist in                       IDA               contract
station rehabilitation
- putting in operation of:                  INERA             selection of staff
a) human resource                                      short list consultants
development unit                                        approved contracts
b) station rehabilitation
unit
- renting out all non-                      INERA             contracts
operational stations
- recruitment financial                     INERA             approval proposed
advisor                                     SENARAV           contract
audit report for 1990 and                   INERA
19°1 accounts
Annual report                               INERA
SENARAV
- development of                            INERA             accounting manual
accounting system for                       SENARAV
the combined structure                                        Consultant
of INERA/SENARAV
1992 - Second Semester
- employ consultants for:                   INERA             approved contract
UNDP
a) research management                USAID
b) internal auditing
c) computerization



67                                    ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 4
- conducting national                       INERA             published proceedings
workshops on:                               SENARAV
SNV
a) natural resources                  Private agencies
conservation                          MOA
b) germplasm conservation             Department of Forestry/
c) agro-forestry                      Environment
- taking stock of available                 INERA             state of the art research
results in                                  UNDP              reports
Zaire for perennial                         Station staff     employment
crops, livestock and                        Specialists       short term specialists
natural resource
conservation
- planning laboratory                       INERA             development plan and
network                                     SENARAV           detailed technical
Specialists                                             plans requirements
Interested
Donors
- study on laboratory                       INERA             detailed report and
and equipment                               SENARAV           recommendations
requirements                                                  Laboratory
Engineers
Specialists
- establishment regional                    INERA             reports or, the meetings
research/extension                          SENARAV
coordinating committees                     SNV
- lay-off of the remainder of               INERA
redundant staff                             SENARAV
- complete integration                      MOA               integrated management
of SENARAV into INERA                       ESURS             structure
INERA
SENARAV
1993 First Semester
- study on informatization                  INERA             development plan,
development and main-                                         maintenance plan,
tenance                                     UNDP              staffing and action
Specialists                                             plan
- submission of timetable for               INERA
mid-term reviews of major
research programs.
- audit report of 1991 accounts             INERA



68                                    ANNEX IV
Page 3 of 4
- Introducdon-now                           INERA             interim report
accounting system                           SENARAV
- Introduction                              INERA             standard form protocol
protocols                                   SENARAV
1993 Second Semeter
- mid-term review of 1 or 2                 INERA
research programs                                             Research Management
Donors
Consultants
- Annual report                             INERA
- operation of Biometrics                   INERA             operational manual
Unit                                        SENARAV           research data bank plan
1224
- midterm review of I or 2                  INERA             review report with
research programs                           SENARAV           recommendations on
SNV               research structure and
Donors                                                  programs
Consultants
- plan for cost-                            INERA             accounting guidelines
accounting
Specialists
Donors



69                                   ANNEX IV
Page 4 of 4
D.   Annual Taslk
Month             Agency
k                 C       e         Rensble 
- audit report on    6              INERA              long-term report
the annual                          SENARAV            INERA comments
financial stat.-                    Auditor            management letter
ments                                                  SOE certification
- research program   9              INERA              research Program
and budget                          SENARAV            resarch Budget
Programming       donor Confirmation
Steering
Committee
- mid-term evaluation  12           INERA              recommnndations to
of overall project                  Extension         improve project
activities                          Consultants        execution
Donors
- annual report      6              INERA/
SENARAV           annual report
- upgrading
technical            as             INERA              bulletin
bulletins            justified      SENARAV
SNV
Consultants
- magazine           as                                Editorial
justified                         Committee
195 and9
- annual report     INERA
- annual audit report  INERA
- reviews of research  INERA
programs             Consultants



70                                     ANNEX V
Page I of 2
ZAIRE
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
SYuPryision Plan
1.  Into n  The staff input indicated below is an addition to regular supervision needs for the review of
progress reports, procurement actions, correspondence and interagency contacts. For this project, aiming to
create the fundamentals for future sustained research and agricultural growth, estimated requirement is four staff
weeks per year.
Borrower's Contribution to Supervision
2.  The reporting requirements are described in the main text and consist of: the three-quarterly financial
statements, the annual eternal audit, the interim report of the internal audit unit, the proceedings of the annual
program conferences, and the specific evaluation program evaluation reports. INERA would make these latest
reports available to supervision missions.
3.   INERA would be responsible for the logistics of the supervision missions, including required travel
permits. While the project covers the national territory and lodging requires advance preparation, supervision
missions would be announced well in advance, including an indication of the stations to be visited. INERA
would prepare for the mission a short "state of progress" report of the stations to be visited, including a
recapitulation of major issues and suggested solutions.
4.   Given the multi-donor financing of the project and the multiplicity of issues, particularly regarding
integration, INERA would work out with the donors an annual indicative supervision plan.
Donors Contribution to Supervision
5.   Donors would coordinate their supervision mission (see above) and organize combined supervision
missions. Supervision would as far as practical coincide with the meeting calendar of the Steering Committee.
Supervision reports would be copied to other donors, in order to sustain full donor coordination.
6. The mid-term evaluation mission would be organized as a combined INERA-donor mission, as described
in the main text (para 5.09). ISNAR, under UNDP-financing, would provide expertise in research management
and research programming, through semi-annual short term visits.
IDA Supervision Input into Key Activities
7. The Task Manager would supervise the project, at least twice a year, preferably in March and September,
in order to attend the Steering Committee meetings dealing with the annual programming and budgeting
process. During these missions other important questions could be examined in more detail. The main
subjects, required skills and estimated annual field staff weeks are shown below:



71                                    ANNEX V
Page 2 of 2
Bank Supervision Input into Key Activities
Approx.                                           Expected                Staff Input x/
DatM        Act;vity                              Skills Required         (Staff-weeks)
1992        Project Monitoring Committee          Task-manager                8
Project Start-up                     Financial Analyst
Review Human Resources               Training Specialist
Development Plan
Review Research/Extension Interaction
1993        Project Steering Committee            Task Manager                8
Computer Expert
Review Laboratory Plan               Laboratory Technician
Review Informatization Plan
1994        Project Steering Committee            Task Manager                12
Biometrician
Project mid-term Evaluation          Research Management
Research Programs Review
Specialist
Crop Specialist
Review Status
Biometrics Unit                      Financial Analyst
1995        Project Monitoring Committee          Task Manager                8
Financial Analyst
Research Programs Review             Crop Specialists
Staffing Analysis
1996        Project Monitoring Committee          Task Manager                8
Research Management
PCR preparation                      Specialist
Preparation follow-up Project
x/ Plus two weeks report writing.



72                                     ANNEX VI
Page 1 of 2
Lessons Learned from Previous Prjects
The main difficulties that projects encountered during implementation in Zaire have been inadequate
counterpart funding, weak management, inadequate staffing, and poor sustainability of the project after external
financing ended. In addition, insufficient internal control has led to a few cases of misprocurement, misuse of
goods procured with IDA credits and payments out of special accounts for expenditures or amounts not eligible.
The project seecs to address these problems through the following actions:
(a) Counterpart fundinE. The Government will make its contribution to the project available on a
monthly basis. In order to avoid problems related to the timely availability of Government
counterpart funding, Government funding has deliberately been limited to salaries, for which a good
mechanism is in place, and to recurrent cost funding for station management only; incremental
recurrent costs related to research expenditures will be financed by the co-financiers and from USAID
counterpar r,nds. The Government contribution for civil works is only for small contracts, that can
either I-D .Inanced from INERA's own resources (estimated at US$200,000 per annum) or from the
Government investment budget.
(b) Weak management and inadequate staffing.  Agricultural Research is not suffering from weak
management. Both INERA and SENARAV have presently a large number of competent station and
program managers. A large training component was included under the first USAID sponsored RAV
project. The beneficiaries of this training, 30 researchers, are expected to be all working in the field
by the middle of 1992. The proposed project also includes a large training component, which will
train an additional 55 researchers before the end of 1997. A sufficient number of research staff will
thus be available by project closing.  In order to provide for sufficient expertise during
implementation, the project includes financing of technical assistance for all the priority research
programs.
(c) Sustainability. This project should be viewed as the first phase of Bank involvement in agricu;ural
research in Zaire. The other external financiers of the project, USAID and UNDP, view the project
likewise. Sustainability of agricultural research depends on its relevance to farmers' needs and its
impact on production. The project was carefully designed to foster these objectives.
(d) Intemal Control. In order to avoid problems related to poor financial management, the project will
strengthen the administrative procedures of INERA and establish an internal audit unit at INERA
headquarters. In addition, an expatriate technical assistant will provide INERA with support in
implementing changes to the accounting system. At negotiations, INERA agreed to hire consultants
to draw up procedures acceptable to the Bank for accounting and internal control, and to assist in the
revaluation of assets 2/.
(e) Procurement. Procurement plans will be drawn up each year by project management and discussed
with the cofinanciers at the annual meetings. IDA will finance a long-term technical assistant that will
assist INERA in preparing the bid documents for the civil works program, which represents 45% of
IDA financing.
(f) Special Ac^u. In order to avoid the kinds of problems encountered in the past with other projects,
it was agreed at negotiations to reduce the amount of the initial deposit in the Special Account to US$
INERA's accounts for 1989 could not be certified by the accountants, because the value of the assets could not be
properly assessed.



73                                     ANNEX VI
Page 2 of 2
100,000. During project implementation, an increase could be considered if the situation so warrants.
Project implementation is not expected to suffer from this relatively low initial deposit, as most of the
larger withdrawal applications can be handled through direct payments by the disbursement division.



74                                    ANNEX VII
ZAIRE
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Selected Data and Documents Available in the Project File
1.  Etude de la Reorganisation du Systeme National de Recherche agronomique du Zaire; February 1985
(report of the Interministerial Study Group, in French)
2. Projet Recherche Agronomique; 04-18-1989 (report of the Investment Center of the FAO, Rome (in
French)
3. Plan Directeur (ie la Recherche Agronomique au Zaire;03-20-1990. (in French) The Research Masterplan,
in three volumes:
I.  Texte principal
11. Textes reglementaires
III. Contributions a la Redaction
4. L'INERA et son Evolution depuis sa nouvelle Direction en aoOt 1987 jusqu'en avril 1988, 04-20-88 (in
French). (report of the AGCD consultants)
5. Appui a la Relance de la Recherche Agronomique, 05-24-1990 in French), the Project Agreement between
the UNDP and the Government of Zaire.
6.  Project Agreement between USAID and the Ministry of Agriculture, 07-14-1990 (in English and French)
concerning the support for the research activities carried out under the SENARAV.
7. Eastern and Southern Africa Agricultural Research Review, April 22, 1987, World Bank (in English and
French).
8.  Agricultiral Sector Memorandum: Zaire, Towards Sustained Agricultural Development; WB, 09-26-88
(in English and French).
9. Implementation Volume (Working Papers) (in French)
(a) Introduction
(b) Food Crop Programs
(c) Perennial Crop Programs (oilpalm, coffee, cocoa)
(d) Livestock
(e) Conservation Natural Resources (including agroforestry)
(f) Farming Systems Research
(g) Germplasm conservation
(h) Financial and administrative management
(i) Station Rehabilitation and Infrastructure Program
(j) Costs and Financirig



ZAIRE
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Organ5gram of INERA
L       .11smSTEP
I
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
HUI4A
RESO4.ICE                          DRcS    EEA                               AUDIT UNIT
NANAGFMENTDRCO  EEA
.WT
NATMONAL
AGRICULTURAL                                                                          AGRICUTURAL
RESEARCH    - -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  - -RESEARCH
STFERING                                                                            PROGRAMMING
COAITTEE                                                                              COLMTTEE
Ul
|FINN-A AN WRESEARCH                                                    BIOMETRICS SCEII
ADObIMSTRATIVE                      SUPPORT SERVICES          UNIT            DIRECTOR        EVALUTOING UNIT
DIRECIOR           OIRECTOR                                              EVALUATI|ON UNITAL 
RESEARCH
PROGRAM
DIRECTOR ~ ~    ~    ~     CODIATR
RNANCIALA K    -  -  -
Hierarchical Uriks
....  FurictIonal Lnks
rKaW4



CHART 2
ZAIRE
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
nLptementation Schedule of Civil Works for Station Rehabilitation
Year         0 |/        1 x/        2 x/      3 x_       4         5          6           7
Preliminary Studies 2/
Gerwptasm conservation                                xxxxxx xxxxxxx
Laboratories                                              xx xxxx
Agricultural and technical                                                  xxx                  xxx
equipment
9ocumentation and information
a) Planning systems and maintenance                xxyx
b) Facilities and equipment                         xxx     x
Stud,es, Planning and Execution
Kinshasa - General Management
Kvuazi - Conservation of Phytcgenic                           xxxxxx -       o- oo -*-**        ******
'esources
Yangambi - phase 1
Sioka                                                                    xxxxxxx -- --- 00000 
Kaniameshi 3/
lutungu
Gandajika 3/ - phase 1                                                             xxxxxx---       coo -----        ***
Kiyaka
Gandajika - phase 2
Luk i                                                                                         xxxxxx -       00 -   00o  
Yangambi - phase 2 (inctuding
Kisangani)
emBp                                                                                                    xxxxxx ---     ooooo -******   aaa.
_ i_                                          -                ___ _ _L_  __ __       -___ __                       ______   -____ _____
xxx  =  Conceptual work and bidding procedures
----  =  Architectural plans
oooo = Approval process
**^*  =  Execution
x/ Minor reparations and smatl operations can be financed in years preceding fi l rehabilitation, up to 10% of total costs for civil works.
1/ Period before project effectiveness.
2/ Partially financed under the UNDP project.
3/ Possibly partial erecution under co-financiers financing.
a \wp5 1 VI ag ¶os. -labls
Chait2



AGRICULTURAL  RESEARCH  PROJECT                                        CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC                          )
PROJET DE RELANCE DE LA RECHERCHE AGRONOMIQUE                               N                                       _                                     SUDAN
Location of Research Centers and Stations                   /                                                                         _
Localisation des Centres et Stotions de Recherche        BA    /             '-_G,                                      '
|  ~~~~~~ t ~~~H A U t-Z A I R E                            >     .     ,               ..-
f   G A B  O N            1    OF vHe  COoGo//PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC                                       IV |
GASON                 ~~~~OF THE CONGO/,-
J , we ~~~I    f'./ \-'1w
I.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
' 8~~~~~~~RAZZAVIItg       NDU|tL^sX<         
00  00d                                                   - I  ANGOLA C I                            SANZANIAI
'SOr.    000 m'           *   NOr                                                                                                               *, 12. *
-   Sf00 2000'             t        o  fleg 0050                                                  _S 005 'S; 0000   0' 
*~ ~ ~ ~ ~~o0,.,0 /ee                                                                                                   -..F        ""0'0 -bon   '5reh  a , _   / i   >S4 
ELEIAr'ON -Pv:CD _.. .\...b l. 
sco 1                             O                                 -- .A ANGOLA\ w  -*.*  i o 
;r 1 400 q 500  X        t As   8   (1s   '   {vE   |to  >  f  rrmsv  w ot Tn    P0
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _._QOQ_ _ _.OD _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _/                                     jZAI                A



