OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
CREDIT NUMBER 2292 ZR
Development Credit Agreement
(National Agricultural Research Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                       , 1991


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2292 ZR
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEENT
AGREEMENT, dated                4        , 1991 between the
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE (the Borrower and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association):
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project, described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B)   the Borrower has received from the United Nations
Development Program (UNDP) a grant in an amount of $9,812,000 and
from the United States of America (USAID) a grant in an amount of
$20,000,000, to assist in financing the Project on the terms and
conditions set forth in agreements entered into between the Borrower
and UNDP and USAID, respectively; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)   "Ministry" means the ministry of the Borrower responsi-
ble for scientific research;
(b)   "Institute" means the National Agricultural Research
Institute (INERA), a public enterprise of the Borrower established
and operating under Ordonnance No. 78-211 dated May 5, 1978, as
amended from time to time;


﻿-2-
(c)   "SENARAV" means   the National Applied Agricultural
Research and Extension Services;
(d)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(e)   "Steering Committee" means the committee maintained by
the Borrower pursuant to paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 of this Agree-
ment;
(f)   "Programming Committee" means the committee maintained
by the Borrower pursuant to paragraph 2 (a) of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement; and
(g)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the two project
preparation advances granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to exchanges of letters dated January 15, 1988, and May 27,
1988; and October 31, 1990 and December 26, 1990 between the
Borrower and the Association.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to twelve million four hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 12,400,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of this
Section and of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made
(or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in a
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association, including appropriate protection against set-off,
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and, payments out of, the
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿-3-
(c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal amount
of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of
such date ard to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance
shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1997 or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restric-
tions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower;
and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4.of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.


﻿-4-
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each February 15 and August 15
commencing February 15, 2002 and ending August 15, 2031. Each
installment, including the installment payable on August 15, 2011,
shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
(b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due considera-
tion by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify
the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit
shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association
on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
Section 2.09. The Institute is designated as representative
of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through the
Institute with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate economic, financial, administrative, scientific and
agricultural practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
Project.
(b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section the Borrower shall make its budgetary contribution
to the Institute by monthly payments in advance.
(c)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of carrying out Part C.2 and
3 of the Project, the Borrower shall cause the Institute to:
(a) prepare for each year a detailed training program and submit it
by June 30 of each year to the Association for its review and
comments; and (b) promptly carry out said training program as agreed
upon with the Association.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall cause the Institute to:
(a) submit to the Association for its approval the names and
qualifications of candidates selected by the Institute to undertake
any upgrading training under Part C of the Project; and (b) take all
necessary measures to secure for at least four years the services
of fellowship recipients in the positions for which they shall have
been trained.


﻿ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain and shall cause
to be maintained by the Institute records and accounts adequate to
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the opera-
tions, resources and expenditures- in respect of the Project, of the
Institute and of any other department or agency of the Borrower
respon,sibie for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)   The Borrower shall:
(i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section, including those
for the Special Account, and the accounts and
financial statements of the Institute, audited
for each fiscal year in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to
the Association;
(ii) furnish or cause to be furnished to the Associa-
tion, as soon as available, but in any case not
later than six months after the end of each such
year, certified copies of the reports of such
audits by said auditors, of such scope and in
such detail as the Association shall have
reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish or cause to be furnished to the Associa-
tion such other information concerning said
records, accounts and financial statements and
the audits thereof as the Association shall from
time to time reasonably request.
(c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;


﻿-7-
(ii) retain, until at least one year after the
Association has received the audit report for
the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from
the Credit Account or payment out of the Special
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii) enable   the Association's representatives    to
examine such records; and
(iv) ensure that such records and accounts be included
in the annual audits referred to in paragraph (b)
of this Section and that the reports of such
audits contain separate opinions by said auditors
as to whether the statements of expenditure
submitted during such fiscal year, together with
the procedures and internal controls involved in
their preparation, can be relied upon to support
the related withdrawals.
(d)   The Borrower shall ensure that such annual audits
include reviews of the proced- res utilized in the procurement of
goods and works for the Project and financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, and that the reports of the auditors confirm the results
of such reviews.
Section 4.02. The Borwiwer shall ensure that the Institute be
at all times provided as and when needed with the funds and other
resources necessary for it to carry out its programs and shall
release to it its annual budget allocations in at least quarterly
installments.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)   Ordonnance No. 78-211 dated May 5, 1978 shall have been
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect
materially and adversely the ability of the Institute to carry out
the Project;


﻿-8-
(b)   the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of the Institute on the suspension of its operations;
(c)   (i)    Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A)   the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of any7 loan or grant made to the
Borrower for the financing of the Project
shall have been suspended, cancelled or
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant
to the terms thereof; or
(B)   any such loan shall have become due and
payable prior to the agreed maturity
thereof.
(ii)  Sub-paragraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
apply if the Borrower establishes to the
satisfaction of the Association that:
(A)   such suspension, cancellation, termination
or prematuring is not caused by the failure
of the Borrower to perform any of its
obligations under such agreement; and
(B)   adequate  funds   for  the  Project   are
available to the Borrower from other
sources on terms and conditions consistent
with the obligations of the Borrower under
this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that any event specified in paragraph (c) (i) (B) of Section 5.01
of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph
(c) (ii) .of that Section.


﻿9-
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; TermiWation
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   the Borrower has reduced the staff of the Institute and
SENARAV as actually on the payroll on June 30, 1990 by an aggregate
of 300 persons and has terminated all staff previously employed for
research stations not included in the list of ten research stations
included in the Project with the exception of 25 persons for each
of the stations which shall have not yet been leased out;
(b)   the Borrower has established: (i) the Steering Committee
in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement; and (ii) the Programming Committee;
(c)   the Borrower has established a Directorate of Research
Support Services within the Institute;
(d)   the Borrower has paid all outstanding debt incurred by
the Institute before December 31, 1989; and
(e)   the Borrower has recruited the experts required to
establish an accounting system and revalue the assets of the
Institute in accordance with terms of reference satisfactory to the
Association.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
Section 6.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Article
IV of this Agreement shall cease on the date on which this Agreement
shall terminate or on the date 15 years after the date of this
Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.


﻿- 10 -
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrover; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for
finance is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minist&re des Finances
Boite Postale 12997
Kinshasa 1
Republic of Zaire
Cable address:                 Telex:
MINIFIN                   21162
For the Association:
International Development
Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                 Telex:
INDEVAS                   248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)


﻿- 11 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
By //7       i   ~   favd
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
RAgional Vice President
Africa


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Civil works                5,590,000       100%
(2) Vehicles and               1,070,000       100%
equipment
(3) Consultants'               1,100,000        100%
services
(4) Training                    490,000        100%
(5) Incremental                1,890,000        100%
operating
costs
(6) Refunding of                960,000        Amount due pur-
ProJect Pre-                                suant to Section
paration Advance                            2.02 (c) of this
Agreement
(7) Unallocated               1,300,000
TOTAL                12,400,000
2.    To the extent that the amount allocated to Category (6) above
exceeds the amount due, the excess will be reallocated to Category
(7).


﻿- 13 -
3.    For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "incremental
operating costs" as used in Category (5) above means the costs of
operating and maintaining vehicles used in the carrying out of the
Project, of travel expenses, of office, agricultural and laboratory
supplies, of utilities (electricity, water, telecommunications, and
natural gas) and of any other items approved for financing by the
Association.
4.    Notwithsanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to integrate and strengthen
agricultural research, make it more responsive to the needs and
constraints of the producers of food and industrial crops in Zaire,
with priority given to small-scale farmers, and thus support the
first five years of the Borrower's National Agriciltural Research
Program.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Priority Research Programs
1.    Carrying out of nationally coordinated, multi-disciplinary
research programs, including studies in epidemiology, on- and off-
station, for crop production (including cassava, maize, rice, grain
legumes, potato, cotton, oil palm, and coffee), animal production
(cattle and small ruminants), conservation of natural resources
(including soil management, erosion control, agro-forestry and
integrated pest management), farming systems, and germ-plasm
conservation. These research programs shall be carried out at the
Institute's headquarters, on the following ten stations: Mvuazi,
Luki, Kiyaka, Gandajika, Kipopo, Mulungu, Nioka, Yangambi, Bambesa
and Kaniameshi and in the real environment in cooperation with the
Service National de Vulgarisation (SNV), farmers and relevant Non-
Governmental Organizations.
2.    Establishing a programming, monitoring and evaluation unit
and a biometrics unit to improve the quality of research through
the introduction of standard experimental protocols, improved
research design, biometrical analysis and staff training.
3.    Strengthening of the technology transfer process, through
institutionalizing research extension linkages.
Part B:     Institutional Strengthening of the Institute
1.    Integration of all ongoing research activities under a
national agricultural research program, and merging of SENARAV into
the Institute.


﻿- 15 -
2.    Strengthening the Institute's research management, station
management, and administrative and financial management through
development of improved accounting systems, staff training, and the
procurement for its operations of new equipment.
3.    Strengthening of the Institute's research, programming and
budgeting and priority-setting capacity and its monitoring and
evaluation function through the establishment of an internal and
external auditing and research program evaluation system, and the
periodic review of the Agricultural Master Plan.
4.    Strengthening of the Institute's linkages with other research
organizations through participation of research staff in national
and international seminars, workshops and scientific congresses, and
training at research organizations abroad.
5.    Reorganization of the Institute's library, publications and
editorial services.
6.    Establishment of a plan for the creation of a laboratory
network.
7.    Improvement of the Institute's capacity      for  donor  and
interministerial coordination through the Borrower's Steering
Committee.
Part C:     Human Resource Development
1.    Completion of a human resources plan for the staff of the
Institute.
2.    Improvement of personnel management and recruitment policies
and procedures through training.
3.    Provision of post-graduate education and upgrading training
of scientific, technical and administrative staff.
Part D:     Rehabilitation of Physical Plant and Equipment of the
Institute
1.    Construction  and  rehabilitation of housing, operational
buildings and related facilities, improvement of the experimental
farm area, rehabilitation of farm roads, access roads and airstrips,
and irrigation and drainage systems, as appropriate, of the


﻿-16 -
following research stations: Mvuazi, Luki, Kiyaka, Gandajika,
Kipopo, Mulungu, Nioka, Yangambi, and Banbesa.
2.    Building and refurbishing of the Institute's headquarters in
Kinshasa.
3.    Procurement of furniture and equipment for offices and guest
houses of irrigation, drainage, laboratory and storage equipment,
and of vehicles, including tractors and agricultural equipment,
micro computers and publishing equipment.
Part E:     Communication and Information Systems Development
1.    Improvement of the telecommunication system between the head
office of the Institute and its research stations, the computeriza-
tion of the accounting system, and the establishment of a Biometrics
Unit, a computerized research data bank, hardware and related
software training.
2.     The updating of the supply of scientific information to
research staff, the introduction of a systematic information system,
through cooperation with international data banks and the acquisi-
tion of scientific publications, hardware and software and staff
training.
3.    The publication in Zaire of Annual Reports of the Institute
and of technical bulletins and an agricultural magazine.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1996.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 3
Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
(b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)   the  term  "Authorized Allocation" means    an  amount
equivalent to $100,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for deposits into the Special Account at such
intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association the


﻿- 18 -
documents and other evidence required pursuant to
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
payments in respect of which replenishment is
requested. On the basis of each such request, the
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
shall have requested and as shall have been shown
by said documents and other evidence to have been
paid out of the Special Account for eligible
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from
the Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph      3 of   this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
(a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have Q*etermined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
(b)   once  the  total unwithdrawn amount of     the  Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall
be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have


﻿- 19 -
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to
the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association
may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the
Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount
equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree,
no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such
deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
(d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraph
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
Donor and Interministerial Coordination
1.    To facilitate the carrying out and financing of the Project,
the Borrower shall maintain until the completion of the Project a
Steering Committee comprising representatives of its Ministries
responsible for Planning, Budget, Finance, Agriculture, and
Scientific Research and the Director General of the Institute.
Donors involved or interested in contributing to agricultural
research in Zaire shall be invited to attend meetings of the
Steering Committee.
Research - Extension - Farmers Interactions
2.    The Borrower shall cause the Institute, with a view to
strengthening the linkages with extension services and farmers, to
take all necessary measures to ensure that:
(a)   a National Agricultural Research Programming Committee,
comprising researchers, extension staff, and representatives of
farmers and relevant Non-Governmental Organizations be established
and meet at least once a year to review research achievements and
work programs and shall also be involved in the mid-term reviews of
major research programs and the mid-term review of overall project
activities;
(b)   an extensive network of on-farm     trials with   the
participation of extension staff and farmers shall be carried out.
(c)   researchers shall participate in diagnostic surveys,
the training of extension staff and the preparation of extension
messages; and
(d)   the   regional   extension/research    committee   be
established, starting in 1992, within the regions of Kasai, Bandundu
and Kivu to enhance and monitor the technology transfer around each
research station.
Staffing and Reorganization of the Institute
3.    The Borrower shall ensure that the positions in the Institute
of Director General, Scientific Director, Director of Finance and


﻿- 21 -
Administration, Director of Research Support Services, and the
Chiefs of National Programs be held at all times by persons with
relevant qualifications and professional experience.
4.    By June 30, 1992, the Borrower shall cause the Institute to
establish four new units: an Internal Audit Unit and a Human
Resources Development Unit under the Director General, the Bio-
metrics Unit and the Programming, Monitoring and Evaluation Unit
under the Scientific Director.
5.    By Dec-wber 31, 1992, the Borrower shall cause the Institute
to reduce its staff by an aggregate of 300 persons in addition to
the reduction referred to in Section 6.01 of this Agreement and to
terminate all the employees still assigned to any research station
not included among the 10 stations referred to under Part A.1 of
the Project.
Programming, Budgeting and Evaluation
6.    The annual work program and the budget shall be reviewed and
approved as follows:
(a)   in September of each year, the Institute will submit to
the Programming Committee, the research achievements of the previous
year and the draft work program for the following year;
(b)   the amended work program, a budget proposal (broken down
into separate chapters for overhead, investments and research
programs) and a financing plan proposal will be submitted by end
October to the Steering committee; and
(c)   By December 31 of each year, submit to the Association
for approval the final annual work program and budget taking into
account the actual financing available.
7.    In order to monitor the implementation of research programs
and make necessary adjustments in time, the Borrower shall cause
the Institute to carry out mid-term reviews of major research
programs by teams comprising the scientists involved in the program,
consultants of international repute in the topic and representatives
of end-users. The reports of such mid-term reviews shall be
submitted to the Programming Committee and the Steering Committee.
The Institute will submit to the Association, by June 30, 1993, a
timetable of the mid-term reviews of major research programs. The
Institute will also submit to the Association, proposals of terms


﻿- 22 -
of reference, composition of the team and budget, at least 3 months
prior to the beginning of each mid-term review.
8.    The Institute will carry out a mid-term review of the project
overall activities by June 30, 1994, under terms of reference
acceptable to the Association. The report of the project mid-term
review will be submitted to the Steering Committee and project scope
could be adjusted in order to take account of actual implementation
problems.
Re orting
9.    The Borrower shall cause the Institute to furnish to the
Association by June 30 of each year an annual report on its
activities and operations for the preceding year.
Surveys
10.   The Borrower shall cause the Institute to start the epidemio-
logical survey and the disease survey on livestock and palm oil
trees not later than June 30, 1992.
Integration of SENARAV into the Institute
11.   By December 31, 1992, the Borrower shall take all necessary
measures to integrate SENARAV into the Institute.


﻿- 23 -
SCHEDULE 5
Frocurement and Consu.tants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.    To the extent practicable, contracts shall be grouped into
bid packages large enough to attract the most bidders.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Zaire may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Preference for Domestic Contractors
In the procurement of works, in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, the Borrower may grant a margin of
preference to domestic contractors in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Contracts for civil works or rehabilitation estimated to cost
the equivalent of less than $250,000 per contract and contracts for
the purchase of vehicles or equipment estimated after grouping to
cost the equivalent of less than $100,000 may be procured on the
basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with
paragraph 3.3 of the Guidelines.
2.    Contracts for goods which can be supplied only by less than
three suppliers may be awarded after direct negotiations with such


﻿- 24 -
suppliers in accordance with paragraph 3.5 of the Guidelines,
subject to the prior approval of the Association.
Part E:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a)   With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in para-
graphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where
payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract, required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d), shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of the
Special AccounZ in respect of such contract.
(b)  With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies
of the contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3, shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Association has
authorized withdrawals on the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. EmIloyment of Consultants, Specialists and Auditors
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
and to carry out the audits required under Section 4.01 of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall employ such consultants, specialists
and auditors, whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association,
as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association. Such
consultants, specialists and auditors shall be selected in accor-
dance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association


﻿- 25 -
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published
by the Bank in August 1981.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


