Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
FILE 1.2Y
ReportNo. 2491-CO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
COLOMBIA
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT - INCORA
June 6, 1979
Regional Projects Department
Latin America and Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(average for year 1978 and used in this report)
Currency Unit = Colombian Peso (Col$)
US$1 = Col$ 39.3
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
(see next page)
GOVERNMENT OF COLOMBIA
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



COLOMBIA          FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT - INCORA
Glossary of Abbreviations
BG        Banco Ganadero
- Livestock Bank
BOR       Banco de la Republica
- Bank of the Republic (Central Bank)
CAJA      Caja de Credito Agrario, Industrial y Minero
- Agricultural, Industrial and Mining Credit Bank
CECORA    Central de Cooperativas de la Reforma Agraria
- Union of Agrarian Reform Cooperatives
DAFO      Division de Auditoria Financiera y Operativa (Contraloria General)
- Financial and Operative Audit Division
FEDECAFE  Federacion Nacional de Cafeteros de Colombia
- National Federation of Coffee Growers of Colombia
FFAP      Fondo Financiero Agropecuario
- Agricultural Financing Fund
ICA       Instituto Colombiano Agropecuario
- Colombian Agricultural Institute
IDB       Banco Inter-Americano de Desarrollo
- Inter-American Development Bank
IDEMA     Instituto de Mercadeo Agropecuario
- Institute of Agricultural Marketing
INCORA    Instituto Colombiano de la Reforma Agraria
- Colombian Institute for Agrarian Reform
IRDP      Programa de Desarrollo Rural Integrado
- Integrated Rural Development Program
MB        Junta Monetaria
- Monetary Board
PAN       Plan Nacional de Alimentacion y Nutricion
- National Food and Nutrition Plan
PMEU      Unidad de Monitoria y Evaluacion del Proyecto
- Project Monitoring and Evaluation Unit
SAC       Subgerencia de Asentamientos Campesinos (INCORA)
- Division of Agrarian Settlements
SENA      Servicio Nacionale de Aprendizaje
- National Apprenticeship Service
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their omcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






COLOMBIA
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT - INCORA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.   BACKGROUND ............................................               1
A.   The Agricultural Sector ..........................              5
B.   The Banking System and Agricultural Credit    .......           5
C.   Performance Under the On-going INCORA Projects ...              8
II.   THE PROJECT AREAS AND THE EXECUTING AGENCY ....           ........   10
A.   The Project Areas ................................             10
B.   The Executing Agency .............................             12
III.   THE PROJECT ......................          .....................    15
A.   Introduction .....................................             15
B.   Brief Description ......          ..........................   15
C.   Detailed Features .....          ...........................   16
D.   Project Costs ......         ..............................    18
E.   Financing            ........................................  19
F.   Procurement             ......................................  20
G.   Disbursements ....................................             21
TV.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ................................              22
A.   Organization and Management .......... .. ..........           22
B.   Lending Policies and Procedures ......... .........            25
C.   Accounting and Auditing ........... ..         .............   27
D.   Progress Reporting, Monitoring and Evaluation  ....            29
V.   ILLUSTRATIVE INVESTMENT MODELS:   SPECIFICATIONS AND
ASSUMPTIONS ...........................................             30
A.  General .................   30
B.   Production Coefficients ..........................             30
C.   Illustrative Investment Models ....           ...............  31
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Colombia during November/December 1978. The mission comprised Messrs. G.
Rioseco (Mission Leader), F. Portilla, J. Yaron, J. Intrator, and Ms. D.
Babelon (Bank), and R. Gallagher (Consultant).



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
Page No.
VI.   PRODUCTION, MARKETS AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS .............            34
A.   Production ........................................           34
B. Markets, Marketing and Prices .34
C.   Producers' Benefits and Financial Rates of Return             35
D. Financial Projections .37
VII.   ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION .38
A.  Benefits and Justification  . .38
B.   Economic Rate of Return and Sensivity Analysis                39
C. Project Risks   ..43
D. Environmental Impact    ..43
VIII.   SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION                    43
ANNEXES
1.   Bank Lending to the Agricultural Sector in Colombia .46
2.   INCORA's Accounting and Financial Management .50
3.   Supporting Tables
T.1  - Agricultural Sector Credit and GDP .55
T.2 -INCORA Regionalization    ..56
T.3  - Selection of Project Areas and Beneficiaries .57
T.4  - Detailed Summary of Project Areas .58
T.5  - Project Areas:  Summary of Beneficiaries, Land Use
and Tenure Type .59
T.6 -INCORA Financial Statements    .                 .60
T.7  - INCORA's Credit Activities 1975-77 .61
T.8  - Project Technical Support Costs .62
T.9  - Phasing of Lending and Investment ..                             63
T.10 - INCORA's Technical and Support Staff in the
Project Areas .64
T.11 - Illustrative Farm Model No. 1: Non-irrigated
Crops - Individual Farm, 21 ha (1 family) .65
T.12 - Illustrative Farm Model No. 2: Crops, Partly
Irrigated - Empresa Comunitaria, 210 ha
(10 families) ..66
T.13 - Illustrative Farm Model No. 3: Dual-purpose Cattle -
Empresa Comunitaria, 142 ha (5 families) .67
T.14 - Illustrative Farm Model No. 4: Beef Cattle
Breeding - Empresa Comunitaria, 320 ha
(8 families) .......................................          68
T.15 - Activity Budget No. 1: Crops, 15 ha -
Investment Costs ...................................          69
T.16 - Activity Budget No. 1: Crops, 15 ha - Costs,
Benefits and Financial Rate of Return .70



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
PaRe No.
ANNEXES (Continued)
3.  Supporting Tables (Continued)
T.17 - Activity Budget No. 1: Crops, 15 ha - Cash Flow
Projections   .................................... ...  71
T.18 - Activity Budget No. 2: Crops, 150 ha -
(10 families) - Investment Costs .............. ....    72
T.19 - Activity Budget No. 2: Crops, 150 ha -
(10 families) - Costs, Benefits and Financial
Rate  of  Return  ....................................  73
T.20 - Activity Budget No. 2: Crops, 150 ha -
(10 families) - Cash Flow Projections .............    74
T.21 - Activity Budget No. 3: Dual-Purpose Cattle,
127 ha (5 families) - Investment Costs ............    75
T.22 - Activity Budget No. 3: Dual-Purpose Cattle,
127 ha (5 families) - Costs, Benefits and
Financial Rate  of  Return  ..........................  76
T.23 - Activity Budget No. 3:  Dual-Purpose Cattle,
127 ha (5 families) - Cash Flow Projections .......    77
T.24 - Activity Budget No. 4:  Beef Cattle Breeding,
300 ha (8 families) - Investment Costs .. ..........    78
T.25 - Activity Budget No. 4:  Beef Cattle Breeding,
300 ha (8 families) - Costs, Benefits and
Financial Rate of Return .....    .....................    79
T.26 - Activity Budget No. 4: Beef Cattle Breeding,
300 ha (8 families) - Cash Flow Projections .......    80
T.27 - Activity Budget No. 5:  Pigs (9 sows) - Cost
Benefit Analysis          .      .      ...........    81
T.28 - Activity Budget No. 5: Pigs (9 sows) - Cash Flow
Projections            ...............    82
T.29 - Activity Budget No. 6:  Poultry (45 hens) -
Cost Benefit Analysis .....    .........................    83
T.30 - Activity Budget No. 6:  Poultry (45 hens) -
Cash Flow Projections .....    ........................    84
T.31 - Activity Budget No. 7:  Apiculture (10 hives) -
Cost Benefit Analysis .....    ........................    85
T.32 - Activity Budget No. 7:  Apiculture (10 hives) -
Cash Flow Projections .....    ........................    86
T.33 - Financial and Economic Prices ................... ....    87
T.34 - Project Cash Flow (INCORA) .....   .....................    88
4.  Related Documents and Data Available in Project File   .......   89
MAP
IBRD 14212 - Project Areas






COLOMB IA
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT - INCORA
I. BACKGROUND
A. The Agricultural 'Sector
Agriculture in the Economy
1.01      Over the last five years (1973-77), total GDP (in 1970 prices) in-
creased at an annual average rate of 5.4%, whereas growth of the agricultural
sector, highly erratic, averaged an annual rate of 4.0% in the same period.
Performance during this period was somewhat improved compared with the 1960-70
period, in which the sector's GDP grew at an average of 3.5% per annum and
total GDP by 5.2% per annum. The agricultural sector share of GDP has
decreased from about 34% in 1960 to an average of 28% in the 1975-77 period,
with 14% contributed by the crop subsector, 10% by the livestock subsector,
and 4% by the fishing, hunting and forestry subsectors (Annex 3, Table 1).
Of an estimated population of about 25.0 million in 1977, nearly 9 million, or
37%, live in rural areas, and 30% of the economically active labor force is
engaged in the agricultural sector. Average GDP per capita in Colombia is
about US$710 (1977), disguising a skewed income distribution and important
differences between urban and rural areas.
1.02      Considerable efforts have been made in Colombia to diversify exports,
and non-traditional exports have grown continuously, representing an average
of 44% of total merchandise exports during the 1975-77 period compared with
27% in 1967. During the 1975-77 period, agricultural sector exports averaged
about $1.340 million, representing 73% of the total merchandise exports of
Colombia. Export performance, however, is highly influenced by increases in
coffee prices, and, although the volume of coffee exports decreased by about
46% between 1975 and 1977, the value of coffee exports more than doubled,
accounting for nearly all of the increase of value of exports of the economy.
In addition to coffee, representing 76% of the sector's total exports, main
exports in order of importance are: cotton, bananas and plantain, livestock
(beef and cattle), sugar, rice, flowers and tobacco. The agricultural sector
has a highly favorable balance of trade, with total food imports averaging
about 11% of total exports. Apart from wheat, representing 32% of total food
imports, and temperate fruits, main imports which could be replaced by domestic
production are vegetable oils, feed and food grains and milk.
1.03      Aggregate domestic demand for food products in Colombia has grown
rapidly (3.8% p.a. during 1970-75), and in recent years has nearly equaled
the growth in output of the sector. However, considering the export demand,
the agricultural sector has not been able to produce adequate supplies at
stable consumer prices, which has led to rapi-d increases in food prices
relative to non-food items since 1970. Given the fact that almost half of
the consumer's total expenditures are for food, these food price increases
have been the major inflationary factor in the country.



-2-
Land Resources and Uses
1.04      An exceptional regional diversity in altitudes (from sea level to
5,800 m), soils and climates (from tropical to alpine) enables Colombia to
produce a wide range of agricultural commodities. Out of a total area of
114 million ha, the agricultural census of 1970/71 showed that only 31 million
ha, or 27% of the total, were occupied by the existing 1.2 million farm units --
about 5.0 million ha were cropped; 17.5 million ha were in pastures; and 8.5
million ha were fallow or unused.
1.05      There are six main farming systems in Colombia:
(a)  large-scale extensive ranching on the lowlands of the
Caribbean Andean valleys; 80% of the 22.5 million head
of cattle in 1974 were found in those regions;
(b)  medium- and large-scale mechanized iarming in the inter-
Andean valleys; this type has been expanding steadily and
mainly produces cotton, soybeans, oiLl palm and sugarcane;
(c) small- and medium-scale farming in the inter-Andean valleys;
this type has also been expanding st:eadily and produces
mainly cotton, with coffee as the main cash crop;
(d) farming by organized settlements of small farmers on land
acquired and reclaimed by the Government, mainly in the
Caribbean lowlands, but also in the Amazon basin;
(e) farming by spontaneous colonization settlers on up to
I million ha a year in tropical rainforests or in the
Eastern Plains; and
(f) high-altitude, small-scale farming (less than 20 ha) in the
Andean highlands. In these densely populated areas, the average
farm size is 4 ha. These farms are often on poor soils and
steep slopes and produce mostly for family subsistence, although
surpluses are marketed.
Land Tenure and Rural Incomes
1.06      Colombian regions are extremely heterogeneous in terms of altitude,
climate and soils. The diversity of conditions of the Andean highlands, the
lowlands and valleys provides Colombia with a wide range of agricultural
production possibilities, which has led to diverse types of farms. According
to the 1970/71 census, small-scale farms of less than 10 ha accounted for
13% of a total 1.2 million farm units and 7% of the 31 million ha in farms;
overall, some 83% of all farmers had less than 20 ha and operated only 13%
of the farmland. In addition, 200,000 rural families dependent on agri-
culture were landless. Income distribution in the sector is closely related



- 3 -
to the distribution of land. In 1976, 55% of the rural population had incomes
below the relative poverty income level as defined by the Bank (US$153 per
capita in 1977 dollars). Given the high rural-urban migration rates over
the last years and the increase in real wages in rural areas, rural unemploy-
ment has decreased to an estimated 15% for 1977.
1.07      Since 1961, the Colombian Institute for Agrarian Reform (INCORA)
has been involved in programs of distribution of public land (4.9 million ha
as of June 1978) and redistribution of unused private land (0.7 million ha)
benefitting a total of about 200,000 families. INCORA's activities are
associated, to varying degrees, with investments in land reclamation and
infrastructure and the provision of supervised credit and technical assistance.
However, most of the land distributed so far has been assigned to families
already occupying the land. INCORA's land titling activities are limited
mostly to distributing titles to small-scale farmers on public land in coloni-
zation areas. In recent years INCORA, and particularly its land acquisition
program, has been subject to considerable criticism and political resistance.
As a result land acquisition through both the expropriation of land and
termination of private ownership has been at a standstill since 1974. Bene-
ficiaries of INCORA constitute the target group of the proposed project.
Production and Support Services
1.08      Marketing.  Marketing of agricultural products is one of the main
bottlenecks for agricultural development. The public sector role in marketing
primarily involves: (a) control and direct intervention, and (b) planning
and regulating. The main institutions that intervene in the marketplace are
the Institute of Agricultural Marketing (IDEMA) and the Agricultural, Industrial
and Mining Credit Bank (CAJA). IDEMA intervention takes the form of purchases
through price support schemes, sales, imports and maintenance of regulatory
stocks of basic foods, while CAJA intervenes in the sale of farm inputs. The
National Price Superintendency controls retail prices of selected products.
In the area of planning and regulating, the Government has created, or assisted
in the creation of, several mixed economy companies. Among these are the
Union of Agrarian Reform Cooperatives (CECORA), wholesale and farmers markets,
and other enterprises marketing perishables and non-perishable agricultural
products, all of which work in the area of credit, information, storage and
distribution, information, training, and the like to reduce costs and improve
the marketing system. Because of IDEMA's weak performance, however, the
Government's market stabilization policies have only a marginal impact and
agricultural prices undergo wide fluctuations, with marketing margins remaining
at relatively high levels.
1.09      Research, Extension and Technical Assistance.  The main institutions
responsible for research and technical assistanc:e are the Colombian Agricultural
Institute (ICA) and the National Institute for Natural Renewable Resources and
the Environment. Other institutions involved in technical assistance or
farmers' training are INCORA, the National Federation of Coffee Growers of
Colombia (FEDECAFE), the National Apprenticeship Service (SENA) and the



Departmental Secretariats of Agriculture. This multiplicity of entities
involved in extension work and the lack of coordination among them has seriously
limited efficiency, but recent efforts, particularly under the Integrated Rural
Development Program (IRDP), partially financed by the Canadian International
Development Agency, Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) and the Bank (Loan
1352-CO), has led to substantial improvement.
1.10      Current agricultural credit legislation requires adequate provision
of technical assistance to sub-borrowers; consequently, there is a high demand
for agricultural extension services. Total professionaL and technical staff
of the various Government and private institutions providing technical assistance
was about 4,100 in 1976. Besides INCORA, ICA is the largest extension agency
in the country, providing most of the technical assistance to small farmers
(under 10 ha). It is also responsible for registering and monitoring the
technical assistance provided by about 3,000 private agricultural extension
agents. In the banking sector, CAJA and the Livestock Bank (BG) maintain their
own staffs to provide technical assistance to their borrowers, with CAJA also
relying on extension services provided by INCORA and ICA. Among the producer
associations in the agricultural sector, FEDECAFE employs the largest number
of extension staff. Rice and cotton growers also receive considerable help
from their federations, which extend new technology to their members.
Government Development Strategy
1.11      The main objectives of Colombia's development strate!gy, as stated
in the 1975-78 National Development Plan, are to raise the incomes and
standards of living of the marginal sectors of the society, particularly
by reducing the income gap between urban and rural areas and by improving
nutrition, and to secure higher export earnings. In line with the above
objectives, top priority has been given to the development of the agricul-
tural sector and to investments in rural infrastructure. Productivity,
employment and incomes of the existing small farmers wouLld be increased
,through the implementation of integrated rural development programs,
including the provision of minimum technology packages, supporting services
and basic rural infrastructure. Land redistribution would be carried out
only in response to local circumstances in areas with both a high pressure
on land and unequal distribution, but it is not regarded as the primary
means for reducing rural poverty. The modern agricultural sector receives
attention in two respects -- as the main source of foreign exchange earnings
and as a source of foodstuff not produced by the traditional sector but
essential to the implementation of the National Food and Nutrition Plan
(PAN). Additional credit resources and export incentives would be directed
at products in which Colombia is believed to have a comparative advantage on
international markets. The proposed project would fit closely into these
development objectives by promoting increases in production, employment,
and rural incomes, and by integrating small-scale farmers into modern procluc-
tion systems.
1.12      PAN is implemented through two programs.  One is the Nutrition
Program, which includes a set of integrated and mutually reinforcing actions
in the field of processing, consumption and improved biological use of nutri-
tive foods. This program is being implemented with assistance from UNDP,



- 5 -
USAID and the Bank (Integrated Nutritional Improvement Project Loan 1583-CO)
and indirectly through the Second Agricultural Credit Project (Loan 1357-CO),
which finances the production of food required for the Nutrition Program. The
other program is the IRDP, a comprehensive integrated program of assistance
focused on actual and perceived needs in specific regions where rural poverty
is widespread. Priority is given to developing small-scale farmer production-
oriented programs, associated with improvements to supporting and social
services and infrastructure, and to establishing a coordinated institutional
structure to provide assistance to the target population.
1.13      A new Government took office in August 1978 and, while the National
Development Plan objectives remain valid, indications are that more emphasis
is being placed on production aspects to serve as a solution to social problems,
which are perceived especially in terms of employment creation. Growth of the
industrial sector and rural development are considered to be complementary,
with a considerable emphasis on agro-industries. Especially with a view to
reducing rural/urban migration, the new Government confirmed the importance it
attaches to IRDP and PAN and to providing assistance through INCORA to existing
beneficiaries of the agrarian reform/colonization programs. The proposed
project has been approved by the National Council for Economic Social Policy
and it is scheduled for the second semester of 1979.
B. The Banking System and Agricultural Credit
1.14      Monetary and banking policy is determiLned by the Monetary Board (MB),
chaired by the Minister of Finance and Public Credit, which regulates loans
and deposits, compulsory investment, and rediscounting. The Minister of
Agriculture and the General Manager of the Bank of the Republic (BOR) are
members of MB.
.1.15      The policies of MB are implemented by BOR, which, in addition to
performing the functions of a Central Bank, administers the special funds that
have been established by the Government with both internal and external
resources through which credit can be channeled to specific sectors according
to Government priorities. Of particular importance to the agricultural
and agro-industry sectors are Agricultural Financing Fund (FFAP), Fund for
Private Investment, and Industrial Financing Fund. The FFAP is managed
by BOR's Agricultural Credit Department. Recently, BOR has established
a new fund, Guarantee Fund for Agricultural Credit, with proceeds realized
from recovery of loans granted with USAID assistance. The fund, expected
to be operational before mid-1979, will provide a partial guarantee to banking
institutions for loans to small farmers.
1.16      The major financial intermediaries in the private sector are 28 com-
mercial banks and an increasing number of development finance companies, the
latter specializing in medium- and long-term loans and equity financing.
Institutions of mixed ownership are responsible for agricultural credit: CAJA,
which provides the largest share of the country's total credit for crop and



livestock production; the Agricultural Development and Export Finance
Corporation, which finances agricultural development, processing and exports;
BG, which is engaged principally in livestock finance, and the Banco Cafetero.
Although not a bank, INCORA has, since 1963, been a significant agent in
channeling credit to agriculture, particularly to small farmers.
1.17      During the 1975-77 period, total institutional credit (new loans)
to the agricultural sector increased, in nominal terms, by 80%, from US$368
million in 1975 to US$662 milion in 1977. Total outstanding portfolio to the
agricultural sector was about US$360 million at the end of 1977, representing
about 20% of the total outstanding credit. Main sources of agricultural credit
are FFAP resources, through various financial intermediaries (39%), and CAJA
(33%) (Annex 3, Table 1).
1.18      Recent developments in the financial sector have been dominated by
an accumulation of international reserves induced by higher coffee prices on
world markets. Monetary policy has been directed at attempting to curb the
rate of domestic credit expansion so as to neutralize the potential inflation-
ary impact of sharply increased earnings. Although the credit policy pursued
by BOR offsets a significant part of the increase in coffee export earnings,
it was not sufficient to prevent a rapid expansion of the currency issue over
the past years. This brought about relatively high rates of inflation, and
rates of interest from the main sources of institutional credit to the agri-
cultural sector lagged behind the general price increases, which resulted in
an overall shortage of funds for the sector and credit rationing by the finan-
cial intermediaries. To adjust for this situation, BOR decided (in December
1978) to increase FFAP lending rates, and a similar action was taken recently
by CAJA (April 1979). The current nominal on-lending rates of interest from
the main sources of credit to the agricultural sector are as follows:



-7-
Medium and
Short Term         Long Term
FFAP
General Agriculture                             18                  18
Subsistence Crops /a                            12                  -
General Livestock                               18                  18
Cattle for Fattening                            21                  -
Dairy Cattle                                     -                15-17
CAJA
Ordinary Resources                             16-22 /b           16-22 /b
Second Window                                   27                  -
IRDP (Loan 1352-CO)                            14-18 /b           14-18 /b
Develoment Loan Fund (USAID) /c                14-18 /b           14-18 /b
To INCORA Beneficiaries                         14                 14
BG
Own Resources (IDB/USAID) /c                     -                 13
Revolving Fund (BG/INCORA) /c                    -                  15
INCORA
Supervised Credit (USAID) /c                    13                 12
Planned Credit (IDB) /c                         15                 15
Caqueta (Loan 1118-CO)                          15                 20
Cordoba (Loan 1163-CO)                          16                 16
Land Sales to Beneficiaries                      -                 2-4
/a   To increase production priority of food crops contemplated under the
PAN Program (para 1.11). All farmers borrowing FFAP resources for
industrial crop production are required to plant varying amounts of
subsistence crops.
/b   Depending on the value of total assets.
/c   Roll-over funds from previous projects or programs.
1.19      As can be seen on the table, nominal interest rates for the agricul-
tural sector range from 12% per annum to 27% per annum, depending on the type
of institution, sub-borrower, and activities financed. However, effective
interest rates differ further due to the method of calculation and collection.
Current interest rates on FFAP resources are collected at the beginning of
each quarter unless the term of the loan includes a grace period, in which
case it is collected at the end of each quarter throughout the term of the
loan. Similar procedures are utilized in CAJA's lending to medium- and large-
scale farmers and private financial intermediaries. On all agricultural loans,
individual borrowers are required to pay an annual amount equivalent to 1%
of their outstanding loan balance for life insurance while large agricultural
borrowers (assets, including land, in excess of Col$500,000) have to pay an
additional levy of 1% per annum on their outstanding loan balance toward a
national Small Farmer Technical Assistance Fund handled by ICA.



-8-
C. Performance Under the On-Going INCORA Projects
1.20      Since 1966, the Bank has made 10 loans, totaling US$230.6 million
to Colombia for agricultural development. INCORA has been the executing
agency for six: Atlantico I Irrigation (Loan 502-CO); First Agricultural
Credit (Loan 624-CO); Caqueta Land Colonization - Phase I (Loan 739-CO);
Second Atlantico Development (Loan 849-CO); Caqueta II -- Rural Settlement
(Loan 1118-CO): and Cordoba II - Agricultural Development (Loan 1163-CO).
1.21      Loans 502-CO, 624-CO and 739-CO, totaling US$34.1 million, have been
completed, and the rest, totaling US$42.7 million, are on-going. PPARs have
been prepared for Loans 502-CO and 624-CO and a PCR for Loan 739-CO. Overall
performance of INCORA as executing agency has been satisfactory (Annex 1).
Second Atlantico Development Project (Loan 849-CO)
1.22      The project, which became effective in November 1972, comprises
the second stage of INCORA's agrarian reform and development program in the
Atlantico Department initiated under Loan 502-CO. The loan, originally for
US$5 million, was reduced to US$2.2 million in January 1977, with readjusted
total project costs being US$4.3 million. The project would assist in the
completion of INCORA's flood control and drainage program in the project area,
a total of 12,400 ha for crop production and 4,600 ha for dairy production.
The project consists of the design and construction of three main drains and
associated subsidiary drains, 52 km of roads and project buildings; purchase
equipment; acquisition, preparation and allocation of land to about 1,800
farmers; and provision of seasonal and long-term credit to dairy farmers
and agricultural research, training and extension.
1.23      The project performance has been disappointing and little progress
has been made. Recently on February 29, 1979, INCORA, with Government support
has indicated that it will allocate the necessary resources to this project.
Caqueta II - Rural Settlement Project (Loan 1118-CO)
1.24      This project, which is the continuation of the completed Caqueta I
Land Colonization Project (Loan 739-CO), became effective in April 1976.
Total Bank financing is US$19.5 million, out of US$44.7 million total project
costs. The project, which is helping small-scale farmers who Live under hard-
ship conditions, includes: (a) a credit program of about: 3,200 long-term
subloans for livestock purchase by settlers and 800 medium-term subloans for
cattle fattening; and (b) an infrastructure component inc:luding construction
of about 200 km of penetration roads and maintenance during implementation of
about 1,000 km in the project area; construction of 30 primary schools, two
health centers and 10 health posts; improvement of water and sewerage systems;
and a forestr3 and erosion control component. The project infrastructure is
expected to benefit about 12,000 settlers in the area.
1.25      Execution of the works undertaken is very good, but overall imple-
mentation is slow because INCORA has permanent liquidity problems. A revised
implementation schedule prepared by INCORA indicates that, provided adequate



- 9 -
local counterpart funds are made available, project funds would be committed
by the end of 1980. However, due to delays in implementation and unexpectedly
high rates of inflation, about US$7.6 million in additional counterpart funds
will be required to complete the productive and social infrastructure compo-
nents envisaged at appraisal.
Cordoba Second Agricultural Development Project (Loan 1163-CO)
1.26      Effective since March 1976, the Bank loan finances US$21 million out
of a total of US$35.7 million in project cost. The project includes the rehab-
ilitation and completion of a 40,000-ha drainage system, on-farm development
on 20,000 ha; medium- and long-term credit to small farmers for on-farm devel-
opment, and purchases of machinery and livestock; and a program to improve
infrastructure for education, health services, village water supply and elec-
trification. The project would benefit about 3,800 rural families.
1.27      Initial implementation problems due to the reorganization of INCORA
and the transfer of the civil works to HIMAT have been resolved and satisfac-
tory progress has been made during 1978 in the implementation of the works
for drainage, flood protection, roads and bridges. According to HIMAT, the
remaining civil works should be completed by the end of 1980; however, a
continued escalation of construction costs is causing cost overruns of about
60% of the original estimates. With the exception of rural electrification,
which has been completed, progress in the implementation of the remaining
social infrastructure components (education, health and water supply) has
been slow. The main reason for the poor performance of these components is
the precarious financial situation of INCORA. Also, the absence of sufficient
counterpart funds is seriously affecting the credit component of the project:
during 1978 INCORA approved subloan applications equivalent to 35% of the
total amount programmed for that year.
Summary and Conclusions
1.28      On balance, INCORA's performance during the implementation of the
previous Bank projects (Annex 1) was satisfactory; however, during recent
years (1976-78), INCORA's capabilities as executing agency for Bank-financed
projects have deteriorated steadily and the institution has been unable to
implement on-going projects on time or to comply with important loan condi-
tions. The underlying reason for INCORA's problems is the lack of political
commitment by the previous administration; also, INCORA's activities have been
subject to a great deal of political debate and criticism during recent years.
The past administration was not able, or willing, to identify clearly which
activities should continue and which should be stopped and thus obtain poli-
tical decisions on INCORA's future. Therefore, INCORA has been unable to
adjust efficiently from land reform activities, which apparently no longer
carry any political priority, to activities which are not politically conten-
tious, such as the consolidation of past efforts in land reform and continua-
tion of its colonization program. The new Government which took office in
August 1978 gives better support to INCORA's activities than the previous one,
but much remains to be done.



- 10 -
1.29      From the institutional point of view, the main problems that have
persistently affected on-going projects are related to the weaknesses of
project management, INCORA's financial situation, and a shortage of Government
counterpart funds for the projects. Although all on-going projects are expe-
riencing delays in implementation, the shortage of counterpart funds in the
credit components, whether included in the project (Loans 1118-CO and 1163-CO)
or to be provided through INCORA's credit lines (Loan 849-CO), is critically
affecting beneficiaries and the materialization of the on-going projects'
expected benefits. To improve the negative impact of the above problems, the
proposed project, oriented exclusively to the adequate provision of credit to
the existing INCORA beneficiaries, requires: (a) the appointment of a project
coordinator, with a rank equivalent to assistant to the General Manager of
INCORA, to be responsible for implementation of the proposed and on-going Bank
projects (para 4.01); (b) the establishment of an adequately funded revolving
fund for the operation of the lending component of the project (para 4.05);
(c) important changes in INCORA's financial and management information system
(paras 4.13 to 4.17); and (d) the timely provision of adequate counterpart
funds, which would increase INCORA's equity (para 6.08).
II. THE PROJECT AREAS AND THE EXECUTING AGENCY
A. The Project Areas
2.01      There are about 200,000 small-scale farmers throughout Colombia who
have received land from INCORA or have benefitted from the titling activities
of this agency. However, total potential beneficiaries of technical assis-
tance and credit, defined as land reform/colonization farmers that can be
assisted effectively by INCORA with its existing organization, staff and infra-
structure in the 20 INCORA administrative regions (Annex 3, Table 2), is
currently estimated at about 52,000 farm families.
2.02      Project activities would be concentrated initially in 12 of the 20
INCORA administrative regions (Annex 3, Tables 3 and 4). Selection was based
on the availability of basic infrastructure, the potential productivity and
satisfactory degree of stability-mobility of target families living in the areas,
and presence of adequate facilities for the delivery of technical assistance.
Areas were excluded partially or totally if they were:
(a)  currently benefitting from on-going projects such as
Atlantico, Caqueta, Cordoba and IRDP areas (Loans 849-CO,
1118-CO, 1163-CO and 1352-CO), or were areas for which
specific projects were being prepared such as Arauca
(IDB) and El Retorno Land Settlement (IBRD);
(b)  adequately financed with roll-over funds from completed
projects or that could be assisted satisfactorily with
INCORA's own resources;



- 11 -
(c) required relatively small amount of resources and could be
assisted by either INCORA resources or through IRDP, CAJA and BG;
(d) colonization areas which could not be developed effectively without
relatively large investments in infrastructure, requiring
specific development projects; or
(e) inhabited by farmers with large amounts in arrears and persis-
tently bad repayment records.
2.03      On the basis of the criteria described in the previous paragraph,
a total of about 15,000 families, with a total land area of 447,000 ha, were
selected as potential beneficiaries under the proposed project (Annex 3,
Table 5). Of this total, 12,500 families are agrarian reform beneficiaries
including 5,500 families operating in 537 collective farming operations
(empresas comunitarias), 7,000 individual farmers, and 2,500 settlers (colonos).
Out of the total farm land (447,000 ha) in the selected project area, 423,000
ha are suitable for agricultural production. Of these, 63% are currently being
utilized for livestock grazing, 15% is under crops, and 22% is fallow.
2.04      Mixed farming with emphasis in extensive livestock operations and the
production for subsistence purposes of both crops and minor species (mainly
pigs and poultry) predominates among the proposed project beneficiaries.
Productivity is generally low because of poor soils and little or no use of
improved inputs. By definition, most of the land reform/colonization benefi-
ciaries are relatively new farmers, with limited managerial experience and
without an adequate productive base other than land. Therefore, their demand
for investment credit, including short-term seasonal credit and technical
assistance, is relatively high compared to other farming subsectors. The
absence of sufficient investment resources, in addition to reducing the impact
of an otherwise adequate level of technical assistance from INCORA, does not
allow for the sustained development of the intended project beneficiaries.
As an average, during the 1975-77 period, lending through INCORA in the
12 project areas totalled US$8 million, benefitting 6,000 families, represent-
ing only 40% of the total potential INCORA beneficiaries in the areas. Average
subloan size per beneficiary was US$1,300, or US$43 per ha. Medium- and long-
term investments, however (60% of the total), are equivalent to about US$26
per ha.
2.05      Although situated in the tropics, the project areas present a wide
range of eco-climatic conditions which allow the development of almost all
types of crops.  Temperatures range from annual averages of 14 0C to 280C and
rainfall, from 600 mm to 2,500 mm. Soils in the project areas are mainly of
volcanic origin, with various degrees of erosion, and the rest of the soils
are of marine origin. In general, except for Meta and Casanare, the areas
selected for the project have a good basic infrastructure. Farms are well
served by all-weather dirt roads linked to main paved roads leading to
nearby markets. There is also an adequate marketing infrastructure and
supply of agricultural inputs throughout the project areas.



- 12 -
B. The Executing Agency
Background
2.06      The Colombian Institute for Agrarian Reform (INCORA) would be the
executing agency of the proposed project. INCORA is an autonomous government
institution established under Agrarian Reform Law 135 of 1961 to reform the
agrarian social structure of Colombia. In pursuit of its objectives, INCORA
initially concentrated its efforts on land reform. However, because comple-
mentary investments were not being provided by other institutions and, in the
later years, because of strong political resistance to its land reform activi-
ties, INCORA was induced to diversify its operations considerably. The broad
range of activities undertaken involves: (a) land acquisition on behalf of
the National Agrarian Fund through the various processes of purchase and
expropriation; (b) issuance of titles and land distribution to beneficiaries;
(c) land settlement projects; (d) land and water development projects, includ-
ing provision of physical (irrigation, drainage, road works) and social (houses,
schools, health centers, rural electrification and potable water) infrastruc-
ture; (e) supervised credit operations for agrarian reform beneficiaries and
other small farmers; (f) technical assistance and extension services; (g) pro-
motion and management of cooperatives; and (h) promotion of and support of
empresas comunitarias.
2.07      INCORA's performance has been mixed and this institution has been
unable to significantly alter land ownership patterns. P'urchase and expropria-
tion of good farming land, while never at a high level, has declined substan-
tially in recent years. However, as of March 1978, INCORA had distributed
about 640,000 ha of expropriated land benefitting 30,740 families, transferred
4.9 million ha of public land to 176,000 families, and issued 5,000 titles to
sharecroppers and tenants for a total of 70,000 ha. In addition, INCORA has
assisted the establishment of 20 small-scale farmer cooperatives with a total
*of 17,710 members, and 1,270 empresas comunitarias with a membership of
12,400 families cultivating 250,000 ha. INCORA's land reform and titling
activities as of March 1978, are summarized below:
No.          Ha
Status of Land Distributed
by INCORA 1962-78
Definite titles                       15,201      359,602
Assignment contracts                   8,976       160,813
Beneficiaries in process of
legalization                        6,563       122,073
Subtotal                         30,740       642,488
State Land Distribution                  176,200    4,901,000
Total                            206 ,940    5,543,488



- 13 -
2.08      INCORA's activities have never been free of controversy (para 1.28)
and in recent years it has been subject to severe budgetary constraints, and,
therefore, INCORA's land acquisition through both the expropriation of land
and elimination of private ownership have come to a standstill since 1974.
Operations, Management and Financial Situation
2.09      INCORA's Board, chaired by the Minister of Agriculture, is made up of
17 members including: the General Manager of CAJA; representatives of farmers'
federations; the Army; the Church; the Congress; the House of Representatives;
and agricultural institutions. The General Manager of INCORA is appointed by
the President of the Republic. INCORA is organized along functional lines and
divided into four main departments: Administration, Land Settlement, Legal, and
Planning, all of them reporting directly to the General Manager. There are 20
regional offices (Projectos) responsible for executing INCORA's programs at
regional level and all have identical organizational structure, including the
three operational departments: Administrative, Land Settlement and Legal. How-
ever, most of the decision-making and planning is concentrated in INCORA's
office in Bogota. INCORA staff, as of September 30, 1978, totalled 3,242
employees 620 (19%) of whom were located at the head office and the balance at
the 20 regional offices.
2.10      INCORA's equity on December 31, 1977 was about Col$4,100 million
equivalent to 57% of its total liabilities and equity (Annex 3, Table 6). Due
to its financial structure, the overall weighted average cost of capital was only
2.4% to 4.0% of total liabilities and equity during the last three years. As of
December 31, 1977, the nominal rate of interest on its lending was between 12%
and 15% p.a., but because of a serious arrears problems and cash basis account-
ing, interest collected has never exceeded 9% to 10% per annum on its average
loan portfolio.
2.11      Arrears are one of the main problems affecting INCORA performance.
-Total arrears as of December 1977 according to INCORA accounts were equivalent
to 17% of its total loan portfolio (Col$1,899 million). However, a corrected
arrears rate, comparing arrears of 1977 with repayment of principal scheduled
to be repaid during the same year, gives an arrears ratio of no less than 24%
per annum. Provision for doubtful debts reached 5.2% (Col$ 99.0 million) of
total loan portfolio on December 31, 1977, but whether or not this will be
adequate will be answered by the review and analysis of the arrears situation
scheduled to take place in 1979. This exercise will include the analysis of
debts that can be rescheduled and collected in the future and those to be
written off as unrecoverable.
2.12      Government allocations represented about 80% of INCORA's income in
1977, the balance being interest earned on loan portfolio and on Government
bonds. Administrative costs, mainly payroll (Col$ 550 million in 1977),
constituted by far the largest expenditure item, averaging about 50% of
total INCORA cost over the last three years. The high administrative costs
are due mainly to a relatively small average amount of loans, agricultural
extension activities, and the legal and administrative work related to



- 14 -
the settlement and redistribution of land. In each of the last three years,
INCORA has suffered deficits, at least some of which occurred as a result of
Government failure to transfer the funds allocated in its budget to INCORA.
2.13      Gross return on INCORA's assets (Col$ 7,130 million), excluding
Government's budgetary allocations, over the last three years, ranged between
3.6% per annum and 3.9% per annum. However, more than 45% (Col.$ 3,100 million)
of INCORA's assets do not currently generate any income and thE: investments in
roads and social infrastructure such as hospitals, health posts and schools
never will. Other investments, representing 25% of its total assets, such as
Col$ 1,500 million invested in development of irrigation and drainage districts,
and Col$ 300 million of land sales to agrarian reform beneficiaries is not
being collected by INCORA (Annex 2).
2.14      INCORA, being a development agency transferring government resources
to small-scale farmers, cannot be expected to be financially viable, and
government budgetary allocations are required permanently to cover INCORA's
operational deficits. However, INCORA's financial situation and developmental
activities can benefit greatly from improvements on its financial management
and accounting system. Details of the required improvements and recommenda-
tions are given in paragraphs 4.13 to 4.17 and in Annex 2.
INCORA Credit Activities
2.15      Most of INCORA's beneficiaries have access to no other credit facili-
ties than those provided through INCORA. In addition to the difficulties
normally associated with lending to small-scale farmers, access of INCORA
beneficiaries to other lending institutions is restricted as a consequence of
their legal status and socio-economic condition, neither of which correspond
to the requirements or provide the guarantees normally required by the banking
sector.
2.16      According to existing banking operational policies, INCORA  bene-
ficiaries without a definite title to the land are considered temporary
occupants only, with cultivation rights to the land.  Therefore, they are
entitled to obtain only short-term credit (mainly from CAJA), which, due to
the relatively small amount of credit on a per ha basis, normalLy has to be
supplemented by INCORA. On the other hand, INCORA titles are not considered
clear titles due to the restrictions attached (land cannot be rented, mortgaged
or sold without INCORA's authorization); therefore, holders have limited access
to long-term credit. In addition, agrarian reform beneficiaries and settlers
more rich in terms of assets than income have insufficient: resources to make
their required cash contribution to investments.
2.17      INCORA is not a financial institution and thus it has no credit
access to refinancing facilities; its lending activities are financed mainly
through the recuperation of previous loans under projects partially financed
by IDB, IBRD, and USAID, and, to a small extent, with Government budgetary
allocations.  Currently, INCORA's own resources are handled through four
lines of credit: two are roll-over funds from completed projects - supervised
(USAID) and planned (IBRD); the Livestock Revolving Fund (INCORA/BG); and



- 15 -
resources of the ongoing Caqueta and Cordoba projects. Since INCORA is not a
bank, its resources, with the exception of the Livestock Revolving Fund, are
handled through a fideicomiso agreement by CAJA, which acts as a disbursement
agent and receives a commission of 1% per annum on outstanding portfolio. The
Livestock Revolving Fund, financed by BG and INCORA, is utilized exclusively
for long-term livestock lending to INCORA beneficiaries. BG operates without
the guarantee of INCORA and is responsible for selection of beneficiaries and
provision of technical assistance and supervision. BG pays 9% per annum on
INCORA's share of outstanding portfolio. Additional funds are channelled to
INCORA beneficiaries through CAJA, which lends its own resources under INCORA's
guarantee.
2.18      The credit and technical assistance activities of INCORA are handled
by the manager in charge of the Department of Land Settlement (Subgerencia de
Asentamientos Campesinos). Staff of this department totals 1,350 persons, 1,270
of whom are located in INCORA's 20 regional offices; total staff in the proposed
project areas is 534, 429 of whom are professionals and mid-level technicians.
INCORA is experienced in handling its credit programs, considering that
(a) it engages in the provision of credit only to small farmers at the initial
stage of their development; and (b) it assumes much of the burden of providing
technical assistance to participants in both its own and guaranteed credit
programs.
2.19      During the 1975-77 period, total credit to INCORA beneficiaries
averaged about Col$ 610 million (US$15.5 million), benefitting 9,770 families
with an average subloan size of US$1,600 per family (Annex 3, Table 7); 68%
of total lending was provided by INCORA and the balance, 32%, by CAJA with
INCORA's guarantee. On balance, total credit to INCORA beneficiaries in
nominal terms has increased slightly over the period but in real terms, credit
availability has decreased by 25%. As of June 30, 1978, total outstanding
portfolio was Col$ 2,060 million (US$52.4 million), benefitting a total of
36,876 families.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Introduction
3.01      The Government of Colombia has requested the Bank to help finance
an increase in INCORA's lending activities to its land reform/colonization
beneficiaries. The proposed project is based on a report which was prepared
by INCORA with the assistance of the FAO/Bank Cooperative Program and submitted
to the Bank in November 1978. Appraisal was in November/December 1978.
B. Brief Description
3.02      The main objective of the project would be to increase income and
employment of about 7,620 land reform/colonization families (Annex 3, Table
5) through the provision of credit and technical assistance and supervision.



- 16 -
The project would concentrate initially on 12 of the 20 INCORA regions (para
2.02). The main thrust of the project would be directed at assisting INCORA's
beneficiaries 1/ in developing their farms to a point at which they would become
self-sustaining viable farmers who will eventually "graduate" from INCORA
assistance, thereby making it possible for INCORA to extend its assistance
to other beneficiaries.
3.03      To accomplish its objectives, the project would provide supervised
credit for on-farm development, including short-term incremental working
capital; the development of small agroindustries; and technical assistance,
including consultant services, training programs for INCORA field staff and
beneficiaries, and vehicles and equipment for staff providing assistance
and for the monitoring and evaluation unit.
3.04      The proposed project would be committed over a four-year period.
Subloans would be disbursed by INCORA over a period of five years, with Bank
disbursements extending over five and one-half years. Tbe proposed loan
would be made to INCORA, with the guarantee of the Government of Colombia,
which would also assume the foreign exchange risk. The executing agency
would be INCORA. Total project costs, including price contingencies, are
estimated to be US$50.0 million, the imported component of which is estimated
to be US$17.5 million, or 35% of the total investment.
C. Detailed Features
On-farm Development
3.05      The project would finance technically and financially viable farm
investment plans. Any farm activities, including subsistence production, with
the exception of the development of coffee and cattle fattening operations
for which there are resources available elsewhere, would be eligible for
financing under the project. Farm investment models, representing the best
approximation to farm activities within the widely scattered project areas,
have been prepared but financing would not be restricted to the activities
presented as they should be considered only illustrative.
3.06      Investments in crop production are likely to be for the development
of both commercial and subsistence crops ("pancoger"), while investments in
livestock would be mainly for the development of dual-purpose cattle, and, to
a lesser extent, for the development of beef breeding operations. Specifically,
to accomplish project objectives, it is envisaged that the project would finance:
(a) on-farm irrigation, drainage and land leveling works (9,000 ha); (b) plan-
tation of cocoa and sugarcane for the production of non-centrifuged sugar
1/   The term "INCORA beneficiaries" will be utilized hereafter to identify
the small-scale farmer subsector that represents INCORA's first service
responsibility. This subsector includes agrarian reform beneficiaries,
settlers (spontaneous or assisted) and small farmers, regardless of
whether or not they have received land or have been settled by INCORA.



- 17 -
(13,000 ha); (c) the purchase of tractors and equipment (90 units), combines
(25 units) and irrigation equipment (45 units); (d) the purchase of beef and
dual-purpose cattle (20,000 animal units) and minor species such as pigs and
poultry; (e) the improvement and development of new pastures (163,000 ha);
(f) the development of annual crops such as irrigated rice, corn, sorghum and
cassava (34,600 ha); and (g) seasonal inputs such as improved seeds, fertili-
zers, pesticides and herbicides and hired labor.
3.07      About 4,900 subloans to individual or collective farm operations
would be committed over a four-year period, benefitting a total of approxi-
mately 7,600 farm families. The table on page 36 summarizes average invest-
ment per beneficiary.
Small Agroindustries
3.08      INCORA jointly with the Interamerican Institute of Agricultural
Science has identified about 60 empresas comunitarias that have already
reached a level of development, in terms of production and management, that
would allow them to readily implement small agroindustries engaged in grain
storage and drying, vegetable freezing and dehydration facilities, rice
milling, processing of non-centrifugated sugar, milk collection points and
cheese-making plants. In addition, it is envisaged that the increases of
production generated by the project would create additional needs for invest-
ments in agroindustries. Therefore, a total of US$2.2 million has been
allocated for these purposes. The specific investments to be financed under
this category would be reviewed by the Bank on a case-by-case basis, provided,
however, that adequate technical assistance and supervision were available
through INCORA or under contract with other institutions.
Technical Assistance
3.09      The project would include financing for consultant services and
foreign training for local technicians. It is estimated that about 24 man-
months of consultant services would be provided over the five-year implementa-
tion period to assist in establishing and operating an evaluation and monitoring
system to assess project impact and to provide training to INCORA technicians
(para 4.20). The total cost of consulting services has been estimated
at US$116,000, or an average gross cost per man-month of about US$4,800.
Additional funds would be provided to finance short-term overseas training for
about 12 professionals and local short study tours and on-the-job training of
about 340 technicians and project beneficiaries. Finally, the project would
finance the vehicles and equipment required to provide technical assistance
to project beneficiaries and for the monitoring and evaluation unit. Details
of investments in technical assistance are given in Annex 3, Table 8.



- 18 -
D. Project Costs
3.10      Total project costs, including price contingencies, are estimated at
US$50 million, of which the proposed Bank loan would finance 40%, or US$20
million, net of import duties and taxes. Project baseline costs have been
estimated on the basis of prices in November/December 1978. Price contingen-
cies are based on the phasing of investments over a five-year period (Annex 3,
Table 9) and on the assumption that commitments would start in October 1979.
Price increases for the imported component are expected to be 6% per annum
during the implementation period of the project, while annual domestic price
increases would be about 16% for 1979, 14% for 1980 and 12% thereafter.
Project costs by component are summarized in the following table:
Foreign
Exchange   Baseline
Local   Foreign   Total  Component   Costs
-----(US$'000) /a------  --------(%) --------
On-farm Development
Medium- and long-term investments           14,990    8,800    23,790       37         57
Incremental working capital                 9,990    3,150    13,140        24         32
Sub-total                             24,980   11,950    36,930        32         89
Small Agroindustries                        1,220    1,000       2,220      45          5
Sub-total lending                     26,200   12,950    39,150        33         94
Technical Assistance
Technical assistance and training              690    1,300      1,990      65          5
Project administration                         100        20        120     14          -
Monitoring and evaluation                       70       140        210     64          -
Sub-total                                860    1,460       2,320)    63           6
Total baseline cost                        27,060   14,410    41,470        35        100
Price contingencies                         5,460    3,070       8,530      36         21
Total project costs                   32,520   17,480    50,000        35        121
/a   US$1 = Col$ 39.3 (for conversion to Col$).
Note: Figures in this table have been rounded.



- 19 -
E. Financing
3.11      Financing of the project would be shared in the following amounts
and proportions:
(US$ million)
Total
Sub-borrowers      INCORA           Bank        Investment
Project Components       Amount      %    Amount   %    Amount   %    Amount   %
On-farm development        4.9       13      17.4   47      14.6   40      36.9   100
Small agroindustries       0.3       15       0.9   41       1.0   45       2.2   100
Sub-total            5.2       13      18.3   47      15.6   40       39.1   100
Technical assistance        -        -        0.9   37       1.4   63       2.3   100
Total baseline cost        5.2       13      19.2   46      17.0   41      41.4   100
Price contingencies        0.2        2       5.4   63       3.0   35       8.6   100
Total project cost         5.4       11      24.6   49      20.0   40      50.0   100
3.12      The proposed Bank loan of US$20 million would finance the 35% for-
eign exchange cost of the project (US$17.5 million) and a further 5% for
local currency expenditures (US$2.5 million), net of import duties and taxes.
Local currency financing is recommended because of the relatively low foreign
exchange content of the project and also in order to bring Bank financing
under the proposed project more in line with other on-going Bank projects for
agricultural development in Colombia. 1/ Furthermore, the proposed financing
scheme would give the Bank more meaningful participation in project implementa-
tion, emphasize the importance attached by the Bank to an adequate level of
assistance to INCORA's beneficiaries, and assist in achieving important
institutional objectives of the project.
3.13      Project beneficiaries would finance US$5.4 million, representing
about 11% of the total project cost, and an estimated US$24.6 million, equiva-
lent to 49% of total project cost, would be financed by the Government through
INCORA. Therefore, the project would require Government to increase its
budgetary allocations by Col$ 747.4 million, exclusive of contingencies, to
INCORA, as indicated in paragraph 6.08. The annual cost to INCORA after comple-
tion of the project would continue at about the Year 5 level (US$110,000 per
year). Assurances on the above financing arrangements were obtained during
negotiations.
1/   Bank's share of total financing under on-going prjects is as follows;
Atlantico (Loan 849-CO), 47%; Caqueta (Loan 1118-CO), 53%; Cordoba (Loan
1163-CO), 59%; Integrated Rural Development (Loan 1352-CO), 40%; and Second
Agricultural Credit (Loan 1357-CO), 39%.



- 20 -
(US$ million)
INCORA              Bank           Total Lending
Amount     %       Amount      %      Amount      _
On-farm development         17.4      54        14.6     46        32.0      100
Small agroindustries        0.9       47         1.0     53         1.9      100
Total baseline cost        18.3       54        15.6     46        33.9      100
3.14      The Bank loan would be made to INCORA at the Bank lending rate
prevailing at the time of loan approval, for a term of 17 years, including
four years of grace. The Government of Colomb:ia would guarantee the loan and
it would also bear the foreign exchange risk. Counterpart funds, US$19.2
million (or US$24.6 million, including price contingencies) would be provided
by the Government to INCORA (para 6.08). Funds for on-farm lending would be
disbursed by INCORA through a revolving fund to be established as a separate
bank account by INCORA (para 4.05). Funds for technical assistance would be
disbursed directly by INCORA.
F. Procurement
3.15      The purchase of on-farm investment items required under the proposed
project would be procured over a five-year period by aboul: 7,600 small-scale
farmers. Inputs, small equipment, tools, machinery and tractors and small
on-farm civil works, would be varied and not suitable for procurement through
local or international competitive bidding. Therefore, sub-borrowers would
purchase their requirements through local established commercial channels,
including rural and farmers' cooperatives, representing a broad spectrum of
international suppliers.
3.16      Vehicles required for technical assistance (US$1.6 million) would
be procured in group orders over a two-year period under international coulpe-
titive bidding according to Bank procedures. The remaining expenditures undler
the technical assistance component of the project (US$180,000) are not suitable
for competitive bidding: consultant and training expenditures (US$175,000
equivalent) would be financed on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank;
equipment for the monitoring unit (US$5,000 equivalent) would be procured
through local shopping. Foreign firms are adequately represented in Colombia
and there is a good network of competitive suppliers of agricultural inputs;
facilities for maintenance of machinery and equipment are also adequate. All
inputs and most machinery and equipment for the proposed investments are
exempt from the 6% sales tax and subject, on a selective basis, to a maximum
of 30% import duty. There are no import restrictions that could affect
purchases through existing local channels. Assurances wera obtained during
negotiations that the above procurement procedures would be followed.



- 21 -
G. Disbursements
3.17      The Bank would disburse over a period of five and one-half years:
(a)  46% of the amounts disbursed for farm development sub-
loans, for a total value of US$15.6 million;
(b)  46% of the amounts disbursed for agroindustry subloans,
for a total value of US$1.1 million;
(c)  100% of the total cost of consultant services and over-
seas training, for a total value of US$300,000; and
(d)  100% of foreign expenditures for vehicles and equipment
required by the project, or 76% of local expenditures if
locally procured, for a total of US$1.5 million.
The above values include US$1.5 million of the US$3.0 million price contin-
gencies; the balance of US$1.5 million would initially be unallocated.
3.18      The Bank would reimburse, through a revolving fund (para 4.05), for
subloans against statements of expenditures, which would be certified by
INCORA. Supporting documentation for these expenditures would not be sub-
mitted to the Bank, but would be retained by INCORA for review during the
course of Bank supervision missions. All other disbursements would be sup-
ported by standard documentation. The specific disbursement procedures
and reporting requirements were agreed upon with the borrower during
negotiations.
3.19      The estimated schedule of Bank disbursements, assuming that the
date of effectiveness of the proposed loan would be no later than August 1979,
would be as follows:
(US$ million)
Bank FY             1980       1981      1982         1983        1984       1985
FY semester        1    2    1    2      1      2    1       2     1     2    1
Disbursements
during
semester        0.8  2.0  2.2  2.2   3.0   3.0   2.9   2.9   0.4   0.3   0.3
Cumulative        0.8  2.8  5.0  7.2  10.2  13.2  16.1  19.0  19.4  19.7  20.0



- 22 -
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Organization and Managemenit
4.01      INCORA would be the borrower and executing agency, with its General
Manager serving as official representative in dealing with the Bank in all
technical and financial matters related to the project. Responsibility for
overall project implementation, coordination and supervision would be borne by
a qualified professional to be appointed by INCORA on a full-time basis as
project coordinator with a rank equivalent to assistant to the General Manager.
The project coordinator would also, within six months of project effectiveness,
assume full responsibility for the coordination and supervision of the imple-
mentation of on-going Bank projects under Loans 849-CO, 1118-CCO and 1163-CO.
The appointment of the project coordinator was a condition of presentation
of the proposed project to the Loan Committee. The specific duties and responsi-
bilities of the project coordinator were discussed with the borrower during
negotiations and an assurance was obtained that, during the implementation
period of the project, these functions, duties and responsibilities would not
be changed without prior Bank approval.
4.02      While the main duty of the project coordinator would be to assist in
implementating operational policies and procedures required for the execution
of both the proposed project and the ongoing Bank projects, he would also colla-
borate and assist the manager of the Division cf Agrarian Settlements (SAC) in
the development and preparation of training programs for INCORA field staff
and project beneficiaries; prepare terms of reference for the consultant for
the Project Monitoring and Evaluation Unit (PMEU) (para 4.20); assist in the
design of the system to be utilized for monitoring and evaluation of the
project's progress and impact; standardize procedures; centralize processing
of on-going monitoring efforts (Loans 849-CO, 1118-CO and 1163-CO); and
secure, through INCORA's management, whatever additional resources are
required for effective implementation of the on-going Bank projects. Finally,
he would be directly responsible for preparation of periodic reports on the
project's financial and physical progress for timely submission to INCORA's
General Manager and to the Bank. Assurances on the above were obtained
during negotiations.
Project Execution
4.03      Field implementation of the project wDuld be the joint responsibil-
ity of the project coordinator and the manager of the SAC division through
INCORA's regional offices in the 12 project areas (Map IBE'D 14212). Techni-
cal assistance, including selection of sub-borrowers, preparation of farm
investment plans, and supervision of the investments woulcd be provided by
INCORA field staff in the project areas (Annex 3, Table 10).  In general,
INCORA field technicians have a thorough knowledge of beneficiaries' needs and
requirements and their overall experience and expertise ir, crop and livestock
production is satisfactory.  Nevertheless, INCORA would prepare and carry out
a selective training program for technicians to allow them to: (a) become



- 23 -
more familiar with ICA's technological packages for the different types of
agriculture and livestock operations practiced in the project areas; and
(b) update farm management techniques and thus be able to provide production-
oriented assistance more in line with the current situation and financial
needs of INCORA beneficiaries. It is estimated that by Year 5 of the project,
assuming that each technician can provide adequate technical assistance and
supervision to about 10 empresas comunitarias and cooperatives or to 40 indi-
vidual farmers, 145 out of INCORA's 429 field technicians would be working
full time with project beneficiaries. Therefore, the staff is considered
adequate to cover present INCORA activities and the incremental activities
generated by the project. However, INCORA would assign, during Year 1 of the
project, four agricultural engineers to reinforce the technical assistance
and supervision capabilities of mid-level technicians in the project areas.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that: (a) the maximum ratio
of technicians to individual subloans, calculated on a per project area basis,
would not exceed the ratio of 1:40 during the implementation period of the
project; and (b) upon completion of the project, INCORA would maintain an
adequate level of technical assistance to project sub-borrowers.
4.04      The proceeds of the loan and the local counterpart funds for the
lending program, US$33.9 million (Col$1,332.3 million), would be channeled
to beneficiaries through CAJA's branch offices in the project areas (Map
IBRD 14212). Since 1965, most of INCORA's lending to agrarian reform/
colonization beneficiaries has been implemented through fideicomiso or
guarantee agreements with CAJA (para 2.17); therefore, no coordination
problems are anticipated. INCORA and CAJA would enter into a specific
subsidiary agreement for lending under the project, whereby CAJA would act
as the banking agent for the project, being responsible for disbursements,
subloan collections and the general administration of the project funds
and accounts, while INCORA, in addition to providing technical assistance and
supervision, would be responsible for subloan approvals and for bearing
the credit risk. However, to encourage CAJA to take a more active role in
collecting subloans than it presently does, the system of paying a flat
commission of 1% per annum on outstanding balances to CAJA would be reviewed
and possibly modified to give CAJA a commission based partly on outstanding
portfolio and partly on subloan collections. Similarly, in order to improve
project implementation, the coordination and flow of information between
CAJA and INCORA at both the project area and the central office levels
would be reviewed. Signing of a subsidiary agreement between INCORA and
CAJA, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, would be a condition
of effectiveness of the proposed loan.
4.05      Project funds for the lending program would be managed by INCORA
through a revolving fund that it would establish as a separate bank account.
The revolving fund would be utilized exclusively in the implementation of the
project lending program; therefore, the inflow of the project would consist of
counterpart resources, and the proceeds of the Bank loan. The revolving fund
would start up with an initial amount of US$2.0 million (Col$78.6 million),
estimated to cover the needs of the lending program during the first three to
four months of the five-year implementation period of the project. INCORA's
initial contribution would be US$1,080,000 equivalent. The Bank contribution
to the lending program would be disbursed as follows:



- 24 -
(a)  the first Bank disbursement, a contribution to the start-up
of the lending program, US$920,000 equivalent, would be
made upon receipt of adequate documentation indicating that
the revolving fund, with INCORA's initial contribution
(US$1,080,000 equivalent), had been established;
(b) subsequent Bank disbursements to the revolving fund would
be made against certified statements of expenditures indicating
that the counterpart funds, 54% of total disbursements, will be
transferred by the Government to INCORA and deposited in the
revolving fund within 30 days of the receipt of the reimburse-
ment request; and
(c)  during the latter stages of the implementation period of the
project, the Bank contribution to the revolving fund would be
reduced to adjust disbursements until project completion.
As disbursements are made from the revolving fund, INCORA would make periodic
reimbursement requests to the Government and to the Bank. In any event,
requests for reimbursement would be made by INCORA before the revolving fund
reaches a level equivalent to US$400,000. INCORA would, until completion
of the project, maintain a separate account and use all amounts received
from project beneficiaries, which are not needed for repayment of principal,
payment of interest and other charges under the loan, for additional lending
for agricultural and agroindustrial development. It would be a condition of
loan effectiveness that a revolving fund, on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank, had been established and that an initial amount, acceptable to
the Bank (US$1,080,000 equivalent), had been deposited by INCORA. In addition,
assurances were obtained during negotiations that the procedures, terms and
conditions of the operation of the revolving fund would not be changed or
waived without prior Bank approval. However, at the request of the borrower,
the Government or the Bank, policies and procedures of the revolving fund
would be reviewed to adjust its operation and/or size to the needs of the
project.
4.06      CAJA's geographical coverage is considered adequate for project
needs, and the existing operational agreements between INCORA and CAJA have
been proven satisfactory. However, in the framework of facilitating the
future access of INCORA beneficiaries to banks other than CAJA, consideration
would be given to allowing other banks to participate in project lending
operations should they so desire. Terms and conditions of such other bank
participation in the project would be subject to specific agreements between
INCORA and the intended banks, which would require prior approval by the Bank
before becoming effective. An assurance on the above was obtained during
negotiations.
Technical Assistance and Training
4.07      One expert on monitoring and evaluation would be hired to serve in
INCORA on a full-time basis during the first year and on a part-time basis
from Years 2 to 5, for a total of 24 man/months (Annex 3, Table 8). The
expert would be responsible for establishing monitoring and evaluation
procedures, and for initial operation of the system (para 4.21) as well as



- 25 -
for training INCORA staff in monitoring and evaluation techniques. In addition,
the project would provide for short-term overseas training and study tours for
the directors of the 12 project areas included in the project. The presenta-
tion to the Bank of a specific overseas training program would be conditions
for disbursement of the Bank funds for these purposes.
4.08      It is envisaged that about 122 agronomists and veterinarians and
168 economists, sociologists and other mid-level technicians would attend to
short-term seminars in their respective fields of expertise, including train-
ing in agricultural planning, transfer of technology, and rural development.
Short-term courses and extended assistance would also be provided to project
beneficiaries. For the above purposes, INCORA would enter into or update
operating agreements with ICA for training ot university-level technicians;
with SENA for training mid-level technicians and project beneficiaries; and
with CECORA for managerial and specialized technical assistance and training
to empresas comunitarias and cooperatives. Assurances on the above were
obtained during negotiations.
B. Lending Policies and Procedures
4.09      The proposed project would channel credit to INCORA's beneficiaries,
namely, agrarian reform beneficiaries, operating either as individual farmers
or as members of some form of collective farming operation (empresas comuni-
tarias, cooperativas, and the like), with no limits in terms of land area per
family or value of assets, and to settlers (colonos), with farm size of less
than 200 ha. No project subloans would be made to: (a) agrarian reform/coloni-
zation beneficiaries who have subloans in arrears with CAJA, INCORA or any other
institution; or (b) a farmer with a total indebtedness exceeding Col$500,000
(US$12,700), including previous subloans and the intended subloan under the
project, but excluding INCORA subloans for the purchase of land and infrastruc-
ture (house, irrigation and drainage). Maximum lending per beneficiary under
the project would be Col$500,000; thus, maximum lending for collective farming
operations would be equal to the above amount times the number of beneficiaries
of the collective. Subloans amounting to less than Col$500,000 would be
approved by Loan Committees in the project areas, while those between
Col$500,000 and Col$1,000,000 (US$25,000) would require approval by the Loan
Committee at the Bogota office.  Subloans exceeding Col$1,000,000 would re-
quire approval by INCORA's Executive Committee, and subloans exceeding
Col$4,000,000 (US$100,000) would be submitted to the Bank for approval. To
accommodate the project lending program, INCORA would need to raise its
existing subloan approval ceilings at the project area level, Col$200,000,
to Col$500,000. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the above
approval procedures would be applied and that lending limits would be
enforced.
4.10      Subloans to project beneficiaries, made on the basis of technically
and financially sound farm investment plans would finance up to 90% of the
total medium- and long-term requirements of the investment plan. As in the
on-going Bank loan for small farmer's credit in Colombia (Loan 1352-CO),



- 26 -
short-term credit required to finance seasonal costs related to the investment
plan would be financed in the following maximum percentages: (a) first-time
sub-borrowers under the project, 95%; (b) second-time sub-borrowers under the
project, 90%; and (c) third-time sub-borrowers under the project, 85%.
Beneficiaries' contribution to investments would be financed in the form
of family labor and/or cash. No financing under the project would be
permitted for cattle fattening operations or coffee plantations. Total
lending for beef cattle and/or milking would not exceed ,75% of the total
investment plan, and the maximum number of cattle financed under the
project would not exceed 25 cows and one bull (or its equivalent in animal
units) per-beneficiary. Furthermore, the total number of cattle financed
on a per-beneficiary (family) basis would be limited so as not to exceed,
including existing cattle owned by beneficiaries, a total of 25 cows per
family. Subloans for the development of small agroindustries would be
made on the basis of feasibility studies, which the Bank would review,
prior to their approval.
4.11      Subloan repayment terms would reflect the capacity of the sub-
borrowers to repay, as estimated in the cash flow projections of the invest-
ment plans. Subloans for crop investments would be for a maximum period
of 10 years, including a grace period of up to three years. Subloans for
livestock development would be for a maximum period of 13 years, including
a grace period of up to four years. Short-term seasonal credit would be
repaid within one year of subloan disbursement. Interest on the outstanding
balances would be payable at the end of each period, at a rate of not
less than 16% per annum, plLs 1% per annum for life insurance. It is
envisaged that, over the five-year disbursement period of the project, the
proposed lending rate would be positive. Domestic inflation in Colombia
increased from 20% p.a. in 1976/77 to 35% p.a. in 1977/78, decreasing to
17% p.a. in 1978/79. Inflation is projected to increase at an annual rate
of 16% for 1979, 14% for 1980 and 12% thereafter. The above lending rate
would be consistent and generally in line with the lending rates currently
utilized for similar purposes and beneficiaries by CAJA and under Loan 1352-CO
(para 1.18). Assurances were obtained during negotiations that: (a) the
terms and conditions specified in this and the preceding paragraph would be
implemented by INCORA; and (b) by September 1, 1979, INCORA would submit to
the Bank for comments a revised credit manual of INCORA's supervised credit
line, incorporating the operational policies and procedures to be utilized for
lending under the proposed project as specified above.
4.12      In order to bring some coherence to the interest rate structure
between essentially similar farmer categories and to prevent future differ-
ences between the rate of interest paid by INCORA's beneficiaries and farmers
assisted by other institutions and/or credit lines, a link would be estab-
lished between the interest rate utilized in INCORA's lending and those util-
ized by the main sources of credit for the agricultural sector in Colombia
(FFAP and CAJA). In line with the above, the interest rate to be utilized
under the project would be maintained with a difference not more than two
percentage points to the average nominal rate of interest utilized by FFAP
for medium- and long-term credit for agriculture (currently 18% per annum),
provided, however, that the resulting rates would be no higher than CAJA's
average lending rates for small-scale farmers (currently 16%). Through the



- 27 -
years, INCORA has developed various credit schemes utilizing local and
foreign resources, and these have caused unwarranted differences in interest
rates and lending conditions for INCORA beneficiaries, in turn leading to
unnecessary complexity in lending procedures and in the accounting system.
To correct this situation, assurances were obtained during negotiations
that: (a) the rate of interest to be utilized under the project would
be linked to the rates utilized for comparable purposes and beneficiaries by
FFAP; and (b) by July 1, 1980 the rates of interest and lending conditions for
INCORA's own resources would be standardized to those to be utilized under the
proposed project and that such standardization would be extended to the rates
utilized under Loans 1118-CO and 1163-CO.
C. Accounting and Auditing
4.13      INCORA continues to have serious problems in its accounting and
financial administration. The main problems are that: (a) the comptroller's
function is not centralized but dispersed among INCORA's various organizational
units; (b) the managerial accounting and reporting system is inadequate, with
reports for decision-making purposes being ill-designed or not in existence at
all; (c) the application of "Generally Accepted Accounting Principles" is far
from satisfactory, especially in regard to profit and loss measurement,
presentation of assets and liabilities, classification of the accounting
system, and failure to utilize the same codes for accounting and budgetary
purposes.
4.14      As an autonomous public entity, INCORA is required to maintain the
accounting procedures prescribed by the Contraloria General where the main
emphasis is placed on authorizations to spend, procedures and observance of
budget appropriation limits. Thus, while complying with the Contraloria
General's requirements, the system differs from the classification utilized in
the INCORA budget; also, neither the budget nor the financial statements
provide an adequate separation between capital and operational costs. In
addition, INCORA's cash accounting system does not permit sound analysis of
INCORA's operational results. In summary, the accounting system registers and
reports according to official standards but it has no flexibility to report
according to the objective managerial needs of INCORA. Indicative of the
above problems is the failure of INCORA to present to the Bank separate
project accounts for on-going Bank projects, Loans 849-CO, 1118-CO and 1163-CO.
4.15      A by-product of the problems described in the preceding paragraphs
is that, in the absence of a single reliable source of information, the various
INCORA organizational units, in their search for measurements of their acti-
vities, products and cost, initiate and carry out quantified reports. These,
however, are often unreliable, contradict other reports, and do not necessarily
agree with information provided by the accounting system on the same subject.
Also, the flow of information from the computer unit to the top management is
insufficient and managerial reports are inadequate. Therefore, for the
proposed project implementation purposes as well as for the rest of INCORA's
activities, a substantial reorganization of INCORA's accounting and management
information system would be required. For these purposes, INCORA would hire



- 28 -
the consultants on financial aspects and management information systems
provided for under the Cordoba Second Land Development Project (Loan 1163--CO).
It was a condition of presentation of the proposed project to the Loan Cogmmittee
that the consultants had been selected and approved by the Bank. Specific
emphasis would be placed on the adequate utiliLzation of INCORA's existing
computer facilities, and the consultants should be able, in a relatively short
period of time, to centralize all INCORA's acc:ounts and statistical information
in the computer system. Given the wide geographical coverage and the nature
of the proposed project, and, therefore, the amount of information required
for adequate control, supervision and monitoring of the activities financed
under the project, all financial and statistical data related to project
implementation would be handled through the computer.
4.16       INCORA would present, for Bank consideration, not later than
January 1, 1980, a report containing a detailed timetable of activities
and priorities of the study to be undertaken by the financial and management
consultants. Similarly, INCORA would submit for Bank consideration: (a) not
later than January 1, 1980, the computer system to be utilized under the
project; and (b) every six months, a progress report of the consultants'
activities and the timetable for implementing the consultants recommendations.
Assurances on the above points were obtained at negotiations.
4.17      Some immediate changes in the accounting systern of INCORA would be
made without waiting for the consultants' conclusions (Annex 2).  The purpose
of these changes is to overcome the basic disadvantages of the current account-
ing classification and to provide INCORA's management, as well as outside
analysts, with a clearer picture of INCORA's financial situation. The receipt
of objective evidence by the Bank that action had been taken by INCORA to modify
its accounting procedures and financial statements was a condition of pre-
sentation of the proposed project to the Loan Committee. An assurance that
these procedures would be maintained during the implementation period of the
project were obtained during negotiations.
4.18      INCORA would maintain separate project accounts, along the lines
of the acccounts recently established for the on-going projects (Loans 1113-CO,
and 1163-CO), in accordance with sound accounting principles consistently
applied. Records and documentation relating to all financial transactions
under the project would be kept by INCORA and be made available for ins-
pection by the Bank during the course of supervzision missions. The project
accounts and related financial statements would be audited annually in accord-
ance with generally accepted auditing standards by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank. As required by current legislation, the Financial and
Operative Audit Division (DAFO) of the Comptroller General of the Republic
is responsible for the external auditing of INCORA.
4.19      The audit requirements for the project accounts, including the
auditing of a sample of statements of expenditures and of subloans, would
be determined after consultations between the Bank, INCORA and DAFO. Audited
comparative financial statements and notes prepared from the project accounting
records of INCORA would include the balance sheet, a statement of income and
expenses, and a statement of the source and application of funds, together with
the opinion of the DAFO. Supplementary data on operations, financial position



- 29 -
and scope of work carried out by the auditors and such other additional informa-
tion as the Bank might from time to time request would also be provided. All
audit reports and statements would be submitted to the Bank not later than
four months after the end of each fiscal year. Assurances on this point and
those in the preceding paragraph were obtained at negotiations. A condition
of presentation of the proposed project to the Loan Committee was that INCORA
had sent, for Bank consideration, separate project accounts for Loans 1118-CO
and 1163-CO.
D. Progress Reporting, Monitoring and Evaluation
4.20      INCORA, through the project coordinator, would establish and main-
tain a system for monitoring the progress of the project and to evaluate
the impact of both on-farm investments and technical services provided to
sub-borrowers. For this purpose, a Project Monitoring and Evaluation Unit
(PMEU) (partially financed with Bank funds), directly responsible to the
project coordinator, would be established within INCORA. In addition, INCORA
would appoint one officer at each of the 12 regional offices to be responsible
part time for monitoring and evaluation activities at the field level. The
field officers would collect, on a continuing basis, production, marketing and
financial data, including information on sub-borrowers' performance in credit
use and recovery and extension, all of which would be sent to the PMEU, where
it would be assembled and analyzed and a consolidated report prepared for
submission periodically to INCORA's management and field officers and on an
annual basis to the Bank. In addition, an annual selective impact evaluation
survey of the project would be carried out, starting in Year 2 of the project.
These surveys would provide an assessment of the overall social and economic
impact of components with respect to project targets and to the effectiveness
of achieving the basic objectives of the components.
4.21      Under this system, adequate records of on-farm investments, purchases
of inputs, sales, inputs and outputs, prices, and employment would be kept
to provide detailed information on operational, administrative and manage-
ment costs of the project. It would also make possible an assessment of the
progress of activities compared to planned schedules, including the area in
production, yield data, technology utilized and any other external events which
might affect yields or progress of the project. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that: (a) a consultant in monitoring and evaluation techniques
would be hired, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, not later
than December 1, 1979; (b) an adequately staffed Project Monitoring and
Evaluation Unit would be maintained; (c) the monitoring and evaluation pro-
cedures outlined would be carried out; (d) annual reports on monitoring
would be sent to the Bank within two months of the end of each 12-month
period; (e) quarterly progress reports on the project's financial implementa-
tion would be sent to the Bank within two months of the end of each quarter;
and (f) a draft project completion report would be prepared by INCORA no later
than four months after the project investments have been completed.



- 30 -
V. ILLUSTRATIVE INVESTMENT MODELS: SPECIFICATIONS AND ASSUMPTIONS
A. General
5.01      Investments under the project would take place over a large geogra-
phical area involving differences in soils, climate, markets, supply of inputs
and communication infrastructure, and, thus, a wide range of production patterns.
As a result, actual and projected crop yields and technical coefficients for
livestock production would vary greatly in the 12 project areas. For the
purpose of project budgeting and calculation of possible rates of return,
farm activity budgets, representing the most frequent productive activities to
be developed by potential beneficiaries, were prepared. Afterwards, the
activity budgets were transformed into illustrative farm investment models to
account for the fact that most of the farmers under the project would borrow
only for the development of their commercial activities, while continuing with
varying combinations of crops and livestock for subsistence purposes, as is
currently practiced by INCORA's beneficiaries in the project areas (Annex 3,
Tables 11 to 32).
5.02      Overall, the production coefficients utilized in the illustrative
farm models reflect a rather conservative approach to increases of productiv-
ity and to changes in cropping patterns of INCORA's beneficiaries.  It is
envisaged that production increases would come mainly through gradual intro-
duction of proven mid-technology packages, adequate technical assistance and
timely provision of credit. Production patterns are envisaged to change
as a gradually increasing emphasis is placed on production for commercial
purposes and on crop activities rather than on extensive livestock operations
as practiced now. In livestock enterprises, emphasis would be on dual-purpose
cattle and milk production. Also, livestock farmers would be encouraged to
introduce minor species and crops to their farming activities.
B. Production Coefficients
5.03      Yields and other technical assumptions utilized in the illustrative
farm investment models are based on the current situation and productivity on
comparable farms, both before and after development, of INCORA beneficiaries
in the project areas. Current and projected production coefficients utilized
in the analysis, together with comparative data at national and regional levels,
are as follows:



- 31 -
Yields Utilized
National Yields                     in the Models
Traditional   Commercial                 With Project
Average       Sector         Sector      Without       At Full
(1976/78)    (1976)          (1976)      Project   Development /a
(--------------------------(m ton/ha)-----------------------
Crops
Corn                  1.3         0.7            2.9           1.4          2.1
Cassava               9.1          2.5          15.0           7.0         10.0
Rice (paddy)          4.2 /b       1.5 /b        5.3 /b        6.0 /c        9.1 /d
Sugar, non-
centrifuged
(panela)            4.7         n.a.           n.a.          4.0          4.8
Sorghum               2.2          1.6           2.8           2.0          2.6
Cocoa                 0.5         0.3            0.8            -           0.8
Plaintains            5.2          4.7          10.0            -           5.0
Dual-Purpose Cattle                 Beef Cattle
With Project                    With Project
Without       At Full           Without         At Full
Project      Development        Project       Development
Livestock
Stocking rate
(AU/ha)                  0.9              1.1             0.7             0.8
Calving rate (%)           58.0             62.0           58.0            62.0
Adult mortality (%)         2.7              2.2             3.1            2.3
Cows milked as
% of cows
calving (%)             40.0             70.0            15.0            16.0
/a   Year 2 for plantain; Year 3 for rice and sorghum; Year 4 for corn, cassava
and panela; and Year 7 for cocoa.
lb   National averages do not differentiate between irrigated and dry land
rice.
/c   Irrigated, one crop per year.
/d   Irrigated double cropping.
C. Illustrative Investment Models
Investment Model No. 1: Individual farm, 21 ha (one family)
5.04       This model is representative of an individual farm, with a total
agricultural area of 21 ha. Before development, there are 9 ha under crops,
5 ha under pastures, 6 ha idle, and 1 ha reserved for subsistence crops grown
for family consumption. Under the project, this farm would intensify cultiva-
tion of its existing 9 ha of crops and would develop 3 out of the 6 ha currently
not utilized. Due to the increased costs and risks involved in the adoption
of new production techniques, the improvements in land preparation and use of



- 32 -
inputs such as certified seed, fertilizers, and pesticides would be introduced
gradually, and the development of the farm would take place over a three-year
period.
5.05      The crops to be developed in the model are corn (8 ha), cassava
(2 ha), and sugarcane for non-centrifuged sugar-panela (5 ha). Rented
machinery would be utilized for land preparation for cassava and corn. How-
ever, since planting and harvesting of sugarcane is done all year round,
land preparation for sugarcane is assumed to be done with oxen. The old
plantation would be renewed during the first year, and from the fifth year
onward, one-fifth of the area under sugarcane would be renewed annually.
Main investments under this model would be a small sugarcane mill and to
finance seasonal operating costs. Every two neighboring farms would be served
by one mill housed in a small (100 m2), inexpensive building made of locally
manufactured clay bricks with no lateral walls and a shade overhead. Milling
capacity would be 2 m tons per eight-hour shift.  Purchased equipment, in
addition to the mill, would include one 16-hp diesel motor, copper pans, and
one burner for baggasse. Average yields per ha are expected to stabilize as
follows: corn, 2.4 m ton/ha by Year 3; cassava, 10.0 m ton/ha by Year 7; and
panela, 4.8 m ton/ha by Year 5. Total investment costs would be US$4,700
(Col$184,500), or US$313 per ha.
Investment Model No. 2: Empresa Comunitaria, 210 ha (10 families)
5.06      This model is representative of an empresa coinmunitaria with pre-
dominant crop orientation, holding an agricultural area of 213 ha, of which 150
ha is under crops, 50 ha under pastures (with dual-purpose cattle) and 10 ha
in individual plots for family subsistence. Under the project, this empresa
would develop: 50 ha of irrigated rice (double cropping); 10 ha of cocoa; and
90 ha of sorghum. Rice and sorghum are already grown ona the farm, and cocoa
would be planted in land currently not utilized. Main investments include
land leveling and drainage and irrigation canals, a pump with a capacity
of 120 gallons per minute and a motor (one for two neighboring empresas), a
warehouse, one 70- to 75-hp tractor for each empresa, and a combine for each
four empresas. Investments also include the cost of establishing cocoa, wooden
boxes for fermenting cocoa, and a cement platform for drying cocoa beans in
each empresa. Total investment cost (Years 1 and 2) would be about US$66,600
(Col$2.6 million) per empresa, equivalent to US$6,600 per family.
Investment Model No. 3: Empresa Comunitaria, 142 ha (five families)
5.07      This model illustrates the average situation of five families,
either as individuals or as part of an empresa, in the better climatic and
soil areas and with access to rural markets. This farm, predominantly oriented
toward dual-purpose cattle operations, includes 127 ha under pastures and 15
ha under crops (both commercial and subsistence). Under the project, this
farm would develop its existing dual-purpose herd and additional minor species
(one sow, nine hens and one hive per family). On a per-family basis, this
farm would also be representative of a 30-ha individual farm, with 25 ha under
pastures for dual-purpose cattle and 5 ha under crops. About 40% of the cows
calving each year are milked to provide milk for family consumption and cash



- 33 -
income. Due to a shortage of financial resources, the farm is 14% under-
stocked and 30% of the weaners are sold during the year to meet cash obliga-
tions.
5.08      Investments over a two-year period would include purchase of some
breeding animals; development of 2 ha of improved pasture, using part of
the presently unproductive area; fencing; the improvement of existing pastures;
and installations such as water points, lick troughs and corrals. To facili-
tate the introduction of proven technology and ease the cash flow situation,
the long-term loan would include resources to finance the total costs of
veterinary products, including those for existing cattle. Minor species,
mainly pigs and poultry, plus their initial feed and veterinary requirements,
would also be financed. Minor species production would make a small but very
important contribution to the family's diet and liquidity position. Total
investments would be about US$8,000 (Col$316,000), or US$1,600 per family.
Investment Model No. 4: Empresa Comunitaria, 320 ha (eight families)
5.09      This model, predominantly oriented toward extensive beef livestock
raising, is representative of farms either isolated from markets or located on
lands suitable only for extensive cattle raising. Of its total area, 300 ha
are devoted to beef cattle raising and the remaining 20 ha to subsistence
crops and minor species. To provide milk for family consumption and some cash
income, about 15% of the cows calving each year are milked. Due to forced
sales of young stock to meet cash requirements, the farm is about 8% under-
stocked and not more than 50% of the steer crop is fattened.
5.10      Investment over a two-year period would include the purchase of
some 12 head of cattle; however, main emphasis would be placed on developing
and upgrading the existing beef cattle herd. In addition, the project would
finance the improvement of pasture, fencing, and existing installations such
as water points, lick troughs and corrals, and the total cost of veterinary
products. To provide beneficiaries with immediate additional income, which
would help them meet cash requirements and be able to make interest payments
on the subloan, minor species, including their initial feed and veterinary
requirements, would also be financed.



- 34 -
VI. PRODUCTION, MARKETS AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A. Production
6.01       At full development, incremental production from the project would
be approximately as follows:
Total Incremental Production at Full Development
Total Production.                  As % of
In Project  /    National              Project      National   Year of Full
Areas (1977)-     (1978)      Total    Areas       Production  Development
--------(000'm.ton)--------- (007-ton) --   ()-------------
Crops
Rice (paddy)                693.4         1,627.0      12.2       2.0           0.7          5
Corn                        697.1           861.0      18.5       3.0           2.1          6
Sorghum                     193.3           461.6      13.8       7.0           3.0          6
Root crops:
Cassava                  1,072.7        1,960.1
Potatoes                  693.6         1,525.8       28.6      2.0            0.8         7
Non-centrifugal sugar (panela) 509.5        893.8      35.2       7.0           3.9          6
Plantain                    843.6         2,192.0       2.0       0.2           0.1          2
Cocoa                        15.4            31.0      0.7        5.0           2.3         10
Livestock
Beef (liveweight)           342.2 b/       863. 3b/    2.6        1.0           0.3         10
Pork (liveweight)            46.2 -          99.9 -    0.3        1.0           0.3          4
Poultry (liveweight)          n.a.          89.3 b*c/              _             -           5
Honey                         1.2            2.2 -       * d/    1.0            0.4          4
Milk (million liters)         1.0            1.8        5.1       0.5           0.3          7
Eggs (million units)          n.a.           3.3       0.7         -            0.2          4
a/ Production in the 12 administrative departments
b/ Registered slaughter
c/ 30 m.ton.
d/ 8 m.ton.
At full development and using the 1978 farmgate prices utilized in the finan-
cial analysis (Annex 3, Table 33), the annual total value of the incremental
output generated by the project would be about US$20.7 million, excluding
plantains (US$6.0 million), which would be eliminated bv Year 5.
B. Markets, Marketing and Prices
6.02       Total incremental production generated by the project at full devel-
opment (1986) would be relatively small as compared with current produc-
tion in the project areas and at a national level (para 6.01). It is expected
that most of the incremental production would be utilized within the project
areas and would not be sufficient to have any negative impact on market
prices. However, it would contribute to meeting the increase in aggregate
demand for food in Colombia, which is estimated to increase at a rate of about
3.8% per annum, thus assisting in checking the rise of consumer prices.



- 35 -
6.03      None of the project's commodities appears to face demand or market-
ing constraints. Incremental production of beef and rice would directly or
indirectly lead to increases in exports, while production of non-centrifugal
sugar (panela) is considered to be for the domestic market; however, since
Colombia is a net exporter of sugar, it is envisaged that the incremental
production of panela would release equivalent amounts of sugar for exports
elsewhere in the economy. Overall grain marketing outlets within the project
areas are considered to be adequate, and IDEMA maintains agencies throughout
the project area. As a result of inadequate supply, the price situation for
project commodities would be favorable and prices in the domestic market would
continue to be high. The international price and demand situation for the
project commodities currently exported by Colombia is expected to be as
follows (US$ 1978):  beef world imports are expected to grow at 4.1% p.a. and
prices are projected to increase from US$870/m ton in 1978 to US$1,120 m/ton by
1985; rice world imports are expected to grow at 2.0% p.a. with prices in-
creasing from US$368/m ton in 1978 to US$424 m/ton by 1985; and world imports
of sugar should grow at 1.4% p.a., with prices recovering from US$7.8 cents/lb
in 1978 to US$14.1 cents/lb by 1990.
C. Producers' Benefits and Financial Rates of Return
6.04      Using the financial assumptions regarding investments, operating
costs and income, the illustrative farm investment models were analyzed to
assess producer benefits and financial rates of return. The principal
results are summarized on page 36.
6.05      The financial rates of return, estimated at constant 1978 prices
indicate that it would be financially rewarding to undertake the investments
envisaged in the illustrative farm models. This is particularly true when the
incremental investment is relatively small and full returns to the investments
materialize in a relatively short period of time, as in the case of rainfed
crops. The financial rate of return of the pure beef cattle operation, 12%,
is indicative of the importance for INCORA beneficiaries to mix, whenever
possible, pure beef cattle operations with minor species and/or crops. The
introduction of relatively small amounts of minor species in the beef cattle
operations, in addition to improving substantially the cash flow of the model
and the income situation of the farmer, would increase the financial rate
of return from 12% to 54%. Similarly, when applying to the 1978 financial
prices the future trend in real prices (in 1978 constant dollars) as
projected by the Bank Commodities and Export Projections Division, the
financial rate of return of the pure beef cattle illustrative model would
increase from 12% to 18%. Similarly, the financial rates of return would
also increase for the other illustrative models, given the projected
increase of world prices for the rest of the commodities, except for cocoa
(Annex 3, Table 33). However, the projected increases in rice and sorghum
prices would more than compensate in model 2 (para 5.06) for the negative
impact of the projected decrease in world cocoa prices. At full development,
per capita income to beneficiaries would range from US$360 (or US$420 including
minor species) for beef cattle to US$760 for partially irrigated crops, as
compared with a national average per capita income, which was about US$710 in



- 36 -
Main activities to be developed
Dual-         Crops-
Beef         purpose       partly         Crops--
cattle        cattle       irrigated       rainfed
(320 ha)      (142 ha)      (210 ha)        (21 ha)
Type of farm                                               -mpresas    - - - -                        Individual
Comunitarias                     farm
No of families per farm                                         8             5             10             1
Averaze area per familv                                        40            28            21             21
Investment per family -/                                   1,354          1,872         6,623         4,695
Annual income before debt service -
(a) Without project
- Remuneration of familv labor                         1,240         1,080          1,139         1,120
- Cash surplus                                           392           633          1,263           888
- On-farm consumption                                    280           297            323           325
Total                                                  1,882         2,010          2,725         2,333
(b) With project at full development -
- Remuneration of fanilv labor                         1,346         1,214          1,438         1,430
- Cash surplus                                           763         1,165          3,300         2,550
- On-farm consumption                                    318           333            325           325
Total                                                  2,427         2,712          4,763         4,305
Average debt service
- on oroject subloans                                    229           338         1,272            980
- on orevious subloans                                   190           159            117           135
Total                                                    419            497         1,389         1,115
Net income after debt service
(a) Without project                                        1,692         1,851          2,608         2,198
(b) With project:
- during debt repayment        d/                      2,008         2.215          3,374         3,190
- after full debt repayment -                          2,427         2,712          3,528         4,048
Income per capita et/
- without project                                        282            308           435           366
- with oroject at full development a/                    404            452           i88            675
Financial Rate of Return -                                     12%.          22%           21%            45%
a/ When minor species were included, main indicators changed as follows:
Beef cattle      Dual-purpose cattle
Investment per family (US$)                                 1,522                 2.139
Income per capita at full development (US$)                   420                    452
Financial rate of return (%)                                    54%                   66%
b/  After debt service on short term subloans.
c/  Year 7 for beef cattle, Year 6 for dual-purpose cattle, Year 7 for partly irrigated crops, and
Year 5 for rainfed crops.
d/  Year 14 for beef cattle, Year 11 for dual-purpose cattle, Year 11 for partly irrigated crops, and
Year 9 for rainfed crops.
e/  Assuming  six members per family.
f/  In constant prices.



- 37 -
1977. On the average, the project would increase beneficiaries' income, in
constant terms, by about 25% during the subloan repayment period and by about
50% after full repayment of the loan.
D. Financial Projections
Project Cash Flow
6.06      The estimated project cash flow to be handled by INCORA is given
in Annex 3, Table 34. The cash inflow would be derived from the Govern-
ment's counterpart funds in the form of equity contribution to INCORA, with-
drawals from the Bank loan, and repayment of principal and interest by project
beneficiaries. Withdrawals from the Bank loan would be made over five and
one-half years; withdrawals in the last semester of Year 5 represent a four-
month time lag between actual expenditures and reimbursement from the Bank
loan. The cash outflow consists of subloans to project beneficiaries, expen-
ditures for technical assistance, payment of commission to CAJA for its banking
services, reserves for life insurance, and debt service on the Bank loan.
6.07      Given the Bank loan at 7.9% per annum 1/ and the Government equity
contribution to INCORA, the average cost of funds for the project lending pro-
gram would be about 3.5% per annum. The initial lending interest rate to sub-
borrowers, excluding the 1% per annum life insurance charge, would be 16% per
annum (paras 4.11 and 4.12), leaving a gross margin to INCORA of 12.5% per annum,
or 11.5% per annum after payment of the 1% per annum commission to CAJA. Since
the incremental administrative and technical assistance costs would be rela-
tively small and totally financed under the project through additional budgetary
allocations to INCORA, it is considered that the 11.5% would more than ade-
quately cover any additional overhead costs and the lending risk. The cash
flow projections indicate that the 11.5% per annum gross margin to INCORA would
amount to a total cumulative surplus of US$49.3 million (Col$1,930 million) by
Year 18 of the project (Annex 3, Table 34).
Fiscal Impact
6.08      Government's financial commitment to the project would amount to
about US$19.2 million (or US$24.6 million, with price contingencies included).
As an average, during the five-year implementation period of the project,
the Government's equity contribution would amount to US$3.8 million (Col$150.0
million) per annum. This amount, compared with the annual average budgetary
allocation to INCORA during the period 1975-77, would be equivalent to in-
creasing INCORA's budget at an annual rate of 27% during the next five years.
The counterpart funds required by the project would be as follows:
1/   Rate in effect from April to June 1979.



- 38 -
-----Project Years-----------
1      2      3       4      5       Total
 --------(US$ million)
For the lending program            2.2    4.1    5.8    5.4    0.8        18.3
Other incremental costs           0.3    0.3    0.1    0.1    0.1          0.9
Total                        2.5    4.4    5.9    5.5    0.9         19.2
Total (Col$ million)        99.1  168.6  233.8  212.5   33.9       747.4
An assurance was obtained during negotiations that the project counterpart
funds would be made available as equity to INCORA as specified above.
Project Cost Recovery
6.09      Project beneficiaries would contribute with an average of 11% of
their investment plans. INCORA's lending, amounting to 89% of the invest-
ments to be financed under the project, is expected to be fully recovered.
In line with Government's policy on the small-scale farming sector, technical
assistance to beneficiaries would be provided by INCORA free of charge.
VII. ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JIJSTIFICATION
A. Benefits and Justification
7.01      The main benefits of the proposed project would be to increase
productive efficiency, employment and incomes of land reform/colonization
beneficiaries from currently unsatisfactory levels. At country level, the
proposed project would help the agricultural sector to continue to play a
leading role as one of the main providers of foreign exchange savings. The
incremental production of rice and beef should lead to higher exports, and
incremental production of corn, cocoa and milk would reduce import require-
ments as these commodities are currently imported. The net foreign exchange
savings of the project at full development, valued at 1979 prices, would be
about US$13.5 million. The other products are mainly for domestic consumption,
though panela production would substitute sugar, which, in turn, is being
exported. At full development, the total value of incremental production
generated by the project would be about US$20.7 million, representing from
Year 6 onward a net economic benefit to the country of about US$11.3 million
per annum.
7.02      The direct beneficiaries of the project would be about 7,600
small-scale farmers, with an average farm size to be developed under the
project of about 25 ha per beneficiary, representing about 45,700 persons.



- 39 -
Employment effects, which are accounted for in the economic rate of return,
would be substantial through the increased opportunities for work provided by
the project. The project contribution to employment would come mainly from
regular job opportunities generated at the farm level. At full development,
the project would require, annually, an additional 1.5 million man-days of
permanent and part-time labor, equivalent to 6,450 full-time jobs. About 25%
of this total (1,600 man-years) would be provided by family labor, thus reducing
substantially the underemployment of beneficiaries.
7.03      The proposed project has some important non-quantifiable benefits.
In particular, it would assist the development of small-scale farming activi-
ties of land reform/colonization beneficiaries, who, up to now, have received
only limited assistance, to a point where they would become self-sustaining
viable farmers who would eventually "graduate" from INCORA assistance, thereby
making it possible for the agency to extend its assistance to other benefi-
ciaries. The project would also contribute to better land utilization by
bringing currently unutilized land into production and by shifting to higher
value farming activities such as commercial crops and dual-purpose cattle.
Moreover, the most important of the non-quantifiable benefits of the proposed
project would be the strengthening of INCORA's capabilities as a developing
agency. The institutional building aspect carries very important policy
implications in relation to the future of INCORA and assistance to a rather
large number of small-scale farmers, who, given the current institutional and
administrative structure of the Public Agricultural sector in Colombia, can be
assisted only through INCORA's organization. Therefore, it is envisaged that
the successful implementation of the proposed project could bring about some
long due policy decisions on this institution.
B. Economic Rate of Return and Sensitivity Analysis
7.04      The rate of return to the economy has been calculated for each
component, excluding the small agroindustry component and for the project as
a whole, on the basis of the illustrative investment models, including the
cost of technical support, monitoring and evaluation. The small agroindustries
component, representing about 5% of total investment costs, has been excluded
from the analysis because the specific type of agroindustries, and, therefore,
its costs and benefits, are not yet defined. The investments in agroindustries
would require a feasibility study, and these would be reviewed by the Bank on a
case-by-case basis. Key assumptions and adjustments utilized in the economic
analysis were as follows:
(a) Efficiency wage rate, unskilled labor. In estimating the
efficiency wages of unskilled labor, the following formula has
been used:  EWR    lr (pWr)  where lr represents the conversion
Wr
factor to express in border prices the marginal product of labor
foregone in rural areas (0.93); p represents the probability of



- 40 -
hiring a formerly employed worker (0.89, cons:Ldering that the
average rate of unemployment in rural areas is 11%); and Wr
is the average agricultural wage rate in the project areas
(Col$120 per man-day), assumed to reflect the marginal
product of labor of the employed rural worker. The resulting
conversion factor for labor is 0.83. The values of Ir and
p parameters are taken from the set of shadow prices for Colombia
provided by the Programs Department. Countrywide averages are
considered justified by the wide range of geographical locations
and activities of project beneficiaries' and by the fact that
implementation of project activities would follow a pattern
similar to the existing agricultural activities in the 12 project
areas.
(b) Taxes. Taxes on cattle sales have been excluded from livestock
production costs.
(c)  Border price ratios.  To correct for distortions from import
duties and internal sales taxes, all cost items have been border-
priced by using the following conversion factors:
4-wheel drive vehicles                      0.85
Motorcycles                                 0.49
Inputs:
Fertilizers                               0.98
Animal feed                               0.90
Veterinary products                       0.79
Other inputs                              C'.86
Agricultural machinery                      0.97
Irrigation equipment (pumps and pipes)   0.70
Fencing materials                           0.62
Civil works (construction sector)           0.87
Vehicles operating costs                    1.85
Other (agricultural sector)                 0.93
7.05      Efficiency prices have been calculated for project output on the
following basis:
(a) Milk, cassava, plantain and minor species have been considered
as non-traded goods. Their financial prices, multiplied by the
General Conversion factor for the Agricultural Sector (0.93),
have been estimated to represent their economic value. For
cassava, and plantain, occasional but minimal exports or imports
occur to or from neighboring countries, but no data are available
on CIF or FOB prices and no projections of future trends exist.
No control exists on their prices or trade flows. Regarding
milk and minor species, the very small incremental production is
expected to be sold on the rural market of the producing areas, or
consumed on the farm. Milk is expected to be consumed fresh (non
pasteurized), on the farm and in its immediate vicinity. Prices
of all above-mentioned commodities have been assumed to remain
constant in real terms at their 1978 ILevel; and



- 41 -
(b) Rice, sorghum, cocoa, beef and panela have been treated as
traded-goods. Efficiency prices for rice, sorghum, cocoa and
beef have been estimated for 1978 based on: (i) available CIF
or FOB price data at the Colombian border adjusted for internal
transportation costs (at their economic value), and (ii) differences
in quality between imported commodities and project expected output.
An efficiency price for panela has been calculated on the basis of
the efficiency price for sugar, after deducting the cost of indus-
trial processing and adding back the economic value of molasses.
Prices for future years have been estimated by applying the appro-
priate rates of change in constant prices, as projected by the
Bank Commodities and Export Projections Division. The economic
and financial prices used in the analysis are shown in Annex 3,
Table 32.
7.06      Based on these assumptions, the economic rate of return of the
project over 20 years is estimated at about 38%, including more than 50% for
rainfed crops; 24% for irrigated crops; 29% for dual-purpose cattle; 20% for
beef cattle breeding; and more than 50% in minor species. The economic rate
of return for each component and for the project as a whole is given on
page 42. The result of the analysis based on four sets of assumptions are
summarized as follows:
Economic Rate of Return
(a) At financial prices, excluding
transfer payments                                     24
(b) As (a) above, with efficiency
pricing of output                                     29
(c) As (b) above and including shadow-
pricing of labor                                      34
(d)  As (c) above and applying border
price ratios to costs (best estimate)                 38
7.07      The relatively high level of the economic rate of return is deter-
mined mainly by the large proportion of project funds that would finance
improvements in the cultivation of traditional rainfed crops, which require
a relatively small investment and yield quick returns. In addition, the substan-
tial increases in international prices projected for the project-traded out-
puts (except for cocoa) result in a quite substantial difference between the
rate of return with and without efficiency pricing.
7.08      The rate of return of the project shows a higher degree of sensitivity
to changes of output prices than to changes in costs. The sensitivity analysis
indicates that bringing the economic rate of return to the level of the esti-
mated opportunity cost of capital in Colombia (11%) would require either one of
the following cases: (a) 60% increase in operating costs; (b) 50% decrease in
benefits; or (c) 20% increase in costs and 20% decrease in benefits. These



COLOMBIA
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT - INCORA
Economic Rate of Return
Summary of Calculation
(Col$ million)
---------------------------- Project Year ------------------------------------------  Economic
Rate of
1        2         3         4        5         6         7         8         9    10-20 Return
(%)
et Increment Benefits
On-Farm Development:
Crops, rainfed              -54.8    -73.9    -74.9       12.6    289.1    336.5    332.5    293.7    275.1    234.5   +50
Crops, partly irrigated   -34.6    -39.6    -39.7    -32.2          47.4      54.4     54.8      57.9      60.0      59.4    24
Dual-purpose cattle          -8.6    -22.5    -26.3    -23.5         3.0      34.7      41.9     45.7      47.0      47.3    29
Beef cattle breeding         -7.3    -18. 0    =26.5      28.1      -5.5       9.3     22.4      27.4      30.1      32.9    20
Minor species                 0.6       2.3      5.4      11.4      15.4      16.0      17.6     14.4      14.4      14.4   +50
Subtotal                 -105.3   -151.5   -162.0    -59.8    318.6    451.0    469.2    439.1    426.6    388.5              -
Technical support            -39.1    -28q9    -7-5        -5.5      -5.5      -5.5     -5.5      =5.5      =5.5      -5.5      -
Total project net
incremental benefits  -144.4   -180.4   -169.5    -65.3    313.1    445.5    463.7    433.6    421.1    383.0    38
ource: Mission
May 15, 1979



- 43 -
events are unlikely to occur, however, given the expected price situation
for both traded and non-traded goods and the conservative assumptions
utilized in the illustrative farm models.
C. Project Risks
7.09      The project faces no major risks in terms of farmers' willingness
to make changes and to adopt improved technology. This has been satisfactorily
demonstrated in on-going INCORA programs and there is a strong demand for
investment funds from INCORA's beneficiaries. Successful implementation of
the project will depend largely on the Government's continuous support of
INCORA's activities and, to a lesser extent, to overcoming some of INCORA's
institutional weaknesses. Nevertheless, the risk is reasonable, particularly
since the new administration is interested in strengthening INCORA, and INCORA
has agreed to make the necessary changes in financial management and procedures.
In addition, provision for high level and strongly centralized management is
included in the project.
D. Environmental Impact
7.10      No long-term adverse environmental effects are expected as a conse-
quence of the execution of the project. Fertilizers and chemicals to be
utilized under the project are expected to have little effect on the local
ecology, assuming that normal precautions are taken in their application and
considering the relatively small area which would be covered by each farm
participating in the project.
VIII.  SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
8.01      Assurances were obtained from the Government during negotiations
that:
(a)  the project would be financed as specified in paragraph 3.13;
(b)  procurement procedures specified in paragraphs 3.15 and 3.16
would be followed;
(c)  the functions, duties and responsibilities of the project
coordinator would not be changed during the implementation
period of the project without prior Bank approval (para 4.01);
(d)  the project coordinator's duties and responsibilities would be
as specified in paragraph 4.02;
(e)  the ratio of technicians to individual subloans would not
exceed a ratio of 1:40 during the implementation period of the
project and an adequate level of technical assistance would be
maintained after project completion (para 4.03);



- 44 -
(f)  the procedures, terms, and conditions of the operation of the
revolving fund would not be changed or waived without prior
Bank approval (para 4.05);
(g)  the terms and conditions of participation by banks other than
CAJA in the project would be subject to specif:ic agreements
acceptable to the Bank (para 4.06);
(h) INCORA would enter into and update operating agreements with
agencies specified in paragraph 4.08 under which they would
carry out training courses and provide extendecl assistance;
(i) approval procedures and lending limits specified in paragraph
4.09 would be applied and enforced;
(j) lending terms and conditions specified in paragraphs 4.10 and
4.11 would be implemented by INCORA, and, by September 1, 1979,
INCORA would submit to the Bank for comments the revised credit
manual to be utilized for lending under the project (para 4.11);
(k) the rate of interest to be utilized under the project would be
linked to the rates utilized for comparable purposes and bene-
ficiaries by FFAP, and, by July 1, 1980 the rates of interest
and lending conditions of INCORA's own resources would be
standardized to those to be utilized under the project and be
extended to the rates utilized under Loans 1118-CO and 1163-CO
(para 4.12);
(1) not later than January 1, 1980 INCORA would submit to the Bank
for comments, a report containing a detailed timetable and
priorities of the study to be undertaken by the financial and
management consultants and the computer syst,em to be utilized
under the project, and every six months progress reports of the
consultants' activities and timetable for implementing the
consultants' recommendations (para 4.16);
(m)  modified accounting procedures and financial statement:s would be
maintained during the implementation period of the project (para
4.17);
(n) accounting and auditing procedures specified in paragraphs 4.18
and 4.19 would be carried out;



- 45 -
(o)  a consultant on monitoring and evaluation techniques would be
hired, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, not later
than December 1, 1979; an adequately staffed Project Monitoring
and Evaluation Unit would be maintained; monitoring and evaluation
procedures would be carried out as outlined; annual reports on
monitoring would be sent to the Bank within two months of the end
of each 12-month period; quarterly progress reports of the project's
financial implementation would be sent to the Bank within two months
of the end of each quarter; and a draft project completion report
would be prepared by INCORA no later than four months after the
proposed project investments have been completed (para 4.21); and
(p)  counterpart funds would be made available as equity to INCORA as
specified in paragraph 6.08.
8.02      Conditions of loan effectiveness would be that a subsidiary agree-
ment, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, had been signed
between INCORA and CAJA (para 4.04), and that a revolving fund for lending
under the project, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, had been
established by INCORA and that an initial amount equivalent to US$1,080,000
had been deposited by INCORA (para 4.05).
8.03      It would be a condition of disbursement of the overseas training
component that the Bank had been presented with a specific overseas training
program (para 4.07).
8.04      With the above assurances, the proposed project would constitute
a suitable basis for a Bank loan to the Colombian Institute for Agrarian
Reform for the equivalent of US$20 million. The loan would have a term of
17 years, including four years of grace, with interest at the rate prevailing
at the time of the loan approval.
June 6, 1979



- 46 -
ANNEX 1
COLOMBIA
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT - INCORA
Bank Lending to the Agricultural Sector in Colombia
1.        Since 1966, the Bank has made 10 loans to Colombia for a total
of US$230.6 million; INCORA has been the executing agency for six of these
loans. Performance under the on-going INCORA projects is described in
paragraphs 1.20 to 1.27 of the main report. A summary of performance under
completed INCORA projects (Loans 502-CO, 624-CO, and 739-CO), and other
on-going agricultural credit projects for the agricultural sector in Colombia
(Loans 1352-CO and 1357-CO) is given below.
A. Completed INCORA Projects
Atlantico I Irrigaiton (Loan 502-CO)
2.        The loan totaling US$9 million out of US$15.7 million total project
cost, became effective in November 1967. The project would finance the
construction of flood protection works, irrigation and drainage systems,
road, pumping plants, and agricultural supporting services for extension,
research, and credit for farming operations and inputs, benefitting about
2,000 landless families to be settled by INCORA in the project area. The
project as planned met all the criteria for integrating land reform with land
development to improve agricultural production and family incomes and living
standards in the rural sector; it was the first project of this type to be
undertaken by INCORA.
3.        During implementation, the project encountered serious problems
which delayed completion of the infrastructure about four years beyond the
original date. Technical problems were mainly to blame: zmost of the soils
to be irrigated proved to be saline and/or alkaline, so that the intensive
cropping pattern for export-bound production could not be implemented; thus,
traditional crops are being produced under irrigation, bound for the internal
market. The settlement program also fell short of its targets and only 840
families were settled in the area.
4.        The PPAR indicates that full production from the project would be
about 25% of that projected at appraisal but the increase in production value
under these conditions would still provide family incomes well above the sub-
sistence level. As a result of both the delay in implementing the project and
the impossibility of implementing the intensive cropping pattern envisaged
at appraisal, the project's economic rate of return was estimated to be below



- 47 -
ANNEX 1
5%. In addition to agricultural development, the improvements in social
services benefited directly or indirectly about 50,000 inhabitants in the
region. Also, the project had a strong influence on the organizational
development of INCORA during the early years. This was the first integrated
development project to be undertaken by INCORA and many of the procedures and
methodology developed and used in the project became standard for other
projects. Performance of INCORA as an executing agency was satisfactory;
project design was the main reason that the results envisaged at appraisal
could not be achieved.
First Agricultural Credit (Loan 624-CO)
5.        The loan for US$17 million, out of US$431 total project costs,
became effective in November 1969 and was completed in June 1975. The project
area was initially confined to two regions (Valle and Tolima), and lending
from 1970 to 1972 was limited to farmers with 10 to 100 ha. Farmers received
credit for short-term seasonal production costs, machinery, and on-farm
improvements, mainly for irrigation and drainage, and machinery contractors
received subloans for machinery purchase.
6.        During the first three years (1970-72), progress was slow.  However,
in early 1973, INCORA agreed to increase its field staff and give full support
to the project in general; the Government provided funds and the Bank agreed
to enlarge the project area and include farmers with less than 10 ha as project
beneficiaries. As a result, activity speeded up and remaining funds (US$14
million) were disbursed in 18 months.
7.        The PPAR indicates that INCORA, after an unsatisfactory start,
developed an effective organization for delivery and supervision of production
and development credit, the target group of farmers, and total beneficiaries
was about 15% larger than originally envisaged. The farm activity also proved
to be a profitable undertaking for the country. The project's rate of return
was reestimated at 25% or the same as estimated at appraisal. However, the
project lending was dominated by short-term financing. This has been taken
into account under the proposed project and short-term financing would be
provided to project sub-borrowers only as a complement to medium- and long-
term investments. In view of the project's concern with all farmers, many
of whom were not land reform beneficiaries, the PPAR questioned the use of
INCORA as an executing agency. The proposed project, however, deals exclu-
sively with farmers who have benefited from the land reform program. By
virtue of their land tenure status (their land is already mortgaged to INCORA),
they lack access to long-term credit, which, by law, requires a land mortgage,
and they have limited access to medium-term subloans, which, in practice,
requires the guarantee of INCORA.
Cagueta Land Colonization (Loan 739-CO)
8.        The loan of US$8.1 million, out of US$21.6 million of total project
cost, became effective in October 1971. The project would provide about 4,500
settlers with farm development credit; land titles and technical assistance
to about 8,000 families; and construction of 380 km of roads, 90 schools and
six health centers. However, halfway through the project investment period,



- 48 -
ANNEX I
it became obvious that the project could not achieve its objectives as
expected at the appraisal. It had proved impossible to develop the project as
fast as planned because of the difficulties of the location and with building
up the technical and support services. In September 1973, project targets
were reduced from 4,500 to 1,600 subloans for farm development and 300 subloans
for cattle fattening; from 380 km to 200 km of roads; from 90 to 60 schools;
and, four health centers and one hospital. I'he revised goals were satisfac-
torily met at completion of the project although 23 months behind schedule.
9.        The PCR estimates that the economic rate of return of the project,
17%, was equivalent to the rate of return envisaged at appraisal. The agri-
cultural and social impact of the project, however, proved to be difficult
to measure due to a shortage of adequate information on project impact. Never-
theless, the project demonstrated that squatters in the Amazon forests can be
settled and encouraged to develop farms, which provide a reasonable living for
themselves and their families. The project also proved the feasibility of
productive land use in the Amazon basin, and it has provided valuable expe-
rience for planning further rural development activities in the area.
B. Other On-going Agricultural Credit Projects
Integrated Rural Development (Loan 1352-CO)
10.       The loan, US$52 million for a project with total costs of US$131
million, became effective in August 1977. The project provides an integrated
delivery of supervised credit with technical advice on farm production and
marketing, to small-scale farmers in three geographic areas of marked rural
poverty. Improvements are also being made to physical infrastructure and
social services which will benefit all inhabitants of the selected area.
The project is under the overall control of a special unit in the National
Planning Department and part of a US$250 million nationaL program also
supported by IDB (US$65 million) and the Canadian International Development
Agency (CIDA) (US$13 million) which in five years should benefit about one
quarter of all the low-income target groups in rural Colombia. The administer-
ing agency of the project is Caja Agraria which handles on-lending for farm
production and marketing and is responsible for the coorclination of the other
agencies inolved in the execution of project components.
11.       The project now in its second year of operation is progressing satis-
factorily. The initial delays due to difficulties associated with coordinating
activities of the 11 institutions working in the program have been largely
solved. Agricultural credit is expected to continue its increasing trend
supported by the additional ICA staff recruited at the beginning of the current
year and by a restructuring of CAJA's organization. Cooperation among the insti-
tutions continues to improve. A special report: has been prepared on the
present status and future work program for this component. CAJA's monitoring
of the project's activities has improved considerably, and a consultant firm
has been hired by DNP's evaluation group to define evaluation methodology and
procedures.



- 49 -
ANNEX 1
12.       Disbursements as of March 31, 1979 were US$6.3 million.  The loan is
expected to be fully disbursed by the end of 1982.
Second Agricultural Credit (Loan 1357-CO)
13.       The loan which became effective in September 1977 finances the
foreign exchange component of US$64 million of a US$74.1 million project.
The loan is to finance medium- and long-term credit for crops and livestock,
machinery contractors and agroindustries. A total of US$14 million is reserved
for small commercial farmers. The Bank of the Republic (BOR) is responsible
for overall administration of the project. Funds are relent by BOR to partici-
pating institutions through its rediscounting facilities. BOR departments in
charge of project management are the FFAP and Departamento de Credito de
Fomento.
14.       To the end of October 1978, almost 85% of the funds to other than
small commercial farmers and to machinery contractors were committed and the
rest is expected to be committed shortly. On the other hand, only 2% of the
amount reserved for small commercial farmers was committed. The failure by
FFAP to reach small farmers appears to be mainly due to: (a) poor adaptation
of the FFAP credit system to small farmers' needs, particularly with respect
to technical assistance requirements; (b) restrictive regulations regarding
guarantees; and (c) the lack of counterpart funds specifically reserved
for small farmers. To solve the above problems, a concerted effort is being
made by BOR and the key institutions dealing with the agricultural sector and,
on April 1979, important modifications were introduced to the system which
would speed up commitments of funds allocated to the small commercial farmers.
The loan is expected to be fully disbursed by June 1981.
June 6, 1979



- 50 -
ANNEX 2
COLOMBIA
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT - INCoRA
INCORA's Accounting and Financial Managment
A. INCORA's Accounting: Observations and Recommendations
1.        Main observations and recommendations, based oln the analysis of
INCORA and of the Audited Financial Statements (AFS) of INCORA, are summarized
below. These recommendations were discussed during appraisal with INCORA's
management and with the staff of the Financial and Operative Auditing Division
of the Comptroller General and preliminary agreements were reached for imple-
menting the recommendations during preparation of INCORA's Audited Financial
Statement for 1978.
Current Assets
2.        Land for Distribution.  Col$ 633.4 million - Ncte 8 of the AFS
states that: this land is available for distribution to beneficiaries. This
statement is inaccurate; therefore, the amount mentioned above should not
be included under current assets.
3.        Subloans.  All short-term loans and the current maturities of all
long-term loans should be shown. It is apparent, however, that the amount of
Col$ 587.9 million (page 89, para (iv), AFS) includes all overdues, amounting
to Col$ 327.4 million, 75% of which has been overdue between one and five years.
Therefore, these amounts can hardly be classified as current assets.
Long-Term Assets
4.        Receivables.  About 75% of the amount included under long-term assets
(Col$ 435.0 million) is made up of loans to beneficiaries of investments made
in irrigation districts ("Valorizaciones"). These loans should be transferred
to the long-term loan portfolio and be processed in the same manner as any
other loan. Also, urgent action should be taken to recuperate the amounts of
principal and interest due for collection. The amount in,zluded in the budget
to be collected during 1979 from this portfolio is only Col$ 1.0 million,
indicating that little or no action is being taken to recuperate these loans
(para 14).
5.        Investments in Agricultural Development. At least 50% of the
Col$ 228.0 million under this category cannot be regarded as an asset. The
individual accounts require reviewing, and these investments, which have
decreased in value, should be shown at their real worth; the balance that
cannot be recuperated should be written off.
6.        Assets classified as unserviceable should be written off.



- 51 -
ANNEX 2
7.        Depreciation should be calculated according to generally applied
percentages, and reserves for reduction in value of assets should be created
whenever necessary.
8.        Memorandum accounts should be included in the Balance Sheet, includ-
ing the following:
(a)  total amount of outstanding guarantees given by INCORA.  Table
on page 38 of the AFS is unclear and does not include Col$ 179.0
million of guarantees issued by INCORA during 1977; similarly,
there is no indication as to whether the amounts included under
"amortizacions" are payments made by INCORA or guarantees which
were cancelled due to payments by beneficiaries;
(b)  all accrued interest on loans to be collected in the future.
The existing system of interest collection is such that a control
account is absolutely necessary; this would also provide infor-
mation to management on the amount of this important "hidden
reserve";
(c)  amounts of loan written off;
(d)  amounts of loan approved but not yet disbursed to beneficiaries;
(e)  future obligations to contractors, suppliers, and the like; and
(f)  any other memorandum account, as required, to reflect future
obligations or commitments of INCORA.
9.        Long-Term Investments.  The long-term investments portfolio, total-
ing Col$ 2,650.0 million (US$67.4 million), should be divided into two parts:
(a) investments which would be recuperated from beneficiaries, and (b) invest-
ments in roads and social investments carried out by INCORA, such as schools,
hospitals, and health posts which would not be recuperated from beneficiaries.
Liabilities
10.       Contingent liabilities, such as the reserve mentioned in note 27
(page 39 of the AFS) - "juicios de caracter administrativo y laboral" and
other contractual obligations of INCORA towards employees (social benefits,
pensions, and such) cannot be listed as part of INCORA's equity. In this
connection, INCORA should carry out a study to determine the amounts required
for the pension fund and any other contingent liabilities and create a sepa-
rate reserve for those purposes.
Income Statement
11.       The total amount of interest collected during each financial year
(excluding the 1% for life insurance) should be included in the income state-
ment.



- 52 -
ANNEX 2
12.       Government's annual budgetary allocation to INCORA should be divided
into:
(a) allocations to cover part of INCORA's current administrative
and general expenses, which should be included in the income
statement;
(b) allocations to finance investments and part of INCORA's lending
program. In contrast to the current INCORA procedures, admin-
istrative and other expenses involved in carrying out the
lending program, such as technical assistance, training, and
the like, should be excluded.  The balance sheet should show
the Government's budgetary allocations either as an addition
to equity, if they are not to be repaid by INCORA, or as loans
from the Government, whatever is applicable.
General
13.       Land.  INCORA has issued about 15,000 titles to land reform benefi-
ciaries.  However, the number of subloans included in the long-term loan
portfolio reflects only 50% of total titles issued. According to the Agrarian
Reform Law, subloans should be signed by beneficiaries at the time of obtaining
the title to the land. This situation should be rectified as soon as possible.
14.       Irrigation Districts ("Valorizaciones").  INCORA should indicate
immediate action to prepare the necessary documentatin to recover about
Col$ 1,700 million (US$43.2 million) invested in the development of irrigation
districts. Collection procedures should be arranged through HIMAT, which
should collect the irrigation portfolio, together with HIMAT's regular collec-
tion of operation and maintenance costs.
15.       Overdues and New Subloans.  The list: of overdue subloans (AFS,
para 43) should also include a breakdown of overdue interest payments. Simi-
larly, the records for subloans approved should differentiate between subloans
that were subrogated or rescheduled and new subloans granted during the year.
16.       Internal Audit Department.  In line with the recommendations of the
Contralor General, INCORA should establish an Internal Audit Department. The
periodical reports currently prepared by the Operational Control Section
provide a good analysis of the implementation of the different INCORA
programs at regional level; however, little or no action has been taken by
management on the recommendations included in these reports.
17.       Superavit.  As pointed out by the Contralor General, the amounts
to be recuperated from the irrigation districts ("valorizaciones") should not
be included in INCORA's equity as superavit, but how it should be treated in
accounting and presented in the balance sheet requires further review. In
any case, collections from the irrigation districts' portfolio should be
deducted from the value of the investments made by INCORA, which is repaid
by the beneficiaries.



- 53 -
ANNEX 2
B. Recommendations on Financial Management
18.       INCORA should take the necessary steps to:
(a) Recover principal and interest on:
(i) subloans to land reform beneficiaries for land purchase
(Col$ 600 million), representing about 10% of INCORA's
total assets. Only about 50% of this amount (Col$ 300
million) has been documented and is in the process of
collection;
(ii) subloans to users of irrigation projects (Col$ 1,800
million), representing about 25% of INCORA's total assets.
Only about 16% of this total (Col$ 300 million) has been
documented, but collections are not being made;
(b) Modify its accounting system and change its financial presentation
in order to give an accurate picture of its financial situation.
Modifications should be made to:
(i) the income statement, as follows:
- disclose all interest collected in cash and not only
about 10% as is the current practice;
- include all the accrued interest on outstanding loans;
- adjust provisions for doubtful debts;
(ii) the balance sheet, as follows:
-  include all accrued interest as an asset;
- include all guarantees granted by INCORA which now
appear as neither INCORA's liabilities nor as
contingent liabilities;
- distinguish between assets which do generate or can
generate any income and those which do not and cannot;
(c) Improve its reporting system. The accounting department should
produce timely reports for management operations and decision-
making. These reports should be produced by only one source,
discontinuing the current method under which organizational
units within INCORA report independently on their activities;
(d) Modify its budget preparation and presentation. The budget
should:



- 54 -
ANNEX 2
(i)  distinguish between current operations and investments;
(ii)  apply a common accounting code to be used in all financial
statements and the budget;
(iii)  analyze the reasons for variances and base budget on
realistic assumptions;
(e)  Improve its computer activities.  The existing installation is
more than sufficient to cope with the required workload. The
computer should be fully utilized and become the only source for
financial and statistical data;
(f)  Set up an internal audit system.  The existing Operational Control
Section should be strengthened and its functions widened in order
to perform as an internal audit unit;
(g)  Improve its operational arrangements with CAJA.  INCORA
operations must be carried out efficiently and duplication of
work must be avoided;
(h)  Modify its reporting system included in the financial statements
to clearly distinguish between:
(i)  subloans granted during the year from subloan renewals
and rescheduling;
(ii) subloans in arrears paid during the year; and
(iii) subloans repaid ahead of schedule.
(i)  Modify its arrears reporting system to include not only arrears
of principal but also of interest. Review the current arrears
situation and prepare a plan to collect subloans or to write
them off.
19.       The Government should cover foreign exchange differences on all
INCORA loans in foreign currency.
June 6, 1979



ANNEX 3
- 55 -                                 Table 1
COLOMBIA
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT - INCORA
Agricultural Sector Credit and GDP
Average 1975-77
1975      1976       1977      Amount    Structure
--------- (Col$ million)--------------        (%)
New Loans to the
Agricultural Sector
FFAP                       5,596      7,227     10,225      7,683        39
Caja Agraria               5,303      6,122      7,916      6,447        33
Other banks                3,124      5,138      7,331      5,198        26
INCORA /a                    435        323        584        447         2
Total                   14,458    18,810      26,056    19,775        100
Total Outstanding Credit    38,064    48,652        70,029    52,248       100
of which: Agricultural
sector                     7,769      9,652     14,197    10,539         20
Total GDP of the Agricul-
tural Sector
Agriculture               57,883    78,074    103,370    79,776          52
Livestock                 40,020    52,690      68,549    53,753         35
Others /b                 15,582    18,192      24,002    19,259         13
Total                  113,485   148,956    195,921   152,788        100
Total GDP All Sectors       412,829   532,961    686,679   554,156          -
Ratios
New loans to agricul-
ture as % of GDP
of the sector                12.7       12.6       13.3       12.9
Agricultural GDP or %
of total GDP                 27.5       27.9        28.5      27.8
Outstanding credit to the
sector as % of total
outstanding                  20.4       19.8        20.3      20.2
/a Lending with INCORA's own resources.
/b Fishing, hunting and forestry.
Source: Mission
May 15, 1979



- 56-                                   ANNEX 3
COLOMBIA                                  Table 2
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT - INCORA
INCORA Regionalization
Location of
Region                     Regional Offices            Main Areas of Activities
Antioquia                       Medellin              Antioquia and partially the
following departments and areas;
southern part of Cordoba; north
of Choco; and west of Santander
Arauca                          Saravena              Arauca and the neighboring
municipalities of Boyaca and
Santander
Atlantico                       El Limon              Atlantico
Bolivar                         Cartagena             Northern part of Bolivar
Caqueta                         Florencia             Caqueta
Cauca                           Popayan               Cauca and part of Narino
Cesar                           Valledupar            Cesar and parts of Magdalena
and de Guajira
Cordoba                         Monteria              Cordoba excluding Montelibano
Costa Pacifico                  Buenaventura          Pacific coast from Buenaventura
to Ecuador
Cundinamarca #1 - Boyaca        Bogota                Cundinamarca excluding the area
of Sumapaz, and central Boyaca.
Cundinamarca #2                 Fusagasuga            Sumapaz
Huila                           Neiva                 Huila
Magdalena                       Prado-Sevilla         North of Magdalena and Guajira
Meta - Casanare                 Villavicencio         Meta, Casanare and part of Vaupes
Narino-Putumayo                 Pasto                 Andean parts of Narifio and Putumayo
Norte de Santander              Cucuta                Northern part of Santander
Santander                       Bucaramanga           Santander and southern parts of
Bolivar
Pereira - Valle                 Pereira               Parts of Quindio, Risaralda,
Caldas and of Valle
Sucre                           Sincelejo             Sucre and part of Bolivar
Tolima                          Ibague                Tolima excluding the Sumapaz area
Source: INCORA
May 15, 1979



COLOMBIA
THIRD AGRICtULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT - INCORA
Selection of Project Areas and Beneficiaries
Agrarian Reform            Settlers                    Total
No. of        Area      No. of         Area        No. of         Area
Families       (ha)     Families       (ha)        Families       (ha)
Total in INCORA 20 projects                35,954      496,982    16,492       833,046        52,446      1,330,028
Total in 12 project areas                  24,899      317,325     9,739       457,480        34,638        774,805
Total project potential beneficiaries
in the 12 project areas:
Antioquia                                800       22,131       -                           800         22,131
Bolivar                                1,500       30,280       -              -          1,500         30,280
Cesar                                  1,185       48,556       -              -          1,185         48,556
Cordoba                                1,807       23,434       -              -          1,807         23,434
Cundinamarca No. 1 - Boyaca              -            -         700        43,854           700         43,854
Cundinamarca No. 2                     2,421       29,517       -              -          2,421         29,517
Huila                                  1,044       27,872       -               -         1,044         27,872
Magdalena                                423       10,631       -               -           423         10,631
Meta-Casanare                          1,013       61,870     1,735        100,000        2,748        161,870
Norte de Santander                     1,240       22,067       -               -         1,240         22,067
Santander                              1,177       27,072       -              -          1,177         27,072
Total                            12,610      303,430      2,435        143,854       15,045        447,284
Note: For project inplementation purposes Casanare would be administrated
through Meta Regional Office.
Source: Mission                                                                                                            >
Lo  L
April 16, 1979



ANNEX 3
Table 4
- 58 -
COLOMBIA
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT - INCORA
Detailed Summary of Project Areas
Departments
Antioquia              -    Excluding the municipalities of Apartado,
Chigorod6, Puerto Berrio and Turbo.
Bolivar                -    Excluding the municipalities of Mahates and
Maria la Baja.
Cesar                  -    All of the Department.
Cordoba                -    Excluding the municipalities of Monteria
and Ceretg.
Boyacg                 -    Including the municipalities of Nobsa,
Puerto Boyacg and Sutamarchan.
Cundinamarca           -    Including the municipalities of Agua de Dios,
#1 and #2                  Anapoima, Arbelaez, Cabrera, El Colegio,
Fusagasugg, Guataquf, Jerusalen, La Mesa,
Lenguazaque, Nilo, Ospina Perez, Pacho,
Pandi, Pasca, Pull, Rafael Reyes (Apulo),
San Bernardo, San Francisco, Sibate, Silvania,
Subachoque, Tena, Tibacuy, Tocaima, Viota
and Yacop! (San Antonio).
Huila                  -    All of the Department.
Magdalena              -    Excluding the munipality of Cienaga.
Meta-Casanare          -    Including municipalities of Villaviciencio,
Acacias, San Juan de Arama, San Martin and
Vista Hermosa of the Meta Department; Yopal
(Marroqu'n) of the Casanare Department;
and part of Vaupes Department, but
excluding the area to benefit for the El
Retorno Settlement Project.
Norte de Santander    -    Excluding the municipalities of Chitaga,
Sardinata, Toledo and Tibu'.
Santander              -    Excluding the municipalities of
Barrancabermeja, Bolivar, Cimitarra
and Simacota.
Source; Mission
May 15, 1979.



ANNEX 3
- 59                                                   Table 5
COLOMBIA
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT - INCORA
Project Areas: Simeiry of Beneficiaries, Land Use and Tenure Type
Total Area           No. of              Area per
(ha)              Families            Family (ha)
Total INCORA Beneficiaries
in the 20 Areas
Empresas domunitarias (1,274)                 246,107              12,350                20
Asentamientos individuales                    250,875              13,604                 18
Colonos                                       833,046              16,492                50
Total                                  1.330.028              42.446                 31
Crops                                142,643                -                     3
Livestock                            587,282                -                    14
Fallow                               212,592                -                     5
Indirectly productive or
unusable                           385.506                -                     9
Total                      1,330.028              42.446                 31
Total Potential Project Beneficiaries
in the 12 Areas
Empresas comunitarias (537)                   127,468              5,519                 23
Asentamientos individuales                    169,936              7,038                 24
Colonos                                       149,880              2.488                 60
Total                                    447.284              15,045                 30
Of which:
Crops                                  63,402                -                     4
Livestock                             264,177                                     18
Fallow                                 95,104                                      6
Indirectly productive or
unusable                             24,601               -                      2
Total                         447.284              15,045                 30
Total Area                               Area to be
to be Developed        No. of              Developed
(ha)            Families            per Family (ha)
Estimated Project Beneficiaries
in the 12 Prolect Areas
Empresas comunitarias (300)                  78,940               3,000                 27
Asentamientos individuales and colono8   109,470                  4,620                 24
Total                                   188.410               7,620                 25
Of which:
Beef cattle breeding                  84,000              2,240                 37.5
Dual purpose cattle                   57,910              2,280                 25
Crops                                 48,00                3.100                15
Total                           188,410               7,620                 25
Source:  Mission
April 16, 1979



- 60 -
ANNEX 3
Table 6
COLOMBIA
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT-INCORA
INCORA Financial Statements
1975                1976                1977
(ColS  million)
3ALA NCE SHEE~T
Assets
Cash and bank accounts                                               253                 337                 216
Short-term assets including: loan portfolio; bonds;
and land available for distribution                             1.240                1.736 -"            1,716
Sub-cotal Current Assets                                 1,492                2,073               1,932
Long-term financial assets including loan portfolio               2,511                1,931               2,298
Investments in agricultural development                              166                 253                 230
Fixed assets                                                          75                  88                  76
Other assets including investment in infrastructure                2,304               2,423               2,499
Deferred expenses                                                    115                 101                  95
Sub-total Long-term Assets                                5,171               4.796               5,198
Tocal Assets                                                       6,663               6.869               7130
Liabilities and Equity
Liabilities
Short-term                                                         675                 756                 939
Medium- and long-term                                           2.168               2,098               2,107
Sub-total Liabilities.                                    2,843               2,854               3,046
Equity
Capital                                                         2,684               2,679               2,779
Reserves and surplus                                            1,310               1,433               1,770
Current year surplus (-deficit)                                  (-174)             _-97)                (-465)
Sub-total Equity                                          3,820               4,015               4,084
Total Liabilities and Equitv                              6 662               6_869               7 130
IICOME STATEMENT
Income
Government budgepry allocations                                    476                 711                 407 -
Ordinary income -                                                   88                 100                  19
Financial income                                                   123                 170                 227
Total Income                                                687                 981                 653
Expenses
Administrative expenses                                            441                 481                 550
Jrrigation districts                                                76                  81                   2-
Depreciation                                                        19                  33                  46
Provision for decrease in the value of assets                       48                1.36                 177
Financial expenses                                                113                 ].31                 117
Exchange differences                                               144                1.17                  49
Provision for legal claims                                           -                  21                  29
Total Expenses                                              841               1.000                 970
Annual Surplus (-Deficit) b/                                        -154                 -19                -317
a/  Loan portfolio, short-vs-long-term, was reclassified in 1976.
b/ Corrected figures. Adjustments have been to account for the fact that interest collected in cash on
part of INCORA's loan portfolio (ColS 20.0 million in 1975, Zol$ 78.0 million in 1976, and CoIS 148
million in 1977) was not included in the Income Statement but charged directly co the reserves in the
equity.
c/  Excluding ColS 91.0 million which were transferred from INCORA to HIMAT in 1977.
d/ Income mainly fron 0 & M payments of beneficiaries of the Irrigation Districts. Managenent and operacior.
of Irrigatior Districts was transferred to HIMAT in 1976.
Source: Mission
April 16, 1979



COLOMBIA
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT - INCORA
INCORA's Credit Activities 1975-77/
Total Outstanding
Average 1975-77                 Credit
1975         1976        1977        Amount      Structure          (June 30, 1978)
- -                 (Col$ million) - - -    -             -          - (Col$ million)-
INCORA's Own Resources
Supervised (INCORA/USAID)                     176.1        142.5       135.6        151.4          25                   1,068.8
Planned (INCORA/IBRD)                         191.8        118.6       211.4        173.9          29                     310.0
Livestock Revolving Fund (BG/INCORA)            0.5          4.6       119.2         41.4            7                    184.8
Caqueta and Cordoba (INCORA/IBRD)              24.6         13.1        99.1         45.6            7                    234.6
Sub-total                          393.0        278.8       565.3        412.3           68                  1,798.2
With INCOKvar's Cuarantee
Developmient Loan Fund (CAJA/USAID)            12.9         17.0        13.9         14.6            2                     33.9
FFAP                    (CAJA/FFAP)           133.2        125.7        85.7        114.9          19                     102.2
Associa Wo              (CAJA)                 69.2         49.6        73.7         64.2           11                    109.2
Others -2.5                                                  3.5         6.0          4.0            -                     16.4
Sub-total                          217.8        195.8       179.3        197.7           32                    261.7
Total Production and
Invetment Credit                610.8         474.6       744.6        610.0         100                   2,059.9
Total Beneficiaries (families)            11,413         8,866       9,034        9,771-                               36,876
Average credit per beneficiary (Col$)  53,518          53,530       82,421       62,429                                55,860
(US$)    1,361        1,362        2,097        1,588                                 1,421
a/Excluding 1NGURA's lending for the purchase of land by beneficiaries.
b/,rrojr various liistitutions for marketing or purcliase of Inputs by INCORA's beneficiaries.
Sottrce: 1flissiuni
April 16, 1979



- 62 -
COLOIGA                                                                                  ANNEX 3
rable 8
TE7RH  AGRICULTURAL CREDTT PROJECT - INCORA
Proiect Technical SupPort Costs
(Co S '000)
- - - - - - - - - - - Year - - - - - - - - -                         Foreign      Foreign
Number   Unit Price          1          2           3        4           5          Tocal    Exchange    Exchange
7.
TecOnical Assistance and Training
Vehic lee
4 wheel drive vehicles-'                        130          415       33,200      20,750         -        -           -         53,950         80         43,160
Motorcycles b/                                    90          70         3.500      2,d70                                          6,370         40         25 56
Subtotal                   -            -        36,700      13,620         -        -           -         60,320         76         45,708
Training of technicians
In the country S/                               290           14        1,620       1,365         98l      _           _          3,966          -
Abroad                                            12         200           800         800        800      -           _          2 400        100          2 400
Subtotal                   -            -          2,420      2,165       1,781      -                      6,366         38          2,400
Training of beneficiaries                         n.a.         n.s.          210         210        210       _          ,             630          -            -
Operating cost of vehiclesi/                                                 280         790      1,020    1,020       1,020         4,130         70         2,892
Incremental field staff!/                            4         330         1,320      1,320       1,320   1,320        1 320        6.600           -            -
Total:                                  -        40.930      28.105       4.331   2.340       _,340         t8,046        65         51,000
Admioiscrion and Management
Salaries!/
Project director                                   1         508           508        508         508      508         508        2,540          -            -
Driver                                             1         105           105        105         105      105         105           525
Secretary                                      _              86            86         86          86       86          86          430
Subtotal                     -          -            699        699         699      699         699        3,495
Vehizie and equipmenc
One 4-wheel drive vehicle                          1         415           415        -           -        -           -            415         s0            332
Office equipmnt                                  _                          60        -         __                   -                60        45             27
Subtotal                    -           -            475        -           -        -           -            475         67            359
Vehicle operating costs                                                       50         100        100       100        100           450         70           315
Per diems   Director                                                         60          60         60       60          60           300          -              -
Driver                                                         30          30         35        30         30           150        _                -
Total                                              1,314        889         889      889         889          .870        14            674
Monitoring and Evaluation
Salaries
Specialist                                         1       2,280         2,280        570         570      570         570        4,560        100          4,560
Chief of -nit                                      1         340           340        340         340      340         340         .,700          -              -
Driver                                            1          105           105        105         105      105         105          525          -               -
Subtotal                     -          -          2,725      1,015       1,015    1,015      1,315         r,785         67          4,560
Vehicle snd equipment
4-Wheel drive                                      1         415           415              -          -         -                  415         80            332
Programeble calculator                            1           52            52        -           -        -           -              52        45             23
Office equipment                                   1          -            100         -( -_                                         100        45             45
Subtotal                     -          -            567         -          _        _                         567         70           400
Vehicle operating cost                               -          -             50         100        100       100         00           450         70            315
Per dies
Driver                                             -          -             30         30          30       30          30           150          -              -
Chief of unit                                      -        _               50         50          S0       50          50           250         -               -
Total                      _          _           3,422       1.195       1 195   1.195       1.195         8,202         64          5,275
Total Cosc of Technical Support                        -                                30 189      6.,15    4,424       4,424        91,118         63        56 949
a/  Replacement of existing vehicles, 80 in ye-r l and 50 in year 2.
50 in year 1 and 40 in year 2.
-/ 115 technicians in year 1, 100 in year 2 and 75 in year 3.
Motorcycles only, other vehicles would be replacements of existing ones.
es (ost for nan-year including social charges and benefits.
f/ Incernacionally recruited. Full timse during year 1, and part-time during years 2-5.
Source: Mission
April .6, 1979



-63 -                                                     ANNEX 3
Table 9
COLOMBIA
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT - INCORA
Phasing of Lending and Investment
(Excluding Price Contingencies)
-   - - - - - - - - - - - - - -Years-
1            2            3            4             5          Total
Commitments (No. of subloans)
Beef cattle breeding/a                                      166          335          420          419           -          1,340
Dual-purpose cattle raising/a                               219          295          388           388          -          1,290
Crops                                                       315          520          725           730         _2,290
Total                                         700        1,150         1,533        1,537                     4,920
Of which: Empresas comunitarias                             45            70           90            95          _            300
Individual farms                                655        1,080         1,443        1,442           -          4,620
Total Commitments (US$'000)
Medium and long term:
Beef cattle breeding                                  322          644           802          810          -          2,598
Dual-purpose cattle raising                           612          835        1,090         1,090          -          3,627
Crops                                               2,046        3,128        4,209         4,492          -         13,875
Minorspecies                                           16           29            44           44          -             133
Short-term, crops                                        1.472        3,050        4,368         2, 87 8        -11768
Total                                       4.468        7,686        10,513        9314           -         31,981
Disbursements of Project funds (US$'000)
Beef cattle breeding                                       207           530          745          896           289        2,578
Dual-purpose cattle raising                                 276          713          950        1,090           598        3,627
Crops:  investment                                       2,002         3,113        4,194        4,477            89       13,875
working capital                                 1,472         3,050        4,367        2,879           -         11,768
Minor species                                               16            29           44           44                        133
Total                                      3 973        7,435       10.300         9,297          976       31,981
Total InvestmentsLb (US$'000)
Beef cattle breeding                                        244          623          877           949          340        3,033
Dual-purpose cattle raising                                 325          840        1,118        1,282           703        4,268
Crops:  investment                                       2,355         3,662        4,934        5,267           105       16,323
working capital/c                                1,550        3,350        4,973         3,263           -        13,136
Minor species                                               18           34            52           52          _             156
Total                                      4.492        8.509       11,954        10.813        1.148       36,916
/a   Including  minor species.
/b   Including beneficiaries' contribution.
/c   Project-financed only.
Source: Mission
April 16, 1979.



COLOMBIA
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT - INCORA
INCORA's Technical and SupPOrt Staff in the Project Areas
Cundinamarca        Cundinassarca                                    Heta-         North
Antioguis       Bolivar       Cesar       Cordoba          #1 - Boyacs           J 2              Huila     Hagdalena       Casanare      Santander    Santasd.r           Total
Categorv
Professionals and Managers;
Area chiefs                              1              1            1            1                 2                                   1            1              1              1               1             12
Zone chiefs                              4              5            5            4                12                  9                5            -              8              1               8            61
Group chiefs                             2              2            1            2                 -                  2                2            1              2              1               2             17
Agriculturalists                         3              5            5            3                 8                  6                7            7              6             4                4             58
Animal production specialists            5              6            7            5                 3                  6                2            2              3              3               3            45
Others                                                  -            -            -                                    I                I            -              -              -               -              2
Total                             15             19           19           15                25                 25               18           11             20             10              18            195
Hid-level technicians                      22              22           18           22               27                 31               17           12             23             18               22           234
Total field etaff                37             41           37           37               52                  56              35           23              43            28               40           429
Support Staff
Credit portfolio coordinators                I              I            I            1                2                   1               1            1               1             1                1            12
Assistants                                   -              2            -            -                2                   7               -            2               1             -                1            15
Secretaries                                 7               8            5            7               10                  7                6            6               8             4               10            78
Total support staff               8             11            6            8                14                 15                7           9              10             5               12           105
Total                           45              52           43           45                66                 71              42           32              53            33               52           534
la As of December 10, 1978.
Source: IilORA
April 16, 1979



COLMNB IA
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDLT PROJECT - INCORA
Illustrative Farni Model No. 1: Non-irrigated Crops
Individual fariti, 21 ha (I family)
(Col$)
Withiout    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - With    Project (Years)  - - -
Project       1         2          3          4          5         6          7          8          9
Net cash inflow /a
Comvmercial crops (9 to 15 ha)    69,108       81,257   117,346   108,937   132,238   103,707   107,888   112,071   116,252   134,360
Livestock (5 ha) /b                 9,800       9,800      9,800     9,800      9800       9,800      9,800      9,800     9.800      9,800
Total inflow             78,908      91,057   127,146   118,737   142,038   113,507         117,688 121,871   126,052   144.160
Debt service on previous
long term loans
Land /c                             2,100       2,100      2,100     2,100      2,100      2,100      2,100      2,100      2,100     2,100
Other 7d                            5,040       5 040      5 040      5 040     5-040      5 040            
Subtotal debt service    7,140       7,140      7,140      7,140      7,140      7,140     2,100      2,100      2,100      2,100        ON
Disposable cash income               71,768      98,197   134,286   125,877   149,178   120,647   119,800   123,971   128,152   146,260               1
plus: value of family consumption:
crops (commercially)          2,900      1,700      2,900      2,900      2,900      2,900     2,900      2,900      2,900      2,900
milk                         4,640       4,640      4,640      4,640      4,640     4,640      4,640      4,640      4,640      4,640
other (subsistence
crops, minor species)      5,230       5,230      5,230      5,230                5,230      5,230      5,230      5,230      5,230
Subtotal                 12,770      11,570    12,770    12,770    12,770    12,770    12,770    12,770    12,770    12,770
Total Ircome                         84,538    109,767   147,056   138,647                       7          0132,57    136,741   140,922   159,030
of which: remuneration
of family labor;
Commercial crops                   30,600      40,200    41,760    42,720    42,720    42,720    42,720    42,720    42,720    42,720
Livestock                           4,600       4,600      4,600     4,600      4,600      4,600      4,600      4,600      4,600     4,600
Other                               8,840       8          8,80       84        8.840      8,840      8,840      8,80       8840       8,840
Subtotal                44,040      53,640    55,200    56,160    56,160    56,160    56,160    56,160    56,160    56,160
/a  Net of debt service on short term subloans and project-financed long term subloana(not corrected for expected inflation)
and net of the value of on-farm consumption.                                                                                                    a,
/b  Based on costs and benefits from the 127 ha dual purpose cattle activity budget
(without project situation).                                                                                                                    -
/c  Col$ 100 per ha per year over 15 years.
/d  Cul$ 240 per ha per year over 5 years.
Source: Mission
April 16, 1979



COLOMBIA
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT - INCORA
Illustrative Farm Model No. 2: Crops, Partly Irrigated
Empresa Comunitaria, 210 ha (10 families)
(Col$'000)
Without    - - - - - - - - - - - - - -                 With Project (Years) - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -          - - - - - - - -
Project        1         2          3          4           5           6           7            8             9            10             It
Net Cash Inflow-a
Cosercial crops (150 ha)                    845.5       810.8    778.7       780.0      848.1.      868.4.    888.7    1,024.2         1,080.4       1,134.4       1,117.4        1,160.4
Livestock (50 ha)b                           98,3        98.3      98.3       98.3       98.3        98.3        98.3        98.3         98.3          98.3          98.3           98.3
Stubtotal                       943.8       909.1    877.0       878.3      946.4       966.7       987.0    1,122.5       1,178.8       1,234.7       1,215.7        1,258.7
Debt Service on previous loans:
Land/c                                       21.0        21.0      21.0       21.0       21.0         21.0       21.0        21.0         21.0          21.0          21.0           21.0
Other d                                      50.4        50.4      504        50.4       50.4         50.4                                                              - 
Subtotal                         71.4        71.4      71.4       71.4       71.4         71.4       21.0        21.0         21.0          21.0          21.0           21.0
Disposable cash income plus value
of on-farm consumption                        872.4       837.7    805.6       806.9      875.0        895.3      966.0    1,105.5       1,157.8       1,213.7       1,194.7        1,237.7        a
Commercial crops                              9.0         9.0       9.9        9.9        9.9          9.9        9.9         9.9          9.9           9.9           9.9            9.9
Milk                                         46.4        46.4      46.4       46.4       46.4         46.4       46.4        46.4         46.4          46.4          46.4           46.4
Other (subsistence crops and
minorspecies)                        71.6         71.6      71.6       71.6       71.6        71.6       71.6        71.6          71.6         71.6           71.6          71.6
Subtotal                        127.0       127.0    127.9       127.9      127.9       127.9       127.9       127.9        127.9         127.9         127.9          127.9
Total Income                                  999.4       964.7    933.5       934.8   1,.002.9    123.    10 9    1,285.7                             1.341.6       1322.6   1. 365.6
Of which:, remuneration of
family labor:
Conmercial crops                          313.2       436.3    428.4       414.0      421.2       430.8      430.8       430.8         430.8        430.8          430.8         430.8
Livestock                                  46.0        46.0      46.0       46.0       46.0        46.0       46.0         46.0         46-0          46.0          46.0          46.0
Other                                      88.4        88.4      88.4       88.4       88.4        88.4       88.4         88,4         88.4         88.4           88.4          48,4
447.6       570.7    562.8       548.4      555.6       565.2      565.2        565.2        565.2        565.2          565.2         565.2
/a   Net of debt service on short term subloans and on project-financed long term subloans; net of the value of on-farm consumption.
/b   Based on costs and benefits froM the 127 ha dual-purpose cattle activity budget (without project situation).
/c   Col$ 100 per ha per year for 15 years.
/d   Col$ 240 per ha per year for 5 years.
Source: Mission
April 16, 1979.



COLOMBIA
THlRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT - INCORA
illustrative Parrn Model No. 3: Dual-purpose Cattle
Empresa Comunitaria. 142 ha (5 families)
Without       - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -             With Project (Years) - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Project          1         2         3          4          5         6          7         8         9         10          11
Net Cash lnflow/a
Livestock (127 ha)                          249.9          284.1    293.9    240.1       251.3      266.5    274.0       274.0    274.0    274.0    274.0          346.0
Crops (15 ha)/b                              86.8           86.8     86.8      86.8       86.8       86.8      86.8       86,8      86.8      86.8      86.8         86.8
Minorspecies c                                _             32.8    34.7       34.7       34.7       34.7      34.7       34. 7     34.7      34.7      34.7         3&.7
Subtotal                  336.7         403.7    415.4    361.6        372.0      388.0    395.5       395.5    395.5    395.5    395.5          467.5
Debt Service on previous loais
Land/d                                       14.2           14.2     14.2      14.2       14.2       14.2      14.2       14.2      14.2      14.2      14.2         14.2
Other long term loansL/'                     34.0           34.0     34.0      34.0       34.0       34.0       -         -          -         -         -            -
48.2          48.2      48.2     48.2       48.2       48.2      1492        14.2      14.2     14.2       14.2        14.2
Disposable cash income                        288.5          355.5    367.2    313.4       323.8      339.8    381.3       381.3    381.3    381.3    381.3           453.3    s
Plus: Value of on-farm consumption
Milk                                  17.6          23.2      23.2      23.2       23.2       23.2      23.2       23.2      23.2      23.2      23.2        23.2
Crops                                 33.2          33.2      33.2      33.2       33.2       33.2      33.2       33.2      33.2      33.2      33.2        33.2
Minorspecies                           7.5           9.02      900                  9          9.0       9.0        9.0      9.0        9M0       9.0         9.0
Subtotal                   58.3          65.4      65.5      65.4       65.4       65.4      65.4       65.4      65.4      65.4      65.4        65.4
Total Income                                  346.8          420.9    432.6    378.8       389.2      405.2    446.7       446.7    446.7    446.7    446.7           518.7
Of which:  remuneration of family labor:
Livestock                                   116.9          127.0    137.1    140.2       142 o      142.9    142.9       142.9    142.9    142.9    142.9           142.9
Crops                                        90.0           90.0      90.0     90.0       90..       90.0      90.0       90.0      90.0      90.0      90.0         90.0
Milorspecies                                   5.5           5.5       5.5      5.5        5.5        5.5       5.5        5.5       5.5       5.5       5.5          5.5
Subtotal                  212.4         222.5    232.6    235.7        238.4      238.5    238.5       238.5    238.5    238.5    238.5          238.5
/a   Net of short-term debt service of project related long-term debt service (not corrected for expected inflation) and
of family on-farm consumption.
/b   Based on per ha costs and benefits from 15 ha-crop activity budget (without project situation).
/c   Minor species = 0.55 of a pig activity budget (15 a.u. per family); 1 poultry activity budget (9 hens per family) and
0.8 of a agriculture budget (I hive pet family).
/d   Col$ 100 per ha per year over ;5 years.
/e   Col$ 240 per h)a per year over 5 years.                                                                                                                                   '
Source: Mission
April 16, 1979



COLJMB IA
TIIIRD ACRICULIURAL CREDIT PROJECT - INCORA
1li-atr-tt-r Farm Model No. 4: Beet Cattle breeding
EImpresa Com.nitaria, 320 IL (8 raliilies)
(Co1$ 000)
without    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - With Project (Years)  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Project       1          2           3          4          5          6           7          8          9           10         11         12         13          14
Net cash teflo.  /h
Minor species /b                       -          54.5      101.1       101.1      101.1      107.5      107.5       107.5      107.5      107.5      107.5       107.5      107.5      107.5       107.5
Beef csttle breeil-ig (300 ha)    388.1          420.3      410,5      284.4       366.5      375.9      378.3      383.3      389.3       389.9      391.3      388.5       397.3      394.3      471.8
Crops (20 ha) /_                     115.7       115.7      115.7       115.7      115.7      115.7      115.7       115.7      115.7      115.7      115.7       115.7      115.7      115.7       115.7
Subtotal                  503.5        590.5      627.3      501.2       583.3      599.1      601.5      607.Q      612.5       613.1      614.5      611.7       620.5      617.5      695.0
Debt servi-e oni previous
long-term loans
Land /d                               32.0        32.0       32.0       32.0        32.0       32.0       32.0       32.0        32.0       32.0       32.0        32.0       32.0       32.0        32.0
Other /e                              72.0        72.0       72.0        72.0       72.0      _72.0                                                                                  -          -                                o'
Subtotal                  104.0        104.0      104.0      104.0       104.0      104.0       32.0       32.0       32.0        32.0       32.0       32.0        32.0       32.0       32.0
Disposable cs-h iscim-    pi..;        399.8       486.5      523.3       397.2      479.3      495.1       569.5      575.0      580.5      581.1      582.5       579.7      588.5       585.5       66.3
vale of on-farm consuapt on
Minor specIes                         12.0        16.0      16,0         16.0       16.0       16.0       16.0        16.0       16.0       16.0       16.0        16.0       16.0       16.0        16.0
Milk                                  23.1        24.5       30.8       30.8        30.8       30.8       30.8        30.8       30.8       30.8       30.8        30.8       30.8       30.8        30.8
C aps                                 53.2        53.2       53. 2      53.2        53.2       53.2       53.2       53.2       53.2       53.2       53.2        53.2       53.2       53.2        53,2
Sab-total                            88.3         93.7      100.0      100.0       100.0      100.0      100.0      100.0       100.0      100.0      100.0       100.0      100.0      100.0       100,0
Total incs.-                           488.1       580.2       623.3      497.2      579.3      595.1      669.5       675.0      680.5      681.1      682.5       679.7      688.5      685.5       763.0
Of ahich: Rc0is.,,tio, ot
iamily labor:
Ca.tle breedieg                      269.7       285.6      292.0      290.0       292.5      292.5      292.5      292.5       292.5      292.5      292.5      292.5       292.5      292.5      292.5
Crops                                120.0       120.0      120.0      120.0       120.0      120.0      120.0      120.0       120.0      120.0      120.0      120.0       120.0      120.0      120.0
Minor species                          -          10.8       10.8        10.8       10.8       10.8       20.8       10.8        10.8       10.8       10.8        10.8       10.8       10.8        10.8
Sub-total                           389.7        414.0      422.8      420.8      423.3      423.3       423.3      423.3      423.3       423.3      423.3      423.3      423,3       423.3      423.3
/a  NMt of debt S,-vi-c sis short term  and projeet-financed  10-8 ter-e sabloans(no  corrected fr expected inflation), and of
the value of o-f-ir,  f-asily cosumptiiivs.
/b  .9 of a pig activlty budget (ons sow per fa-:ily) a-d 1.6 of a poultry actiViLy bsdgec (9 hess per family).
/c   Based o- per hva cots and benefits from the 15 ha crop activity bsdget (withost project sitaation).
/d  Col$ 100 per  d pIer year over 15 years.
/e ColS 240 pr h.a I- year over 5 years.
Surcc:  Mi sai i-
Apr II I 6, 1979



COLOMBIA
TIIIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT - INCORA
Xctlvity Budget No. l   Crcps, 15 ha
Investment Costs
Number of                                  Foreign Exchange
Unit         Unit Cost       Units       Year I       Total Cost       Total        X
(Col$j                              ------------(Col$.)---------------__   __
1.  Infrastructure
Drying platform                   Platform      4,000             1         4,000           4,000
Shed                              Shed         10,000            1         10,000          10,000
Milling house                     liouse       60,000            0.5       30,000          30,000        _
Sub-total                                                                44,000         44,000         6,600         15
2.  Equipment                                                                                                                           a
Mill-motor evaporating pans                    80,000            0.5       40,000          40,000       34,000          85          @
Minor equipment /a                              5,000                                       5,000           500         10
Sub-total                                                                45,000         45,000        34,500         77
3. Establishment Costs
(sugar cane)
Labor                           Man-day         120          500         60,000         60,000              -          -
Seed                            m ton           400           25         10,000         10,000              -          -
Fertilizers                     m ton         9,600            2.5       24,000         24,000        19,200         80
Pesticides                                                                1,5oo           1,500        1.125          75
Sub-total                                                             95,500         95,500        20,325         21
Total Investment Costs                                                    184,500         184,500       61,425          33
Of which labor: total (man-days)                                            500             500
value (Col$)                                            60,000         60,000
Financing: Beneficiary's contribution (15%)
Cash
Family labor                                                27,675          27_675
Total                                                       27,675          27,675                               's >
Long-term  stibloan (85%)                                     156,825        156,825                                m x
/a Shovels, machetes, forks.
Source: tission
Apr11 16, 1'79



- 70 -                             ANNEX 3
COLONBLX                              Table 16
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT--INCORA
Activity Budget No. 1:  Crops, 15 ha
Costs, Benefits and Financial Rate or Return
With Project
Without         -----------------     Years----------------------
Category                      Project         1            2            3            4            5 onwards
1.  Maize (8 ha)              (6 ha)        -______ -_-__            (8 ha) --------------------
Costs (Col$)
Land Preparation        10,800       14,400       14,400       18,000       18,000       18,000
Inputs                   6,000       10,480       14,720       19,520       19,520       19,520
Labor                   12,960       22,J80       24,960       24,960       24,960       24,960
Subtotal                29,760       46,960       54,080       62,480       62,480       62,480
Benefits
Total Production (Mt)         8.4         12.8         14.4         16.8        16.8         16.8
Total Value of
Production
(Col$6,000/Mt)          50,400       76,800       86,400      100,800      1()0,800    100,800
2.    Cassava   (2  ha)       (1  ha)       ----------------------   (2  ha)   ------------------
Costs (Col$)
Land Preparation         2,200        4,400        4,400        5,400        5,400        5,400
Inputs                   3,820        8,000        9,100        9,S0C)      11,930       11,900
Labor                    4,200       11,280       12.240                                 12,240
Subtotal                10,220       23,680       25,740       27,540       29,540       29,540
Benefits
Total Production (Mt)         7.0         16.0        17.0         18.0         20.0         20.0
Total Value of Produc-
tion (Col$2,500 Mt)    17,500        40,000       42,500       45,OOC       50,000       50,000
3.  Sugarcane-Panela (5 ha) (2 ha)         ----------- ------------- (5 ha) -------------------
Costs (Col$)
Land Preparation          -            - a/         -            -            -            -
Inputs                     450         - a/       18,850       19,625       23,250       25,700
Labor                   40,800         -         107,400      112.80       1     0       96,480
Subtotal                41,250         -         123,250      132,425      136,050     122,180
Benefits
Total Production,
Panela (Mt)                8.0       -              25.0         27.5          30.0        24.0
Total Value of Produc-
tion (Col$ 8,000 Mt) 64,000          -         200,000      220,000       240,000    192,000
Financial Analysis        ----------------------------------(Cols)-----------------------------
Total Investment Costs   -          184,500         -            -            -            -
Total Operating Costs  81,23         70,640      203.070      222.445      228.070      914 200
Total Costs              81,230     255,140      203,070      222,445      228,070      214,200
Total Benefits         131,900      11,80        3890         3            390)800      32,80
Net Benefits            50,670    -138,340       125,830      143,355      162,730      128,600
Net incremental Benefits           -189,010       75,160       92,685      112,060       77,930
Financial Rate of Return
on 20 Years                    45 %
a   Investment
Source: Mission
April 16, 1979



COLOMBIA
THIRD AGRICULIURAL CREDIT PROJECT--INCORA
Activity Budget No. 1: Crops, 15 ha
Cash Flow Projections
(Co)
Without                                            With Project
Project            I                                    ---------- 2 ---------- 3 ---------- 4 ---------- 5 ---------- 6 ---------- 7 ---------- 8 ---------- 9 --------- 10 ------
Cash Iflw
Sales _                               129,000       115,100       326,000        362,900       387,900       339,900        339,900       339,900        339,900       339,900       339,900
Beneficiary's cash contribution:
To investment costS                     -             -              -             -             -             -              -             -              -             -              -
To operating costs                                                                               -                                                         -
Subloans:
Medium/long Ierm                        -       156,825 b/           -             -             -             -              -             -        45,000              -              -
Short term cJ                      77.168        67,108       182,763       189.078        193.860       182,070       182,070        182,070       182,070        182,070       182,070
Total inflow                      206,168       339,033       506,763       551,978        581,760       521,970       521,970        521,970       521,970       521,970        521,970
Cash Outflow
Cash investment costs                       -       124,500              -             -              -             -             -              -       45,000               -             -
Cash operating costs                   50.630        58.115       161 310        179,725       185,350       171,480        171.480       171,480        171,480       171,480       171.480           a
Total outflow                      50,630       182,615       161,310       179,725        185,350       171,480       171,480        171,480       216,480        171,480       171,480
Cash balance before debt service        155.538       156,418        347,453       372,253       396 410          350,490       350,490     350,490        350,490         350,490      350,490
Debt Service
Medium and long term subloan:
Interest d/                             _             -        25,412        25,412         20,910        16,728        12,546          8,364         4,182        12,212 -       12,212
Principal                               -             -              -       26,137         26,138        26,137        26,138         26,137        26,138
Short term su:Vow:
Interest -a -7                      9,260         8,053        21,932        22,689         23,264        21,848        21,848         21,848        21,848        21,848         21,848
Principal -                        77,168        67108        1,763         189.078        193,860       182,070       182,070        182,070       182,070        182,070       182.070
Total debt service                 86,430        75,161       230,107       263,316        264,172       246,783       242,602        238,419       234,238       216,130        216,130
Cash balance after debt service
(and disposable cash income)           69,108        81,257       117,346       108,937        132,238       1037017 17888                112,071       116.252        134,360       134,360
including:
Remuneration of Family Labor:            30,600        40,200        41,760         42,720        42,720        42,720         42,720        42,720        42,720         42,720        42,720
a/  Net of family consumption.
b/  857 of total investment costs.
c/  95% of operating costs during the first year, 90% during the second year and 85%
during the third year and after.
d/  15% interest, plus 1% life insurance per annum on outstanding balances.
e/  6 annual installments.                                                                                                                                                                             -r
f/  Over 9 wnths.                                                                                                                                                                                     . X
Source: Mission
April lb, 1979



- 72 -
Table 1S
COLOMBIA
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT - INCORA
Activity Budget No.2: Crops 150 ha (10 families)
Investment Costs
Number of                                                     Foreign Exchange
Unit        Unit Cost        Units          Year 1         Year 2        Total Costs       Total         %
(Cv15)                ----   ---  ----         -<ol$)~~~-------------------
1.  Land levelling                 ha              163             100          16,500               -          16,500           5,775       35
2. Infrastructure
Drainage canals               1 m             100             800           80,000              -           80,000
Irrigation canals             1 m             150             680          102,000              -          102,000
Culverts                      m2            1,000              20           20,000              -           20,000
Forks                         m2              250              30            7,500              -            7,500
In-ake head works /a          m2            8,065              31          250,000              -          250,000
Warehouse                     m2            2,000               36          72,000              -           72,000
Machinery shed                m2              900               40          36,000              -           36.000
Drying platform               m2              600               25          15,000              -           15,000
Sub-total                                                               582,500                         582,5CO          87,375       15
3. Farm equipment
Tractor                                   800,000                1         800,000              -         800,000         680,000       85
Combine                                2,500,000              0.25         625,000              -         625,000         531,250       85
Sub-total                                                             1,425,000               -       1,425,0C0      !,211,250       35
4.  Irrigation equipment /b                   428,000             0.50         214,284               -         214,284       128,570        60
5.  Xiscellaneous /c                                                            20,000               -          20,000         2,000        10
6. Establishment costs
Cocoa
Labor /d                    man-days        120           2,400          180,000       108,000          288,000              -
Seeds - cocoa               planting        0.35         10,000            3,500              -            3,500             -        -
Seeds - plantain            planting        2.06          6,300           13,000              -           13,000             -
Polybags                    unit            0.25         10,000            2,500              -            2,5CO             -
Pesticides                                                                 8,000          6,500           14,5C0        10,875       75
Fertilizers                                                                5,000         13,500           18,5CO        14,800       80
hauling                                                                  L0,000          10,000           20,000         7 000       35
Sob-total                                                             222,000        138,000          360,00        32, 675        9
Total Investment Costs                                                  2,480,284         138,000       2,618,284      1.467,645       56
Of which labor: total (man-days)  .                                                         900          2_400
value ('ol)                                          13e,)0         108,000          288,000
Financing:   Beneficiary's contribution (157)
Cash                                                       177,243               -         177,243
Family labor                                               107,500        108,000          215,500
Total                                                      284,743        108,000          392,743
Long-term subloan (85%)                                    2.195,541          30,000       2,225,541
Total                                                      2.480,284        138.000        2,618,284
/a  For two farms; rounded figures.
/b Motor-pump (1206/ms. per minute), pipeline.
/c  includes wooden trays for fermenting cacao (30 trays at Col$200 per tray),
shovels and pruning scissors.
/d  All family labor.
Source: Mission.
April 16, 1979.



- 73                                                      ANNE  3
COLOMBIA                                                   Table 19
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT--1I!CORA
Activity Budget No. 2: Crops 150 ha (10 families)
Costs, Benefits and Financial Rate of Return
With Project
Without                                               Years
Categorv         a/                 Project           1            2            3            4             5            6            7
t. Rice (50 ha)
OeaigCosts  (ColS)
and  rearation                  230,000      230,000      230,000      230,000      230,000       230,000      230,000      230,000
Inputs                          715,000   1,105,000   1,245,000   1,245,000   1,245,000   1,245,000   1,245,000   1,245,000
Labor                           216,000      264,000      288,000      288,000       288,000      288,000      288,000      288,000
Planting                         25,000       25,000       25,000       25,000        25,000       25,000       25,000       25,000
Pest Control (Aereal)           120,000       80,000       80,000       80,000        80,000       80,000       80,000       80,000
Weed Killing (Aereal)            60,000       60,000       60,000       60,000        60,000       60,000       60,000       60,000
Harvesting                      130,000      160,000      175,000      175,000      175,000       175,000      175,000      175,000
Hauling                          30,000       32,000       3 00                       I-n OOO   l.nn  5, (on    35,000       35,000
Subtotal                     1,526,000   1,956,000   2,138,000   2,138,000   2,138,000   2,138,000   YT2,          r,0    2,138,000
Benefits
Total Production (Mt)               320.0        410.0        455.0         455.0        455.0        455.0        455.0        455.0
Total Value of Production
(Col$)                       1,920,000   2,460,000   2,730,000   2,730,000   2,730,000   2,730,000   2,730,000   2,730,000
2. Cacao (10 ha)
praingCts   (ColS)-                               -            -          93,600       100,800      110,400      110,400      110,400
Inputs                            -             -            -          24,000       33,000        42,000       42,000       42,000
Hauling                            -            - b/         - b/       10.000         5.000        5,000        7,000        8,000
Subtotal                                        -            -         127,600      138,800       157,400      1     59,40
Benefits
Total Cacao Production (Mt)       -             -            -                1.5          3.5          5.0           7.0          8.0
Total Plantain Production
(Mt)                       c/     -                            35.0         50.0       -            -            -            -
Total Value of Producticn 7Col$) -              -         105,000      264,000      266,000       380,000      532,000      608,000
3. Sorghum (90 ha)
operating Costs (Col$)
Land Preparation                144,000      144,000      144,000      180,000      180,000       180,Q00      180,000      180,300
Planting                          -             -          54,000       54,000       54,000        54,000       54,00S       54,S)O
Pests Control                     -           54,000       54,000       54,000       54,000        54,000       54,000       54,3)n
Labor                            97,200       64,800       32,400       32,400        32,400       32,400       32,400       32,400
Inputs                         243,900       299,700      332,100      355,500      355,500       355,500      355,500      355,500
Harvest-Hauling                 115,200      129,600      136,800      144,000      144,000       144,000      144,000      144.000
Subtotal                       600,300       692,100      753, 300  Bn ,            RIST:        d7qUU   819 0  9 TQO17M
Benefits
Total Production (Mt)               180.0        198.0        216.0         234.0        234.0        234.0        234,0        234.0
Total Value of Production
(Col$)                         990,000   1,089,000   1,188,000   1,287,000   1,287,000   1,287,000   1,287,000   1,287,000
Financial Analysis             ----(ColS)--                                                   -- --------- - --------------
Total Investment Costs             -      2,480,184       138,000          -            -            -            _
Total Operating Costs        2,126,300   2.648.100   2,891.300    3,085.500   3.096.700   3.115,300   3,117,300   3,118,300
Total Costs                  2,126,300   5,128,384   3,029,300    3,085,500   3,096,700   3X115,300   3,117,300   3,118,300
Total Benefits (Production
Value)                       2.910.000   3,549.000   4,032.000   4,281.000   4.283.000   4,397.000   4,54900               ,625,00
Total Net Benefits              783,700  (1,579,384)      865,700   1,195,500   1,186,300   1,281,700   1,431,700   1,506,700
Incremental Net Benefits                  (2,363,084)      82,000      411,800      402,600       498,000      648,000      732,000
Financial Rate of Return on 20 Years: .
a! Irrigated, two crops per year
b! Investment
c/ Cocoa ColS76.000/m tan,, plantain Ce1$3,000/m ton.
Source: Mission
April 16, 1979.



COIOMBIA
TIIIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIl' PROJECT--INCORA
ActiOjiL LSudget No. 2: C[ups. 150 he ! FILe raiiie)
Cash Flow ProjeCtions
(Col5 '000)
With Project
withojt             I --------  2 ---------- 3 ---------- 4 ---------- 5 ---------- 6  --------- 7 ---------- 8 ---------- 9 --------- 10 --------- 11
ProjeCt
Cs-h IntIq.
Sales -a                        2,901.0        3,540.0       4,013.1        4,271.1       4.274.0        4,388.0       4,540.0        4,616.0        4,616.0       4,616.0        4,616.0        4,616.0
Benieficiary's cash
co'tribution:
To investsent costs             -            177.2           -              -             -              -              -             -              -              -              -             -
To operating costs                             -             -                           48.8           43.3           36.5          36.8           36.9           36.9          36.9           36.9
Subloans:              b/                                                                                                                                                                   c
bMediuo /long  erm              -         2,195.5           30.0            -              -             -              -             -              -              -         1,659.3 -
Short term d                2,020,        2,515.7        2,602,2       2,622,7        2,632.2        2,648.0       2.649,7        2,650.6       2,650.6        2,650.6        2,650.6        2,650.6
Total inflow               4,921.0        8,428.4        6,645.3       6,893,8        6,955.0        7.079.3       7,226.2        7,303,4       7.303.5        7,303.5        8,962.         8,962,8
Cabh Out flow
Cash investment costs e/             -         2,480.2           30.0           -              -              -             -              -             -              -         1,659.3             -
Cash op ting costs e7           1,813,1        2 319.3       2,570.9        2,671.5       2,675.5        2,684.5        2686.5        2,687.5        2.687.5        2,687.5       2687.5         2,687.5
Total outflow               1,813,1       4,799.5          2,600.9     2.671.5        2,67;.5        2,684.5       2,686.5        2,687.5       2,687.5        2,687.5        4,346.8        2,687.5
Cash balance before
debt service                  3,107.9       3,628.4        4,044.4       4,222.3        4,279.5       4,394.8        4,539.7        4,615.9       4,616.0        4,616.0        4,616.0        4,616.0
Debt Service
Mediu,n and logg term subloan:
interest f                      -              -           351.3          356.1         340.0          324.1         292.0          236.1          180.0         124.0           68.0          450,0
principal                       -              -             -            100.0         100.0          200.0         350.0          350.0          350.0         350.0          425.0
Short term subloan:
interest '                    242.4         301.9          312.2         314.7          315.9          317.8         322.5          318.1          318.1         318.1          318.1          318.1
principal                   2,020.0       2,515.7        2,602.2       2,622.7        2,632.2        2,648,0       2,649.7          2,650.6       2,650.6      2,650.6        2.650.6        2,650.6
Total debt service              2,262.4        2,817.6       3,265.7        3,393.5       3,388.1        3,489.9        3,614.2       3,554.8        3,498.7        3,442.7       3,461.7        3,418.7
Cash Balance After
Debt Service                      845.5          810.8         778.7          828.8          891.4         904.9          925.5       1,061.1        1,117.3        1,173.3       1,154.3        1,197.3
Minusl    Resvrve for following
year cash operating
expenditrres               -              -              -            48.8           43.3          36.5           36.8           36.9          36.9           36.9           36.9           36.9
Disposable Cash Income              845.5          810.8         778.7          780.0         848.1          M6B,4          888.7       1,024.2        1,080.4        i,13t6.4        1,117.4       1,160.4
including:
Remuneration of Famil_ Labor        313.2          436.3         428.4          414.0         421.2          430.8          430.8         430.8          430.8          430.8           430.8         430.8
a/  Excludiag family co-nsmption.
b/  857. of inoestrent costs (Col$2,225,541).
c/  6-year loan--equal installments.                                                                                                                                                                           t
d/  95% of total operating costs during the first year, 90% during the second year and 857.
daring the third year and iater (incldding family labor for up to 207. of sobloan value).
el  Excluding family Iaboc.
f/  157. interest, plus 1/ life insurance per annum--over 9 months.
Aptril 16, I919,



7 5                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~ANNEX 3
- 75 -                                                       A~E 
Table 2:
COLOMBIA
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT - INCORA
Activity Budget No. 3:  Dual-Purpose Cattle, 127 ha, (5  amilies)
Investment Costs
Unit per        Cost per        Investment by Year               Total    Foreign Exchange Cost
Model           Unit             1          2                  Cost         Total            x
   -    -    -    -   -    -    -    -    -    -    -   (ColS)
Land clearing                  2.0 ha             840                -       1,680                1,680        42               2
Pasture establishment         10.0 ha           2,970                -      29,700               29,700   19,920              67
Fencing: new                   2.0 km          28,800                -     57,600                57,600   12,800               2
Corrals: new                   0.5            20,000           10,000            -               10,000    1,000               10
Trough: mineral                3.0              1,200           3,600            -                3,600         -               -
Water points                   1.0              2,000           2,000            -                2,000       200              10
Livestock:
Bulls                        2              20,400           40,800            -              40,800          -              -
Breeding cows                4              12,400           24,800      24,800               49,600
3reeding heifers             6              11,400           32,400      32,400               64,800          -              -
Animal health               154-167               289          44,500      48,260                92,760   60,294              65
Miscellaneous items            -                    -           7,900        7,390               15,290    4.'81              28
Total investment costs                                         166.000     201,830               367,330   98,537
Of which family labor:
Total (man-days)                                      62         178                  240
Value (Col$)                                           -            -
Land clearing                                          -       1,560
Pasture establishment                                  -       4,800                4,300
Fencing                                                -       9,6G0                9,600
Corrals                                            l,500           -
Trough                                               360           -
Water points                                         600            -
Animal health                                      4,963                            2,383
7,423      21,34-3             _-,6
Financing: Beneficiary's contribution (15%)
Cash                 17,477       8,931
Family labor          7,423      21.343                ; _Si
Total                24,900      30,274
Long-term subloan (85%)                           141,100     171,556
Source: 'fission
April 16, 1979.



- 76 -                                               ANNEX 3
Table 22
COLOMBIA
TRIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT - INCORA
Activity 3udget No. 3: Dual-Purpose Cattle 127 ha (5 families)
Cosc. 8enefits and Financial Rate of Rettnrn
(Col$ '000)
Wichout       - - - -                     With Project - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Project         1          2          3         4          5        6-19         20
I. BENEFITS
1. Milk
Production:
Volume ('000 liters)                 6.5          8.3       10.5       13.S       15.4       15.4       15.4      15.4
Value                               52.0         66.6       84.0      108.0      123.2      123.2      123.2     123.2
On-farm consumption:
Volume ('000 liters)                 2.2          2.9        2.9        2.9        2.9        2.9        2.9       2.9
Value                               17.6         23.2       23.2       23.2       23.2       23.2      23.2       23.2
Sales:
Volume ('000 liters)                 4.3          5.4        7.6       10.6       12.5       12.5       12.5      12.5
Value                               34.4         43.2       60.8       98.3      100.0      100.0      100.0     100.0
2. Beef cattle
Production (m tons liveweight)          9.2          9.5      10.0       10.4       10.8       11.3       11.5       11.5
Production value (and sales)         295.4        304.0      320.4      333.9      344.7      361.3      369.3     369.3
Tocal Production Value               347.4        370.6      404.4      441.9      467.9      484.5     492.5      492.5
Incremental herd Value                 -            -          -          -          -          -         -        252.3
TOTAL. BENEFITS (A)                   347.4       370.6      404.4      441.9      467,3      484.5      492.5     744.8
II. COSTS
1. Investmrent Costs                      _           166.0      201.6       -         _           -          -
2.      t    Costs
Labor:  ao
Animal health                        2.3          -/b        -/b        5.4        5.5        5.6       5.6        5.6
Animal care                          2.6           2.8       2.9        3.0        3.1        3.1        3.1       3.1
Hilking                              16.6        21.4       24.9       30.9       33.i       33.3      33.3       33.3
Fence maintenance                   12.6          12.6      12.6       15.0       15.0       15,0       15.0      15.0
Fertilizer application               -            -          -7b        1.7        1.7        1,7        1.7        1.7
Weed control                        82.8         82.8       82.8       84.2       64.2       64.2      84.2       84.2
Sub-total                        11.6.9       119.6      123.2      140.2      142.8     142.9      142.9      142.9
Inputs:
Veterinary products                  18.4         -lb        -lb       43.2       43.9       44.3       44.3      44.3
Fertilizers                          -            -          -          6.3        6.3        6.3       6.3        6.3
Herbicides                           10.6         10.6      10.6       10.8       10.8       10.8      10.8       10.8
Fencing materials                    22.2        22.2       22.2       26.4       26.4       26.4      26.4       26.4
Sub-total                         51.2         32.8       32.68       6.7      87.4       67.8       67.8       87.8
Tools and implements                    -            -         -          0.1        0.1        0.1        0.1        0.1
Transport and other                    17.7         18.2      19.2       ZO.0       20.7       21.7       22.2      22.2
Taxes                                  11.0         12.1      12.7       13.0       13.2       13.2       13.2       13.2
Tocal Operating Costs                 196.8        182.7     187.9      260.0      264.2      265.7      266.2     266.2
TOTAL COSTS (B)                       196.8       348.7      389.7      260.0      264.2      265.7      266.2     266.2
Nec Benefit (A - 3)                          150.6         21.9       14.7      181.9      203.7     218.8      226.3      478.6
Incremental Net Benefits                                 -128.7    -135.9        31,3      53.1       68.2       75.7      328.0
Internal Financial Rate of Return (over 20 years):222
/a All family labor. Available on the farm: 1 man-year per family, 240 man-days per year
at Col$ 120 per man-day (1,200 man-days per year, Col$ 144,000).
/b  In investment costs.
Source: Mission
April 16, 1979



COLOMBIA
TIIIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT - INCORA
Activity Budget No. 3: Dual Purpose Cattle 127 ha, (5 families:
Cash Flow Projections
(Col$ '000)
Without    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  With Project - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Project       1         2          3         4         5         6          7         8         9         10      11-20
Years
Cash Inflow
Sales:
Milk                       34.4      43.2      60.8      98.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0          100.0    100.0       100.0     100.0
Beef cattle               295.4    304.0    320.4    333.9    344.7    361.3    369.3    369.3    369.3    369.3    369.3    369.3
Total                     329.8    347.2    381.2    431.9    444.7    461.3    469.3    469.3    469.3    469.3    469.3    469.3
Beneficiary's cash
contribution                -        17.5       8.9       -         -          -         -         -         -          -         -         -
Subloan                       -       141.1    171.6        -          -         -         -         -          -         -         -          -
Total Cash Inflow           329.8    505.8    561.7    431.9    444.7    461.3    469.3    469.3    469.3    469.3    469.3    469.3
Cash Outflow
Cash investment costs         -       158.6    180.5         -         -         -         -         -          -         -         -          -
Cash operating costs         79.9      63.1      64.7      119.8    121.4    122.8       123.3    123.3    123.3    123.3         123.3      123.3
Total Cash Outflow           79.9    221.7    245.2    119.8    121.4    122.8    123.3    123.3    123.3               123.3     123.3      123.3
Cash balance before
debt service              249.9    284.1    316.5    312.1    323.3    338.5    346.0    346.0    346.0    346.0    346.0    346.0
Debt Service
Principal                   -         -         -        22.0       25.5      29.6      34.3      39.8       46.2      53.6      61.7        -
Interest /a                 -         -        22.6      50.0      46.5       42.4      37.7      32.2      25.8       18.4      10.3       -
Total Debt Service            -         -        22.6       72.0      72.0      72.0      72.0       72.0      72.0      72.0       72.0       _
Cash balance after
debt service              249.9    284.1      293.9     240.1    251.3    266.5    274.0    274.0    274.0    274.0    274.0               346.0
Family labor:
Investment costs            -         7.4      21.3       -         -          -         -         -         -          -         -         -
Operating costs           116.9    119.6      123.2     140.2    142.8    142.9    142.9         142.9    142.9       142.9     142.9     142.9
Total                     116.9    127.0      144.4    140.2    142.8    142.9    142.9    142.9           142.9      142.9     142.9     142.9
/a  15% plus 1% life insurance per annum.
Source: Mission                                                                                                                                             D
April 16, 1979                                                                                                                                        w



COLOMBIA
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT - INCORA
Activity Buiget No. 4:  Beef Cattle Breeding, 300 ha, (8 fanjilia)
Investment Coats
Unit per       Cost per       Investment by Year              Total    Foreign Exchange Coat
Model           Unit           1          2                 Cost        Total           %
- -     -(Cal --
Land clearing                5 ha               840          4,200        -                4,200        300               7
Pasture establishment       15 ha             3,080              -    45,900              45,900    30,750              67
Fencing: new                 2 km            28,800         28,800    28,800              57,600    12,800              22
Corral: new                  1               20,000         10,000    10,000              20,000      2,000             10
Trough: mineral              1                1,200          1,200         -               1.200           -              -
Water points                 1                2,000              -     2,000               2,000         200             10
Livestock:
Bulls                      2               20,400         40,800         -              40,800          -              -
Breeding cows              5               12,400        62,000          -              62,000          -
Breeding heifers           5               11,400        57,000          -              57,000          -              -
Animal health             266-279               218         57,980    58,860             116,840    75,950              65
Miscellaneous items          -                    -         11 800     6,360              18,160      5,630             31
Total investment costs                                     273,78    151,92              425,70   127,630               30
Of which family labor:
Total (man-days)                 150        183                 333
Value (Col$)                       -          -
Land clearing                  3,900          -
Pasture establishment              -      7,200
Fencing                        4,800      4,800
Corral                         1,500      1,500
Trough                           120          -
Waterpoints                        -        600
Animal health                  7,713      7,830
18,033    21,930
Financing: Beneficiary's contribution (15%):
Cash                23,034        858             23,892
Family labor        18,033    21,930              39,963
Total               41,067    22,788              63,855
Long-term subloan (85%):                       232,713   129,132              361,845
Source: Mission
April 16, 1979.
41



ANNEX 3
Table 25
COLOMBIA
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT - INCORA
Activity Budget No. 4:  Beef Cattle Breeding. 300 ha. (8 families)
Cost, Benefits, and Fin ncial Rate of Return
(Col1$'000)
Without      - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  With Project - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Project         1          2          3           4          5          6        7-19          20
I. BENEFITS
1. Milk
Production:
Volume ('000 liters)              4.0        4.2        5.2         5.2        5.2        5.2         5.2        5.2        5.2
Value                            28.0       29.4       36.4        36.6       36.4       36.4        36.4       36.4       36.4
on-farm consumption:
Volume ('000 liters)              3.3        3.5        4.4         4.4        4.4        4.4         4.4        4.4        4.4
Value                            23.1       24.5       30.8        30.8       30.8       30.8        30.8       30.8       30.8
Sales:
Volume ('000 liters)              0.7        0.7        0.8         0.8        0.8        0.8         0.8        0.8        0.8
Value                             4.9        4.9        5.6         5.6        5.6        5.6         5.6        5.6        5.6
2. Beef Cattle
Production (m tons liveveight) 16.1           16.2        17.2       15.9       18.8        19.6       19.6       20.3       20.3
Production value (and sales)  515.2          518.4      549.0       510.4      602.5      627.8       627.8      650.8      650.8
Total Production Value            543.2      547.8      585.4       546.8      638.9      664.2       664.2      687.2      687.2
Incremental Herd Value              -          -          -           -          -          -         _          _          313.9
TOTAL BENEFITS (A)                543.2      547.8      585.4       546.8      638.9      664.2        64.2      687.2   1,001.1
II. COSTS
1. Investment Costs                    -        273.0      151.9         -          -           -          -          -          -
2. Operating Costs
Labor: /a
Animal health                     4.6        -/b        -/b         8.1        8.2        8.2         8.2        8.2        8.2
Animal care                      39.0       44.5       45.8        47.5       47.5       47.5        47.5       47.5       47.5
Milking                          10.1       10.7       11.9        11.9       11.9       11.9        11.9       11.9       11.9
Maintenance (fences)             14.4       14.4       14.4        14.4       16.8       16.8        16.8       16.8       16.8
Fertilizer application           -           -          -/b         2.9        2.9        2.9         2.9        2.9        2.9
Weed control                   201.6       201.6      201.6      205.2       205.2      205.2      205.2       205.2      205.2
Sub-total                    269.7      271.2       273.7      290.0      292.5       292.5      292.5      292.5      292.5
Inputs:
Veterinary products              29.9        -          -/b       53.0        53.5       53.5       53.5        53.5       53.5
Fertilizers                       -          -          -lb        10.8       10.8       10.8        10.8       10.8       10.8
Herbicides                       25.8      25.8        25.8       26.2        26.2       26.2       26.2        26.2       26.2
Fencing material                 25.3       25.3       25.3       25.3        29.5       29.5       29.5        29.5       29.5
Sub-total                     81.0       51.1        51.1      115.3      120.0       120.0      120.0    l20.0        120.0
Tools and implements                -          -          -           0.2        0.2        0.2         0.2        0.2        0.2
Transport and other                25.8       25.1       28.2        29.6       34.9        35.8       35.8       35.8       35.8
Taxes                              25.2       26.8       27.6        28.6       28.6       28.6        28.6       28.6       28.6
Total Operating Costs             401.7      374.2      380.6       463.7      476.2      477.1       477.1      477.1      477.1
TOTAL COSTS (B)                   401.7      648.0      532.5       463.7      476.2      477.1       477.1      477.1      477.1
Net Benefits (A - B)                      141.5    -100.2        52.9        83.1      162.7      187.1       187.1      210.1      524.0
Incremental Net Benefits                           -241.7       -88.6      -58.4        21.2       45.6       45.6        68.6      382.5
Internal Financial Rate of Return (over 20 years): 12%
/a   All faaily labor.  Assuming that each family contributes
1.5 man-year per year (240 man-days per year).
/b   In investment costs.
Source: Mission
April 16, 1979



C01.0MbI A
TIIIRO ACRICULTURAL CREIlT PROJEC(T - ItNCIRA
Activity B.dget No. 4:    ent Cattle Br-eding. 3U0 ha, (8 families)
Lash Flow Projecton
(Col$ '000)
Withoot       - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -                With Project - Years        - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Project         1           2          3           4           5           6           7          8           9           10          11          12          13       14 on
Cash I_nflow
Sales'   Milk                              4.9         4.9        5,6         5.6         5.6         5.6        5.6         56.         5.6         5.6        5.6         5.6         5.6          5.6        5.6
Cattle                        515.2       518.4       549.0      510.4       602.5       627.8       627.8      650.8       650.8       650.8       650.8       650.8      650.8       650.8       650.8
Total                                 520.1       523.3       554.6      516.0       608.1       633.4       633.4      656.4       656.4       656.4       656.4       656,4      656.4       656.4       656.4
i3eneficiasy's tash cootTibotion           -          23.0        0.9               -           -           -          -           -           -           -           -           -          -                 -
Shbloan (long term)                        -         232.7      129.1         -           -           -           -          -                       -           -           _
Total Cash IflI.,                        520.1       779.0      684.6       516,0       608.1                  633.4       656.4       656.4      656.4       656.4       656.4       656.4       656.4       656.4
Cash Outflw
Cash i.ve.t.mest costs                     -         255.7      130.0         -           -                       -                      -           -           -           -          - _  _                                            o
Cash opesatihg to-ts                     132.0      103.0       106.9       173.7       183.7      184.6       184.6       184.6       184.6       184.6      184.6       184.6       184.6       184.6       184.6
Total Cash O.tflow                       132.0       358.7      236.9       173.7       184.7      183.7       184.6       184.6       184.6      184.6       184.6       184.6       184.6       184.6       184.6
Cash balance betore
debt service                          388.1       420.3      447.7       342.3       424.4       44B.8      448.8       471.8       471.8       471.8       471.8       471.8      471.8       471.8       471.8
Debt Service
Principal                                  -           -          -           -           -         15.0        15.0        35.0        35.0        40.0       45.0        55.0        55.0        66.8
Interest /a                                                      37.2        57.9        57.9        57.9        55.5       53.0        47.5        41.9        35.5       28.3        19.5        10.7
total Debt Ser-ice                         -           -         37.2        57.9        57.9        32.9       70.5        88.0        82.5        81.9        80.5       83.3        74.5        27.5
Cash balance atter
debt service                          388.1       420.3       410.5      2b4.4       366.5       375.9       378.3       383.8      389.3       389.9       391.3       388.5       397.3       394.3      4/1.8
Family labor: i-vesto.-t coSt.             -          18.0       71.9         -           -           -           -          -           -           -          -            -          -           -           -
operating cssts         269.7       271.2      273.7    . 290.0        292.5       292.5       292.5      292.5       292.5       292.        292.5       292.5      292,5       292.5       292.5
total                                   2697        289.2        295.6    290.0        292.5       292.5       292,5      292.5       292.5       292.5       292.5       292,5       292.5       292.5      292.5
/a  15  plos 1/. lIfe ils-rance per a-nm. 
April 16, 1979



- 81 -              ~ANNEX 3
Table 27
COLOMBIA
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT - INCORA
Activity Budget 17o. 5:  Pigs (9 sows)
Cost Benefit Analysis
(Col$)
Year 1           Year 2 on  F.E.
Initial Costs (Investment)                                                Total  %
9 gilts                                      45,000                  -        -
1 boar                                        7,000
52,000
Operating Costs
Sales costs (Col$5 per kg)             /a    11,760            11,760
Sanitation (Col$50 per animal per yr. -       1,550             1,550
Feeding - maize equivalent
547 kg per animal per year
at Col$6 per kilo /a                      101,742           101,742
Family labor (1 hour daily,365 days/year)   5,475               5,475
120,527           120,527
Income
Sale 42 porkers (80 kg at $70 per kg)       235,200           235,200
Net benefit                                  62,673           114,673
Internal Financial Rate of Return: above 50% (10 years), (assuming replacement
of sows and boar every fourth year. Value of culled animals as salvage
value).
/a Six months for porkers
Source: Mission.
April 16, 1979.



- 82 -                           AN;NEX 3
Table 28
COLOMBIA
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT - INCORA
Activity Budget 1io. i: Pigs (9 sows)
Cash Flow Projections
(Col$)
-- - - -   Year 
1         2          3        4 onwards
Cash Inflow
Revenues                                    235,200   235,200   235,200   235,200
Subloan /a                                   44,200          -          -
Beneficiary's contribution                    7,800          -          -          -
Total                                    287,200   235,200   235,200   235,200
Cash Outflow
Investment costs                             52,000          -          -          -
Cash operating costs                        115,052   115,052   115,052   115,052
Total                                     167,052   115,052   115,052   115,052
Cash balance before debt service            120,148   120,148   120,148   120.148
Debt Service
Interest /b                                   7,072          -          -          -
Principal                                    44,200          -          -
Total                                      51,272          -          -          -
Cash balance after debt service              68,876   120,148   120,148   120,148
(Family labor)                               (5,475)   (5,475)   (5,475)   (5,475)
/a 85% of initial costs.
/b 15% plus 1% life insurance p.a.
Source: Mission
April 16, 1979



- 83 -                         ANNEX 3
Table 29
COLOMBIA
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT - INCORA
Activity Budget No. 6: Poultry (45 hers)
Cost Benefit Analysis
(Col$)
Year 1            Year 2      F.E.
Initial Costs (Investment)                                                  Total  %
Purchase 50 day-old chicks
at Col$12 each                                 600                 -
Sanitation at Col$1.50 per animal                 75                 -         49 65
Concentrates /a (5 months /a of starter
feed) (2 kg per animal per month at
Col$7 per kilo)                              3,325                 -      2,494 75
4,000                 -     2,543 64
Operating Costs
Grain equivalent /c (365 days, 50 gms
per day per animal at Col$6 per kg)          3,034 /d         10,402
Sanitation                                         -               143
Concentrates /a (5 months of starter feed)         -             6,650
Family labor (0.5 hour daily,365 days/year)  2,738               2,738
5,772            19,933
Income
Sale 43 cull hens at Col$150                       -             6,450
Sale eggs /b  (43 x 92 at Col$3)               6,923 /b         11,868
Males (45 at Col$150)                              -             6,750
6,923            25,068
Net Benefit                                   -2,849             5,135
Internal Financial Rate of Return: above 50% (10 years).
/a Assuming an average number of chicks of 47.5 on year 1, and 95 from
year 2 onwards.
/b Assuming 96 eggs per hen per year (92 sold and 4 kept for hatching.
/c Assuming an average number of animals of 47.5 on year 1, and 95 from
year 2 onwards.
/d 7 months.
Source: Mission.
April 16, 1979



- 84 -                          ANNEX 3
Table 30
COLOMBIA
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT - INCORA
Activity Budget No. 6: Poultry (45 hens)
Cash Flow Projections
(Col$)
- - - - - - - -  Year - -
1         2          3        4 onwards
Cash Inflow
Revenues                                     6,923    25,068    25,068    25,068
Subloan /a                                   3,400          -          -          -
Beneficiary's cash contribution                600          -          -   
Total                                     10,923    25,068    25,068    25,068
Cash Outflow
Investment costs                             4,000          -          -
Cash operating costs                         3,034    17,195    17,195    17,195
Total                                      7,034    17,195    17,195    17,195
Cash balance before debt service             3,889      7,873      7,873      7,873
Debt service
.nterest /b                                      -        544        292          -
Principal                                         -     1,574      1,826          -
Total                                          -      2,118      2,118          -
Cash balance after debt service              3,889      5,755      5,755      7,873
(Family labor)                              (2,738)   (2,738)   (2,738)   (2,738)
/a 85% of initial costs.
/b 15% plus 1% life insurance p.a.
Source: Mission
Aoril 16, 1979



ANNEX 3
- 85 -                         Tab'e 31
COLOMBIA
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT - INCORA
Activity Budget No. 7: Ariculture (10 hives)
Cost Benefit Analysis
(Col$)
Year 1        Year 2      F.E.
Initial Cost (Investment)
10 hives                                     15,000              -
10 swarms                                     6,500              -
1 wheelbarrow                                   200              -
1 smoker                                        150              -
1 pair gloves                                   160              -          -
Miscellaneous equipment                         390          ___
24,900
Operating Costs
Family labor (20 days per year)               2,600           2,600
Income
Honey: 10 hives x 28 kg at $34 per kg         9,520           9,520
Net benefits
Wax, nucleos, royal jelly, etc.
additional to cover operating costs    -17,980              6,920
Internal Financial Rate of Return- : 38% (10 years).
1/ Assuming salvage value: 5% of initial costs
Source: Mission
April 16, 1979.



86 -                        ANNEX 3
Table 32
COLOMBIA
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT - INCORA
Activity Budget No. 7: Apiculture (10 hives)
Cash Flow Projections
(Col$)
- - - - -_-_-_-_- - - - -Year  - - - - - - - - -
1         2          3          4         5      6 onwards
Cash Inflow
Revenues                            9,520      9,520     9,520      9,520      9,520      9,520
Subloan /a                         21,165          -          -         -          -          -
Beneficiary's cash contribution   3,735            -          -         -          -          -
Total                            34,420      9,520     9,520      9,520      9,520     9,520
Cash Outflow
Investment cost                    24,900          -         -          -          -          -
Net cash balance
before debt service               9,520      9,520     9,520      9,520      9,520     9,520
Debt Service
Interest /b                         3,386      2,894     2,323      1,660        892          -
Amortization                        3,078      3,570     4,141      4,804      5,572          -
Total                             6,464      6,464     6,464      6,464      6,464          -
Cash balance after
debt service                      3,056      3,056     3,056      3,056      3,056     9,520
(Family labor)                     (2,600)   (2,600)   (2,600)   (2,600)   (2,600)   (2,600)
/a 85% of initial costs.
/b 15% plus 1% life insurance p.a.
Source: Mission
April 16, 1979



- 87 -                                   ANNEX 3
Table 33
COLOMBIA
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT - INCORA
Financial and Economic Prices /a
(Col$/m ton)
A. Traded Commodities
Rice                 Beef Cattle
Economic Prices     Cocoa     Maize      (Paddy)     Sorghum    (Liveweight)     Panela
1978             95,000     6,000      6,000        5,500       32,000          5,800
1979             78,600     6,700      5,760        6,250       36,540          6,580
1980 /b          65,450     8,100      5,640        7,170       36,830          7,190
1981             59,190     8,110      5,760        7,250       36,220          7,710
1982             55,768     8,240      6,000        7,290       36,130          9,690
1983             52,120     8,330      6,160        7,350       37,170         11,600
1984             48,480     8,420      6,320        7,410       38,210         13,500
1985             44,840     8,510      6,480        7,470       39,260         13,500
1986             42,579     8,520      6,520        7,470       39,520         12,900
1987             40,318     8,530      6,560        7,470       39,780         12,300
1988             38,057     8,540      6,600        7,470       40,040         11,700
1989             35,796     8,550      6,630        7,470       40,300         11,100
1990             33,535     8,560      6,660        7,470       40,544         10,440
Financial Prices            1978-90
Cocoa                      76,000
Maize                       6,000
Panela                      8,000
Rice                        6,000
Sorghum                     5,500
Beef cattle                32,000
B. Non-Traded Commodities (1978-90)
Financial        Economic
Cassava                 2,500            2,320
Plantain                3,000            2,790
Eggs ('000 units)       3,000            2,790
Honey                  34,000           31,620
Milk ('000 liters)      7,900             7,350
Pork (liveweight)      70,000           65,100
Poultry (liveweight)  100,000           93,000
/a In constant 1978 terms.
/b Year 1 of the project.
Source: Mission.
May 15, 1979.



CD1oJIIR8 IA
i6iik[1j COKICULCDRICO CREDIT P60.700 - LOCoRA
1             3          ~     ~     ~     ~    ~~          ~     ~    ~~4  9    7  11  9   to          1          12          13          14          15         lb          17          la              TOTALS6
0l,ort torn,                                    97~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5.9  17 7. 7  349 3  5u0.1    64 7.11    65739       646 .7      639.1      639.1       639. 1     639.1       639.1       639.1       639.1      639.1       639.t       633. 1      639.1       10,929.4
9.diooIlo,71.oro                                 6~~ ~ ~~~~            ~~~~~      ~~~.95  0. 9  12.5  3U. 2  55.9  66.31  90.7    107.4       109.5      101. 9       7 7.9      30.91       36. 1       14. 3       10. 7        5.~         -                       794.7 
A,,,   001.                                                         -           --         -                        3.7        9.0        12.3        12.7       12.4       1.4.Ui      -i           4.4         -           -----7.
S.b-.601                                                         99.4      178.6       361.9       990.        707.0       745.2       7913.9     759.7       760.0      753.4       72.9         03        675.        653 4       6439.p      649         691        691         1.9
Sor ,,-   7                                                      6. 1       70.0       401.2       65.1I       7 7.3       78.11       7 7.6       76. 7      76.9        76.98      76. 7       76. 7       76. 7      76.7        76. 7       26.7        36. 7       76. 7      1, 209. 2
991d100/Io ,g                                                               1 ..  6.0   43.9        73.9a       194.9      101.3        97. 3       61.9       64. 7       4 7.4      31. 1       16.6        10.6         4. 8        2.95       0.9         -           .            72 3.0
0600   _t,116*                                                          -                              3. 6       _7.7        11. 3       10.0         8. 1       6. 1        13.1        2.1        0.7         -                       .                                                53. 7
066-101111                                    6.1       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~36.0  .!O.  148.0  21      209         949         997        176         129.3      1999    9     6.0        973        86.         792         33.9        76.7        76.3        1,986.9
O.-f.r17 I-ndlog                                                     14.3       197.9      219.6       190.3         14.5         6.2         -          .                       .-                                                        -                       -                       639.7
Al  72010  O  ig-                                                                            10 .5      12.9          8.2         4.0o                                                                                                                                                       34 'a
TOnhntnol   ollOooo, 60010606.o261901967111,1               13.6        90.4         4.2        30            .0         -.                                 -                                  --                                 -.                                  -34.2
On.9..-  1~J7671.9                                                              1313.4     196.9       161.0         12.4         5.3                                                                                                                                                      5                       711.2
A,rRlOo11-Y I-il                                                       -          -         11.9        93.7          9.7         4.1                    .                      --                                                         ---39.4
Toch.l,  oooboo.  r100   -7.  P-1-.9c  -nlRg-t7                       371         9.          2.2         .4          1.4         .                                                                                                                                                           6.9
S06.60101                                       19~~~~~~~~~~          ~~~~~      ~~~4.0  154.2  0.  193.  23.  9.4       -          -                       -          -                       .-                                 -                                     74-5
70O6AL INI'.09                                                             266.4       337.0      979.4    L1933.7         93691      969.4       939.6       9.4        30.80.                   335       79.6        72.          349        72.          2.        715.8       719.9       14,398.5 
9od1 10 d0 10110-717                                            .9k. 3     172.3       233.1       052.0         39.4        -           -           -                                                                     -           .                      ..794.4
S6or10r1.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                        3~~7.9    177.7      349.3       960.0        607.0      6501.9      646.7       639.1I      639.1      639.1I     639.9       639.1        391  39.1   639          9.19     6391        69.         639.        10~09114
13Z70      3-5        MT3         ii: 2         M.1        6599.9     646.7       639.9       639.9      639.1       639.1       639.1      639.1       639.1       639.1       6139.1     639.1       639.1       10,934.9
1111001fl20110701                                          .         ~~~~~      ~~~~~       ~~~~~         ~     ~    ~      ~~~~22.4  25.S  26.0  -                                                                                                                   7432
006-60611  1011131011                        Y~         3j0         6949       i138-         W775       650 9      661         6919_39                             313991                  39        69.1        639 1       639.9       _              _        1.6,
01166011101 000011700.. 6r0I0l71 .0226011116    n090100l  ..45_,  30.2        6.4         4~.4         4~.4       44           .4          .4         .4          .4         .4          .4.4                   4.4         4.4        44          44.4                     148.3
CoO.,lo.lon  10 4010 0110o010 71                      ~~~~       ~~ ~~~~0.4  2.   93     9.          92.9        12.3       19.6        911.4        9.         9.          695.9                  94          9.1         9.0         4.          .           .           136.24 
0111167if  l-'Lj~_   10112 7.                                     0.4        2.3          .3         9.         12.Z5       12.9        It.6       _11.4        9. 2        9.1        6.9         5.9         5.4        3.9         5.0         4.1.                     .            24.2
Do6    er 2... 0- 196, too-  -1
fti-Lno101                                                                                    . --                   51.9        91.9       99.9        51.9       311.9       91.9        91.9       91.9        51.9        99.9        91.9        51.9       31,9                      674.4
Io 0,b7.37. P...)                                                                       9.2        36.2        50.7        59.0       44.0        40.5        35.9        31.8       27.7        23.6        19.5        15.9        91.3        7 .2        3.2         .426.7
0770-g.4.                                                              3.7        2.         M09           0.1                     - -        .                                                                                    -                               .
So6.1o007                                       ~~~~       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4.77                                                                                          9 11.9L    227.8  37.1  102.7  102.9   ~ DOI  -97:  97.9  -I.-  -   I  -- -  -m  6ci-  -53I-  3o .z
_0561.   10LOW9                                                         207.4       396.7       ~40.7      199.1       904.3       793.0       770.2       796. 7     797         732        769         796         79,         191        766         3 7         791         639         1,9.
N-         ol,.                                                             59.0 7I  140.3 5/24.   /  235.67.    191.H                7117.7      769.4       26117   3.1    3       i311.0.                 56.9        36.8        13.8        92.4       911.3         7 .7      62.9       _9,937.2
d/  73.   Ioo .IoOO 0        "I.120  Dt110,
A,.77 77., 193



- 89 -
ANNEX 4
COLOMBIA
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT - INCORA
Related Documents and Data Available in Project File
General Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
(a) Projecto de Credito Integral para los Asentamientos de INCORA,
Preparation Report, INCORA, November 1978;
(b) Draft Report of the Preparation Mission to Colombia. INCORA
Credit Project. Working Papers. FAO/World Bank Cooperative
Program. WP 4/78, November 13, 1978.
(c) Perspectives on Colombian Agriculture: Selected Issues and
Options. IBRD, draft December 4, 1978.
(d) Agricultural Sub-sector Report. Research and Extension,
IBRD, draft, July 21, 1978.
(e)  Agricultural Sub-sector Report.  Marketing and Price Policy,
IBRD, draft, July 21, 1978.
(f)  Agricultural Sub-sector Report.  Agricultural Credit,
IBRD, draft, July 21, 1978.
(g)  Agricultural Sub-sector Report.  Agrarian Reform, Colonization,
Irrigation and Drainage. IBRD, draft, August 8, 1978.
Selected Working Papers
Appraisal Mission Working Papers:
(a) The Crops and Livestock Components
(b) INCORA
(c) Project Financial and Economic Analysis: Detailed Analysis
and Assumptions
April 26, 1979






'' r6'  ~O                                                   2'
C  0  L  0  MA  B  I A                                       o             so              ;50        200       250
II AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT- INCORA                                                                      K.Ieetere           'O' C;MIA
2                    ~~~~~~~Project areetas                                                                      105
-     Colo Agrorip
M.",                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Riohavin
Main paved rends /a"{tRrhrV;4 
Secondary paved roads
Roilronds,
-  Department       arnon,,d  es
-- -  -- lnternnonoti-I boundaries
doTT00'etr)AVEdACt JEMPERATL/pE0(ec  (v/fATE                  uoe6l,vi          .-n.
Above 4,000          Batln 7U               Alipe iro                                                                                                                  -        2*-
3,3000- 4,000             Below 12'              MtorlandClvea7Fncnn
2p000- 3,000         Not les thouf2        Cold                                                                                           .=                                           =Awr&
,000 - 2,000        Not less thoi ?T 5'    Te,nperote                                                  ... p0   t a * -6,
Uip to 1000          Over 241               Hot
< Ttit ~~5                                                                        Sniee               nkmtnnid7ne       n  0i        '0 -' r:.,h ,,a,Tr  
Psi
/~~                 ~ Ioc\  -ce                     <- zV                                                             d  
\<t9Af 740< _'  iCnennedkt                       lo OCrrt vt ; t it]  f  'E  75  fEnti
0  ^  J t ;ffi 0tu~~~~~0                                       1w
? ~ ~ ~ ~     ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ tsr I;r  .wi p                                        '5      -     -  ; -   
A !                                                                                                     p - -  , k   4> ;5 L f ?   :  ; =  .   .  to   X  '\   A   'f
isn
u ;.onn                                                 .                                                                                              ie n '  ,v. 0 *; * ; j 0 ) pS t - }        7 A ;  D
rPuenrv.Open                 Gn; /
2n-P
4 k~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1



