Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFmFCIAL USE ONLY    FILE COPY
Report No. P-2585-CO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE
COLOMBIAN INSTITUTE FOR AGRARIAN REFORM
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
FOR A
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
June 6, 1979
This document has a redtlted dIstibution and my be ued by recipients only in the perfennmce of
their offcial duties. Its contets may not oeiwse be dbl_d witout Wrlid Bank autheulxatlon.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Average Calendar 1978 (estimate)   Mid-1979 estimate
Currency Unit  =  Peso - Col$                   Col$
US$1           =  Col$ 39.32                    43.62
Col$1          =  US$0.0254                     0.0229
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
AID                                  -    Agency for International
Development
BG                                   -    Banco Ganadero
BOR                                  -    Banco de la Republica
CAJA                                 -    Caja de Credito Agrario,
Industrial y Minero
DRI                                  -    Programa de Desarrollo Rural
Intregrado (Integrated Rural
Development Program)
FFAP                                 -    Fondo Financiero Agropecuario
IDB                                 -    Inter-American Development Bank
INCORA                              -    Instituto Colombiano de la Reforma
Agraria (The Colombian Institute
for Agrarian Reform)
GOVERNMENT OF COLOMBIA FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
COLOMBIA
THIRD AGRI]CULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            The Colombian Institute for Agrarian Reform (INCORA)
Guarantor:           The Republic of Colombia, which would bear the foreign
exchange risk
Amount:              US$20 million equivalent
Terms:               Repayment in 17 years, including four years of grace at
7.9% interest per annum.
Project
DescriptLon:      The project would provide supervised credit for on-farm
development, including incremental working capital, to
about 7,600 land reform/colonization beneficiaries who
have had limited access to credit. It would also assist
in the development of small agro-industries, provide
technical assistance and training programs for INCORA's
field staff and beneficiaries, as well as project moni-
toring and evaluation. The project faces no unusual
risks. The revolving fund to be set up under the project
should ensure the timely availability of resources and
thus provide for speedy project implementation.
Relending Terms
and Conditions:   Interest rates to subborrowers would be not less than 16%
per annum plus 1% for life insurance. For agricultural
credit, maximum lending per individual farm family would
be Col$ 500,000 (US$12,700).
This document hu a restricted disitribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Project Costs:                                               Local  Foreign  Total
(US$ Million Equivalent)
On-Farm Development
Medium- and long-term investments        15.0     8.8    23.8
Incremental working capital              10.0     3.2    13.2
Subtotal                           25.0    12.0    37.0
Small Agro-industries                     1.2     1.0      2.2
Subtotal Lending                   26.2    13.0    39.2
Technical Assistance
Technical assistance and training         0.7      1.3     2.0
Project administration                    0.1       -      0.1
Monitoring and evaluation                 0.1     0.1      0.2
Subtotal                            0.9      1.4     2.3
Total Baseline Cost                      27.1    14.4    41.5
Price Contingencies                       5.4     3.1      8.5
Total project costs                32.5    17.5    50.0
Financing Plan:                                              Local  Foreign  Total
(US$ Million Equivalent)
Subborrowers                              5.4       -      5.4
INCORA                                   24.6       -    24.6
Proposed Bank loan                      _2.5    17.5    20.0
Total                              32.5    17.5    50.0
Estimated
Disbursements:                                   Amount by IBRD Fiscal Year
------------ (US$ million) ------------
1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985
Annual                2.8    4.4    6.0    5.8    0.7    0.3
Cumulative            2.8    7.2   13.2   19.0   19.7   20.0
Economic Rate
of Return:         38%
Appraisal Report:   Report No. 2491-CO, dated June 6, 1979



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TC THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE COLOMBIAN INSTITUTE FOR AGRARIAN REFORM
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
FOR A
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Colonbian Institute fcor Agrarian Reform with the guarantee of the
Republic of Colombia for the equivalent of US$20 million to help finance
a Third Agricultural Credit Project. The loan would have a term of 17 years,
including four years of grace, with interest at 7.9% per annum. The foreign
exchange risk for the loan would be assumed by the Government.
PART I: THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        Aa economic report on Colombia (2235-CO) was distributed to the
Executive DLrectors in January 1979. An updating mission visited Colombia
during February 1979 and its report is expected to be distributed by June 8.
Its findings are summarized below. Country data sheets are provided in Annex I.
Background
3.        During the past two decades, Colombia has made substantial progress
in the transition from a predominantly rural and agricultural economy made
up of largely self-contained regions to a more integrated urban-industrial
economy. The productive base of the economy has been widened appreciably,
and there has been substantial diversification of production in both the
agricultural and industrial sectors. These improvements have been accompanied
by rapid growth of non-traditional exports and by the development of a
modern sector relying to a considerable extent on imported inputs. As a
result, the country has become less dependent on coffee as a source of
foreign exchange earnings, and fluctuations in domestic economic conditions
resulting from unpredictable shifts in world coffee prices, while still
considerable, have become more manageable. Although substantial progress
has been made during the past two decades, Colombia is still only partially
developed with a limited modern sector superimposed on a large, traditional
and economically poor base. Per capita income is low by developed world
standards, the maintenance of high employment is a persistent problem, and in
1975 an estimated 55.0% of the rural and 24.0% of the urban population had
incomes under the relative poverty level as defined by the Bank.
4.        Colombia's population growth rate declined sharply in the past
two decades; from well over 3% in the 1950s, to about 2.8% in the early 1970s
1/   Unchanged from Presidernt's Report, Proposed Third Bogota Water Supply,
Sewerage and Drainage Project (Report No. P-2525-CO dated May 2, 1979).



and to an estimated 2.1% at present. 1/ This was in large part the result
of a rapid decline in the crude birth rate; one of the most pronounced declines
ever recorded in a Latin American country. Rising per capita income, rapid
rural/urban migration, expanded economic opportunities for women and increased
effectiveness of family planning programs are included among the factors
responsible for the lower birth rate. Although rural/urban migration slowed
from the early 1960s on,as progress was made in eliminating the widespread
violence in the countryside, approximately 64% of the current population lives
in urban centers and there are now 22 cities with populations exceeding
100,000 persons. Colombia's population is not considered excessive relative
to the country's resource base. Economic growth will have to average around
7%, however, especially in the directly productive and service sectors, in
order to increase employment at a pace sufficient to keep up with growth of
the labor force.
5.        Available information--while scanty--suggests that some improvement
has occurred in income distribution and welfare of the lowest income groups
in Colombia since the 1950s. These gains were probably the consequence of
several factors, including migration of surplus labor from rural to urban
areas, rapid growth of employment in high productivity jobs in industry and
the services and reduced population growth. Policy efforts, particularly
since 1967, have been directed increasingly toward improving the welfare of
the poorest 50% of the population. These efforts have emphasized both
employment generation and greater public investment in health, education,
nutrition and urban development. The Bank has strongly supported these
efforts. Continued emphasis on growth of the productive sectors of the
economy, on industrial decentralization and on programs to encourage small-
scale industry and agriculture should provide increased employment oppor-
tunities and higher real wages for unskilled and semi-skilled labor in both
rural and urban areas. Further improvement in the public services provided
to the poor should reinforce these trends and raise the level of welfare of
this segment of the population.
6.        The Colombian authorities introduced a dramatic change in develop-
ment strategy in 1967, shifting emphasis from the then existing protectionist
policy of import substitution to measures designed to expand and diversify
exports. These policies were highly successful in expanding exports, thereby
alleviating the foreign exchange constraint and making possible a substantially
higher level of investment. As a consequence, real GDP rose by an average
6.5% annually between 1967-1969 and 1974, well above the historical average.
Merchandise exports in current prices expanded nearly threefold during this
period, and most significantly, non-traditional exports became an increasingly
important source of foreign exchange earnings, in part compensating for slow
growth of receipts from coffee exports. By 1974, non-coffee exports comprised
56% of total merchandise exports, up from about 30% in 1967.
1/   Estimated 1978 growth rate.  This rate differs from that given as the
most recent estimate in the Social Indicators Data Sheet (Annex I) which
is an average for the early 1970s.



-3 -
7.        Despite the growth of output and the diversification of exports,
the country faced some potentially serious problems at the time the new
administration took office in 1974. Weakening balance of payments in part
related tco the slowdown of growth in the industrial countries, loss of
self-sufficiency in petroleum production, deterioration of the public
finances, accelerating inflation, and declining investment threatened to
reduce growth of output and employment. As a consequence of these develop-
ments, ,the Government introduced an economic stabilization program which
combined basic reforms of the fiscal, monetary, and trade systems with
measures aimed at accelerating long-term economic growth.
8.        In an effort to strengthen the public finances, the Government
undertook a comprehensive tax reform designed to improve the progressivity
and elastiLcity of the tax system. Some of the distortions which had deve-
loped in lhe financial system caused by forced investment requirements
placed on financial institutions and by differential tax treatment of
financial instruments were eliminated. Interest rates were raised in an
effort to increase private savings and improve resource allocation. In
order to increase the efficiency of the economy through greater reliance on
market forces, price controls on a number of industrial and agricultural
products were removed, thereby providing greater stimulus for increasing
production. Modifications in petroleum pricing policy aimed at regaining
self-sufficiency in the production of crude petroleum by improving incen-
tives for exploration and exploitation were introduced. Concurrently, the
Government initiated policies designed to reduce the subsidy on local
consumption of petroleum products, which eventually led to a 220% increase
in gasoline prices by 1978. Tariff levels and non-tariff barriers to trade
were reduced significantly in order to increase competition and the effi-
ciency of domestic firms. While these reforms were successful in improving
the public finances and reducing inflation in 1975, they also served to
reduce economic growth and the slowdown of domestic economic activity which
began in 1974 continued through most of 1975.
Recent Economic Developments
9.        During the past three years, the Colombian economy has been
dominated by developments in the external sector. As the result of a
serious frost in late 1975 affecting Brazil's major coffee producing area,
coffee exports from that country declined sharply triggering a fourfold
increase in the world price of coffee by mid-1977. This caused Colombia's
export earnings from coffee to increase to nearly US$1.8 billion in 1977
from US$764 million in 1975, and produced an unprecedented rise in incomes
and demand in the country's rural areas. Lagging supply of consumer goods,
particularly basic foodstuffs--the production of which was adversely affected
by drought conditions in most of the country's interior--failed to keep pace
with rising demand and inflation accelerated from 24% in 1975 to 44% in the
twelve months ending June 1977. Inflation in Colombia has been moderate
relative to that experienced by other countries in the region, seldom
exceeding an annual rate of 20%. The acceleration of inflation which took
place during the period, therefore, was unprecedented in recent history, and
efforts to lower the rate of inflation have dictated economic policy since
that time.



- 4 -
10.       The authorities responded rapidly by introducing a broad range
of fiscal, monetary and trade policies designed to gain control over the
explosive increase in prices. Beginning in late 1976 reserve requirements
were raised and rediscounting and public sector borrowing from the Central
Bank were discouraged. The authorities temporarily suspended their policy of
periodically adjusting the exchange rate and prices of petroleum products.
In January 1977, a 100% marginal reserve requirement was placed on increases
in commercial bank deposits exceeding the December 31, 1976 level. To delay
the impact of rising foreign exchange receipts on the monetary base, exporters
were required to accept 90-day US dollar denominated certificates of exchange
in lieu of cash payment for their exports. In order to sterilize a portion of
the increase in foreign exchange earnings from coffee exports, the Coffee
Federation agreed to invest a large portion of its receipts in Central Bank
bonds, the proceeds of which were frozen in a special account. To increase
supplies in the domestic market, a number of measures were taken to liberalize
imports. Food imports by the state marketing agency, IDEMA, were increased
sharply. In addition, restrictive fiscal measures were introduced to curb
growth of aggregate demand and in 1977 the Treasury registered an overall
budgetary surplus for the first time in recent years.
11.       As a consequence of these measures and a favorable second semester
harvest, inflation declined sharply beginning in July 1977.  By the end of
the year, the annual rate of inflation had fallen to 29%. With inflation
subsiding, periodic exchange rate adjustments and gasoline price increases
were reintroduced. With few other exceptions, however, the stabilization
policies were continued in effect throughout 1978 and by year end inflation
had subsided to an annual rate of 17.8%.
12.       Because of the lack of dynamism in world markets, slow growth in
agricultural production, capacity constraints in the industrial sector and
a decline in real investment, the Colombian economy expanded only moderately
in 1976 and 1977. Growth of real GDP increased from 3.8% in 1975, to 4.6%
and 4.8% respectively in the subsequent two years. The higher growth was
a direct result of the expansion of domestic demand brought about by the
rise in incomes of coffee producers. Output in the trade and personal
services sectors of the economy (including transport and communications)
responded strongly to the rising demand, while agricultural output, because
of the drought, rose by only 2.2% p.a. on average for the 1976-77 period.
Industrial sector output rose by only 5.4% p.a. during this period, despite
the strong growth in domestic demand. Because growth occurred in the rela-
tively labor intensive sectors of the economy -- personal services, trade,
transport and communications and manufacturing -- the urban unemployment
rate had declined to an estimated 8% by the end of 1977, from an average 12%
during the early 1970s. In addition, there is evidence of labor shortages
and rising real wage rates in rural areas during this period, and it is
believed that rural unemployment also declined.
13.       Preliminary estimates for 1978 show a strong increase in real
GDP resulting primarily from continued stimulus to aggregate demand from
high coffee receipts and from an expansion of investment. In addition,
favorable weather conditions permitted a sharp recovery in agricultural



output. Real GDP growth is estimated at 8% for the year, with agricultural
production estimated to have grown by as much as 9% over the low level of
1977. While coffee prices fell considerably in 1978 from their 1977 levels,
this decline was more than offset by expanding export volume as Colombia
undertook a more aggressive coffee export policy. Consequently, receipts from
coffee exports rose to nearly US$2.1 billion for the year. The accompanying
rise in domestic demand and a modest recovery in export markets caused manu-
facturing and transport anid communications to grow by 8.5% each and trade
(including commerce) by 9.0%. Construction activity, which had continued at
a low level during the past several years, recovered strongly in 1978, partially
as a result of an increase in speculative demand arising from an inflow of
funds frem contraband activities. Only the mining sector, in which output
fell by 2.3% as a result of declining oil production, failed to show signifi-
cant growth in 1978. Open unemployment in urban areas is estimated to have
fallen to 7.6% by June 1978.
14.       Colombia's balance of payments was also highly favorable in 1978,
continuirLg the trend of the previous three years. Largely as a result of
the increase in coffee exports, although non-coffee exports rose modestly
(7.0%) in real terms also, Colombia's net official international reserves
rose by US$664 million, reaching US$2,493 million by the end of the year,
equivalerLt to about nine months imports of goods and non-factor services.
This increase in reserves occurred despite a nominal 25% increase in import
payments,, reflecting the rise in domestic demand, continued overvaluation
of the exchange rate and liberal import policies. There were few significant
modifications in trade and exchange rate policies in 1978. The slow rate
of peso devaluation was continued during the first three quarters of the
year, bul: accelerated in the fourth quarter when the pace of reserve accumu-
lation began to slow. In general, trade and exchange rate policies were
directed towards reducing the impact on the monetary base of reserve accumula-
tion by delaying the monetization of export receipts and advancing import
payments. These measures complemented monetary policies which were aimed at
restraining growth of the money supply.
15.       Colombia's public finances generated a large surplus in 1978
thereby permitting the Government to relax somewhat the policy of fiscal
restraint which formed part of its anti-inflationary program during the
previous two years. Current savings of the public sector rose to an
estimated 6.0% of GDP, corapared with 5.5% of GDP in 1977, and covered about
90% of public sector investment. Both the Central Government 1/ and the
consolidated decentralized agencies increased their savings in 1978,
the former by 29% and the latter by 153%. The strong increase in savings
of the decentralized agencies, which rose to 1.4% of GDP from 0.7% in 1977,
was the result of increased charges for the services they provide and of
restraint on current expenditures. Large increases in customs duties and
in sales taxes brought about by the growth in domestic demand were the main
factors responsible for t'ne increase in savings of the Central Government.
As a consequence of this improved financial situation, public sector fixed
1/   Comprised of the National Government, the National Highway Fund and the
Social Security Agencies.



- 6 -
investment rose during the year, reaching 6.9% of GDP compared with 6.3% of GDP
on average for the 1975-77 period. Some of the heaviest investment took place
in the development of hydropower and in the petroleum sector, for both explora-
tion and development.
16.       Despite continuation of the stabilization programs, the rate of
of inflation accelerated sharply in January 1979, followed by a more moderate
increase in February. At the same time, the international price of coffee
fell sharply, prompting the Government to take measures to avoid a large
financial deficit for the Coffee Federation. In the past, such deficits were
financed in part through recourse to the Central Bank. The Federation, an
autonomous entity which meanages the domestic and external marketing of
Colombia's coffee, purchases coffee from producers at a fixed price in pesos
and then sells it on the world market. Since the Federation stands ready to
purchase all coffee offered at the fixed price, it also bears the financial
burden of stock accumulation in periods of declining world prices. After
paying taxes and marketing costs equivalent to nearly 25% of the inter-
national price, the Federation could not sustain the high domestic purchase
price given the lower world coffee price without incurring huge losses.
To avoid this, the domestic purchase price of coffee was lowered by 12% and
the exchange certificate system was abolished for coffee exports. This
latter measure will result in the conversion to cash over the next several
months of around Col$10 billion in outstanding exchange certificates. To
offset the monetary impact of this measure, reserve requirements on term
deposits of commercial banks and financial corporations are to be increased
gradually over the next few months, to 25% from 20% at present, and prior
import deposit requirements have been raised substantially, to 95% from 40%
and 60% previously. In addition, the interest rate on dollar denominated
certificates issued by the Central Bank was raised to 14% from 7% in an
attempt to absorb some of the funds flowing from the exchange certificates.
In a separate measure, retail gasoline prices were increase!d in mid-March and
Sunday sales of gasoline were outlawed. Gasoline prices have been raised by
67% since September 1978.
Development Strategy and Prospects
17.       The development strategy embodied in the 1975-78 Development Plan
aimed at accelerating the rate of growth of GDP and at distributing the
benefits of such growth more equitably. This was to be achieved by increasing
the allocative efficiency of the economy through greater reliance on market
forces, by providing incentives for increasing private sector investment, by
expanding economic and social infrastructure, and by improving public services
provided to the poorest half of the population. Substantial progress has
been made in carrying out this strategy during the past four years. Public
sector investments have focused increasingly on projects designed to alleviate
rural and urban poverty and on expanding and improving infrastructure. Compre-
hensive integrated rural development and nutrition projects aimed at increasing
incomes and welfare of the lowest income groups have been introduced. Urban
development projects designed to provide improved services and employment
opportunities to residents of slum areas in Colombia's major cities have been
initiated. These programs have been complemented by policies to encourage the
development of small- and medium-scale enterprises and to decentralize industry
away from the three largest cities. This latter policy, together with credit
programs aimed at increasing output and employment in agriculture, have been
designed to alleviate rural poverty and reduce rural/urban migration. Public



- 7 -
sector infrastructure investments have been concentrated on improvement and
extension of highway and communications systems. Special priority has been
given to the development of domestic energy sources to reduce the country's
growing dependence on imported oil.
18.       Increased emphasis on provision of improved social services is re-
flected in the increased proportion of total National Government expenditure on
education, health, and water and sewerage systems, which rose from 33% in 1974
to 38% in 1977. The economic dislocations caused by the coffee boom and the
need to concentrate economic policy on short-term management problems have
limited expansion of public and private investment and required temporary
suspension of some of the measures designed to free the price system and
stimulate growth of non-traditional exports.
19.       The Government, wbLich took office in August 1978, intends to continue
with essenlially the same detvelopment strategy as the previous administration.
Under this strategy, economic growth is to be promoted through expansion of
non-coffee exports and through measures to stimulate investment and increase
the efficiency of resource allocation.  This Government proposes to give
greater emphasis to expansion of economic and social infrastructure, however,
with particular stress on improving transport and communications networks.
Improvement in transport and communications infrastructure is expected to
encourage increased inter-regional trade which, together with alleviation of
the foreign exchange constraint, should further stimulate investment and
economic growth. Measures to encourage industrial decentralization have been
introduced to complement the actions taken to unify regional markets.
20.       Rapid expansion oE domestic energy resources is to be given high
priority with the view to riegaining self-sufficiency in energy as early as
possible. Even under the most optimistic assumptions regarding development
of such resources, however, Colombia will continue to rely heavily on energy
imports until the mid-1980s when exports of coal and natural gas are expected
to reduce the country's net energy deficit. Small scale agriculture and
industry will continue to receive strong support through credit, and low
income rural areas are to be helped through rural electrification, health
and education programs and through expansion of feeder road projects.
Innovative programs such as the integrated rural development (DRI) and
nutrition projects financed by the Bank are expected to receive continued
high priority. Public investment programs in education, health, water and
sewerage and urban development (especially those directed at alleviating
urban poverty) are to be continued as well.
21.       Given the country's strong resource base and its high level of
international reserves, Colombia should be able to achieve annual real GDP
growth averaging about 7% during the 1979-83 period. Maintenance of this
level of growth will require rapid expansion of non-coffee exports and high
savings and investment rates. Public sector investment is expected to expand
faster than GDP during this period because of the large proposed programs
for infrastructure, social services and energy development. Financial require-
ments for this higher level of investment will be substantial and public
sector savings will have tco be sustained at the current high levels. Given
the expected decline in coffee revenue, improvements will be required in the
administration and collection of non-coffee taxes, and additional tax measures



- 8 -
may be required. Of equal importance is the continued upward adjustment in
prices charged for the goods and services provided by the public decentralized
agencies. Growth of non-coffee exports, especially of manufactured goods,
will no doubt be strongly influenced by the rates of economic growth of
Colombia's major trading partners, but appropriate domestic incentives will
also play an important role. In this regard, it is expected that Colombia will
follow an exchange rate policy designed to maintain the competitiveness of
Colombian exports and that additional export promotion measures will be
adopted to encourage both product and market diversification.
22.       Greater efforts to increase efficiency and production in the agricul-
tural and industrial sectors will also be needed to complement incentives given
to non-traditional exports. Programs to meet these needs in the agricultural
sector, including integrated rural development, expansion of farm credit, im-
proved research and extension services, and upgraded marketing facilities, are
already in place and will need to be strengthened. Further development of
the country's capital markets is expected to increase private savings and im-
prove the allocation of financial resources, thereby providing the basis for
more rapid growth of industry. Ongoing and future infrastructure investments
by the public sector should facilitate improvements in economic efficiency and
lead to more rapid growth of output and employment in both industry and
agriculture.
23.       Projections of Colombia's energy balance indicate a rapidly growing
deficit that is expected to reach significant proportions in the early 1980s
in the absence of an aggressive energy development program. To avoid the con-
straint on growth that large scale shortages of energy would entail, high
priority is being given to the development of additional energy sources. The
strategy which is being pursued is to reduce the nation's dependence on petro-
leum as an energy source by developing substitutes such as hydropower, coal
and natural gas. Major projects are being executed and others prepared to
expand hydroelectric power generation and incentives are being given to pri-
vate foreign companies for accelerated exploration and development of the
country's petroleum, coal and natural gas potential. Exports of coal and
natural gas are expected to offset a large portion of the petroleum imports
projected for the mid to late 1980s. Conservation of existing resources
resulting from higher energy prices is expected to slow the growth in energy
demand. While the total investment cost of future energy development is still
being determined, preliminary estimates indicate that the required investment
could run as high as US$8.0 billion in current prices over the next decade.
Even under the most optimistic assumption regarding foreign private investment,
suppliers' credits and domestic resource mobilization, external long-term
financing of about US$4.0 billion would be required in this sector alone
during this period. Any significant delay in implementing the country's
energy development program would most likely have serious adverse repercus-
sions on future economic growth.
24.       Because of the expected continued decline in world coffee prices,
accelerating oil imports and the high import content of future investment
projects, the current account of the balance of payments is expected to be
in deficit throughout the early to mid-1980s. Increased mineral exports
including coal, natural gas, and nickel, and completion of the large invest-
ments in energy development are expected to relieve the pressure on the



- 9 -
balance of payments by the late 1980s. Colombia is expected, therefore, to
continue to be a large net importer of capital for some time to come. Its
future external resource requirements reflect the need to supplement domestic
savings in order to carry out the public sector investment program and to
provide increasing amounts of foreign exchange to finance required imports
of capital and intermediate goods. Assuming that the Colombian authorities
permit a drawdown of international reserves to the equivalent of three months'
imports in the years immediately ahead, gross external capital requirements
are projected at US$6.3 billion between 1979 and 1983, or an annual average
of about US$1,260 million. About half of Colombia's capital inflow during
this period is expected to be provided by official multilateral and bilateral
sources, with commercial financial credits becoming increasingly important.
25.       Colombia's public external debt repayable in foreign currency
amounted to US$4.2 billion at the end of 1978, of which US$2.7 billion
was disbursed and outstanding. The Bank/IDA share of this external debt
was 29% ancl is expected to rise to 31% by 1983, before declining to 29%
again by 1985. Although the public debt service ratio fell during the past
two years as export growth accelerated, this ratio is expected to increase
from 10.3% in 1978 to about 14.7% in 1983. Balance of payments prospects
beyond 1980 will depend heavily on the timely development of domestic
energy sources and on progress made in executing several natural resource-
based export oriented projects currently under preparation. Given the
expected continuation of sound economic and financial management and timely
execution of the country's energy program, it should be possible to prevent
the external sector from again becoming a constraint on economic growth and
to maintain Colombia's creditworthiness for the required external borrowing.
PART II: BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN COLOMBIA
-26.       The proposed loan, the 82nd to be made to Colombia, would bring the
total amount of Bank loans to Colombia to US$2,189.6 million (net of cancella-
tions). Of this amount, US$1,593.7 million is now held by the Bank; IDA made
one credit of US$19.5 million for highways in Colombia in 1961. Disbursements
have been completed on 47 loans and the IDA credit. IFC has made investments
and underwriting commitments of US$53.7 million in 24 enterprises and now holds
US$17.9 million. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans, the IDA
credit and IFC investments as of March 31, 1979. The Annex also contains
summaries on the execution of the 29 ongoing projects.
27.       Since FY68, Bank lending in Colombia has become more diversified and
has been concentrated on production-oriented programs and activities which
emphasized social as well as economic benefits. Including the proposed project,
nine of the thirteen agricultural loans have been made since then, nine of the
twelve loans for industry, all three loans in the education sector, one loan
for a nutrition project, two loans for an urban development project and all
nine loans for water supply and sewerage. This compares with only thirteen
loans since FY68 in the power and transport sectors.



- 10 -
28.       Bank lending to Colombia in FY78, consisted of loans for nutrition
improvement, water and sewerage, urban development, power generation and
interconnection, development finance companies and development of an export
processing zone, totalling US$354.6 million equivalent. The proposed project
would bring total lending in FY79 to US$311.5 for seven projects: two each for
water supply/sewerage and power and one each for urban development, aviation
development and agriculture credit. Work is also underway in vocational
training, transportation, nickel and coal mining development, power, including
distribution expansion and rural electrification, oil exploration, land
settlement, further agricultural credit and industry, including small-scale
and agro-industries, for possible consideration by the Executive Directors
during the next two years.
29.       The proposed Bank lending conforms closely with the Government's
development strategy. To help Colombia develop domestic sources of energy, a
substantial part of the proposed lending would be for hydropower. The Bank
intends to assist the development of coal mines and petroleum, which hold
potential in helping Colombia meet part of its energy requirements and in
diversifying exports. Bank involvement in the energy sector would help
mobilize additional external financing as some of the projetCts would require
co-financing. Other future loans would finance agriculture and industry to
assist the Government in its efforts to raise overall productivity, income
and employment, and to strengthen and diversify exports. Closely related to
these objectives would be the proposed Bank lending for transport infrastruc-
ture. In this context, we are assisting the Government in preparing a rural
and feeder roads project to integrate the more backward areas of the country
into the modern economy. Other loans under preparation for highways, ports
and railroads are aimed at helping Colombia handle larger volumes of non-
traditional exports and the imported inputs on which the modern sector of
its economy relies for expansion. Finally, a relatively large number of
loans are being prepared in support of the Government's efforts to help the
lowest 50% of the Colombian population. Along with the proposed project,
lending for urban development and slum improvement, rural electrification,
land settlement and water supply and sewerage projects are principally designed
to improve the standard of living of the poor.
30.       The operations of external lenders in Colombia are shown in Annex I.
While IBRD, IDB, and AID provided about 75% of total external financing to
Colombia in the 1961-72 period, their share has decreased since then to approxi-
mately 50% for the 1975-77 period. Like the Bank, IDB has given increased
emphasis to social projects and has financed projects in low cost housing,
urban and rural development, agrarian reform, university education, water
supply, and land erosion control. In the future, it proposes to assist
Colombia to develop sources of domestic energy and to expand the activity
of the productive sectors to help generate increased employment. AID has
supported programs in education, urban development and small farm development.
It plans to phase out its aid program in Colombia at the end of this year with
the disbursement of a US$6 million nutrition loan. The Governments of the
Federal Republic of Germany and the Netherlands have also provided concessional
financing for social and regional integration projects.



- 11 -
PART III:  THE AGRICULTURE SECTOR AND INCORA
Agriculture's Contribution to the Economy
31.        Between 1950 and the late 1960s, agriculture's contribution to GDP
declined steadily from 40% ito about 29% at which level it has since stabilized.
The decline was the result of slow growth in agricultural production (3.4% per
annum) relative to the rest of the economy (5.7% per annum). In the 1970-76
period, agriculture grew at nearly 5% per annum, compared to 5.8% growth in
GDP; at the same time, the agricultural sector's terms of trade improved
considerably.
32.       During the last two decades, noncoffee agricultural exports have
grown continuously helping to diversify export earnings. Noncoffee, agricul-
tural exports, principally cotton, sugar, rice, flowers, horticultural products,
bananas and beef, have grown in value from US$20 million in 1970 to about
US$330 million in 1975 and now account for about 20% of total registered
exports. In contrast, imports of food and beverages are relatively small,
averaging less than 10% of total registered imports; wheat makes up half of
the total, followed by vegetable oils, lentils, fruit, barley and dairy
products.
The Nature of Agricultural Production
33.        The gross value of agriculture production amounted to about
Col$ 266 billion (US$6.8 billion) in 1978. Approximately 50% of the value of
this production is provided by crops, 37% by livestock, and the remainder by
forestry, fishing and huntiLng. Within the crop subsector, seven basic staples--
rice, cassava, plantains, potatoes, maize, sugarcane for panela (non-centrifugal
sugar) and beans--account for about 45% of the value of production with coffee's
share amounting on average for another 30%. Most of the rice is grown on
large commercial farms and about half of the potato crop is produced by them.
The remaining five major sitaple crops are produced predominantly by small
farmers.
34.       Large-scale commercial farming dominates the noncoffee export crops
and livestock besides producing about 90% of the rice crop which has replaced
corn and wheat as the principal staple in the Colombian diet. For many of the
modern sector crops, most notably rice and cotton, Colombian production is as
efficient as any in the developed world, and productivity follows closely on
research results. Tropical and subtropical weather conditions allow efficient
farmers to practice intensive double and triple cropping.
Land Use and Distribution
35.        Colombia's land resources amount to 114 million hectares of which
an estimated 17 million are in pasture and nearly 50 million under forest.  Of
the remaiLnder, just over a million hectares are under coffee and nearly four
million are in other crops.  The 860,000 farms which are of 10 ha or less



- 12 -
amount to over 70% of Colombian farms but cover only 7% of the farm area. On
the other hand, 80% of the land is farmed in the 4% of the units which are
larger than 50 hectares. Farms are far more evenly distributed for crops
alone--26% of the land in units up to 10 hectares and 44% in units over 50
hectares. Livestock farms are generally large, with nearly 80% of the land
in holdings of more than 100 hectares and 50% in units of more than 500
hectares. Seventy percent of the farms and 75% of the land is farmed directly
or indirectly by its owner, the remainder being farmed wholly or in part by
sharecroppers, renters and squatters.
Land Reform and the Colombian Institute for Agrarian Reform - The Borrower
36.       The most notable development in agriculture during the 1960s was
the institutionalization and advancement of land reform. The Colombian
Institute for Agrarian Reform (INCORA) was established in 1961--though some
previous land reform had occurred as far back as the 1930s. Up to the early
1970's, the Government viewed land reform as the core of the agriculture
development program in the country, providing social as well as economic
development benefits. As then defined, land reform was to be applied only
when land was underutilized or where Government investments in water manage-
ment--irrigation and drainage--resulted in the potential for increased utiliza-
tion. By redistributing such lands and providing beneficiaries with the
complementary inputs, especially credit and technical assistance, the Govern-
ment expected to improve the well-being of landless farm labor families and
increase agricultural productivity. INCORA was also given responsibility for
titling lands and providing support in the newly settled areas of the country,
where the land is publicly owned. In the late 1960s, INCORA was given a great
deal of support, and through 1970, had purchased or taken over about 3.5
million hectares and had distributed land to over 100,000 farmers.
37.       With the rapid development of modern large-scale agriculture and
reduced population pressure in rural areas, the Government began in the early
*1970s to shift its agricultural strategy giving less importance to land reform.
In the first place, an important premise of Colombian agrarian reform, namely
the existence of vast amounts of underutilized farm land, was no longer appli-
cable. The best valley lands, which had been in extensive livestock produc-
tion in earlier decades, were, by the early 1970s, under crop production.
Simultaneously, rapid migration had changed the population balance to urban
areas. To a Government, whose urban constituency was rapidly approaching 70%
of the population, large quantities of inexpensive food as well as increased
net foreign exchange earnings became the paramount objectives for agriculture.
The Government, therefore, began to concentrate on increasing the productivity
of the nearly one million small-scale farmers who already had land. These
previously neglected farmers have been and are crucial to the urban economy
since they supply most of the domestically consumed food crops, except rice.
Government efforts in this direction culminated in the launching of a national
Integrated Rural Development Program (DRI) which aims at developing the areas
where small-scale farmers predominate and at increasing their productivity and
incomes. Most of the leadership for this program had their apprenticeships in
various INCORA rural development projects.



- 13 -
38.       Although the land reform effort has slowed down considerably,
the program continues and haLs made some significant achievements.  About
200,000 farmers have received land under the program, though about 80% have
received formnirly public lands in colonization areas. Through 1977, five
million hectares of privately held land had been acquired under the program.
All told, INCORA's beneficiaries amount to about 18% of Colombia's farmers and
own about 16% of the land under crops and pasture. The proposed project also
supports the Government's objectives of increasing the productivity of small
farmers, specifically those who have already benefitted from land reform and
colonization programs.
Agricultural Credit
39.       Credit to the agriculture sector has, since 1972, remained consis-
tently at about 20% of total outstanding credit in the country. Two principal
sources, Caja Agraria (CAJA) and the Fondo Financiero Agropecuario (FFAP),
account for the vast majority of the agricultural lending in Colombia. FFAP
is a fund of the Bank of the Republic (BOR), from which resources are on-lent
through nearly all banking institutions to the commercial farm sector. Its
resources are obtained principally from low yielding bonds which banking
institutions are required to hold in lieu of reserves on a share of their
deposits. While it accounts for more than 50% of the resources on-lent
for agriculture, it supplies funds to less than 3% of the farms which are
principal'Ly medium- and large-scale enterprises. CAJA, with about 850 branches
spread throughout the country, is the principal source of credit to the small
farm sector.  CAJA, a mixed public/private bank (89% Government owned) lends
funds raised principally from savings deposits and FFAP rediscounts. In addition,
there are other sources of agricultural credit which include the Banco Ganadero
(BG) which finances principally livestock; the Banco Cafetero which finances
coffee and crop diversification in coffee areas; the Corporacion Financiera de
Fomento Agropecuario y Exportaciones which lends principally for export
agriculture and agro-processing.
40.       Although not a bank, INCORA has since 1963 been the principal source
of credit for land reform beneficiaries. INCORA's resources are on-lent
through CAJA and BG or are used to guarantee funds lent by those institutions
to INCORA's farmers. Between 1975 and 1977, INCORA made and guaranteed sub-
loans of about US$17 million equivalent per year to about 9,800 beneficiaries
or 5% of its beneficiaries. INCORA farmers, who number about 18% of the total
and own 16% of the land, receive only about 3% of the institutional credit.
Their limited access to credit stems, in part, from their inability to mortgage
their land until it has been fully paid for--mortgage is the required form of
collateral for long-term lending--and from the banks' general reluctance to
deal with INCORA beneficiaries.  In addition to providing needed credit to
INCORA's beneficiaries, one of the objectives of the proposed loan is to
increase the interest of financial institutions, especially CAJA, in lending
to INCORA farmers.



- 14 -
41.       The interest rate structure in Colombia is complex and varies both
within and among institutions. In general, agricultural lending rates are
lower than average interest rates in other productive sectors. Interest
rates for agricultural credit have generally been negative in real terms
during the 1972-77 period. However, present Government policy is to achieve
or maintain positive real rates of interest. As a result, in 1978, most
interest rates were positive in real terms and have been raised further (end
of 1978) to ensure that result. Rates of interest for credit from INCORA have
varied depending principally on the origin of the funds, rather than on the
achievement of any specific objective. In line with a recent rise in agricul-
ture lending rates and in an effort to bring coherence to its interest rate
structure, INCORA has recently decided to unify its structure and raise
rates.
Bank Role in the Sector
42.       Bank lending for agriculture has focussed principally on supervised
agricultural credit and support for irrigation/drainage and colonization
projects which have involved some forms of land distribution. Of the ten Bank
agriculture loans to Colombia made since 1966, four have been for agricultural
credit, two for colonization, three for irrigation/drainage and one to support
DRI. Bank efforts in agricultural credit have aimed at increasing agricul-
tural production, expanding the availability of credit for long-term farm
investments and at strengthening the institutions (FFAP, CAJA and INCORA)
in the sector. The remaining projects have all focused on increasing pro-
ductivity, incomes and welfare of small farmers. The first irrigation and
colonization projects, which were both area specific integrated rural develop-
ment projects have provided valuable experience to the Government for the
development of DRI.
The Borrower's Performance in Prior Projects
43.       INCORA has been the principal executing agency, with responsibility
for six of the ten Bank projects, including the First Agricultural Credit
Project (Loan 624-CO). With the exception of two drainage projects (Loans
502-CO and 849-CO) which encountered problems of soil salinity and farmer
transience, INCORA's performance has been quite good. In general, its project
management and technical staff have been adequate and at times superior. The
project audit reports for Loans 624-CO and 739-CO (SecM77-828 and SecM78-556)
reveal that project objectives were substantially achieved with rates of
return in line with those at appraisal. The audit report for Loan 624-CO
questioned INCORA's role as a lending institution, rather than as an agricul-
tural development institution. In contrast with the proposed project, however,
the project beneficiaries in the first loan were mostly medium-sized farmers
who owned land independently of INCORA but happened to be living within INCORA
project areas; the beneficiaries under this project would be solely farmers
and settlers who have benefitted from INCORA's land distribution program.
44.       INCORA's overall performance has been satisfactory, but in recent
years has been adversely affected by insufficient financial and political
support. Reduced budgetary support has resulted in project delays, while the



- 15 -
institution's political difficulties caused serious morale problems within the
institute. The new administration which took office in August 1978 has
provided bet:ter financial support to the institution and together with the
management of INCORA has begun to refocus the institution's effor's away from
politically contentious land acquisition to the consolidation of past efforts
and extension of its colonization program. INCORA has the capacity to carry
out such efforts, provided its financial situation and management can be
strengthened. The proposed project would assist in this endeavor. Already,
in fulfillment of conditions to process this loan, INCORA has appointed finan-
cial management consultants and has taken steps to improve its accounting and
information flow practices.  Furthermore, under the proposed loan, the Bank
would join the Government in setting up a revolving fund which would provide
additional 'Liquidity to INCORA and thus, ensure rapid project implementation.
With the measures already taken and to be taken in conjunction with the
proposed project, it is expected that INCORA will be strengthened and will
be able to carry out effectively its responsibilities as an agricultural
development institution.
PART IV: THE PROJECT
Background and Objectives
45.       The project was prepared by INCORA with assistance of two FAO-CP
missions and the Bank's Resident Mission. It was appraised by a Bank mission
in December 1978. Negotiations were held in Washington, D.C. in May of 1979,
with a Colombian delegation led by Mr. Virgilio Barco, Ambassador to the
United States.
46.        The project aims at increasing the availability and access of credit
to land reform beneficiaries in Colombia, so they can become viable farmers,
and be weaned from INCORA eventually to the conventional channels of credit
and technical assistance. The project also aims to increase the capacity of
INCORA to: (a) provide technical assistance to land reform beneficiaries;
(b) organize and develop its overall credit structure; (c) encourage the
development of small-scale agro-industries to expand marketing outlets for
farmers; and (d) improve its financial and information management. While the
project investments would be focussed on only 12 areas, the project would
improve the overall institution, so that it can better carry out its various
farm development and colonization programs.
Project Description
47.        The project would support a four-year supervised agricultural
lending prcogram and development of a small number of agro-industrial ventures
by farmers grouped in cooperatives. Specifically, the project includes:
(a) agricultural credit for 7,600 farm families;
(b) credit for up to 60 small-scale agro-industries;



- 16 -
(c) consultant services, training, vehicles and equipment for
technical assistance to farmers; and
(d) the establishment and operation of a monitoring and evaluation
unit.
48.       The subloans are expected to be committed over a four-year period
and disbursed over five years. Twenty-four man-months of consultant services
for monitoring and evaluation including the training of INCORA technicians
would be financed under the project. Vehicles and equipment would be provided
in order to increase the efficiency of technical assistance and monitoring and
evaluation.
Project Areas
49.       Project activities would be concentrated in 12 of the 20 INCORA
administrative regions. Approximately 150,000 of the 200,000 beneficiaries
of INCORA's land reform and colonization program are dispersed in many areas
of the country and at present cannot be efficiently served by INCORA.
A portion of these beneficiaries are being supported under DRI (see para
37) and more are expected to receive assistance with future expansions of
that program and similar rural development/settlement programs carried out by
INCORA. The remaining approximately one-quarter of INCORA's farm families are
concentrated in twenty regions where INCORA maintains support programs for the
farmers. The twelve project areas were selected on the basis of productivity
potential, existing infrastructure facilities and technical manpower, and
unavailability of alternative sources of finance. It is expected that INCORA
will be able to reach effectively most of the 50,000 farmers in INCORA areas
as the institutional capacity is strengthened and the country's rural infra-
structure is expanded.
50.       The project areas encompass large portions of the country in twelve
administrative departments (provinces) of which about 775,000 ha are farmed
by 35,000 INCORA beneficiaries. At the project preparation phase, INCORA
eliminated about 20,000 of the potential 35,000 beneficiaries, principally
because they do not have economically justifiable investments or have bad
repayment records. The remaining 15,000 eligible families which farm roughly
423,000 ha of land are the potential beneficiaries of the proposed project;
5,500 operate 537 collective farms, 7,000 operate individual farm holdings
and 2,500 are settlers. Currently, 63% of the agricultural area is in
grassland, 15% in crops and 22% fallow. Mixed farming with extensive live-
stock operations, subsistence crops and minor species predominate. Most of
the farmers are relatively new to farm management and have few resources in
addition to land. They, thereby, require intensive technical assistance and a
high percentage of farm financing. At present, only about 6,000 of the
potential beneficiaries are being supported from INCORA's on-going lending
operations. By completion of the project, most of the fallow land is expected
to become productive.



- 17 -
Cost and Financing
51.       The total cost of the project net of taxes is estimated at US$50
million equivalent of which US$17.5 million equivalent (35%) correspond to the
foreign exchange costs. Project costs have been estimated on the basis of
December 1978 prices. The costs for consultants are estimated at US$4,800 per
man-month. Price contingencies amount to 21% of base costs and are based
on forecasts of yearly domestic and international price increases.
52.       The proposed Bank loan of US$20 million would cover the estimated
US$17.5 million equivalent of direct and indirect formign exchange costs and
US$2.5 mi:Llion of local costs. Local currency financing is recommended in
order to bring the Bank's share of financing to a level (40%) commensurate
with the minimum for other previous projects for low income groups and thereby,
maintain a level of particiLpation that would help ensure the achievement of the
institutional goals of the project. In addition, such participation would further
emphasize the importance which the Bank attaches to the assistance of INCORA
beneficiaries and to the role of the institution itself.
53.       Project beneficiaries would finance an estimated US$5.4 million
equivalent representing about 11% of project costs. The remaining 49% or
US$24.6 million equivalent would be financed by INCORA from budgetary transfers
from the Government in the form of equity contributions. The Government would
assume the foreign exchange risk. A breakdown of project costs and financing
is presented in the Project and Loan Summary.
Procurement and Disbursement
54.       Vehicles required for the project estimated to cost about US$1.6
million equivalent would be procured under international competitive bidding
in accordance with Bank guidelines. The project beneficiaries would purchase
the items required for the investments through local established commercial
channels. Inputs, equipment, machinery and on-farm civil works would be
varied and not suitable for competitive bidding. Foreign firms are adequately
represented in Colombia and there is a good network of competitive suppliers
of agricuiltural inputs. Contracts for consulting services would be awarded on
terms and conditions and to firms or individuals acceptable to the Bank.
55.       Disbursements would be made for 100% of the cost of consultant
services and overseas training and of the foreign cost of directly imported
vehicles; 76% of the local expenditures for vehicles procured locally; and 46%
of subloans. In order to ensure adequate and prompt resources for on-lending
under the project, a revolving fund would be established with US$2.0 million
equivalent sufficient to cover three to four months lending operations. The
establishment of such a fund and the deposit of INCORA's contribution in an
amount acceptable to the 3ank (US$1.08 million equivalent) in the fund would
be a condition of effectiveness (Section 8.01(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Upon effectiveness, the Bank would disburse an initial contribution to the
fund of US$0.92 million equivalent. Subsequent Bank disbursements to reple-
nish the fund would be carried out according to standard procedures, but
provided that the Government's share of the fund has already been approved
(Part 4c(iii) of Schedule 1 of the draft Loan Agreement).  At the request of



- 18 -
any of the three parties concerned, the Government, the Bank and INCORA would
review the operation of the revolving fund and by agreement modify, if neces-
sary, the operation-and size of it (Section 3.02(a) of the draft Loan Agreement).
The above procedure is expected to speed the execution of the project and
facilitate the complete disbursement of the loan by June 30, 1985.
Lending Policies and Procedures
56.       The proposed project would finance technically and financially
viable farm and agro-industrial investment plans. With the exception of
coffee production and cattle fattening operations, all farm activities would
be eligible for financing. It is expected that most of the sub-loans would
be for: (a) on-farm irrigation, drainage and land levelling works; (b) cocoa
and sugarcane; (c) purchase of tractors and equipment; (d) purchase of beef,
dual-purpose and dairy cattle and minor species including pigs and poultry;
(e) pasture development; (f) investments for annual crops; and (g) seasonal
inputs. The expected agro-industrial investments include grain storage and
drying, vegetable freezing and dehydration facilities, rice milling, processing
of non-centrifugal sugar, milk collection points and cheese making plants.
57.       In order to ensure that the resources are on-lent to the maximum
number of beneficiaries, individual farmers would be eligible to borrow up
to Col$500,000 (US$12,700) provided, however, that their indebtedness in-
cluding previous outstanding and unpaid debt would not exceed Col$500,000.
Sub-loans would finance up to 90% of the total medium- and long-term on-farm
investments including a declining percentage of incremental working capital.
Financing for beef cattle and/or milking would not exceed 75% of the
investment plan and would be limited to 25 cows and one bull per beneficiary.
Furthermore, the total number of cattle financed per beneficiary would be
limited to the number required to bring the herd size to 25 cows. Based
on the financial analysis of farms, the above limits are estimated to be
sufficient to develop a viable farm. For lending to cooperative farms, the
limits are equal to the above multiplied by the number of families in the
group. Subloans in excess of US$200,000 equivalent would require the prior
approval of the Bank. Assurances have been provided that the above policies
would be followed by INCORA (Schedule 5 of the draft Loan Agreement).
58.       Interest rates under the project would be at a rate of not less
than 16% per annum, plus 1% per annum for life insurance. Domestic inflation
(average annual rate) was 20% in 1976, 34% in 1977 and 17% in 1978. Based on
current projections of gradually declining inflation rates of 16% in 1979, 14%
in 1980 and 12% thereafter, over the four-year commitment period of the
proposed loan, the on-lending rate would be positive in real terms.  Although
recent developments suggest that inflation during 1979 may be somewhat higher
than forecast, the interest rate is expected to be on average positive in real
terms during the commitment period of the loan. The Government's policy
is to achieve or maintain positive real interest rates throughout the economy
and to this end it intends to adjust the rates of the two major sources of
agricultural credit (FFAP and CAJA). The interest rate under the proposed loan
would, therefore, be tied to the rates of these two sources. The interest
rate would be set no less than 2% lower than the standard nominal rates for
commercial farmers under FFAP, provided, however, that the resulting interest
rates would be no higher than CAJA's interest rates for small farms (Part C.2.



- 19 -
of Schedule 5 of the draft Loan Agreement). Currently, CAJA's small-scale farmer
rate is also 16% and the FFAF' on-lending rate is 18%. Furthermore, in order to
bring greater coherence to the interest rate structure within INCORA, assurances
have been olbtained that by July 1, 1980, interest rates for all INCORA subloans
would be standardized to the rate under the project (Section 4.04(b) of the
draft Loan Agreement).
59.       Most of the funds would be on-lent with INCORA's consent through
CAJA's branches located in the project areas. Under an existing arrangement
between the two institutions, CAJA acts as a banking agent and INCORA is
responsible for approving subloans and for assuming the credit risk. However,
to facilitate the eventual "graduation" of project beneficiaries to CAJA's
normal lines of credit, CAJA would be provided with adequate spreads to assume
the credit risk for a portion of project subloans and to finance a share with
its own resources. The procedures and the relationship between CAJA and
INCORA would be defined in a subsidiary agreement, acceptable to the Bank
and the Government, the signing of which would be a condition of effectiveness
(Sections 3.02(b) and 8.01(a) of the draft Loan Agreement). Other banks
would be eligible to participate in the project, under terms and conditions
acceptable to the Bank (Section 3.02(b) of the draft Loan Agreement); however,
only the Banco Ganadero is expected to participate.
60.       A consolidated and revised credit manual would be submitted for
comment to the Bank by September 1, 1979 (Section 4.04(a) of the draft Loan
Agreement). INCORA's procedures which are already in use for agricultural
sublending are generally satisfactory and only require minor revisions and
consolidation. The manual would also include specific procedures for agro-
industrial sublending, whichL are currently not adequate. Assurances have been
obtained that for each agro-industrial subloan, a feasibility study would be
prepared and submitted to the Bank for approval (Part B 2 of Schedule 5 of the
draft Loan Agreement). Since INCORA itself does not have the technical
assistance expertise for agro-industries, each subloan application would be
accompanied by satisfactory arrangements for related technical assistance.
After INCORA has sufficient experience and expertise in this field, Bank
approval requirements would be relaxed.
Production, Marketing and Financial Analysis
61.       The annual value of incremental production generated by the project,
about US$20.7 million, is expected to be distributed among a variety of crops
(sorghum, sugarcane for panela, cocoa, corn, rice, cassava and potatoes) and
livestock products. Consequently, the incremental production of each indivi-
dual commodity is expected to be small relative to total production within
each region and nationally and would be insufficient in itself to affect the
prices of any of them. None of the commodities is expected to face demand
constraints and marketing claannels are adequate to absorb the increased
production.
62.       Financial rates of return for four farm investment models are between
12% and 45% in constant 1978 prices. When applying forecasts of commodity
price trends to the analysis, the returns increase for all four models--the
rate of return for pure beef cattle ranches improves from 12% to 18%. Intro-
duction of small amounts of minor livestock species would also raise the rate



- 20 -
of return significantly for pure beef cattle operations. The highest rates of
return are associated with rainfed crop farms, where small investments yield
considerable benefits. All farmers would benefit substantially with incomes
per capita in real terms increasing by 25% to 50%, from US$282 to US$366 per
capita without the project to US$360 to US$760 with the project. Farmer
adoption of improved techniques is expected to follow the experience with
other INCORA projects.
Benefits, Justification and Risks
63.       The project would increase the productivity, employment and incomes
of about 7,600 land reform and colonization beneficiaries, and would expand
agricultural production as well as contribute to reduced imports and increased
exports. The net annual foreign exchange savings of the project at full
development are estimated to be US$13.5 million (in 1979 prices). Incremental
production of corn, cocoa and milk would reduce import requirements, while
increased rice, panela and beef production would result in higher exports.
The project would generate annually about 1.5 million man-days of additional
labor, equivalent to 6,450 full-time jobs. It is estimated that 75% of the
new employment or about 4,800 jobs would be filled from hired labor with the
remainder from currently underutilized family labor.
64.       The economic rate of return calculated on 95% of project costs is
estimated at 38%.  The calculation is based on financial costs which are con-
verted to economic costs on the basis of border prices, to correct for import
duties and other taxes, and an estimated shadow price of labor. Traded
commodities produced are priced at projected import or export prices as
applicable and converted to farm prices based on transport costs and differ-
ences in quality of output. Non-traded commodities are priced at constant
1978 levels. The high economic rate of return results principally from the
favorable price forecasts for most of the project commodities and from the
high proportion of project funds that would finance improvements on rainfed
*farms, which yield early returns. Sensitivity analysis indicates that a 50%
decrease in benefits, a 60% increase in operating costs or a simultaneous
increase in costs of 20% and decrease in benefits of 20% would bring the
rate of return down to the 11% opportunity cost of capital. A rate of return
has not been calculated for the 5% of project cost to be invested in agro-
industries, since the specific investments are not yet defined.
65.       The most important non-quantifiable benefit of the project is the
strengthening of INCORA, so that it can serve effectively an increasing
percentage of its land beneficiaries.  Another non-quantifiable benefit is the
expected "graduation" of some project beneficiaries to conventional sources of
credit thus freeing up financial resources for other land reform/colonization
beneficiaries.
66.       The project faces no unusual risks.  INCORA technicians are capable
of carrying out the project and agrarian reform beneficiaries have already
demonstrated a willingness to adopt improved technologies. The establishment
and operation of a revolving fund under the project and the financial commit-
ments provided by the Government are expected to ensure adequate project
liquidity and minimize the likelihood of project delays.



- 21 -
PART V: LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
67.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and INCORA, the draft
Guarantee Agreement between the Republic of Colombia and the Bank, and the
report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the
Bank's Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
68.       Special conditions of the loan are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Conditions of effectiveness would be that:
(a) INCORA has signed a subsidiary agreement, satisfactory to the Bank,
with Caja (Section 8.01(a) of the draft Loan Agreement); and
(b) a revolving fund has been established and the initial Government
contribution acceptable to the Bank (US$1.08 million equivalent)
has been deposited :Ln the fund (Section 8.01(b) of the draft Loan
Agreement).
A condition for each Bank disbursement to replenish the revolving fund would
be that the Government has approved its corresponding disbursement to INCORA
(Part 4c(iii) of Schedule I of the draft Loan Agreement).
69.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI: RECOMMENDATION
70.       ]: recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
June 6, 1979



- 22-                                                ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
COLOMBIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
COLOMBIA                                                /a
LAND AREA (THOUSAND S0. KM.)                                                  - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL           113 .9                                                     SAME        SAME     NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL     224.8                                  MOST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME         INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /A ESTIMATE /b       REGION Ic   GROUP /d    GROUP Ie
CNP PER CAPITA (US$)                  220.0        370.0     710.0           1066.7      867.2       1796.4
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      491.0       606.0      671.0           911.1       578.3       1525.0
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION, MID-YEAR
(MILLIONS)                         15.4        20.6       25.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 53.0 /0      60.3       64.3             57.9       46.2         52.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                        14.0        18.0       22.0            25.6        50.8        27.6
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND      71.0        93.0      111.0            77.6        93.3        116.4
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          46.6        46.6       44.1            42.0        42.9        34.8
15-64 YRS.                          50.4        50.4       52.7            52.2        53.5        56.0
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    3.0         3.0        3.2              3.7        3.5         5.7
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               2.9         2.9        2.8              2.7        2.5          1.6
URBAN                               6.0 jj      5.5 /h    4.5               4.3        4.7         3.4
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      46.1 /I     44.3 /I   40.6 /I           35.8       37.8         27.0
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      14.7         11.0       8.8              9.1       10.8          9.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.2          3.2       3.1              2.6        2.5          1.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..       115.4      177.3
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..            ..      31.0             15.1       20.0         19.3
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970=100)              98.0       100.0      109.1           102.1       107.3        103.8
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                    94.0        92.0       94.0            103.9      105.3        110.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           50.0        51.0       47.0             60.3       63.0         77.7
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        28.0        29.0       24.0             26.7       21.7         22.2
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      16.3           ..      12.1              8.7        8.0          1.9
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    54.7          58.5      60.9             62.6       57.2         63.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
rHOUSAND)                           100.0 /      70.0      97.1             56.9       53.9         38.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..        63.0       64.D            60.7        56.8        67.7
URBAN                                ..        88.0       86.0             78.0       79.0        83.5
RURAL                                ..        28.0       33.0             34.9       31.8        41.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..        47.0       48.0             61.1       30.9         70.3
URBAN                                ..         75.0      73.0             80.3       45.4         90.7
RURAL                                ..         8.0       13.0             25.4       16.1         38.3
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           2400.0      2170.0    2180.0            1899.3     2706.8       1310.8
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON      3740.0      2040.0    1920.0            1220.1     1462.0        849.2
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             580.0       510.0      530.0           422.3       493.9       275.4
URBAN                                ..           ..     320.0           258.2       229.6        129.9
RURAL                                ..           ..    9670.0           2281.6     2947.9       965.9
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..         23.0      25.0             25.6       22.1         18.9
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                ..          6.0       5.9              5.2        5.2          3.9
URBAN                                ..           ..        ..               ..        5.0
RURAL                                ..           ..        ..               ..        5.4
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                ..           ..        ..              2.0        2.0          0.9
URBAN                                ..           ..        ..              2.1        1.5          0.8
RURAL                                ..           ..        ..              2.7        2.7          1.0
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                              47.0 /f        ..        ..             51.2       64.1         59.2
URBAN                              83.0 If        ..        ..             77.3       67.8         78.0
RURAL                               6.0 If        ..        ..             12.8       34.1         12.5



-23 -                                                ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
COLOMBIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
COLOMBIA                                               /a
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
SAME        SAME     NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME        INC. e
1960 Lb     1970 lb ESTIMATE /b      REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP /I
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY.    TOTAL                  77.0        98.0     105.0            103.5       99.8         97.6
FEMALE               77.0        100.0     108.0            102.9       93.3        87.4
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                  12.0        23.0      36.0             37.2       33.8         47.8
FEMALE               11.0         22.0      36.0             37.9       29.8        42.6
VOCATIObAL (PERCENT OF SECONDARY) 31.0 /k      21.0      17.0             14.7       12.8         22.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            38.0        38.0      33.0             32.8       34.9         25.4
SECONDARJY                         11.0        17.0      19.0             17.8       22.2         24.9
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        63.0        73.0      81.0             74.9       71.8         96.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULAT[ON                          7.0        11.0      15.0             26.9       12.4         32.3
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        139.0       105.0     117.0            173.5      104.5        201.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         11.0        38.0        ..             69.4       28.1         97.7
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  56.0       109.0      69.0             72.8       45.2         70.9
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..           ..       6.8              4.3        4.6          4.4
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      5100.0 /f   6200.0    6700.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   18.9        24.6      24.6             21.4       25.7         17.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              47.0 /f     39.0         ..            37.8       46.2         38.4
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 19.2        21.0
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                30.6        29.7      29.7             30.8       33.8         33.7
MALE                                 49.8        44.9       44.7            47.2       48.1         50.8
FEMALE                               11.6        14.6       14.6            13.2        17.3        12.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.8         1.6        1.6             1.7         1.4         1.4
INCOME DIS'TRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HlIGHESr 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   41.2 /f.1   31.9 /1   27.2             28.9       23.6         20.2
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  67.7 /f.l   60.1 /1   54.4              57.7       52.3         47.9
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    2.1 /f,l    3.5 /1    5.2               3.2        4.3          3.2
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.8 /f,l   10.1 /1   14.3              10.7       13.1         13.7
POVERTY TAEGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..          ..         ..           251.9      191.9
RURAL                                ..          ..      145.0           200.6      193.1        157.9
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..          ..     154.0            403.1      319.8        448.8
RURAL                                ..          ..     153.0            258.0      197.7        313.1
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME lEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..          ..      24.0             24.8       19.8         23.2
RURAL                                ..          ..      55.0             65.2       35.1         54.5
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
valuies of the indicator and the miost populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the
ind:.cators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Est imate, between 1973 and 1977.
/c  Latin America 6 Caribbean;  /d  Intermediate Middle Income ($551-1135 per capita, 1976);  /e  Upper
Midlle Income ($1136-2500 per capita, 1976);  /f  1964;  _/  1951-64;  /h  1964-70;  /i  Official estimates
based on registration data show crude birth rate for 1960 as 39.0, average 1961-70 as 36.0 and average
1971-76 as 31.0; f1 Registered only; /k Includes teacher-training at the third level; /I Economically
active population.
September, 1978



- 24 -
ANNEX I
DEFINITICNS OF SOCIAL INDICATOS                            Page   3  of  5
Hasg  The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population.-eightsd geoatric m                ne    cluding the extra valee of the indicator and the  oat
populatd country in  ech group.  Coverag  of countrice amang the indicators depends Os qailibility of data  nd is not uniform.  Due to lack of data.
group avsrages for Capital Surplus Oil Exporters nd indicators of access to water end excrata dispoeal, houing. incom distribution and poverty are
simple populetion-weighted geometric me  without the  exclusion of  xtra valuse.
LAND AREA (thousand  q. kh)                                                            Population per bospital bod - total, urban. ad rural - Population (total,
Total - Total surface area comprising land area ad inland waters,                       urban, and rural) divided by their respective  amber of hospital beds
Agriculturel - Most recant estimate of agricultural are  used-temporarily               available in public and privat  gen ral and specialised hospital and re-
or pernanently for crops, pastures, market and kitchen gardens or to                  habilitation cnters.  Hospitele are stablishoeats permanently staffed by
lie fallow,                                                                           at least one physician,  lstablishomnts providing principally custodial
care are not included. Rural hospitals, however, include health and mdi-
CNP PER CAPITA (US$) - GNP per capita estimates at current market prices,                cal centers met permnntly staffed by a physician (but by a medical a-
calculited by  sae conversion method as World Bank Atlas (1975-77 basis);             sistant, nurse, midwife, etc.) which offer in-patient accomodation ad
1960, 1970, end 1977 date.                                                            provide a limited range of medical facilities.
Admissions per hospital bed - Total somber of admissions to or discharges
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA - Annual consumption of comercial energy                   from hospitals divided by the number of beds.
(coal and lignite, petroleum, natural gas and hydro-, nuclear and geo-
thermal electricity) in kilograms of coal equivalent per capita.                  HUSING
Average sire of household (persons per household) - total, urban, and rural-
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                                          A howehold conists of a group of individuals who share living quarters
Total population, mid-year (millions) - As of July 1; if not available,                 and their main meal.  A boarder or lodger my or may not be included in
average of two end-year estimtes; 1960, 1970, end 1977 data,                          the household for statistical purposes.  Statistical definitions of houas-
Urban population (percent of total) - Ratio of urban to total popula-                   hold Vary.
tion; different definitions of urb-a  areas ney affect comparability                Average number of persons per room  - total, urban, and rural - Average num-
of data among countries.                                                              ber of persons per room in a11, urban, and rural occupied convecnticnl
Population dendity                                                                      dwellings, respectively.  Dwellings exclude no-peranent structures ad
Per   q. kh. - Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hectares)                 unoccupied parts.
of total area.                                                                      Access to electricity (percent of dwellings) - total, urban, and rural -
Per eq. k. agriculture land - Computes  as above for agricultural land                 Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quarters as percentage
only                                                                                  of total, urban, and rural dwellings respectively.
Population axe structure (percent) - Children (0-14 years), working-age
(15-64 years), and retired (65 years and over) as percentages of mid-            EDUCATION
year population.                                                                   Adiusted enrollment ratios
Population gtovth rate (percent) - total  snd urb-n - Coapsund annual                 Primary school - total.  nd fale - Total and feal  enrollment of a11 ages
growth rates of total and urban nid-year populations for 1950-60,                     st the primary level as percentages of respectively primary school-age
1960-70, and 1970-75.                                                                 populations; normally includes children aged. 6-11 years but adjusted for
Crude birth rate (per thous-nd) - Actual live births per thousand of                    different lengths of primary education; for countries with universal edu-
oid-year population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and                  cation enrollent my exceed 100 percent since some pupils are below or
1970 and five-year averge ending in 1975 for most recent estimate,                    sbove the official school age.
C,,de death rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thousand of mid-                  Secondary school - total, and fele - Computed as above; secondary educa-
year population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and 1970                 tiot requires at least four years of approved primry instruction; prc-
and fivo-yeor average ending in 1975 for most recent estimate.                        vides general vocational, or teacher training instructions for pupils
iross reproduction rate - Average number of daughters a woman will bear                 usually of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence courses are generally
in her normal reproductive period if she eoperiences present age-                     excluded.
specific fertility rates) usually five-yeor averages ending in 1960,                Vocational enrollment (percent of secondary) - Vocatinual institutions in-
1970, and 1975.                                                                       clude techoical, industrial, or other programs which operate independently
Pamily planning - acceptors, annual (thousands) - Annual number of                     or as departenrt  of secondary institutions.
acceptors of birth-control devicea under auspices of national family               Pupil-teacher ratio - primary, and secondary - Total students enrolled in
planning program                                                                      primary and secondary levels divided by numbers of teachers in the corre-
Fanily planning - users (percent of married women) - Percentage of                       ponding levels.
married women of child-bearing age (15-44 years) who use birth-control             Adult literacy rate (percent) - Literate adults (able to read and write) as
devices to *11 married women in same age group.                                       a percentage of total adult population aged 15 years and over.
POlD AND NUTRITION                                                                   CONSUMPTION
Index of food production per capita (1970-100) - Index number of per                 Passenger cars (per thousand population) - Passenger cars comprise motor cars
capita annual production  ,f a11 food commodities,                                  seating less than eight persons; excludes ambulancea, hearses and military
Per capitasaupply of calorius (percent of requirements) - Computed from               vehicles.
energy equivalent of net Good supplies available in country per capita             Radio receivers (per thousand population) - All types of recevers for radio
per day.  Available supplies comprise domestic production, imports less             broadcasts to general pablic per thousand of population; excludes unlicensed
esporta, and changes in stick.  Net supplies exclude animal feed, seeds,            receivers in countries and in years whet registration of radio sets wee in
quantities used in food processing. snd losses in distribution,  Re-                effect; data for recent years  ay not be comparable since mat countries
quirenents were estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for nor-              abolished licensing.
-al activity and health considering enviroumental temperature, body                TV receivers (per thousand population) - TV receivers for broadcast to general
weights, age and sex distributions of population, and allowing 10 per-                public per thousand population; excludes unlicensed TV receivers in coon-
cent for waste at household level,                                                    tries and in years when registration of TV sets was in effect.
Per capita supply of protein (grams per day) - Protein content of per                Newspapar circulation (Per thousand population) - Shows the average circula-
capita net supply of food per day.  Net supply of food is defined as                  tion of "daily general interest newspaper", defined as a periodical publi-
above.  Requirements for a11 countries established by USDA provide for                cation devoted prinarily to recording general news.  It is considered to
a minimum allowance of 60 grams of total protein per day and 20 grams                 be "daily" if it appears at least four times a week.
of animal sod pulse proteic, of which 10 grams should be aninal protein,          Cinema annual attendance per capita per year - Based on the number of tickets
These standards are lower than those of 75 grams of total protein and                 sold during the year, including admissions to drive-in cinea-s and mobile
23 grams of animal protein as an average for the world, proposed by                   units.
FAl in the Third World Food Survey.
Per capita protein supply from animal and pulse - Protein supply of food            tNDLOYMENT
derived from animals and pulses in grams per day.                                  Total labor force (thousands) - Economically active persons, including armed
Child (axes 1-4) moprtality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thous-              forces and unemployed but excluding housewives, students,  tc.  Defisi-
and in age group 1-4 years, to children in thin age group.                            tion  in various countries  are not comparable.
Pmea1. (percent) - Female labor force as percentage of total labor force.
hEALTh                                                                                Agriculture (percent) - Labor force in farming, forestry, hunting and fishing
Life eapectancy at birth (years) - Average  unuber of years of life                     so percentage of total labor force.
remaining at birth; usually five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970,               Industry (percent) - Labor force in mining, construction, manufacturing and
ud 1975.                                                                              electricity, eater *nd gase s percentage of total lbor force
Infant mortality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths of infants under                Participation rats (percent) - total, male, ad female - Total, male, and
one year of age per thousand live birhts.    I                                        female labor force as percentages of their respective populations.
Access to safe water (percent of populatiun) - total, urban, and rural -                These are TLh's adjusted participetion rates reflecting Age-sen
Number of people (total, urban, and rural) with reasonable accesa to                  utrucrtre of the population, and long tine trend.
safe water supply (includes treated surface waters or untreated but                Economic depandeccy ratio - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and cr00 to
unconta.inated water such as that from protected boreholes, springs,                  the labor force in age group of 15-64 years.
and sanitary wells) an percentages of their respective populations.
o so urban  areaapublic fount-in or scandpoor looatnd not more                   INCOSME DISTRIBUTION
than 200 corers from a house may he considered  s being within rea-                Percentage of private income (both in cash and kind) received by richest 5
sonable access of that hou-e.  In rural areas reasonable access would                 percent, richest 20 percent, poorest 20 percent, and poorest 40 percent
imply that the housewife or cembers of the household do not have to                   of households.
spend a disproportionate part of the day in fetching the family's
water needs.                                                                      POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Access to e.crete disposal (percent of population) - total, urban, and               Estimated absolute poverty income level (US$ per capita) - urban and rural -
rural - Nuber of people (total, urban, and rural)  aerved by eacreta                    Absolute poverty iscnxe level is that income level below which a minimal
dioposal as percentaes of their re-pactivs populations.         o E-crt                uetritioalily daquatt diet pica essential non-fond requirexents is not
disposcl may include the collection and disposal, with or without                     affordable.
treatment, of human excreta and waste-water by water-borne systems                 Estimated relative poverty income level (US$ per capita) - urban and rural -
or the use of pit privies end sitilar installations.                                  Relative poverty income level is that inct,a  levol less than one-third
Population per physician - Population divided by number of practicing                   per capita personal income of the country.
physicians qualified froc a medical school at university level.                    Estimated Population below poverty income level (percent) - urban and rural -
Population per nursing person - Population divided by ncber of                          Percent of population (urban snd rural) who are either "absolute poor" or
practicing male and female graduate ticson, practica1 nurses, and                     "relative poor" whichever is greater.
Ecocnoic and Social Data Division
rCononic Anclynin and Projections Depsrrtnut



- 25 -
E8050C810  OVELROOKT5  DATA                                                            Fast 4 of S fasts
(To Milolo-  of 05 Do11...
dotool                   550100553                ~~~~~Projected                  ..o~    ooalo-.o    os                          As P--ct     ,f GpE
1967-69 -                                                            ____              ____________                       ___________ A__, .. ,11    ,______           ________________
Aves...           1q75             1970              1977              1970             1979              1983         (1967-9)-4    1976-78I          1979-83        .975          1978             1903
NAT1A191 6A177971                                                                       196 Poo              -h-dLoloo  Roots
Oo-O-,i                  9,1             14:.567           15,236           75.9,71           17,249            18,391           23,967              6.5            6.4           6.3          100.0         107.0           100.0
Ptoo loots of Toodo  Os) ~ ~~S',050        -3699               -                 69                 2                 78             -1-69            -              -7.           -               4.6           2.4             0. 6
Ooosotlcloscot,o   0,600          13,860 ~~~~~~~~~~~T5,26             16.668           17,671            1046              23,5 15             7.                          o.e           95.2         102.4             99.4
boor,  (Otol.  IFS)             ~~~~~~          ~~~~1,191  2,047  2 ,302            2,418             2,002             3,187            4,.253             7.15          1.             7.5l          14.1          16.7            177.
1,qoooto 71,ooA. 51050 Ito,. Cosooltol -lol    s(.,297           zj,78             23.099            -3.368           -3.138            -3s2i                .5          1009.                         15.6          19.5            15.8
Orsotoco lap                      ~~~            ~~~~~            ~~~~~~77  -250  -480  -681          '486                40               464               -             --                          1.7           2 .0             2.0a
loooptooOosd--oo                    7,320           10,909           11,579            12,160            13,309           1A,216            16,020              6.5           7.2           6.5            74.9          77.2            76.5
10 ,,4)                                1,661            2,740,            0,177            3,427             3,876            4,302             5,059             11.7          105            8.5           16.0           22.5            24.9
flossootto Sosdosgo         1,309           2,~~~      ~     ~~~               ~        ~~~990  ,60 410  4, 362    4:253            3,49              211.2                         6.             05           05.3            22.9 
Natlotal  Soologo           1,379           2,9~~      ~     ~~~~              ~~~                                                                                                  ~~~24  3993,86204765691.112  6.29.4  04.4   21.
0001RA60200 0640                                                                        Atoa  Data at totret  olios.                                                                                                 As F-t-o  of Total
loosl.odo                              290             563               601              02              7,28             1,:494            2,6 25            10.6          38. 2         15. 1         40. 9          427.4            46'.0
ttrsdsoGos(tool. Fot)           14              6)9               733               772              679             1,25              1802             21.4            95           15.1         42.             32.             37.
Folsat  RoL-od  --oooA1l                  3               15              129               134              253               43                785            12.2          40.           16.0            1.1            9.4            14. 0
C.... . .. I, G-d,                          61              216               114              395               291               265              399             18. 3         16.4           6.0          15. 3          10.0              7.1
-oo   orho-dts toooo   17)              606           1,425             8, 747           2 ,128            2.704             3,230            1,611             16. 4         24.4          14. 7        11.01           100.0           100.0
Of Ai,,oh  Poisr  Fodoco,                  4899           1,33             1,74              2,415             2,652            2,6 23            3,720             114.31        23.            9.81 .1                     06. 5            79. 1
0Of,o):CfIt                               1941             (764)          11.29)             I(,760           (2004)           (I ,7701          (2,044            11.           (79            93.6,        94.5           (63.2)           143. 4
Mnuacutuorsd Gtods                          117             324               38               301               446               305              966             22.3           8.2          10. 2         18.0           10.5             20. 9
Tota  M-h--ots  lofoo-   (FOB)             106            1,727            2, 255            2,736             3,296            1TThz-            4 ,714            16. 2         20 .9         10.08        120.0          102.0            100.0
Etxtot IFooo tsd-o                           21.5            73.9             100.0            141.4             135.0             129.0            154.7
tsoon  Orbs  bOat                3~~~      ~     ~~ ~~~~~4,  950  17.               109.6            11.1              125.              161.
fIsoo of foods l,,s                         62,              77.2             100.0            1.                114.0             00.9.
(ALOE 40080 80 120000 Ifactos Cooo(            ~~~~~Aosos1 toss at, 1976 -   i...s sod E-h-oso  Oats,                                                     Oo--so  Atonl Goosah Ososs                  4. P-o...t of lo-1
Agritolocos                    0,9~~     ~    ~~~~~~~23'2  4,8145  4,224          4,1336            4,719             4,955            6,0                2.8           3.             1.          30.6            20.             27.0
todototy  sod Oloao.g      7,127          ~~~~~~            ~~~~3,03  3,933   4,01               41434           4,744             6,406..                                         7.9         2.32.72.
Ossostos         ~                             5.550               2~              6.341            6.829            2..Z4l2495.9                                        0.2           7.0          41.1           42. 7           43, 1
Ttta1                                    9,9            13,536,           14 ,102           14,7164           1 5,902          16,.932           22,020              5 .1          6 .5          6.0         6 00.0         100. 0           100.0
Coooo                              ',eIt,41        1,502            760               2,75..            2,540            3,335             5,000            20.3           23.3          10.7          10.3           10.7             10.8
Oorosot lorsoAloooss      062             ~~~~              ~~~~             ~~~702  751  93L    A.A10              73.222% 31                     16.1          21.5           7.3           4.0            4,7              5. 0
todoofss,  Sorfogs                       17               070              919            0,11l             1,439             1,673            2,666             26.2          25.1          13.0            5.3            6.0             5.8
Qobs_  ,oIl  Osotot Sot_gt               434              16 7              379               07                19              -95              -13                -I -11I 
foblio  So-to  Tor-t--                   612              917            2,135             1 ,1203          1,136             2,7003           3,2 76             6.6          20. 1         13, 1           6. 3           0.9              7.1
-148(01   00011A100                                           16--70             1976-78         19 70-03
ttos1-0   foss,d  00bosOsosl
Itssaos, logsd Qo-   a                            4.25              0.0               .1
Sogl,sI lotsl    olg    os020                                               7. 35           422
-ogo   oooo ..  ooIo- o  Ros                           0. 11            0.40             0.20
0B4306   RC A00 D0 OCT177 007R0.0R1 ER 40106                               01011abo  Fofos                                                                             OOTAIL TON PBLIC SEFfR INVESTso4f                    s  Tta
Is,64  lloo   97. of 300                                  Co-osrG h Rots                                             PR0R,084 AMs  FI0601N    ICI NG--
396             193           1964             19 7-2          1964-73                                                                                                 i       i1 =
Agoscoloosfs                     0~~~~     ~    ~~~~~~~.427  2.007  47.3         70. 2           -1 .9                                                 Agol ooIoooo                                        28.8                  26.51
IoAs.soos                      ~~~~~~           ~~~~~~0. 9Sf  1.0  10. 7         07.6             2.71                                                   .1,000   sod   05002.
_______                     1.749           3.700~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~54  34,0  ,  j              8. 2                                                 foo5522.8
Totol                            5.134           9.010         100.0            700.0             1.2                                                   Oroospoosoodto,asonlts,looa                        20.2                  10.5~~1 134  .81, 1000  Iw  37  -d  - -i
Oslho10.                                                                 23.7
Oslos 7Adod oso Ooof,oo(7976  -o-s sod Oso, olsOsss                                                           -oss  tosolooo                                        1                  15.4
____f__A___-__                                                                                                                           100.1                 100.0
194     1973                96             1971            166-371405
Ogolo,sltosos    t5            1,317               66.4             50.4             1,9                                                   706110 Stosot b.0l0g.                              60~~~~~~~~~4  1~.5    73.4
lodostry                1,830           7,53~~~~~~~~~~~~~~12  3135.0        148 6,            3I osol500.                                                                                               272
_______                     ~~~~~~         ~~~~~~1 .7 3)  1.,546,  127, 3         900 7            1.0                                                  Oth-                                                18.8                  1.
To..l                                  1,335C          1,777              100.0           100 7               .1oo   saoo                                                                                             00.0                 100.0
-    Apoil 2, 1970



-26-
1-  I'll    1974            IM                               WI~~~~~~~91430129 013979 913211  396159N1    130  PEEl              
f-1.  ~~~~~~~~~~.~~~~3~~~  1.421        2o..3.311o3    1  9   342.  3     12                                                              6613.
9.911.93,. 9,126.. (3-9)  ~ ~    2              124           -114                             69134                           390             -22            -30             -621            -35            -12
33031.3320111.22                  ~~-436           -293           -41      -12      -1             -17             -264            -24             -M1            -292            -313             33             -443
033.6                          (-431'~~~~~2    (-24)            --13)          (-333           (-164           3-150)          (11)            (13             (-43)           4-13            3191            -3
3..66391..2122  (21)                 35          .32                 3               3              21              3               30              2.              20              1               20              2
621.1.1. 36 61.11.111 23131.61..  -193  -51           -554              ~~-90          23               1             3151               ~             Ol            -1             109            - 
01.6 119=16~~  ~         ~~~11    331                      11  310                 1             311             132              113            96              343             311             33            13
9.2013.21(16  -91    -131            -103            -135            -412            -131            -313           ~~~~      ~     ~~~~~~~-43  -35  -1.             -1.3             -2&
923 31261.12.291(,2               259             291             13              349             42              06                             4128             39             4132                            313
(.021   141.1.6- 11.1 11.63-1221.6                                                               24 121                                         w 11 2
43       -13            3                31n7           1.3             t9              -               )0             12              10.             13              3
43)410 13  41.29 13*1.333.11  1972           157            1934            197              197            12               133
0331.1123  1.636   32 0113-134      -               -4                            2 -                3             -1               "                                                                                                                                     "
3134. 91.1...234.416    .,1                                                                                                                                                                             33           33              04            33              -N1          3331           (33
032               -               -               -               -               -~             ~       ~       ~       ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                           - -  99   01 063212320
1.14161.11.11.1.1.11.3  33  43  1.1       3             33              13               33           31.42316213~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2                                                     2~;:~           7
4132129261.1  1)1.  )3  33   II            131              33              133             3113212621162(1d  0116~~~~~6.293%         1.936-3       (300.'         4.1133.3       1111.3        2,1.313        3623.0         333331.
31.3311.611  33  33         33             31.             44              33               55              .3116221  16 91111.1 6.11.                  13.3           )3.3         331.3          333~1          312.3          131.112536
93111.232  921411  03  313  3)  344  363            13              441.            E.921321(0.  II 31.3131 3231.                90.3         331.1.         13).)          233.1         139.9          133.7          141.1.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
61.342  -           43             -               -               -               -               -                31.1.3931.6111.  3.03  3611.11.             131.3         239.1          733.1.        243.3          31.1........133.9                .
N  ~  ~     ~     ~    --                                              -                                 1.21  1.133. .   1,3 ,                     131           131            43.              33            3.              91           1.
11421.1 31321.9 I 1.).  .0                                                                              31112 6263 1.210116  3921.,                903.0          333.3         413.3          334.3          1(3.3          334.4         304)
31.3.3  11,3311 6.211..- 21.3 31.16111.~~ ~~~ ~~~ ~~~ ~~~ ~~~ ~~~ ~~~ ~~~ ~~~ ~~~ ~~~ ~~~ ~~~ ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
(1.231  0)3  300           333             33)            333             313              711         ~         ~         ~         ~        ~        2
%131   I31361.16    3



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 11
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN COLOMBIA
A. STATE.MENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of March 31, 1979)
(US$ million)
Loan                                                            Amount (less Cancellation)
Number  Year  Borrower                          Purpose           Bank   IDA  Undisbursed
47 fully disbulrsed loans and one IDA credit                     724.2      23.5 /1   --
680     1970  Colombia                          Roads             32.0                2.8
681     1970  Interconexion Electrica, S.A.  Power                52.3                 .2
738     1971  Empresas Municipales de
Palmira                        Water Supply       2.0                 .3
741     1971  Empresa de Acueducto y
Alcantarillado de Bogota       Water Supply      88.0               6.6
849     1972  Instituto Colombiano de
la Reforma Agraria             Irrigation         2.2               1.0
860     1972  Instituto de Fomento
Municipal                      Water Supply       9.1                2.7
874     1973  Empresas Publicas de Medellin  Power                56.0                9.0
903     1973  Banco de la Repu'blica            Industrial Cr.   60.0                  .8
920     1973  Colombia                          Education         21.2               12.0
926     1973  Ferrocarriles Nacionales          Railways          25.0                 .7
971     1974  Colombia                          Pre-Investment
Studies          8.0               3.5
1072    1975  Instituto Nacional de Fomento
Municipal                      Water Supply      27.0              16.6
1073    1975  Empresa Nacional de
Telecomunicaciones             Communications   15.0                1.2
1118    1975  Colombia                          Rural Settlement 19.5               10.9
1163    1975  Colombia                          Agriculture       21.0              17.1
1223    1976  Banco de la Republica             Industrial Cr.   80.0               26.7
1352    1977  Colombia                          Rural Dev.        52.0              45.7
1357    1977  Banco de la Republica             Agricultural Cr. 64.0               44.7
1450    1977  Empresa Nacional de               Communications   60.0               59.9
Telecomunicaciones
1451    1977  Banco de la Republica             Industrial Cr.   15.0                11.3
1471    1977  Colombia                          Highways          90.0              90.0
1487    1978  Colombia                          Nutrition         25.0              24.3
1523    1978  Empresas Municipales de Cali   Water Supply         13.8              13.8
1558    1978  Colombia                          Urban Develop
ment            24.8              24.8
1582    1978  Interconexion Electrica, S.A.  Power               126.0             126.0
1583    1978  Colombia                          Power             50.0              50.0



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 11
A.  STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of March 31, 1979) (Continued)
Number  Year  Borrower                          Purpose            Bank   IDA  Undisbursed
1593    1978  Zona Franca Industrial            Industrial
y Comercial de Cartagena         Export          15.0              14.9
1598    1978  Banco de la Republica             Industrial Cr.  100.0               99.7
1624 /2 1979  Colombia                          Airports          61.0              61.,0
1628 /2 1979  Empresa de Energia Electrica
de Bogota                      Power             84.0              84.0
TOTAL                                           2,023.1      23.5
Of which has been repaid                          402.4       1.7
Total now outstanding                           1,620.7      21.8
Amount sold                         49.9
Of which has been repaid            22.9           27.0
Total now held by Bank and IDA                  1,593.7      21.8
Total undisbursed                                                   862.2
/1   Includes exchange adjustment of US$4.0 million.
7a   Not yet effective.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 11
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of March 31, 1979)
Type of          Amount in US$ million
Year               Obligor                   Business         Loan   Equity   Total
1959       LLminas del Caribe, S.A.          Fiber-board      0.50       -      0.50
1960-1965  Industrias Alimenticias
Noel, S.A.                      Food products   1.99   0.08        2.07
1961       Envases Colombianos, S.A.         Metal cans       0.70       -      0.70
1961-1968  Morfeo-Productos pa,ra el
Hogar, S.A.                     Home furniture  0.08   0.09        0.17
1961       ELectromanufacturas, S.A.         Electrical
equipment      0.50      -       0.50
1962       Corporacion Financiera            Development
Colombiana                        financing         -   2.02       2.02
1962-1963  CDrporacion FinanciLera           Development         -   2.04       2.04
Nacional                          financing
1963-1967  Compania Colombiana de            Textiles         1.98   0.15       2.13
1968-1969 Tejidos, S.A.
1964-1970  Corporacion Financ:iera de        Development
Caldas                            financing         -   0.81       0.81
1964-1968  Forjas de Colombia, S.A.          Steel forging       -   1.27       1.27
1966       Almacenes Generales de            Warehousing      1.00       -       1.00
Deposito Santa Fe, S.A.
1966       Industria Ganadera                Livestock        1.00   0.58       1.58
Colombiana, S.A.
1967-70-74 ENKA de Colombia, S.A.            Textiles         5.00   2.60       7.61
1969       Compania de Desarrollo de         Tourism             -   0.01       0.01
Hoteles y Turismo, Ltda.
(HOTURISMO)
1969-1973  Corporacion Financiera del        Development         -   0.45       0.45
Norte                             financing
1969       Corporacion Financiera del        Development         -   0.43       0.43
Valle                             financing
1970       E'romotora de Hoteles de          Tourism          0.23   0.11       0.34
Turismo Medellin, S.A.
1970-1977  Pro-Hoteles, S.A.                 Tourism          0.80   0.25       1.05
1973-1975  Corporacion Colombiana de         Housing             -   0.46       0.46
Ahorro y Viviendla
1974       Cementos Boyaca, 'S.A.            Cement           1.50       -      1.50
1975       Cementos del Caribe, S.A.         Cement           3.60       -      3.60
1976       Las Brisas                        Mining           6.00       -      6.00
1977       Promotora de la Interconexion        -
de los Gasoductos de la
Costa Atlantica S.A.           Utilities        13.00   2.00      15.00
1977       Compania Colombiana de Clinker, Cement and
S.A.                                Construction
Material       2.43      -       2.43
Total Gross Commiltments                          40.31  13.35      53.66
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                            27.48   8.24      35.72
Total commitments now held by IFC                 12.83   5.11      17.94
Total undisbursed                                _ _ _



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Van. 4-of 11
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
1.   Ln No. 680 Highways VI; US$32 million, June 1970.
Effective date: March 29, 1971
Closing date:    original - November 30, 1974
current - November 30, 1980
The largest component of the project, the paving program, has
experienced considerable cost increases and delays. As of this writing,
six sections in the program are still under construction, requiring about
190 km of paving. Project completion is now expected for end-1980. The other
components of the project were completed with much less delay. The Government
is actively considering taking several actions to complete the program. As of
March 31, 1979, US$29.2 million (91% of the total) had been disbursed.
2.   Ln No. 738 Palmira Water Supply and Sewerage; US$2 million, May 1971.
Effective date: December 29, 1971
Closing Date:    original - March 1, 1975
current - December 31, 1979
As of March 31, 1979, about 85% of the loan amount was disbursed.
The original project works were completed at lower cost than originally esti-
mated. The savings in the loan of about US$450,000 are being used to finance
supplementary sewerage works which were already identified during project
appraisal.
3.   Ln No. 741 Water Supply (Bogota II); US$88 million, May 1971.
Effective date: August 16, 1971
Closing Date:    original - June 30, 1978
current - December 31, 1980
All works are progressing satisfactorily and expected to be completed
by the end of 1980. Completion of the Chuza-Ventana tunnel section, however, is
expected to be completed by mid-1981. Disbursements up to March 31, 1979,
amounted to about 93% of the loan amount.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 11
4.   Ln No. 849 Irrigation (Atlantico II); US$5 million, June 1972.
Effective date: November 14, 1972
Closing Date:    original - March 31, 1978
current - December 31, 1979
The project is the second phase of a scheme to develop about 17,000
ha of seasonally inundated land for agricultural production.  At the request
of the Government, US$2.8 million of the loan of US$5.0 million were cancelled
in February 1977. Work is continuing on additional feeder roads, tertiary
canal drains, waterfronts, land clearing, subsoiling and leveling. Two
contractors defaulted delaying work on the main drainage canal though the
most receni: contractor has made progress recently. Settlement of farmers
within the project areas and the provision of technical assistance and farm
credit have been making inadequate progress. The closing date was recently
extended after the Government provided appropriate assurances that the above
delays and problems will be resolved and after progress had been made in civil
works.
5.   Ln No. 860 Medium-Size Cities Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$9.1
million, October 1972.
Effective date: March 7, 1973
Closing Date:    original - September 30, 1976
current - September 30, 1980
As of March 31, 1979, about 70% of the loan amount was disbursed.
Management problems affected the initiation of the project, but progress has
since improved. Delay in receiving budgetary funds as a result of the
Government's economic stabilization measures also slowed down project execution.
INSFOPAL has prepared a new implementation program for each city and this should
accelerate completion of the works.
6.   Ln No. 874 Guatape II Hydroelectric Power Project; US$56 million,
January 1973.
Effective date: March 13, 1973
Closing Date:    original - December 31, 1978
current - December 31, 1979
The progress of the work has been generally satisfactory except for
delays in the resettlement of El Penol and Guatape villages because of the
villagers' reluctance to move into the new cities. This problem is now re-
solved and filling of the 'Santa Rita reservoir was carried out in May 1978,
three years behind schedule. The revised project cost is substantially above
appraisal estimate, mainly occasioned by higher cost by the civil works. The
Borrower experienced financial problems but, since the start of 1978, adopted
substantial tariff increases and has been able to overcome them. Project
completion is now expected for June 1979. As of March 31, 1979, US$47.0 million
or 84% of the Loan amount had been disbursed.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 11
7.   Ln No. 903 Development Finance Companies V; US$60 million, May 1973.
Effective date: November 9, 1973
Closing Date:    original - June 30, 1977
current - June 30, 1979
The loan is fully committed. Disbursements are expected to be
completed within the next few months. As of March 31, 1979, only US$0.8
million equivalent remained undisbursed.
8. Ln No. 920 Education III; US$21.2 million, July 1973.
Effective date: January 10, 1974
Closing Date:    original - June 30, 1977
current - December 31, 1981
The execution of the project had been suspended in mid-1975 pending
redefinition of sector priorities by the Government. Project execution resumed
in 1977 but suffered continuous delays. In June 1978, the Government submitted
a proposal to reduce the scope of the project and to cancel a large portion of
the loan. However, the new administration, which came to office in August 1978,
retracted the proposal and decided to proceed with the project as originally
conceived. Project execution is now expected to proceed normally and total
project cost is projected to remain close to the appraisal estimate.
9.   Ln. No. 926 Sixth Railway Project:  US$25 million, August 1973.
Effective date: December 6, 1973
Closing date:  original - June 30, 1976
current - August 31, 1979
The freight traffic in ton-km has increased by 6% in 1978 over 1977,
whereas pass-km of passenger traffic is likely to show a decrease of about 12%
due to the discontinuance of several uneconomic passenger train services.
Freight tariffs increased by 25% in 1979; passenger fares are expected to
increase by 25% shortly. CNR's operating ratio improved to 122.0 in 1978 from
147 in 1976. Average long-haul and train load have increased; staff has been
further reduced to 10,895 by September 1978 as against the last appraisal
target of 11,200 in 1976. Locomotive availability has deteriorated to an
all-time low of 55% due to engine failures in certain types of locomotives and
the shortage of urgently required spare parts. At the same time, an acute short-
age of cash to buy spare parts, together with high debt service charges and
increasing operating costs aggravated the situation. The Government is assisting
the railways financially and is studying corre-ctive measures. As of March 31,
1979 only about US$700,000 of the loan amount remained undisbursed.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 11
10. Ln No. 971 Preinvestment Studies Project; US$8 million, March 1974.
Effective date: June 27, 1974
Closing Date:    original - December 31, 1978
current - December 31, 1979
In spite of slow start, commitments are now proceeding at a satis-
factory rate. The Bank has approved 26 sub-projects and all sub-loans are now
underway. As of March 31, 1979, US$4.5 million or 56% of the loan had been
disbursed.
11. Ln No. 1072 Second Multi-City Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$27
million, January 1975.
Effective date: April 14, 1975
Closing Date:    June 30, 1980
There were substantial delays in making the eight subloans effective.
The last subloan (Barranquilla) was made effective on September 9, 1976.
After a slow start, project implementation is progressing satisfactorily in
most cities, although rapid project execution has been affected by the Govern-
ment's economic stabilization measures. Works under this loan are expected to
be completed by March 1980. As of March 31, 1979, US$10.4 million or 39% of
the Loan had been disbursed.
12. Ln No. 1073 Telecommunications III; US$15 million, January 1975.
Ef'fective date: April 14, 1975
CLosing Date:    Original - December 31, 1978
Current - June 30, 1979
Contracts for all Bank-financed goods have been awarded, and work
is proceeding satisfactorily. Though many of the project works have been
commissioned and are earning revenue, project completion is not expected until
June 1981 because of slow procurement and delays in building construction. As
of March 31, 1979, only US$1.2 million equivalent or 8% of the Loan remained
undisbursed.
13. Ln No. 1118 Caqueta Rural Settlement Project; US$19.5 million, June 1975.
Effective date: April 1, 1976
Closing Date:    October 31, 1979
The loan became effective on April 1, 1976, after a six-month delay.
Project execution has proceeded rapidly and some of the lost time regained.
Road and bridge construction is well ahead of schedule (79 km have been
completed). School construction, however, is behind schedule, while the
credit program is lagging as a result of inadequate budgetary flows. As of
March 31, 1979, US1O.9 million or 56% of the loan remained undisbursed.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 11
14. Ln No. 1163 Cordoba 2 Agricultural Development Project; US$21 million,
September 1975.
Effective Date:   March 30, 1976
Closing Date:       June 30, 1981
A few months after effectiveness, the Government decided to give
responsibility for project civil works to another agency. This decision
delayed the initiation of the project. Implementation is now proceeding
satisfactorily, but still behind schedule. As of March 31, 1979, US$3.9
million equivalent of the Loan amount had been disbursed.
15. Ln No. 1223 Sixth Development Finance Companies Project; US$80.0 million,
March 1976.
Effective Date:   September 1, 1976
Closing Date:       June 30, 1980
The loan is proceeding satisfactorily and is virtually committed.
As of March 31, 1979, about 67% of the Loan had been disbursed.
16. Ln No, 1352 Integrated Rural Development Project; US$52.0 million,
January 1977.
Effective Date: August 26, 1977
Closing Date:    December 31, 1982
The project is now in its third year of implementation and is fully
operational. The core components of credit, technical assistance and training
are exceeding targets and institutional coordination is effective. The
forestry and water supply components have suffered some delays. Administrative
procedures, such as procurement and disbursement, continue to present some
difficulties, but these are much less serious than in the first year. Control
and monitoring of the physical and financial progress of the project is
comprehensive, and a methodology for evaluating impact of the project has been
prepared. As of March 31, 1979, US$6.3 million equivalent, or 12% of the Loan
had been disbursed.
17. Ln No. 1357 Second Agricultural Credit Project; US$64.0 million, February
1977.
Effective Date:   September 6, 1977
Closing Date:       December 31, 1981.
Nearly all the funds assigned to medium and large farmers have been
committed. The Borrower has recently taken steps to speed up the commitment
of funds to small farmers which should be fully committed by 1980. Concern



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 11
over possibilities of diversion and substitution of funds led the Borrower to
substantialLy increase its ernd-use supervision. Also, inflation has come
down and in:Lerest rates have been recently raised to levels at which real
interest rates are positive. About half of funds for credit to agroindustries
have been committed for 48 subloans.
18. Ln. No. 1450 Telecommun:Lcations IV; US$60 million, July 1977.
Effective Date: October 3, 1977.
Closing Date:    June 30, 1982.
The project has been delayed as a result of a series of personnel
changes of the Borrower. Current activities are concentrated on the procure-
ment of project goods, the planning of cable networks, and design of buildings
to house equipment.
19. Ln. No. 1451 Second Small-Scale Industry Project; US$15 million,
September 1977.
Effective Date: February 14, 1978.
Closing Date:    December 31, 1980.
After initial delays in loan effectiveness due mainly to management
turnover, project implementation has gone smoothly and by March 1979 about
US$7.3 milLion of Bank funds had been committed. As of March 31, 1979,
US$3.7 milLion had been disbursed.
20. Ln. No. 1471 Highways VFII; US$90 million, July 1977.
Effective Date: Nlovember 28, 1977.
Closing Date:    D)ecember 31, 1982
The Project comprises three main programs: rehabilitation, main-
tenance, and vehicle weight control. The rehabilitation program has slipped
by about 18 months. Preliminary stabilization and drainage works are complete;
contracts for 14 of the 34 construction lots have been signed and some works
have commenced. The maintenance program has slipped 21 months and has yet to
commence. Proposals from consultants to assist MOPT in executing the program
are being evaluated. The vehicle weight control program has experienced
a 9-month delay but progress is now satisfactory. No disbursements have yet
been made but documentation to disburse about US$4.0 million are being
processed by the Ministry of Finance.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 11
21. Ln. No. 1487 Integrated Nutrition Improvement Project; US$25 million,
September 1977.
Effective Date: March 9, 1978
Closing Date:    June 30, 1982
Significant progress has been achieved in the major components of
health, nutrition education and water supply. Initial delays occurred in two
subsidiary components--home food production and food quality control--but
activities are now underway. Project management and coordination have been
sound, flexible and effective. Management and evaluation systems are operating
effectively.
22.       Ln. No. 1523 Second Cali Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$13.8
million, June 1978.
Effective Date: January 31, 1979
Closing Date:    June 30, 1982
Progress in design and tendering is slow and project implementation
has been delayed one year. EMCALI's financial position deteriorated during
the second half of 1978; the recent tariff increase will not be sufficient to
cover the forecast cash deficit in 1979 and the 3% rate of return for water
supply and sewerage covenanted for 1979 may not be reached. EMCALI's manage-
ment is considering the action which should be taken to solve this problem.
23.       Ln. No. 1558 Urban Development Project; US$24.8 million, July 1978.
Effective Date: December 1, 1978
Closing Date:    June 30, 1982
The 1978 changes in Government led to corresponding staff changes in
the executing agency and to slow project start; implementation is now running
about 12 months behind schedule. Work is under way in six out of the 23 cities
and it is expected that ten more will come on stream this year.
24.       Ln. No. 1582 San Carlos I Hydro Power Project; US$126 million,
July 1978.
This loan was signed on July 14, 1978, and became effective on
April 5, 1979.
25.       Ln. No. 1583 500 kV Interconnection Project; US$50 million, July 1978.
Effective Date: October 17, 1978
Closing Date:    June 30, 1982
Project works have recently been initiated and are proceeding on
schedule.



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 11 of 11
26.       Ln. No. 1593 Cartagena Industrial Export Processing Zone; US$15
million, August 1978.
Effective Date: January 30, 1979
Closing Date:    December 31, 1983
E'roject implementation has been delayed because of procurement
problems; now that a number of contracts have been signed, work is expected
to proceed without delay.
27.       Ln. No. 1598 Seventh Development Finance Companies Project;
US$100 million, July 1978.
'Effective Date: November 28, 1978
Closing Date:    December 31, 1982
About US$7 million has already been committed for subproject
financing, and an additionaL US$30 million is presently being processed.
28.      Ln. No. 1624 Airports Project; US$61 million, October 1978.
This loan was signed on December 29, 1978 and is expected to
become effective shortly. Implementation is off to a good start.
29.       Ln. No. 1628 Mesitas Hydroelectric Power Project; US$84 million,
November 1978.
This loan was signed on April 9, 1979, but has not yet become
effective,
June 6, 1979



- 38 -
ANNEX III
COLOMBIA
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT - INCORA
SUPPLEMENTARY DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:    One year
(b)  Agency which prepared project:       Instituto Colombiano de la Reforma
Agraria (INCORA)
(c)  First presentation to the Bank:   November 1977
(d)  First mission to review project:  April 1978
(e)  Departure of Appraisal Mission:   November 20, 1978
(f)  Completion of Negotiations:          June 1979
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:    October 1979
Section II:  Special Bank Implementation Actions
The Bank would make a US$920,000 equivalent contribution in advance of
expenditures, but after effectiveness, to a revolving fund sufficient to cover
three to four months on-lending operations under the project. The fund would
ensure the liquidity of the project and prompt loan disbursement.
Section III: Special Conditions
1.        Assurances were obtained that:
(a) At the request of either the Government, the Bank or INCORA the
operation and size of the revolving fund would be reviewed and by
agreement would be modified, if necessary (para. 55).
(b) Each farm family would be eligible to borrow up to Col$500,000,
up to 90% of the medium- and long-term investment requirements,
and up to 25 cows and one bull (para. 57).
(c) Interest rates under the project would be set at no less than
16% and an additional 1% life insurance charge, and would be
tied to the interest rates under the two principal sources of
agricultural credit in Colombia (para. 58).
(d) By July 1, 1980, interest rates for all INCORA subloans would
be standardized to the rate under the proj-ect (para. 58).



- 39 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
(e)  B) September 1, 1979 a consolidated and revised credit manual
would be sumbitted to the Bank for comment (para. 60).
(f)  For each agro-industrial subloan, a feasibility study would be
conducted and submitted to the Bank for approval (para. 60).
2.        Conditions of effectiveness would be:
(a) The establishment cf a revolving fund and the deposit of
b                    IINCORA's contribution (US$1.08 million equivalent) in the
fuind (para. 55 and 68).
(b)  The signing of a subsidiary agreement, satisfactory to the
Bank, between INCORA and CAJA (paras. 59 and 68).
A condition for each Bank disbursement for the replenishment of the revolving
fund would be that the Government has approved its corresponding disbursement
to INCORA (paras. 55 and 68).






COLOMBIA ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c                       5    10 ~                 200  2OS
MI AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT- INCORA
50            0000
* INCO2A agencies
C oap Aqwi.~
Banco oaooadero                                                                                     -----o"1
Mam Poved coods
SeCOedaoy posed roods
Railroads                                                    51  .f
~~~Rivers 
In   ---lternafionot Oounbarnes                                                                                     
0,000- '4000      i3ob, 2'.          moorland                   ~odoS
2,000- 541)00     Nlot less~ b I.or G2 old
1,000-2,0000           Not less it,oo 17,5'  Tremperate  Ap'*l              ro               rOrO    0          j                                        o'p   ve,ssrs
PA K  A AV4'Cre                                                         -
P~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ /~~~~~~~~
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~b
J
0,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
llqt~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~e
Pac,!,0- Oco-oo4
T A,rr0,,r~--
-,           ~~~~~~~~~~~    .1G -.
"0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
Ad~~~~~~~~~~~00                                   Ao



