Document of
The World Bank                  FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-27 10-HO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
AND THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
EKPRESA NACIONAL DE ENERGIA ELECTRICA
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
AND A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
FOR THE
EL CAJON POWER PROJECT
February 20, 1980
ThsdocuoMeut ha-a retricted d*grlbution and may be used by recipleus emiy in the pedeimmau  of
Itir oUiea oo Its cetemis may met  odurwise be dsioed withou Wod LbRk aud n   ok-.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   -    Lempira (L)
L 1                   100 centavos
L 1                  US$0.50
L 1,000,000     -    US$500,000
UNITS AND MEASURES
kW     =    kilowatt
MW     =    megawatt = 1,000 kW
kWh    =    kilowatt-hour
GWh    =    gigawatt-hour - 1,000 000 kWh
kV     =    kilovolt
m           meter - 3.28 ft
km     -    kilometer - 0.621 mi
km2    *    square kilometer - 0.386 sq mi
m3          cubic meter - 35.3 cu ft
ABBREVIATIONS
CABEI       -   Central American Bank for Economic Integration
CDC         -   Commonwealth,Development Corporation (U.K.)
CIDA        -   Canadian International Development Agency
COHDEFOR    -   Corporacion Hondurena de Desarrollo Forestal
(Forestry Development Corporation)
CONADI      -   Corporacion Nacional de Inversiones
(National Investment Corporation)
CONSUPLANE  -   Consejo Superior de Planificacion Economica
(National Planning Council)
CORFINO     -   Corporacion Forestal Industrial de Olancho
(Olancho Forest Industry Corporation)
ENEE        -   Empresa Nacional de Energia Electrica
(National Electrical Energy Company)
FIV         -   Venezuelan Investment Fund
IDB         -   Inter-American Development Bank
INDE        -   Instituto Nacional de Electrificacion, of Guatemala
(Guatemala's National Power Company)
INE         -   Instituto Nacional de Energia, of Nicaragua
(Nicaragua's National Power Company)
OECF        -   Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (Japan)
OPEC        -   Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
UNDP        -   United Nations Development Programme
USAID       -   United States Agency for International Development
ENEE'S FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



HONDURAS                FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
EL CAJON POWER PROJECT
LOAN AND CREDIT PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                    Loan.  Empresa Nacional de Energia Electrica (ENEE)
Credit:  Republic of Honduras
Guarantor:                   Republic of Honduras
Amount:                      Loan:    US$105.0 million
Credit:  US$20.0 million
Terms.                       Loan:    Payable in 20 years, including 6 years of
grace at 8.25 percent interest per annum.
Credit:  Standard
Project Description:         The project comprises the construction of the
292 MW El Cajon hydroelectric plant. The
principal objectives of the project are to
meet Honduran power load requirements for
1986-90 from national energy sources and to
reduce fuel consumption in thermal plants. The
project also would (1) help develop ENEE's
capacity to manage and operate a major expansion
of its interconnected system, and (2) contribute
to flood control in the Sula Valley. The
project involves the normal risks of large civil
-works. Because of the large size of the project
in the context of the Honduran economy, special
precautions have been taken to reduce the risk
of substantial cost overruns and to secure
financing on appropriate terms.
Estimated Cost:                           -              US$ (millions) ----------
Local             Foreign           Total
Land, roads, relocations                   10.6               2.2               12.8
Underground powerhouse and works           15.8              43.1               58.9
Arch dam and works                         47.0             129.1              176.1
Steel hydraulic structures                  0.4              13.9              14.3
Turbines and accessories                    --               12.2               12.2
Generators and accessories                  --               15.6               15.6
Power station equipment                     0.1               3.5                3.6
Engineering and administration              7.0              11.4             _18.4
Base Cost                            80.9              231.0             311.9
Contingencies:  Physical                   10.3              28.7               39.0
Price                     36.4             105.9             142.3
Subtotal                            127.6              365.6             493.2
Interest during construction                --               89.5              89.5
Financing Requirements                    127.6             455.1             582.7
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contenst may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Financing Plan:
--------- US$ (millions)
Local        Foreign          Total
Bank Loan                                              105.0           105.0
IDA Credit                                              20.0            20.0
IDB                                                     95.0            95.0
Japan                                                   33.0            33.0
CABEI                                                   30.6            30.6
OPEC Special Fund                                        7.5             7.5
Commonwealth Development Corp.                          10.0            10.0
Suppliers' Credits                                      68.1            68.1
Commercial Banks                                        15.0            15.0
ENEE's Internal Cash Generation           64.8           --             64.8
Government Capital Contribution 1/        42.3          70.9           113.2
Government Loan to ENEE                   20.5                          20.5
Total                                127.6         455.1            582.7
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank/IDA FY   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985   1986
Annual          5.3    9.4   13.0   16.2   26.4   32.1   22.6
Cumulative      5.3   14.7   27.7   43.9   70.3  102.4  125.0
Rate of Return:              13.5 percent
Appraisal Report:            Report No. 2388-HO dated February 15, 1980
1/   Including US$55.0 million proceeds of loans from the Venezuelan Investment
Fund, to be passed on to ENEE.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE EMPRESA NACIONAL DE ENERGIA ELECTRICA
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
AND A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE
REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
FOR THE EL CAJON POWER PROJECT
1.        I submit the follow:ing Report and Recommendation on a proposed
loan equivalent to US$105.0 million and a proposed development credit equi-
valent to US$20.0 million to Honduras for the El Cajon Power Project. The
Loan would be made to the Empresa Nacional de Energia Electrica (ENEE), with
the guarantee of the Republic of Honduras, for a term of 20 years including
6 years of grace, with interest at 8.25 percent per annum. The development
credit would be on standard IDA terms. The Government of Honduras would
relend the proceeds of the development credit to ENEE on the same terms as
the Bank loan. Co-financing for the project will be provided by the following
loans (expressed in US$ equivalent): US$95.0 million from the Inter-American
Deve'lopment Bank (IDB) 1/. US$55.0 million from the Venezuelan Investment Fund
(FIV) to be passed on to ENEE as a capital contribution by the Government;
US$33.0 million from the Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund of Japan (OECF);
and US$30.6 million from the Central American Bank for Economic Integration
(CABEI). Also, a loan of US$10.0 million is expected from the Commonwealth
Development Corporation (CDC), about US$68.1 million is expected from suppliers
credits, and about US$15.0 million from commercial banks. The OPEC Special
Fund is also considering a loan of US$7.5 million for the project. The grant
element provided to Honduras in the Bank Group package, using a 10 percent
discount rate, would be 14 percent.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "Memorandum on Recent Economic Development and
Prospects of Honduras" (1956-HO) was distributed to the Executive Directors
on January 10, 1978. Bank missions visited Honduras during January and
November 1979 to review recent economic performance. The main findings of
these missions are summarized below. Country data sheets are attached as
Annex I.
Long-term Develtoment Trends
3.        The long-term growth rate of the Honduran economy has been exceed-
ingly low. Between 1950 and 1975, real per capita GNP grew by only one
percent a year. Honduras' per capita GNP in 1978, US$480, is one of the
lowest in the Western 'Hemisphere. Honduras' poverty is also evident from a
variety of indicators. Malntutrition is severe: about three quarters of
pre-school children are believed to suffer from protein and caloric defi-
ciencies, and infant mortality is estimated at 103 per thousand live births.
1/   Of which US$77.0 milliona from the Fund for SpecialOperations and US$18.0
million from a complementary line of credit from commercial banks.



It is estimated that roughly 54 percent of the population has no access to
safe piped water and about 76 percent lives without any form of sanitary
waste disposal. Furthermore, these are country averages which conceal
substantial regional disparities as living conditions in the rural areas,
which account for two thirds of the population, are much worse than in
the cities.
4.        A major reason for Honduras' poor growth performance during 1950-75
was the continued dependence of the economy on the production and export of
a few agricultural commodities, especially bananas and coffee, whose prices
depend on a fluctuating world market situation and whose output may be greatly
influenced by weather conditions. The latter was dramatically illustrated
when extensive destruction of the banana plantations by Hurricane Fifi in
1974 reduced the volume of bananas exported in 1975 to about one half the
level of 1973 and contributed to a drop in per capita income of about 3
percent. A serious lack of basic infrastructure, uneven land distribution,
and deficient credit, technical services and development programs kept non-
banana agricultural growth far below its potential. Furthermore, the country's
sizeable forest resources were subject to wasteful exploitation practices,
widespread burning, and uncertain ownership. In addition, the mountainous
topography of the country has made the expansion of the road network slow and
costly. There has been progress, however, since 1960, including the establish-
ment of a basic transportation network connecting the main population centers
and a considerable expansion of electric power service.
Government Development Efforts
5.        Since 1972, development efforts have accelerated; several measures
have laid the basis for the country's improved longer-term economic prospects.
A land reform program, begun in 1972, and strengthened and expanded through
comprehensive legislation in 1975, aims at greatly improving land utilization
as well as increasing the income and employment of the poorer peasants through
the transfer of unutilized or poorly utilized land from large landowners to
landless rural families. Another major policy development was the nationaliza-
tion of timber rights in 1974. A new forestry law established guidelines for
private sector forestry participation and created the state-owned Corporacion
Hondurena de Desarrollo Forestal (COHDEFOR). In the same year, the Government
established the Corporacion Nacional de Inversiones (CONADI), to promote and
finance industrial projects. Furthermore, improvements in Government planning
and executing capacity resulted in a substantial increase in public fixed
investment from an average 4.9 percent of GDP in 1968-72 to 6.6 percent in
1974, 8.8 percent in 1977, and 10.1 percent in 1978. The Government has also
made an effort to increase investment in the social and productive sectors and
strengthen public finances through tax reforms and better tax administration.
A 1975 tax reform made the tax on coffee exports ad valorem, with marginal
rates ranging from 10 percent to 20 percent depending on coffee prices;
substituted a 3 percent value added tax for the sales tax; and raised the tax
rates on beer, cigarettes and liquor. Partly as a result, current Central
Government receipts increased from 13.2 percent of GDP in 1970 to 15.3 percent
in 1978.



-3-
Recent Developments
6.        During 1974-75, the Honduran economy was adversely affected by one
of the worst hurricanes in its history, by the oil price rise of 1974,
and later on by the OECD recession. GDP remained almost stagne-t, severe
balance of payments difficulties arose, and the country's savings capacity
was seriously reduced. Honduras, however, recovered during 1976-78. A
much higher level of public investment, the gradual recovery of banana
production, the extraordinary increase of coffee prices (which doubled in
1976 and again in 1977), and dynamic private fixed investment (7.4 percent
real increase yearly) were the major factors responsible. Real GDP grew
at about 7.4 percent a year, or almost double the long-term growth rate
recorded during 1950-75. The rate of inflation reached 6.4 percent a year,
mostly fueled by imported inflation and domestic difficulties with basic
grain crops.
7.        Although merchandise exports grew 27 percent a year in dollar
terms during 1976-78 as a result of higher coffee prices and the partial
recovery of banana production, imports grew at a 20 percent rate and the
balance of payments continued to show large current account deficits.
Expansionary policies which led to the more rapid economic and investment
growth had an immediate effect on imports into the small economy. Net
foreign exchange reserves, however, increased as a result of greater
disbursements of foreign loans, and by the end of 1978 were US$135 million,
equivalent to about two months of imports of goods and non-factor services.
8.        Central Government finances during 1976-78 reflected the economic
performance. Current revenues increased rapidly (21 percent yearly) but
current expenditures grew almost equally fast and current savings showed only
a modest improvement. As a result, the large increment in capital expendi-
tures was largely financed by foreign credits. The increase in Central
Government current revenues between 1975 and 1978 resulted from higher income
and property tax collections; almost a tripling of export and import tax
revenues (including an increase of coffee taxes from US$4 million in 1975 to
US$32 million in 1978); and a rapid increase in receipts from domestic taxes.
Current expenditures for wages, goods and services, and transfers showed large
percentage increases. Higher wage expenditures resulted from expanded employ-
ment (7 percent annually) and higher nominal wages (about 9 percent annually).
About 57 percent of the new posts created were teaching positions. The
Government expanded significantly operating expenditures for education, health,
and defense. Budgeted expenditures for education increased by 81 percent from
19751 to 1978; health expenditures doubled; and defense expenditures increased
by 80 percent.
9.        In 1979, the Honduran economy continued its much improved growth
performance. Real GDP growth is estimated at about 6.5 percent owing mainly to
larger export volumes than in 1978 and increased public expenditures. GDY,
however, increased little because the terms of trade deteriorated by about
14 percent. In spite of larger export volumes of coffee (15 percent) and
bananas (26 percent), lower coffee prices slowed export earnings growth and,
coupled with rapidly rising import prices, resulted in a sharp decline in the
terms of trade. The annual average rate of inflation accelerated to about



- 4 -
8.8 percent, mostly because of imported inflation and higher domestic prices
for housing and food products, partly related to the influx of Nicaraguan
refugees. Towards the end of the year, however, inflation accelerated to an
annual rate of 19 percent. The current account deficit of the balance of
payments increased from US$152 million in 1978 to about US$183 million in
1979 as exports of goods grew 20 percent and imports (CIF) 18 percent,
fueled by higher import prices and the expansion of economic activity.
While Central Government current revenues grew rapidly, they were neverthe-
less outpaced by current expenditures; as a result, current savings declined
from 1.1 percent of GDP in 1978 to 0.5 percent of GDP in 1979. Public fixed
investment is estimated at about 9.9 percent of GDP, a slight decrease with
respect to 1978.
Future Prospects and Development Programs
10.       Real GDP growth, while expected to remain well above historic levels,
is likely to be less than in 1977-79, and to average about 5 percent a year
during 1980-83. The main reason for the deceleration is the expected lower
export growth. Exports (in constant prices) may increase by about 6.7 percent a
year, compared to 17.2 percent in 1978-79, since banana production has already
recovered significantly and coffee production is completing a cyclical peak in
the 1979/80 harvest. Further output expansion will be slower than in the recent
past. Export growth would depend mainly on lumber exports (made possible by the
current expansion of sawmill capacity) together with increased beef and sugar
production, expansion of fruit and vegetable production for export, and pro-
motion of tourism. However, the prospects for export expansion within Central
Central America have been affected by the political unrest in the region. A
slower growth of the quantum of total exports coupled with higher levels of
imports, partly fueled by rising public investment, will likely result in
continued moderately high deficits in the current account of the balance of
payments during 1980-83. Private investment is expected to show less dynamism,
as the National Investment Corporation's support for large private projects may
have peaked since most of its existing projects are being completed and few
significant new projects have been identified. Within certain parameters
dictated by the public sector's revenue and indebtedness capability, public
expenditures, both current and capital, may be a positive factor for GDP
growth. Real current expenditures are expected to increase at rates slightly
above those of GDP, although some restraint is needed to insure adequate
public savings. Real public investment is expected to average about 10-11
percent of GDP during 1980-83.
11.       The public investment program for 1980-83 calls for large invest-
ments to alleviate the most significant bottlenecks to the country's develop-
ment process.  Full implementation of this program is not likely because of
limitations in administrative capacity to prepare and implement projects,
particularly in the rural and social sectors. Nevertheless, the country's
overall administrative capacity has shown a marked improvement in the past
few years, and it should be feasible to go forward with the major components
of the program, which include large investments for infrastructure, partic-
ularly for power and transport; for export diversification, mainly through
forestry development; for agricultural development to advance the agrarian
reform program and increase rural productivity; and for health, particularly
potable water.



-5-
12.       Power investments will be the largest, averaging about 40 percent
of public fixed investment, mostly because of the large, lumpy investment
required for the El Cajon hydroelectric project. This high share is justi-
fied in view of the need to provide adequate power supply to industry and
other expanding sectors of an economy expected to grow at a higher long term
rate than in the past. It should be noted that per capita generation of
electricity in Honduras is currently very low (the second lowest in Central
America). Moreover, development of the country's hydroelectric resources
could make an important contribution to reducing the economy's dependence on
imported oil. Expenditures on imported oil and lubricants were US$74 million
(10.4 percent of the merchandise import bill) in 1978 and increased dramatically
to US$113 million (13.4 percent of merchandise imports) in 1979 compared to
only US$14.7 million (6.6 percent of merchandise imports) in 1970. During
1970-79, Honduras' fuel needs for electricity generation grew from about US$1
million to about US$5.8 million. Rising prices and the expanded domestic demand
would bring about a much larger bill for imported oil in the future. If
thermal plants rather than El Cajon were chosen, oil imports for power genera-
tion alone would probably be over US$35 million by 1986 and would grow rapidly
thereafter.
13.       Transport investments will also be large, and include the roads for
the Olancho sawmills, further rural roads, the expansion of the trunk highway
system, and a new port for wood product exports. Forestry investments planned
by COHDEFOR and the Corporacion Forestal Industrial de Olancho (CORFINO) include
five relatively large sawmills. Agricultural investments will be focused on rural
development projects for three major valleys: Aguan, Guayape, and Comayagua.
Health investments will be concentrated on water supply and medical facilities
for Tegucigalpa, San Pedro Sula and provincial towns. These fixed investments
will be supplemented by growing credit programs for agriculture and industry.
14.       The Government has declared its intention to mobilize additional
domestic resources needed to support prudently its ambitious development program.
For this purpose, it has already implemented a tax package which will increase
revenues of the Central Government by about 1.6 percent of GDP in 1980. Other
measures are expected to include a reduction of annual current expenditure
growth from 22 percent in 1976-78 to 17 percent in 1979 and 14.5 percent
thereafter; higher tariffs for public enterprises, particularly electricity
and port tariffs; and, if necessary, further reforms of the tax system. In
addition, the Government has established ceilings for total public fixed
investment (about 11 percent of GDP). To avoid excessive pressures on the
balance of payments and the domestic price level, the Government is also
expected to increase credit only slightly faster than nominal GDP. Interest
rates were raised to keep them in line with external market conditions and to
stimulate savings deposits. Based on the ambitious development program, the
Government earlier this year negotiated with the IMF a loan package totalling
about US$75 million (of which US$57 million is from the Extended Fund Facility).
The three-year EFF arrangement provides Fund resources in support of sound
overall economic and financial policies during the implementation of the
public investment program; the latter should strengthen substantially the
balance of payments in the mid-1980s by reducing significantly the fuel import
requirement of the economy and by generating increased exports, particularly
lumber and wood products. Nevertheless, the large size of the investment



- 6 -
program, the political uncertainty now prevailing in the Central American
region, and past volatility in Honduras' export receipts have led the autho-
rities to request the Bank's collaboration in annual reviews of the investment
program and its financing prospects. We plan to respond positively to this
request and will be monitoring closely Honduras' progress.
External Financing
15.       As the import needs of the economy expand, in particular the imports
related to the public investment program, the current account deficit is
expected to increase to about US$340 million by 1983 (about 10.8 percent of
GDP) and, as a result, large capital inflows will be required.  The bulk of
the external financing requirements is expected to be met through public
borrowing. Honduras will require an estimated gross capital inflow of
US$1.1 billion during 1980-83, of which over US$360 million will be disbursed
from commitments made through the end of 1979.
16.       Honduras' public external debt repayable in-foreign currency amounted
to US$591.1 million at the end of 1978, US$917.9 million if undisbursed
commitments are included. In the past, Honduras has managed to keep its
external debt service ratio fairly low, because foreign loans were almost all
on concessionary terms.  The debt service ratio at the end of 1978 was 8.6 per-
cent.  It is important that the country continue to borrow on reasonably soft
average terms in view of the country's poverty, the fact that it will continue
to depend on exports of a few commodities with volatile price prospects, and
because, historically, natural disasters have sharply reduced the volume of
exports every few years. Even if Honduras is successful in obtaining about
two-thirds of the financing it needs for its investment program on terms
similar to those offered by the international lending agencies, the debt
service ratio is likely to rise to about 14 percent in 1986 and 17 percent
in 1992. Continued maintenance of Honduras' creditworthiness will depend on
the efficiency with which it chooses and implements its major public investment
projects; careful, continued demand management, including cautious use of non-
concessionary borrowing; and on export promotion policies. We believe that
the Government's actions so far have been consistent with these constraints,
but will continue to monitor carefully Honduras' performance.
17.       The Bank Group holds 25.3 percent of the disbursed public debt
outstanding and repayable in foreign currency; excluding IDA, the Bank's share
is about 18 percent. About half of the IDB's total loans disbursed and
outstanding are'repayable in local currency, so that IDB's share of the
disbursed public debt repayable in foreign currency is only 10.5 percent.
CABEI accounts for 15.0 percent of the total, the US Government for 14.2
percent, Venezuela for 13.2 percent, privately held debt for about 18.9
percent and other debt for 2.9 percent.
18.       During 1970-79, the principal external lending agencies active in
Honduras have committed some US$1,005 million at FY79 prices, of which the IDB
provided 38.3 percent, the Bank Group 30.4 percent, CABEI 22.3 percent and
USAID, 9.0 percent. IDB has concentrated on agriculture, manufacturing, water
and sewerage, transport, power, education and housing; CABEI on transport,



-7-
power and manufacturing, and USAID on agriculture and education (see Annex I,
page 6). It is expected that USAID and CABEI will continue lending primarily
in the same sectors in the future, while IDB would concentrate on agriculture,
forestry, transport, industry and power.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN HONDURAS
19.       Beginning with a loan of US$4.2 million for roads in 1955, Honduras
has to date received 20 Bank loans totalling US$252.7 million and ten IDA
credits totalling US$60.1 million, both net of cancellations. The most recent
loan, US$19.5 million for a tourism project, was approved in March 1979. As
of December 31, 1979, a total of US$104.2 million remained to be disbursed on
13 operations for ports, electricity, roads, livestock, education, regional
development, agricultural and industrial credit and tourism. Execution of
projects financed by the Bank Group has, on the whole, been satisfactory.
Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC
investments as of December 31, 1979, as well as notes on the execution of
on-going projects.
20.       In the past, Bank Group lending was heavily concentrated in trans-
port and power, where inadequate facilities hampered the development of
the country. The First Livestock Development Credit approved in 1970, how-
ever, marked a first step towards the diversification of our lending. Since
then, this diversification has continued through operations for a Second
Livestock project; a First Education Project, which included as major compo-
nents primary and secondary teacher training schools, and support for voca-
tional training centers and the national agricultural secondary school; a
First Agricultural Credit Project to finance livestock and crop development
with emphasis on assisting agrarian reform settlements through investment
credits and a substantial technical assistance program; a Second Education
Project to help finance rural primary schools and agricultural vocational
education; a Regional Development Project to assist small farmers and agrarian
reform settlements in the Guayape Valley; an Industrial Credit Project to
provide funds primarily to small and medium manufacturing firms and for
the wood industry; and a Tourism Development Project to contribute to the
diversification of the sources of Honduras' foreign exchange earnings.
21.       In future lending to Honduras, we plan to support the priorities of
the Government's investment program by giving increased emphasis to agri-
cultural and rural development in support of agrarian reform efforts. We
would also help finance activities to strengthen the balance of payments by
reduicing Honduras' reliance on banana production, while continuing to lend for
physical infrastructure where there are still deficiencies to be overcome.
We hope to present a follow-on to the First Agricultural Credit Project for
consideration by the Executive Directors later this year, and additional rural
development projects are planned. We also expect to extend further assistance
to the expansion of educational opportunities particularly for the rural
population. In transport, we plan to place emphasis on the improvement of
road maintenance and on assisting the construction of a network of feeder and
access roads to support the Government's agricultural program. In addition,
we hope to help Honduras attract more private investment in offshore petroleum
exploration through a small technical assistance loan.



- 8 -
22.       It is expected that the Bank Group share of total external public
debt disbursed and outstanding will remain at about one quarter during the
1980's. The IBRD share of the public external debt service has dropped
substantially since the early 1970's, is now about 20 percent and is projected
to remain at this level through the 1980's.
23        IFC's activities in Honduras include a 1964 loan and equity
investment, of US$295,000 and US$55,000 respectively, in a tannery, Empresa
de Curtidos Centroamericana, S.A. In 1966 an additional equity investment of
US$27,500 was made in this company. In 1969 and 1970 equity investments
totalling US$75,000 were made in a pilot company, Compania Pino Celulosa de
Centro America, S.A., which was established to develop an industrial project
based on timber from the Olancho Forest Reserve. Although this company is no
longer involved in this project, IFC continues to assist the Government of
Honduras in creating an organizational structure and selecting a technical
partner for the project. In 1978 IFC approved a loan of US$9.0 million and
an equity investment of US$1.0 million in Textiles Rio Lindo, S.A. de C.V.,
a locally owned textile company, to help finance an expansion and diversifica-
tion project. IFC continues working with CONADI and local private investors
in developing other investment opportunities in the country.
PART III - THE SECTOR
Energy Sector
24.       Honduras has the second lowest per capita energy consumption in
Central America, although total consumption of primary energy has been in-
creasing an average of some 7 percent yearly since 1970. A high proportion
of commercial energy requirements (estimated at 78 percent in 1976) is met
by imported petroleum. The country's domestic energy resources are not fully
known but are currently limited to hydro power, wood, charcoal and bagasse.
The existence of domestic fuel resources in commercial quantities has yet to
be proven. The Government and private sector have recently been giving
increased attention to exploring for coal in central and western Honduras
and for petroleum and gas offshore in the Caribbean. For coal, results have
not been encouraging, and petroleum exploration has been very limited so
far. As mentioned in para. 21 above, the Bank is currently processing a
proposed technical assistance loan to help promote petroleum exploration.
25.       Several alternative sources of energy are being studied with Bank
assistance under the loans for the Fifth and Sixth Power Projects (Nos. 841-HO
and 1081-HO). Areas which appear to have potential for geothermal development
are being evaluated. The country's forests represent a resource which has not
yet been fully tapped. COHDEFOR has proposed the use of waste wood (produced
by the country's sawmills) for fuel, and a recent study by its consultants
suggests that modern methods of pelletizing woodwaste would make steam power
plants economically feasible. These plants would be mainly in rural areas and
would help to provide earlier access to electricity in such areas than would
otherwise be feasible.



- 9-
26.       Honduras has large hydroelectric power resources, with a theoretical
annual potential of about 35,000 GWh. The role of hydropower has grown rapidly
since 1970. However, only 656 GWh or less than 2 percent of the potential is
presently being tapped, and fuel-based electricity generation is expected to
grow steadily over the next five years. The best prospect for reducing fuel
imports lies in the replacement of this thermal generation by hydroelectricity.
About one third of the hydro potential has already been inventoried, and sites
aggregating about 2,000 GWh annual production have been studied at feasibility
level, including the proposed El Cajon project (about 1,350 GWh per year) on
the Humuya river. Further work is planned to update the existing inventory
and to prepare a prefeasibility study of the most promising development after
El Cajon, with financing under the Nispero Power Project (No. 1629-HO). Possible
small hydroelectric projects are being studied to expand the options available
for future supply to rural areas.
27.       Honduras' Economic Planning Council is responsible for defining
broad national energy policy objectives. The other Government agencies with
responsibility in the energy sector are the Ministry of Natural Resources,
the Ministry of Economy (petroleum product distribution and pricing), the
Ministry of Public Works and Communications (transport companies), COHDEFOR
(wood and charcoal production) and the Empresa Nacional de Energia Electrica
(ENEE), which is responsible for electricity generation and distribution.
The Government has been reviewing prospective energy demand and supply
patterns and alternative energy sources with UNDP assistance. At the same
time, the Government and Bank have been discussing measures designed to
improve coordination and policy-making, as well as to meet training needs,
in the energy sector. As a first step, the Government has just created a
national commission to advise on energy policy.
Power Sector
28.       ENEE has sole responsibility for management of the power sector in
Honduras. There is no regulatory agency. ENEE is a Government-owned,
autonomous institute which, since its creation in 1957, has acquired most of
the privately-owned and municipal systems, and now provides almost 100 percent
of public electricity service in the country. At present, ENEE has an electric
power generating capacity of 190.6 MW, including diesel units with 50.6 MW of
total capacity and two gas turbines with a capacity of 28 MW. The Nispero
Project will enable ENEE to add 30 MW of diesels in 1980 and 22.5 MW of hydro
power in 1981.
29.       The energy generated by ENEE during 1978, including the supply of
8 GWh to Nicaragua pursuant to the interconnection inaugurated in 1975,
amounted to 692 GWh.  Sales have grown by an annual average of 15 percent
since 1967. The current load forecast projects an annual average increase in
total sales during the 1979-1988 period of 11.7 percent, which appears reason-
able. This should result in a considerable increase in per capita electricity
generation. ENEE currently reaches about 22 percent of the total population
mainly via its interconnected system. Overall, ENEE supplies electricity to
about 600,000 people or about 75 percent of the inhabitants of the areas
served. By the end of the project period, ENEE expects to make electricity



- 10 -
available to about 37 percent of the population, as a result of the distribu-
tion facilities and rural extensions being built. ENEE has been carrying out
a rural electrification program since 1971, and has built about 270 km of
35 kV rural lines with financing by the Bank. ENEE is now undertaking with
assistance from USAID the electrification of the Aguan Valley, where the
Government is presently implementing an extensive rural development program.
This project will benefit 25,000 low-income families. Another 5,500 families
in low-income areas near Santa Rosa de Copan will benefit from extensions
being undertaken in conjunction with the Nispero Project. Since the bulk of
the population not now supplied by ENEE lives in rural areas, many in remote
locations, it is difficult and costly to provide them with electricity and, as
noted in paragraphs 25 and 26 above, ENEE is studying ways of reducing the
costs of supplying these areas.
The Borrower
30.       ENEE has been directed by a board consisting of the Ministers of
Public Works, Natural Resources and Planning, and representatives of the
National Development Bank and the Chamber of Industries and Commerce. In
preparation for the increased responsibilities and major financial under-
takings which the El Cajon project entails, ENEE has expanded its Board to
include the Minister of Finance and the President of the Central Bank. ENEE's
operations are directed by a General Manager, assisted by four Deputy Man-
agers. Its organization is well structured along functional lines. ENEE has
been strengthened in recent years with the help of Bank-financed consultants
and training programs. However, further efforts in these areas are still
required. With the assistance of consultants financed under the Nispero
Project, ENEE is expected to complete a Management and Organization study by
October 30, 1980. The initial recommendations of the consultants (involving
organizational changes in the financial and operational areas) are already
being carried out. ENEE has agreed to take further measures by March 31, 1981
to improve its organization and management, based on the full recommendations
of the study and the Bank's comments on these. ENEE is also preparing a
program for further training of its management and staff, also with the help
of the Nispero loan. The project's engineering consultants would conduct
extensive training of ENEE's staff during the execution of El Cajon. Further,
ENEE has recently had a study prepared which examined the adequacy of its
salary structure. This indicated that present professional salary levels are
adequate to attract and retain qualified personnel. Nevertheless, an agreement
has been reached that ENEE would study further measures, principally dealing
with employee benefits, recommended by the study.
31.       ENEE has rapidly increased the size of its plant.  Over the past
ten years, its generation capacity has grown an average 14 percent p.a. This
expansion required a substantial investment effort, averaging about US$19
million per year (in constant 1978 prices), which ENEE was able to manage
while maintaining a satisfactory financial structure. Until the 1973 increase
in world petroleum prices, ENEE's tariffs enabled it to obtain a rate of
return in excess of the 10 percent covenanted under the Bank-financed Fifth
and Sixth Power Projects. ENEE's financial performance deteriorated after
1973, as its dependence on petroleum fuels increased during the construction



- 11 -
period of the Rio Lindo hydro power plant expansion. The tariff actions taken
over the period and the start of operations of the expanded plant allowed ENEE
gradually to offset the effects of the petroleum price increase. For 1979,
its rate of return on annually revalued assets is estimated at about the 8
percent covenanted under the Nispero Project. To achieve thiq target, ENEE
increased its tariffs in June 1978 and again in May 1979. Moreover, in
connection with the Nispero Project, ENEE agreed to the principle of annual
asset revaluation, and to incorporate from 1978 on the results of this revalua-
tion in its audited financial statements. For the future, ENEE also has now
agreed annually to revalue work in progress on major projects with long
construction periods. Further, although most of ENEE's tariffs now fall
within Central American averages, tariffs for large industrial and commercial
consumers are among the lowest in the Central American region. Consultants
have completed a study of ENEE's tariff structure based on long term marginal-
cost criteria. Based on this study, ENEE has defined a satisfactory program
for tariff structure revisions reducing the relative burden of residential
consumers vis-a-vis commercial and industrial enterprises.
32,.      ENEE's assets have approximately tripled in real terms over the past
ten years, to US$275 million equivalent (adjusted for inflation), while its
debt/equity ratio has improved slightly (from 51:49 to 48:52). Since Govern-
ment equity contributions in the period were small, this development basically
reflects ENEE's capacity to meet a substantial part of its normal investment
needs through internal cash generation. ENEE also has tended to operate
with a small, occasionally negative working capital which provided little
margin for such unforeseen circumstances as foreign exchange fluctuations
affecting debt service obligations. For the Nispero Project, the Central
Bank of Honduras needed to provide ENEE with "bridge" financing until the Bank
loan became effective. It has been agreed that, during the construction of
El Cajon, the Central Bank would provide ENEE with a stand-by revolving line
of credit initially of US$5.0 million; this amount would be revised from time
to time based on ENEE's cash budget. This should provide ENEE with an addi-
tional margin of safety while allowing it to maintain fairly low liquidity
levels. To enable ENEE to use its funds in an efficient manner, the Government
would permit the company to make short term placements of funds, at rates of
interest in line with its own cost of funds.
Bank Participation in the Sector
33.       The Bank Group has made seven loans and two credits to the electric
power sector, totalling US$110.5 million, which have financed a substantial
part of ENEE's development program to date. The first four projects 1/ have
been successfuly completed. Together, they provided for (a) 94 MW thermal
and hydro generation additions, including the first two stages of the Lake
Yojoa-Rio Lindo hydroelectric development; (b) transmission expansion
(particularly under the Fourth Project); and (c) distribution expansions.
The Project Performance Audit Reports for ENEE's Third and Fourth Power
1/   Loan No. 226 of May 19, 1959; Loan No. 261 of June 28, 1960; Loan No.
541/Credit 116 of May 18, 1968 and Loan 692/Credit 201 of June 16, 1970.



- 12 -
Projects 1/ indicate that both projects were implemented without noteworthy
problems and that the purposes of both projects were fully achieved. The
major lessons learned from these projects - the need for training and for
improvements in ENEE's management - have been addressed in the Nispero
Project.
34.       The Fifth Power Project (Loan 841-HO of June 28, 1972) -- which
included 26 MW of diesels, an interconnection line to Nicaragua, a load
dispatch system, studies and training -- is over 90 percent completed.
Its full completion will be delayed by about 3 years because of the slow
preparation of the load dispatch and communication system and the addition
of a geothermal resource study. Since the load dispatch and communication
component would cost substantially more than originally estimated, the
Government obtained additional financing of US$1.7 million from the OPEC
Special Fund. The 138 kV lines for the Aguan Valley have been deleted from
the project in the light of the USAID-financed comprehensive rural electri-
fication project for the Valley. The loan for the Sixth Power Project (No.
1081-HO of January 27, 1975) finances the 46 MW extension of the Rio Lindo
hydroelectric plant, distribution system improvements, rural electrifi-
cation works, studies and training. The plant extension went into operation
ahead of schedule. Some US$1.1 million of the savings under the loan, realized
from lower than expected steel prices and other cost reductions, are being
used, with Bank approval, to finance part of the extension of 35 kV lines to
serve rural areas in western Honduras from the Nispero power plant. The Sixth
Project is expected to be completed by 1981, two years later than originally
estimated. Major equipment components for the Nispero Project (No. 1629-HO of
December 15, 1978) have already been ordered. Most of the consultants have
already been engaged and the main civil works contractor has begun operations.
The Electric Power Program
35.       ENEE's objectives in the power sector are:
(a) the early optimum use of hydro power resources to substitute
for fuel imports;
(b) the rehabilitation of systems in areas recently incorporated
into ENEE's main interconnected system; and
(c) the continued extension of the main system and creation of
regional subtransmission systems to expand service in rural
areas as soon as is economically feasible.
36.       The main element of ENEE's investment program designed to meet these
objectives would be the El Cajon hydroelectric project. Before deciding on
El Cajon, ENEE evaluated several hydro-thermal alternative programs which
could supply the Honduran market after 1982, when the capacity provided by the
Nispero Project would be fully used. A study by consultants showed that after
installing some additional thermal units, the completion of the El Cajon
1/   Sec M75-411 of May 30, 1975 and Sec M78-489 of June 5, 1978.



- 13 -
project as early as 1985 - the earliest possible year - would enable ENEE to
meet, at least cost, the growing main system demand for electric energy. The
study also determined the most economical pattern of system expansion for
development with- and without-pooling of facilities through interconnection
with the Nicarqguan Power Company (INE). The result indicated that El Cajon's
construction would be the least cost alternative for the interconnected
ENEE--INE system expansion, as well as for ENEE alone, and that El Cajon should
be built as soon as possible. For these reasons, the Government has assigned
highest priority to the project within its energy development program.
37.       Because of its large size compared to Honduras' home market, the
Government always considered El Cajon to be a project of regional interest.
The most obvious market would be Nicaragua; it has a limited number of poten-
tial hydro sites and only limited availability of other indigenous energy
resources, and it is already interconnected with ENEE's system. Discussions
have been underway between ENEE and INE for some time. In 1977, the Government
of Guatemala expressed some interest in interconnection and its major power
entity (INDE) is now studying this possibility. Eventually, there may also
exist the possibility to interchange power with Costa Rica via the Nicaraguan
power system. The economic feasibility of an interconnection between Costa
Rica and Nicaragua has been established, and financing for the project has
been secured. It is noteworthy, though, that export sales are not needed to
justify El Cajon's construction. Moreover, based on recent market studies by
consultants (adjusted by the Bank in the light of recent sales experience),
the supply/demand balance indicates that by the time of completion of El Cajon
(now envisaged for 1986), excess hydro energy available for sale to other
Central American countries would be minimal. However, these sales could be
significant financially if the internal market fails to expand at the rates
forecasted. Also, El Cajon would increase the reserve capacity of the Honduras-
Nicaragua inter-connected system.
38.       Consultants' studies have shown that, prior to the completion of
El Cajon, ENEE would have to install about 52.5 MW of generating capacity to
meet the growth in demand from 1982 to 1985. The present program assumes the
installation of additional diesel units. A 1982-1985 generation addition study
is now underway to determine the precise nature of the additional capacity and
its timing. The study would be sent to the Bank by July 31, 1980.
39.       When the Government decided to undertake El Cajon, it was apparent
that there would be a need for substantial external assistance for ENEE's
medium-term investment program, now estimated to cost approximately US$865
million over 1979-1986. The Government, therefore, approached the Bank, the
OPEC Special Fund, IDB, CABEI,the Commonwealth Development Corporation, and
the Venezuelan Investment Fund (FIV) along with the Governments of Japan,
Canada, the Federal Republic of Germany, Switzerland and the United Kingdom
for support. The Bank has been helping Honduras in its efforts to obtain the
concessional financing it requires, and the Government has enlisted widespread
support (see para. 43).



- 14 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
40.       A Staff Appraisal Report entitled "El Cajon Power Project"
(No. 2388-HO dated February 15, 1980) is being distributed separately to the
Executive Directors. Supplementary data are contained in Annex III. The
project has been studied and prepared over a number of years by ENEE and its
consultants. A feasibility study for the project was completed in 1973, but
a decision to go forward with the project was deferred as the results of the
study indicated that the optimal timing of the project's entry into operation
was not before the mid-1980's.  In late 1974 the Government decided to proceed
with project preparation. A study of the optimal development of the Honduras
and of the combined Honduras/Nicaragua power systems and an updated project
feasibility study were completed in 1978.  The project was appraised in
October/November 1978, and the appraisal was updated in October 1979. Negotia-
tions were held in Washington from June 26 to June 29, 1979; the delegation
from Honduras was led by the Minister of Finance and the General Manager of
ENEE.
41.       The main objectives of the project are to expand the hydro generat-
ing capacity of ENEE, and thereby increase the use of national energy sources
to meet Honduras' electricity requirements during 1986-90 and reduce fuel
consumption in thermal plants; to strengthen ENEE's capacity to manage and
operate a major expansion of its interconnected system; and to provide flood
control benefits in the Sula Valley through regulating the river flow down-
stream of the dam. The regulation of the river flow would permit the develop-
ment of irrigation projects in the future, which could evolve from a planned
IDB-financed study. El Cajon may also permit a limited amount of excess
energy to be sold to neighboring countries.
Project Description
42.       The 292 MW El Cajon hydroelectric plant is to be located approxi-
mately 80 km southeast of Honduras' major industrial center, San Pedro Sula.
The annual production of the plant would be 1,051 GWh of firm energy in a dry
year and 1,348 GWh of average annual energy. Thus El Cajon would provide an
ample supply of electricity for Honduras' interconnected system beyond 1985.
Its construction would take 6-1/3 years. The project's principal works
consist of:
(a) A concrete arch dam 225 m high, with a crest elevation of
301 m above sea level;
9 3
(b)  a reservoir with a volume of 5.65 x 10 m  with an associated
spillway system;
(c)  Intake structure and pressure shafts;
(d) Underground power house with four 73 MW turbine and generator
units and auxiliary equipment;
(e) Tailrace structure with four tunnels and outlets;
(f) an access tunnel of 700 m and diversion tunnel 500 m long; and
(g) about 60 km of access roads.



- 15 -
The project does not include the related transmission works since their
construction need not begin for several years. However, the optimum trans-
mission configuration for El Cajon's output will be defined by the national
electrification masterplan, now being prepared by consultants. The study
is expected to be completed by mid-1980, in time for the scheduled initia-
tion of the transmission works. It has been agreed that ENEE will start
these works by September 1, 1982 and bring them into operation by August 31,
1985. The Canadian Government (CIDA) has expressed interest in principle in
providing financing for the transmission works.
Project Costs and Financing
43.       The total project cost is estimated at US$493.2 million of which
US$365.6 million represents foreign costs. Interest during construction on
foreign loans would add US$89.5 million, bringing total financing require-
ments to US$582.7 million. 1/ The proposed Bank Group contribution of US$125
million (a US$105 million IBRD loan and US$20 million IDA Credit) would cover
34 percent of the project's foreign financing requirements and 21 percent of
the total. The IDB has already approved loans for the project totalling
US$95 million, of which $77 million is from the Fund for Special Operations
(FSO) and $18 million is from complementary financing obtained from private
commercial banks. A loan of ' 7.8 billion (equivalent to about US$33 million)
will be provided by the Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund of Japan (OECF) at
3.5 percent interest, repayable over 30 years, including 10 years grace under
joint financing arrangements, with procurement on an untied basis. The
Central American Bank for Economic Integration (CABEI) has approved a US$30.6
million loan for the project. The OPEC Special Fund has already signed a
loan agreement for US$3.5 million and is considering a Honduran request to
increase it to at least US$7.5 million. Processing is well advanced for a
loan of 5 million British pounds (equivalent to some US$10 million) from
the Commonwealth Development Corporation (repayable over 20 years including
6 years grace with interest at up to 9 percent). Based on the offers received
from the Federal Republic of Germany, United Kingdom and a number of other
countries, suppliers' credits totaling about US$68 million are expected to be
available on favorable terms for the equipment items. As the engineering
services are being provided by a Swiss firm, the Government has requested
US$15 million from Swiss sources to help finance these services. Prospects
for Swiss commercial bank financing or possibly suppliers credits appear good
for the amount requested.
44.       The Government has also agreed to provide ENEE as a capital contribu-
tion US$113.2 million, of which US$55 million will be provided, largely for
local costs, from the proceeds of a loan from the FIV. Moreover, the Govern-
ment would lend to ENEE US$20.5 million for a term of 20 years, with repayment
beginning at the end of construction, at 10 percent interest. ENEE will
provide the balance of projects costs, US$64.8 million, from its own resources.
As a portion of the Government contribution would be required to cover foreign
exchange costs, the Government may elect to obtain all or part of this amount
1/   This total excludes about US$3.8 million estimated to have been expended on
the project in 1978.



- 16 -
from private commercial banks (in addition to the amount requested from Swiss
sources for engineering services). The Government has obtained expressions of
interest from a number of private banks for participating in the financing of
El Cajon, and the Bank has offered to make available its special cofinancing
arrangements to facilitate this effort, if requested by the commercial banks.
The Government nas agreed to provide its equity contributions to ENEE each
year thru 1985 on an agreed timetable (see Section 2.02(b) of the draft
Guarantee Agreement). It also has agreed to take all measures necessary to
accomplish this and to provide whatever additional resources are required for
the project. A summary of the project financing plan is as follows:
----------------------------US$ million-------------------------
IBRD/                           OPEC  Suppliers Comm. ENEE/ /1
IDA   IDB   OECF  CABEI  CDC  Fund  Credits   Banks Govt.   Total
Power house             29.6   --    --   30.6  10.0    --         --      --   26.4      96.6
Arch dam                75.9  94.2  33.0   --    --    7.5         --      --   77.7    288.3
Steel structures         --    --    --    --    --        --    20.1      --    0.5      20.6
Turbines and
generators             --    --    --    --    --        --    41.1      --    --       41.1
Auxiliary equip.         --    --    --    --    --        --      5.1     --    --         5.1
Land, road, etc.         --    --    --    --    --        --      --      --   15.9       15.9
Engineering               1.2   --    --    --    --       --      --     15.0   9.3      25.5
Total Costs
(incl. conting.) 106.7  94.2  33.0  30.6  10.0   7.5    66.3    15.0 129.9 /2 493.2 /2
Financial charges    18.3   0.8   --    --    --         --     1.8      --   68.6      89.5
Total requirements  125.0  95.0  33.0  30.6  10.0   7.5    68.1    15.0 198.5    582.7 /3
/1   Includes proceeds of US$55 million loan from FIV.
/2   Sub-totals do not add because of rounding.
/3   Excludes about US$3.8 million expended on the project in 1978.
Because of the heavy impact which the project will have on ENEE's finances,
the proposed loan would finance interest and other charges on the Bank loan
through December 31, 1985. On this account also, and bearing in mind the
extended (6-1/3 year) construction period, a 6 year grace period is proposed
(one year longer than standard terms for Honduras).
45.       A summary of project costs is set out in the Project Summary above
(see page i). The estimates were based on an analysis by consultants of the
bid level designs prepared by ENEE's engineering advisers. They also have
been reviewed by an independent consultant to the Bank. Prices reflect third
quarter 1979 prices. Bids for the civil works were opened in October 1979;
the lower bids are in line with the consultants' estimates. The average
expatriate man-month cost for consultants (excluding travel and subsistence)
is US$8,500. Given the advanced state of project engineering, allowances for



- 17 -
physical contingencies are about 15 percent for major civil works and 5
percent for equipment, engineering during construction and other items.
Allowances for price increases are 12 percent for 1980, 10 percent for
1981-82, 8 percent for 1983-84 and 7 percent p.a. thereafter.
Co-Financing Arrangements
46.       The project financial arrangements entail joint financing by the
Bank Group, CABEI and CDC of the underground power house component, and by
the Bank Group, IDB, OECF and the OPEC Fund of the arch dam component.
Memoranda of understanding have been negotiated with these institutions
(discussions are still underway with the OPEC Fund). The memoranda treat
procedures for procurement; proportionate financing of the common project
components; use of the IDB office in Tegucigalpa for field surveillance of
project progress; coordination of supervision of the project (through a
consulting board and Bank/IDB/OECF missions); and exchange of information.
Further, the conditions of effectiveness of the proposed loan/credit include
the fulfillment of conditions to first disbursement of the IDB financing, and
satisfactory progress towards obtaining the balance of foreign financing
required (see Section 7.01 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Project Execution
47.       The project schedule calls for the last El Cajon unit to be placed
in operation in August 1986. To meet this date, the contracts for construction
of the dam (the major critical item) and the powerhouse have already been bid
and are scheduled to be awarded in late March 1980. Bidding for items other
than the dam and powerhouse are expected to take place over the next three
years.
48.       ENEE has made special organizational arrangements for the project
because of the company's lack of experience with the construction of hydroele-
tric projects of the size of El Cajon. It has established a special project unit,
with an appropriate combination of local and international experts; appointed
its director; and provided a satisfactory timetable for staffing the remaining
positions. In addition, ENEE has contracted a consulting board of four high
level experts on various aspects of hydroelectric works who meet periodically
to review project issues. In view of the very large civil works component,
the project director is being assisted by an engineering advisor for advice
on bid evaluation and on negotiation of the civil works contracts. Because
of the large number of funding sources and contracts, the project director
is also being assisted by a financial advisor. A financial administrator
is expected to be engaged shortly; his appointment would be a condition of
effectiveness (see Section 7.01(e) of the draft Loan Agreement). In addition,
ENEE has contracted a consulting firm for project engineering and supervision
services. These arrangements would not be altered before consultation with
the Bank. The Bank Group would finance the services of the consulting board,
the engineering advisor and the financial advisor.



- 18 -
Procurement
49.       All construction items of the project--except for land, access
road to the site, environment and resettlement--would be procured under
international competitive bidding. Special arrangements would be established
regarding the purchase of cement, the only project goods expecteu to be avail-
able in Honduras whose total cost is estimated at about US$29 million. At
present, there is only one local supplier of cement, who does not have sufficient
capacity to cover the project requirements. A new cement plant is expected
to begin production in 1982, and would provide sufficient capacity not only
to meet the expected normal growth in demand but also to allow the local
producers to fill the project's needs which principally involve deliveries
in 1984-85. The bidding documents require the contractor for the dam to place
annual contracts for all cement supplies. Procurement of cement will be
subject to international competitive bidding consistent with Bank guidelines
and subject to Bank review before award. Domestic cement suppliers would be
given a margin of preference of 15 percent, or the applicable import duty,
whichever is lower. These provisions should ensure reasonable competition for
cement supply and relieve the contractor from the uncertainty which might
otherwise prevail with respect to future Honduran cement availability while
allowing local industry to participate in the bidding. Equipment procurement
will be subject to competitive bidding among suppliers.
50.       Disbursements from the loan/credit accounts would be made for:
(a) 42 percent of the foreign cost of the civil works contract
for the underground powerhouse (excluding cement);
(b) 36 percent of the foreign cost of the civil works
contract for the arch dam and related works (excluding
cement);
(c) 75 percent of total expenditures for cement supply;
(d) 100 percent of expenditures for consultants' services by
ENEE's consulting board, financial advisor, and engineering
advisor; and
(e) interest and other charges on the Bank loan accrued to
December 31, 1985.
Retroactive financing of up to US$250,000 is recommended for payments for
consultants' services provided after November 15, 1978.
Financial Analysis
51.       Because of the lumpiness of the El Cajon project costs, it is
projected that ENEE's financial structure would deteriorate somewhat and debt
service coverage would fall during the project period. However, starting in
1986 when the project is expected to come into operation, this trend would
reverse and ENEE's financial position would improve substantially.



- 19 -
52.       ENEE and the Government have agreed that, starting in 1980, tariffs
would be maintained at levels sufficient to achieve at least a 9 percent
return on average net revalued assets in operation rather than the 8 percent
covenanted under the Nispero loan. ENEE's Board has already approved the
tariff increases to achieve the 9 percent return during 1980, anid these will
take effect as of March 1, 1980. For future years, achievement of the 9
percent rate of return should allow maintenance of tariffs at levels in line
with marginal cost of supply, and would enable ENEE to make a 19 percent
contribution to the 1979-1985 investment program. This is reasonable in view
of the magnitude of the works involved. When El Cajon comes on stream, ENEE's
rate base will increase sharply. Consequently, the application of the 9
percent rate of return objective would then require a large tariff increase,
in fact greater than the financial projections and economic analysis show is
required. Therefore, it has been agreed that, during the first three years of
operation of El Cajon, if it will not adversely affect its operations, ENEE
would maintain its average tariffs at least at the same level, in real terms,
as that required to produce an annualized rate of return of 9 percent in the
twelve months preceding the initial operation of El Cajon.
53.       Present financial projections show that ENEE's debt/equity ratio
would reach a maximum of 54:46 in 1983 and then fall, which is considered
acceptable in view of the lumpiness of the project investment. Debt service
coverage is forecast to be tight through project construction and would drop to
a low of 1.0 in 1985 when debt amortization builds up. However, the ratio is
expected to rise to 1.3 in 1986 and to 1.6 in 1988. The short term financial
position is also expected to be somewhat tight until about 1986 but will be
alleviated by the use of the proposed Central Bank line of credit (para 32).
In addition, it has been agreed to repeat the covenants under previous loans
regarding ENEE's retention of earnings, and the Bank's right of approval of
any long-term borrowing if ENEE's internal cash generation reaches less than
1.4 times its maximum future debt service requirement. In view of its large
expansion program, ENEE would inform the Bank of any proposed major new power
investments until completion of the project, and provide to the Bank for its
comments reports showing that such investments are economically justified and
adequately financed. The draft Guarantee Agreement (Section 3.05) provides
that the Government would (1) take all action necessary to coordinate power
sector expansion and operations in order to prevent waste of energy, duplica-
tion of facilities and unnecessary investment; (2) ensure that such expansion
is based on economically justified programs and would be financed on appro-
priate terms; and (3) ensure also that this expansion is within ENEE's
administrative capacity and will not adversely affect any Bank-supported
power project.
Environmental Effects
54.       The project's impact on the environment has been studied carefully,
and a program is being prepared for implementation of the necessary protective
measures during construction. Approximately 5,000 families living in the El
Cajon basin will have to be relocated, compensated for their property losses,
and helped to obtain new employment. As Mayan tombs have been found in the
area of the reservoir, their protection and that of the fauna and watershed
have to be ensured. Additional measures will be needed to prevent contagion
and the introduction of disease during construction and the operation of the



- 20 -
project. In May 1978 the Government established an interagency group for the
planning and execution of measures in the various areas indicated in studies
made by consultants. The General Manager of ENEE is head of the group,
coordinates the activities of the various ecological programs and partici-
pates in their organization and planning. This planning has begun, as has
a census of the El Cajon basin area. ENEE's consultants will exercise
continuous supervision of the environmental works and will recommend actions
to be taken, as well as provide help where there is a lack of local expertise.
Agreement has been reached on the principal measures required, and on a
timetable, for land acquisition and environmental and resettlement activities.
The Government would make adequate budgetary allocations for these works based
on a division of responsibilities for their execution between ENEE and the
Government. As a condition of effectiveness, ENEE would furnish the Bank a
satisfactory detailed program for the several activities involved (see
Section 7.01(f) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Economic Analysis
55.       Studies by ENEE's consultants have shown that the El Cajon Project
would be the least-cost solution for Honduras' expected load requirements
during the 1980s compared with the second-best alternative of thermal plants.
No program consisting of other hydro plants which have been investigated to
feasibility study level, or of such plants in combination with thermal plants,
could be built at lower cost. Thus, the second best alternative would consist
exclusively of thermal units. At November 1979 prices (assuming these constant
thereafter), the equalizing discount rate between the program with the project
and the second-best alternative would be 19 percent. With an estimated
present opportunity cost of capital in Honduras of about 10 percent, and the
likelihood of fuel cost increases in real terms, the project has been selected
on an economically sound basis. It has the added advantages of the potential
reduction of flood damage in the Sula Valley by storing flood waters in the El
Gajon reservoir, as well as the possible availability of excess hydro energy
for sale to neighboring countries.
56.       The rate of return on the investment program has been estimated as
the discount rate which equates the net cost and benefit stream of the program
over the useful life of the project. Benefits were measured in terms of
revenues at projected 1985 tariffs deflated to 1979 constant prices. The rate
of return is estimated at 13.5 percent, taking into account flood control
benefits and with unskilled labor shadow priced. Analysis shows that the rate
of return is more sensitive to changes in revenues than to changes in transmis-
sion and distribution investment or in operating and maintenance costs (includ-
ing fuel). The rate of return obtained understates the real economic benefit
since revenues from electricity sales do not fully measure the benefits to
industry and agriculture and social benefits to users.
57.       Based on the above analysis, the Government has assigned highest
priority to the El Cajon project within its energy development program.
Nevertheless, given the large size of this project in the context of the
Honduran economy (project investment is expected to reach 3 percent of GDP
in the peak year of construction), the over-all public investment program
was carefully reviewed with the Government in order to determine whether
inclusion of El Cajon would require elimination or undue postponement of



- 21 -
other high priority projects. Based on this review, which took into account
the expected continuation of improvements in absorptive capacity in a number
of sectors, we are satisfied that the over-all program is well balanced and
will address the most important needs of the economy. At the same time, the
public investment program will be quite large and will call for careful demand
management of the economy over the medium-term. For this reason, the Bank
has stressed to the Government the importance of carrying through fiscal
and other measures and will closely monitor their implementation (ref. para.
14 above).
Project Risks
58.       The project involves the normal risks of a large civil works under-
taking. To mitigate the uncertainties, consultants of recognized ability
examined the topographic, hydrometeorologic, hydraulic, seismic, soil mechanic
and other aspects. The experts established that the geological faults at the
dam site are inactive and concluded that their reactivation was highly unlikely.
They also determined that the project is located on a geologically unfavorable
site composed of karstic limestone. The structures have been designed taking
these factors into account and suitable safety margins have been provided. At
the feasibility stage, various alternatives were examined, applying economic
and technical criteria appropriate for these types of works. The studies and
designs are regarded as realistic.
59.       The project's cost estimates, prepared by specialists using the
methods and details of a prospective contractor, were based on bid document
levels of engineering and, as noted in para. 45, the lower bids for the major
civil works are in line with these estimates. It is, therefore, believed that
reasonable precautions have been taken to obtain realistic cost estimates.
The special measures taken and planned should assure that ENEE can carry out
the project in a satisfactory manner. ENEE's own staff has built up consider-
able competence, and this will be supplemented by the project unit, the
consulting firm, the board of consultants, engineering and financial advisers.
In addition, to guard against conceivable damage and other contingencies, ENEE
engaged consultants who have advised it on the handling of insurance questions
in ENEE's project contracts. The consultants' recommendations as to the
division of responsibilities for risks between ENEE and contractors and as
to the scope of the insurance coverage required have been accepted by ENEE.
As further safeguards, ENEE would provide the Bank with detailed inspection
programs of project works six months before each critical construction
stage, and for subsequent maintenance phases.
60.       A project of the size of El Cajon involves a major financial under-
taking for Honduras. On this account, there have been sustained efforts
to mobilize external financing on appropriate terms to cover all project
components and the projected transmission requirements. As indicated by the
project financing plan (ref. paras. 43-44 above), the Government and ENEE have
attracted a substantial amount of external finance for the project at favorable
terms. Also, the precautions that have been taken to avoid sizeable cost
overruns (discussed in paragraph 59 above) should help assure that the commer-
cial borrowing that might be required to finance any overruns that do occur
would not be so large as to cause serious debt servicing difficulties. The



- 22 -
Government participation, while substantial, will be spread out over a seven-
year period and should clearly be manageable, particularly in light of its
assistance from FIV and the planned domestic financial measures (ref. para. 14).
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
61.       The draft Loan Agreement between ENEE and the Bank, the draft
Guarantee Agreement between the Republic of Honduras and the Bank, the draft
Development Credit Agreement between the Association and the Republic of
Honduras, and the Recommendations of the Committee provided for in Article
III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement and in Article V, Section
Id of the Articles of Agreements of the Association, respectively, are
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately. The draft agree-
ments conform to the normal pattern of loans for power projects and their
more important features have been included in Part IV and are summarized in
Section III of Annex III of this report. The effectiveness of the Loan and
Credit is conditioned on (a) presentation of a detailed program satisfactory
to the Bank for environmental programs; (b) fulfillment of conditions to
first disbursement of the IDB loan; (c) satisfactory progress towards obtaining
the balance of foreign funding required; and (d) appointment of a financial
administrator.
62.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank, and that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
63.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan
and credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
February 20, 1980



- 23 -
Page 1
ASULI 3A
inOUDOUY71XCIa  INDICATORS DATA SlMIT
LSD (TIIOOStD. SQ.                sOl.)ua        U7UII t          CE OtOS (DJUD AACES
AGRICULTURAL     28.9                               mm  UCE         CO0CRAFUIC   INCOME       lgcoig
1"0 Lb   1970 /b UTIMX  /b   C otoI L    own 8    010  /0
ap PM  CAPITA (USS)                 180.0       260.0    480.0          1124.4      467.5      1097.7
ann CONaSuwSow in CAPiTA
(XILOGRAIM OF TO    l      )      155.0       247.0    264.0           943.1      262.1      730.7
1011  SD VITAL SSTISC
7QULAT7.00 ~(MILLIONS)         1.9        2.6       3.3
116  PUXlIoITi   (num  OP TOTAL) 22.7        28.7      32.0.           59.3       24.6        49.0
IVLATEW FCSE=     US
OP0L9 TION  1161 2000 (CILIOIWS)                       7.0
STATIOINA   POLATIOM (MIDLIOu)                        15.0
fa  STA10NAO   POPULATION IS 3AC                    2090
?OPVIIATIOW DENSTY
i0 SQ. uC.                       17.0        23.0     29.0            23.5       45.3        44.6
Pm  SQ. Slt. CZICUL?IL LANLD     67.0        91.0    114.0            80.5      149.0       140.7
POflAiom AcE sTrtucTm  (nacEs)
0-14 YU.                         45.3        46.1     47.0            40.9       45.2        41.3
15-64 Us.                         52.0       51.2      50.0            54.4       51.9       55.3
65 Yn. AKD ADM                     2.5         2.7      3.0             3.9        2.8         3.5
POPMATION GR I RATE (PERCE1T)
TOTAL                             3.3         3.1      3.3             2.4        2.7         2.4
u0814                             5.3         5.4      5.3             3.7        4.3         6.5
CUM01  ItZM LATZ (PUl TOUSAND)    51.0         49.0     47.0            32.8       39.4        31.1
CR1D1 DOTAY RATE (PU T.DuSAND)    19.0         15.0     12.0             8.5       11.7        9.2
(MOSS RURODUCTION RATE               ..        3.4       3.4             2.4        2.7        2.2
FA2LY LAnlINr
ACCEPTORS ANUAL (TDUSANDS)         ..        12.7     23.0
USERS (PRCzNT or  rrD  N )    ..              ..       9.0            17.7       13.2       34.7
FOOD AD NUDTTION
INDEx or FOOD ODOCTION
in CAPITA (1969-71-100)          79.4        96.0     86.0            9S.4       99.6       104.4
P:U CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALOUIES (PR7ECZNS O
REQDIR'tENTS)                  84.0       99.0      90.0           107.0       94.7       105.0
PROTEINS (GRAMS PE  DAY)         53.0       58.0      56.0            60.4       54.3       64.4
Of WHICH ANIMAL AND PlLSE      21.0        25.0      20.0           28.3       17.4        23.5
CHILD (AGES 1-4) NDIlTALrTT RATE    30.0      20.0      14.0             6.7       11.4        9.6
UALTl
LlFE ICCTANCY AT 8IRSR (TAS)   46.0           53.0      57.0            63.6       54.7       60.2
INFANT hCITALITY uR    (nP
TROSUS )                          130.0       117.0    103.0            76.1       68.1       46.7
ACCESS T1 SAn VATE (P1R1ET OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..        34.0     46.0            63.4       34.4       60.8
VW                                 ..         ..      82.0            79.5       57.9       75.7
RURAL                              ..         ..      27.0            38.6       21.2       40.0
ACCESS T EXCRETA DISSOSAL (PECElr
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..        24.0       ..            58.8       40.8       46.0
URBAN                              ..       64.0        ..            77.8       71.3       46.0
AL                                 ..         9.0       ..            24.5       27.7       22.5
POPULATION PER PEYSICIAN             ..     3710.0/f 3300.0           1841.9    6799.4      2262.4
POPULATION PER NURSING PZ150N        ..         ..   1420.0            933.7    1522.1      1195.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BZD
7OTAL                           590.0      570.0    660.0            563.4      726.5      453.4
URAN                               ..       150.0       ..           279.4      272.7      253.1
RURAL                              ..    11810.0        ..          1140.9    1404.4      2732.4
ADtISSIONS PER ROSPITAL 5ED          ..         ..      24.0            25.7       27.5       22.1
DOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HouSErOLD
ZOTAL                             5.7         ..        ..             5.0        5.4        5.3
URBAN                             5.5         ..        ..             4.8        5.1        5.2
RURAL                             5.7         ..        ..             5.3        5.S        5.4
,VERAGE NUMBEi OF PERSONS PER ROOM
mTAL                              2.4         ..        ..             1.3        ..         1.9
URBAN                             1.8         ..        ..             1.3         ..        1.6
RURAL                             2.7         ..        ..             1.5        ..         2.5
ACCESS TO ELECTRICIT  (PElRETCr
Of DWElLINGS)
TOTAL                            15.0         ..      25.0       *    54.3       28.1       50.0
WAN                              56.7         ..      67.1            80.1      45.1        71.7
auRAL                             2.0         ..       5.5            14.2        9.9       17.3



-24                                     ANN=   I
Page 2
TABLE 3A
HONDURAS - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
IREERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AyERAGES
HONDURAS                 -- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
SAME        SAME     NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME       tNCOME
1960 /b     1970 L/b ESTIMATE /b     REGION /c  GROUP Id    GWOUP /e
EDUCATIOP'
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMAY:    TOTAL                  67.0        93.0      89.0            107.3       82.7       102.5
MALE                 68.0        94.0      89.0            109.1       87.3       108.6
FEMALE               67.0        93.0      88.0            107.4       75.8        97.1
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                  8.0        12.0      13.0             40.5       21.4        33.5
MALE                  8.0        13.0      13.0             40.4       33.0        38.4
FEMALE                7.0        12.0      13.0             39.0       *.5         30.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (J OF SECONDARY) 24.0         18.0      2 .0             18.5        9.8        11.5
PUPIL-TEACHER IATTO
PRIMARY                           32.0        35.0      35.0             37.1       34.1        35.8
SECONDARY                         10.0          ..       17.0            17.9       23.4        22.9
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)       45.0           *-      57.0            77.4       54.0        64.0
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         3.0         5.0       5.0             29.1        9.3        13.5
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        68.0        57.0      54.0            172.1       76.9       122.7
TV RECEIVERS PER TIIOUSAND
POPULATION                         1.0         8.0       16.0            67.9       13.5        38.3
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                 21.0          ..      35.0             76.1       18.3        40.0
CINEMA ANNUAL ATIENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..          ..        ..              4.2        2.5         3.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      590.0       780.0    979.8
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  12.5        12.8       13.3            21.5       29.2        25.0
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             70.2        66.5      63.0             30.2       62.7        43.5
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                10.6        12.5      14.7             23.8       11.9        21.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               31.5        30.6      29.8             30.9       37.1        33.5
MALE                                55.3        53.5       51.8            47.3       48.8        48.0
FEMALE                               7.8         7.8       7.9             13.3       20.4        16.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.5         1.6        1.7             1.5        1.4         1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF BOUSEIOLDS     ..          ..        ..             23.7       15.2        20.8
HICHEST 20 PERCENT OF  OUSEROLDS    ..        67.8/g       ..            58.7       48.2        52.1
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..         2.3Li       *-             2.9        6.3         3.9
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..         7.37i       ..             9.9       16.3        12.6
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED "BSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..    240.0             265.6      241.3       270.0
RURAL                               ..          ..     170.0            185.1      136.6       183.3
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USs PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..    235.0             396.3      179.7       282.5
RURAL                               ..          ..      75.0            308.1      103.7       248.9
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..          ..       14.0            35.2       24.8        20.5
RURAL                               ..          ..      F4.9             46.6       37.5        35.3
Not available
Not applicable.
NO_E
ia   The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and che most populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise aoted, data for 1960 refer to any year betveen 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between !969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estima e, between 1974 and 1977.
ic  Latin America & Caribbean;  /d  Lower Middle Income (S281-550 per capita, 1976); /I  Intermediate
Middle tncome (5551-1135 per capita, 1976);  /f  Registered, not all practicing in the country;
L. 1967.
Moat Recenc Estimate of GUNP par capita is for 1978.
August. 1979



ANNThDCI
- 25 -                                         ~~~~Page 3
BEPINITISBS OF PICIAL INDICATORS
Notes,  Although the dais are draw  fro  soreseerally judged the most authoritative ed reliable, it shouldalobnteththymyntbeao,-
tionally comparable becaus  ofteak ofsadardized definitions end concepts need by dIfferent conresi   oletn   t  thedta they- date bc nontheless
useful to deocribe orders of magnitude, indicate trends, andchcateistcrtinmaordIfeeneshou.n outres
d.the  Inated   group avrgsfrec   niao   r  PoPUlaio-weighted geometric nean, ec-lodiog the estreem   values of the indIcator and the meet populated
ci.s_iry inec   ru. D.Lsto lash of data, grouP averages of nit indicators for Capital SurlsOlPpresnd  fidctr_fAcsst    ae   n   ert
Dispsal,siouing,moon  Dsribution  and Poverty for other country groups are psplatien-ssighted geomtric means oitht occlusion of the ostreomvus and
the most poP.slted country.  Slase thMoeae  fctnre s mg the indicators depends on, avilability of data and is noI nfr.oobn  utb   arie
in relatin  averages of men  indictrt  aohr   These averages are -ssiy useful me aporombetions  f'.                   etd   auswe  oprn   h    auso   n
iniao   tatime smg the coutry and rpferenou groups.
lIR  AREb (thousand eq-k, )                                                               Access tc  ort   ipsl(ecn   fpplain      oa,ubn   n   ua 
Total - T.tt1 surface area  caprising land area and issland eaters.                        andmer of peolottl,ubnadrua)sre  by et                      rt   ipsla
ogrioplu     tly- foet rpeen  estimae.o  agrhcuttu`l area used temporarily               percentages of their re-pective ppEain . oecta diapos-l nay Include
ore pemnnl   o   r Pe,psue,nre n  kitchen gardens or to                                 the collection and disposal, with or without tre-tment, uf kuensrr
lie fallow,                                                       an~~~~~~~~~~~~d caste-water by titer-hrom  eyste-c or the  -o  of pit privisesad.,lr
lisPPEP  APIT  (10) - ap pr caita  stimtes atcret     Vabtpices                  Populatio- pefr paylos  -Ppulation divided by nuber of practiciog physici-n
c-lculated by sae conversion methodn  World Beank Atlu. (1976-7  bai)                       ulfiedIfo      oia   col  tuiest    r
1NER0, 1970,MPTaNd 197R data.                                                            Population per.dbsting -Person - PoPulation divided by ounbee of practicing male
ARREt Ci5StTeyfIN PE  CAPtA.~   t-.Ana1osupino cy         ria   der                   and fPomaIic grdaee     uss  pratical nooes, and assitant  urse.
T(I ad  inie,ptrlem   nAtura  garn yr-   ula   n   e-pplto   e  Hospital Bed -total, urban  nodrurl   P. platios (total, urio,
theralsocrviy   in hilogras   of coa  equivalent per -mpita; 1960                         and rurl)iie yter-repecti-e number of hospital beds available is
1970, and 1976 data,                                                                      public and privategeser.1 and op-eiliced hostpital and rehahilittion centes
dosytala are establishm tent  permanetly staffed by at leas.t on  physivla-
PiPUIATION ANDl VITAL STATISTICS                                                            Botablishmeots providing principal-ly cutodial c-reare noct inclded. Rural
Total  'Poplation. Mid-Year  m.illions)   A.d of July 1; 1960, 1970, and                  hospitals, however, isobude hoalth and med-1s centers sot pernenetly ataffvd
1977 data,                                                                              by a phyioian (hut by a medical assistant, suro, eldaife, etc.) shich cff-e
Urban Puat- (peroest of total) - Ratio of urban to total popoation;                       in-patient aCcomdaticn and provide a limited ro-ge of medical facilities.
difftret defiatboso o  urban  reas ma  affect ...mparability of data         Ad-soo            cpita1 Bed -Tota  na-be  of Adisciont.5 or dic-hargos  ro
smog coutries; i96i, 1970, and 1975 data.                                               boapitalo divided by the nuber of bedo.
Pop!ulation Projention
P6pu4ati.n L. y.    2000 - Current PoPUlstic- projections are based on              HOUSIBI
i117i5tatl population by age and  eo and their mortality mod fertility              Average line of HS.usohoid (perocos poe hos-held) - tcta1, urban, andrua-
rte.Projectica parmeter  for mrtality rates comprise of three                        A bos..ebo1d consisto  fagouifi ditbIun    sic ethsr  living quarters and
levels assumi  life -opect-y an birth increaing withcountry's                         their main mo.A boarder or lodger me or se  act be licludod in the
Per caita incomel leel, and feenlo life nopectany stbiloing at                        houshold for  tatiatical purposes.
75yer.Te paramter  for fertility rate also have three level                AveragRe onIor of peroOno perrca-  tota, urban, and rua-             Aeae  us
nn.igdecline in fertility according to  ac-m   leve  and pant                    of person  per room in all _rSn  and  -1rn  ucopirdosvtinldeig,
family plnssing performac. Bach coutry is then assigned on  of these                  respectively.  Doellitgs  -oolde non-p-nest ot_uturoad iso-opted Pa-t.
sine  -oeinationo of mortality and fertility teeodo fnr projeotios                  Access to Fl-olricity (pvo-t of dwellings  - tia, urban  nd rura  -  Cc-
pusrpose.                                                                              -tsiccal deelliaga w.tb electricity to living quarters a  per-tentg  of
Statoay  outiion-     a  tationay population there is no growth                         total, urban, and erorl dedllingo reapetivoly.
ain-e the, birth rato is equal to the issth rate, and also the ago
structur  remains contant. This is achieved honly after fertility rates          EDUfATIolN
de1lise to the replacement  .ovl of unit net reproductico eats, when               Ajsedirlm tPt
eahgeeatics of so -crplaes  tefvnty    h   ttoaypp-                              Prsr   ool-ttl   aendfml  - droo  totsl, ma, and fetole  -orll
lntionoiowa-e-tioutcd cc tic batic of the, prcjeotod charmteristi-s                     mt of all ages at tie prims-y level anp_eretogs of  -epecti-e primary
of the population in the your 2OO0, and the rate of decline of fertility                svhhol-agn popilotions; o--sIly  -loldes childre  aged h-il yeuro but
rate to repaemetlvl                                                                     ai7.t ed for different 1-gtho of priso-y eduontioc; for coerv    ith
tear statinary popultics   -cenb.od - The year uhe  stationa.ry population            nirrso  education  --rolmet may  oceed 100 pero et sinc   om   op
nice han bec- roaned.                                                                   or  below cr oboe the cffcal sc,hool ago.
?CEShoo,.  Sensity                                                                       levndary soboo1- .ti, oe and female - Conpoted at nisr-; c"I'llr
Per sq. km. -  id-year population per squar  kilometer (100 hectares) of                  edo-tho- requir.eot brat four years of oppooved prietry iooixitioc
total araProvid  es .e..r. vtioo,or tesrh- t-raiirg ibet-itico.  f-r Rpi1sL
Per eq. i    gnicult-rl land - Computed as above for agricaltsrl land                     usuall  of 12 tc 17 year  of ago; o-r,eepood-en ...r.o   novb  g-onrlly
holy.                                                                                    -coluided
9Ppp)stioa Age Siut-tre (porceft) - Chibldre  (S-lb yearn), working-age                   Vocat ioa .. orolbo-  t (poresout  f -cc-day) - Vo-tini ..Iis-totuti... i-o lde
years   an6ed recired,5 years and over) as perctentges of mi-ea                       ec   dos, bdstrio1, or  tber progrem          ihio  operte sodopeodvetlyors
Ppopislaln  1970  190 end 1977 data,                                                      depatentst of scnar   otit.tIcoo
PPopulaion Groeth Pate  ceroet) - total - Adcsoul groth raten of total did-               Pp-eakraio-primary, nodt seoodnry - Totml stodnota n-lld c
yeartpopulations for 195040O, 1960-70, and 19O70-7.                                       primary and secondary levels dicidrd by oners of teachevo in tic00cc
Poula.ti.n Groth Bate (c-eret) - urban - Annual growth rates of urban                      spndiag levelo.
ppLaton  forr 1950-hi  l97-70  ad970-75.                                            Adult literacy rote  (Peret     beaemuc                    ora   n   rt)n
Crude Birth Rat    ortosn)- 2Ana  live births per thousand of sod-                          apretg   fttlnutpplto    gd1   er   n   cv
year Pposlation; 1  5, 1970, ad 1977 data.
Crude Death Rate  perthoum md) - Anoual deaths per thousand of mid-pear               CONSUMPTION
Popuaton  10, 1970, and 1977 data.                                                    Pass enger Cooc (pee thoucad populat-o)   P- Pneogr --r  cmpri-n outoror
G.ross Beprohdsst1i.n Rate - Average sosber of dangist-r  aeneill bea                      eatiag leso thaneight per- s .      o.d.    oblros  besnen and nilitery
on her oca  reprodutive period if she -mp-ri-n.. presen.t age-                          vehi.iet.
specific fertil ity  mite; usually five-y-eaaverages endieg in i960,                  Radio p-eiebers (per th-uad punio)-All typoc ofroiecfrrsi
1971, and 195.                                                                          bro..doa-tc to g-enera  public pIr thousad of popuistioc; v-ohudocunic_sed
Pamily Plning9  - Acceptors  Asous  (thousands) - Annual nuber of                         _celver- __octrien  and on yeors shen rgict-ntico of r-dico-tounos
accptors of birth-ooutrol deri-e  undee aupi-e  of national family                      effect; data for reet yesro mry sot be  -opor..lle sio-  - ,.t csirie
plning. progrom.                                                                        abolished licening.
Psil  ploinni   - Caves (pereont of married soe)- .Pretage of -insred                   TV Receivers (per thousad population) - TP receriver  for brodcat to gvc--l
woen of child-Serin  age (15-it years   h. us  birth-ctntro1 devices                  public poe thousad populsti-o; o-lude- ulicr-cd TP receiver  in ocutcir
t   _lcarIeascme      -osaeoggroup.                                                  mod iuye-rsborgit- oioff   orossociceffect.
N-sPaPrCiolkn (per thousand Pg~lsltion(  h- h                tie average cir-ultioc
FOOD ANT) __R_TION                                                                          of'diygnrlitvt   _easppe ', defised csoporiodicol Puli-tioc
Sales of Food Pedutico per Captin (1969-71-lo0) - 1advo of per -pia.                      devoted peie,uily to recrding genra  coo.  Itb  oa..sd-eed t.orb "doily"
annua  p-eoutios of all food cosadiiien. Production e_oldes seed and                    if it appears ut least Tour ti-n  o urhi.
feed adn On on calendar year bisi.  Coocodities cover primary good                    Cinema Annnl tedane per Capits nor Pea  - im-d sitt nuber of tickets
(eg.sgarcan  isatead of sagar) uhiob are edible and contain ont,,ieto                cold during Ate tyear, i-olding adiosi.o. to drive-io coe-a  cod mobile
(eg.cofee and tea are    1" ecud).  Aggregate p-du-tico of each -oumry               units.
is basedf. onmtbia  averag  produc.er price weights.
Pe-r eapi-ta  ue    of oncis(percet of eurnns   Coaputrd from                      LABOR PORCh
soer,gy eqoivalet of net food suppli- available In coutry Per capita                Total labor Foce (thousads) m l....oni-a11y noticPer p.r...s .-udih, nred
ver dyp.A-eiLablo supplies  -opri-s donesnic p-odu-tis, imports less                 fron an-d uneployed but e-olding bhuce-e-, students, etc.m Dfief-sot,
-op-ta, and changes on at-ch.  Bet suppliea  -eolde an-Ima  feed, seds,               in various countri esnr  ot comparoble.
quantitie  used io food pr-cning, and losses in dictribution. bequire-              Ipp~yree      eaelobor for-   -0 bro.enogo of titsi labo  forCe.
ant 00   enotimatod by FdO cae   neybloia   ed   o  ocemzRiL-pilypy,,jtroe~t) - Lnur forc  o- firale, foretry, hotiEg, sd
suIiyad henith --oiderng  ni.ae t-p emp-t-or, body -sighto,                         fishing n- percentage of totadl mice force
age and ses distrib'tlo-  of populaci-, and alloaiog 10 per-ot for                  Iodstry (percet) - lahb- force in  ilning, --tnceruotoo, ounf-otu-iag vod
ante at h-uehold level.                                                               electricity, cater and gus a  prc-entge of tota1lebaho  force
Per capita oupply oorotoin (mean  per day) - Protein content of pe                     stcpscoPt-pret   -total  moe  n   eai       atiiaEno
capita not  upply of fod per day. Net supply of food is defined an-tiosty eas- are compute  astt,ml, and fml  oo   oc   sp
shove. Requir-nets for all -outoe  eatablinhod by Unts provid,e for a                  -etage  of -totl, nile and fv-1l popubtion of sll age  respe-tbely;
saisiai  allowane- of 60 grano of toteo protein per day and 20 gras  of               1960, 1970, sod 1975 dnto.  Thosv ar  SIC's participation ratne reflecting
animal and pulse protein, of which 10 graus  shold he animal protein.                 age-sec ot,rutur  of the populatio, and bog time trend.  A Tec eutimatee
These standard  ar  inne  than those ef 75 gesm  of teta1 protein and                 ar  fromreot-_na  soucs-
:53 grano of animal protein asanavrge for the word, pespused by PAO                 Pronnado Depoadesy Pto-  Ssss- of populti   order 15 and 65 and 00cr to
istic Thr    olod Surcey.                                                           the labor fore s_     g  gru   f -64 years.
Pee cPin  ree ems        yp1  from animal mod coI.e - Protoio supply of fo
derivd frmaimals and p .n. igespor day.                                          INON  DISTRIBUTION
Child (anee 1-h    ortality SaPte(per!thousnd)- Annual deaths per thousad               Porocatags of Private I..... (ito in cah and hind) - Peceivod byrioet
sn age group  -_ yer,  to cildren In thisage group; foe mast drool-                     5pret,richest 20 p-eret, poorest 20 pornot, and poorest hIP pecet
opiag cutries data derived fro  life tabio                                              of hous.eholds.
HEfALTH                                                                                 SPOVETY TARGET tRCOOPS
Life  pocet-no  nt Birti (years) -Average    b-r of yearn of life                        sine   iouePcrpI,oobse   c4nrop  n     ra   o   ua 
rmning at birth; 1970, 1970, and 1977. dnta.                                          A-olte povoety i-m  Level io that iocos  le-1l belco sich a niniml
Iofant Mhrtality Sate (per thousanmd) - Aenual1 deaths of infants under ooe               nutriti...ly adequate dint pluc  --tsettl ocs-food roqut onota is cot
yerof ago per thousand live birth..                                                    affodable.
Acces  to nafe Water (percet, of hPoplton         otl rban, and rura  -                fatiented Relotbc   oc-     0tcm  lec   sP   e   sia)-ubnadrrl  --            .
umeofPeol  (ttl   ra,adrrl   ihraoal   cest                                         ua   eatc    oetXsoelcli   n-hr   fnoaeprcp'i
sae   atrsupl  (nluesteaedsufac  sbr,cvunratd  u       prsna  ncmeo  io  outy.Ora  lco  b   erveSro  te  ualIte
tha  te   hocuf o    rfmaestooth bI       ua    thl  Antothae  o  pede                                                          osmir ad SoiaelSa,  PivisicpaV
.oprp- thated  patrt of    thetai fetching-the foreily's water          , seeds.t-tfr  ihe    . tooom ici Alyin   and- Proectosearmn
-d .-it.ry ..11.) .. p.r...tg- of th~~ir r-p-tive p.plti.... T.                                                I       -August 197



- 26 -
ANINEX I
Page 4
E C C NOM 2C    DE V E LOPM E NT    O A 'A   S9HE E TS
A CTUJA4L                                                I RDUJE CT ED                                           G R 0 aI..               RI   S51
595    977         1979          '85           O
1965        1977          19716        '97          1978         '979          7980         '985          1990          97          1979         7995          '99          SEEo
-ATI0NA ACCOUNTS III
IA'L LIO NS 3E US$AT_      975  PRICES)
GROSS DOMESTIC PRODTECT                      710          93.         14  9          22'O        1334.6       14V2.7       1498.8        1922.0       245230           4            7 2          5.2           S.C        10.0,
-AIN  PROM TERMS OP TRADE                     906          1,9.2        30 E          6I.          60 2        -21.0           56          -8.2        -310                                                                 2'
GROSSDDOMESTIC INCOME                        891         10989 9       IS4         1303 9         24           399.6       1505.4        i912.8       2422.1           3 7          2            5A 4            a.       102-
INPORITS                                    32.4          595.         477.0        S   3        612.7         868.9        598.         901.0        113. A             0         10 6          5 1AL7                   4
E IOTS  - VOLUME                           -267.          28.3       8-32.5        -41  0       -80.8         -560.3       -58.6        -799.06      1059.4            37          565           6.           5.           331 
EHEORTS    IT,7  OJUSEED)                   <48.,2       -47.6        -4613.2      -479'7        54l       5  -59.         -594.2       -091.4       -028.5            2 '            0          6.            5.          360
REOREDJ   I    OUSTED                -5a         182           6.           67.            I,         12.7          02           109.6 .       0.                                                                  06
TOTAL CDNSUMPTION                            704"         934.9       1030.3       166.7         314.         '189         74.            5DM         11. 8                         60                         A .  .       9
INVESTMENT                                   I31 0        232.3        213.0        304.7         331          330.4        3679           72.6        608.6           7.3          41            S. .2                    198.5
NAINL   AIG                                 173.2         AS          109.5        190.3        252 5         lA  7        21   1         86.7        396 I           45         -27           1.             .             .
'O.,ASTICS-VINGS                             136.9        129.0          " 7A.      4271          2602         2007-        283 7         9690         503.3           4.'         -8.0          7.4           6.           3.0-
GEE AT CURRENT LSS                           504 -        -4 6        1263.0         53l,0        1728.5       2853.8       8239.8        396.5        6607.2          s.s         16.5         11 5      ~      
SECTOR OUTPUT
AGRICULTURE                                   .32         0.255        0299         0.2 93        7.317        0.308        0.2C3        0.282         0.262
INEESTA'                                    0.2'A        0.223         0 20'        0 22         0.280         0261         0.265        0.29          0.295
SERVICES                                    0 414         0.412        0.42         0 975        7.23          0.920        0.932        0.36          0.442
PAICESI  1935- 1001
EXP ORT P40I296                              577          54.79       11.4         180E4.                     1446         109            0.9         240                .6         -    1.5      9.9          56
IPOT PRIEINDE                               398           41A 9        07.90        19.35       17.20         139.1        149.26       2031.8        272.03           9.42                       6 4          6 0
TEORM  PT C40 IDX                          13   1        12.80.0165                              125           62          105  53       98.92        970.0           -0.9         -9.0          0.5          C, 
GOP DEELATUA  1US$)              ~~~~~~~~66 99 7.7         109.9A       1221          132.67       14.1         152.72        289.25       27.25.2                                     6.V1          S 
A.NNVAL A-ERAGE EXCHANGE MATE                 2 00         2.00         2 00          2.00
IMPOAT           DE T6ATL                   '92793                    1975         79'6          59"7         9798         7979          7980         5985
CURRENT VALUES
(MILLIONS OP DOLIAXSI
2I 'DOD                                      2~2.2         31'          450          2.            1.5          52 5         56.9         632          105.4
12OTHER CONODMER GOODS                      42.           40 1         A9.8         69.3         977          143.5        161.7        577.4         29.
2.   XETAOLEU.OL   LMICANTS                    25.5         62.5         68.5          53.9         70.7         '4.0        126            23.3           27.
3      'OTER AN9E.ME.IATEGOODS                100.2        170.1        535.9         159.6        187.0        220.9        26.           25.          539;~.7
4.CPTLGOD                                       951        1080          15.8         18.7         74.0         215.9        205           2966         50.2
TOTAL GCOOS (CIF)                          2696          459.7        40.0         458.         50.9           '5.9        94205        956.6        1681.3
0.N5N-EACTOP SERVICES                          58.           VG           2 2         19004        128.6         0' 4          75.8         86 0        149.4
7 OTL  GOOD  AND NE                        302.1        456.0         452 A        5547 9        53.2         793          975         1042 6        '830.3
ER-E OX L.8TEST UPDATE 11/20/79
E. DU         E TRAIL                 1973         1T7-         5975          1978         9171         5918          7979         5980         1985
CURRENT 08LUE5
(MILLIONS OP DOLLARS)
7.RA-RNAS                                   94 0          79.7         8.5         108.7        527.9         74.8          200.6       208.8        315.0:
12COPFEE                                    41 8          "2.          5.91003                    692        217.0          186.9       255.          2797
7.   U9E                                  29.1          A3.7         3.           40.          '47.          4.            4.           56.1        582.3
7. EEPF                                     2.9           16.          78.3         25.          25.5          98.9          57.4        59.4         527.9
75SUGARC .0                                                 45           7.2          4.4           '.2          5.5          136          29.5         76.0
56LEAD                                         33           0.5          4.0          6. 3          .            7.3          15.8         11.4         22 6
17ZI8C                                          4, 1605                    16.          1.          12.8          3.           22 .9        28.4         59.
2   M6EAS 06096888                              0 9         7997         8I0           844         520           137.5        1533           83.8       334.00
3. ALL OTXER GOODS                              0.8         I- 2          2.2          25.8         27.0         29.8          48.5         38.1         73.2
4 TI2TXL COCOS  PF 0.8.                    2666          298.9        307.9        40.2.         522.2        6265          758.8       9949         1445.7
1 NON-EACTO   SERVCES                        27.2         32 UA        35.          39.6          50.            I6          71.9        82.2         16 2.4
6 TOTAL GOODS AND NFS                      292.8         331.2        343.5        445.8        5702.9        6888.51       821.9       887.5        5808.5
DRTE OF LATEST UPDATE 11/20/79
SIELEVED  INDICATOS                         ,945-77I1997-9            7979-85      598-90965 4o
LABOR FORCE  AND                                RM97051
ICXA      .02          2 47         4.70         4.96                                                       860961~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OUPU  PEM WORKER             195PiM
789240 ELASTICITI                            I 97          1A45         0.9          0.94                                                                                                        66c65
AVERAGE NATITNAL S-.G .TE                         ,1978                                                                                                                                1978       1978       1978
M8XII2Rll   NATIONAL. SAVINGS RATE            O.1         -3 26         0.28         0.22Ari.te67                                                                                      6  0         06       53
IMPOXT/G0                                      90          04           9.7          08A8IE8M657163.0                                                                                             66         5.
E65ST9EN'T.SP                               0.1          0.4          004           02                                                                                   21147                   312      177.1
01504070 550/UTH           7.05          9.0'         11.~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~07 00                                               S--88                      .219        22.9      2283       18.
TotaL                    .938      500.0       5204      100.0
I I)  COMPONENTS MA  50' ROD UP BECAUSE 0' ADANDINS
IOMnsrat GAVMST,MMSI   ~~~~1965    1970    1976    1977    1978    1979    5933
(As PMP8MMS vS 0891                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~DETAIL 0ONTBEP8Palse
0,10   MMpsOP         183       1.'1. 13.2              15.3    14.7    15.6                                                          PEiRLIC SECTOIR                            0 of TotaL
C jrret I 'R9  SMA               92     11       1.6      4.      14.2    14.2    14.6                                                          198EST1.E6    098                        9671       1707          1979-8
8..4.Mt4rp "'UI ...1.6                   2.1      0.2     1.4      1S 09c.08818  SectAr                                                                                                   00.6         18.4          17.5
OtHer1~~ .UIi  S....r SwIgs    2.6       :1.1     2.4     2.9     3.81    .30 3     1.81                                                        AgricAL t-  Ard For-Stry                   3.78        10.0          16.0
PLStAc IS,IXr I9- -5MI           2.5     6.8      7.3     8.8     181      9.9    18.                                                           Powe                                      22.7         14.7          39.9
Tr-ssport asd C8... u8icatiorN            52.9        44.1           24.6
0   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~-                      12.8            1.5
COMMENT EXPENDIITURE DETAILS                    IJ MDGET                                                                                      TotaL EApeIldit-reS                      100.0        100.0         100.0
I9T.9L&9rTJO84                       1970    17       199     1980
EdAtMIiR                               27.6    24.7    23.5    25.5
0, rS-i.L 1-i...  14.6 15.0   14,5    15.7                                                                  E~~~~~~~~~~~~~FMANCOMO OF  UBLIC CAFlTAL EXPEN0100RES
O'PtA4eRA                                3.        .     10.     61.4                                                                           PubLic Sector Sav,issgS                   39.9         49.4          49.6
0AdmissisrtiA-  -d4 Oef-ss              35.9    28.8    30.1    29.4                                                                            Capital RM,,MAes                           4.3          1.1
_tbor IdMbS8Mr-i-e                       7.8     8.7      8.5    10.7                                                                           Forign Fill-csisg Ir,tI                   40.4         47.0          428.0
108.0   100.8   101.1   108.0                                                                            Do-stic Finandiog Osset)                  15.4          2.5           2.2 :
-  - -                                                                                                ~~~~~~       ~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~189.0  100.0  100.0
I/ IRAL W-   -er RUCE   et.M4MR -MIS8Mp-ditur-M



- 27 -
ANNEIX   I
Page 5
BAACEO  P2,9E905 ABA EXTBBNAL ASSISTANCE
A C IUA L                                                           IA.JCTBOI 
I   E ATOES(9LUC73577                     CON           00            A            R            0           7 0881        897.9        91. 0        R2R           131         74            NR0         19
2    IRC -ETSINLCN    CI                   02             50         42             7            0  --9 3                  957.9       7042. IS       R  4         CD           B          73R          ll
0    REURUOTE  BALANCN,N OE                     -0      -124            0  0         -4           -90'         -9S9.                     75            29           20           23           22           4
-1 -.1 NTERE    .ST NL PRMET.AN0S                                  I -.7          -2I           -9          -2I           -89          -0             3           55           9  I         R            E
OF    ElCO   4   AT 059             -             BC         -.            1            -21.0        -31.01       -8S 45                     -00          -4.           1           TO9          2
2  ICTCNC78, -7C9                   2                           0          3.           -3.7          400           1. .0 0-000.0    -0                                -00           90E        -2NOR
0 -RREO  ACITR         NCES(58`                  0           .0             0           .0            0           -            .                           0         -0              0             0S      -0
O  --OBNEAANS-ERS  (NCR)                      T2 CS                      T          1  3          7.             .           85          320          3.            O0           3.0          30           A
7FAUC   O   OBTN    0900                      -49         -059         -1  0        -11          -742          -979         -9.          -230B          307  A      -072.S       -47T         -7A B         59
O    089909 BUEAN8-LEBCFLOAS  25  07     102           7.0           3.0           -O          -B              0           -0            0           -O            0            .0~~~~~~~~~~~~S  . C   ~S    300  -
-IC TCSB      LOAENRS                             C                                       0           .             0            .                          0            0             00                       .
I 70  AMAETTDEO9 0_                                                               .            .            .                      .N          0I00C0                                                                 .
73  NICT DCOA E5ENTS                           o2          0A                            0             0            0           .           .2  o                   2.00           100 
ISOOOISE.RASECENCS                         -05            0                    0                75              .0     ~                                 0            0            0            0 
7 NSLET-TAA   APTO
TAASACTIAN1 RSD   1-                          0        3  0          -29          2             98          3.             18          3             00          3  0  0                    ACC          5
I  "IIT CPHA    9NSATO,    8                  2          -0             8            00          3  B           77         -.             5       0      .0        30            30           30           40
7     NCACATBA                           -93           172         -18          -4.          -2.0: -98                   759          70          -72          -23          -1            93           -C
2   TOTAL PUBLIC  MALT LEANS  50.7  87 5  794 0      7900 3                                                                 0223AA 791A9
IBUD  I13.9                                          30          0900000740                              Al
7 EENNCUS INT8ROSCC                                     70           00          I             70          3.
0     LI00T1LOANS0                                   .0             0       150          220              -CTTL68    COT IA78
0   009CR SALO LOANS  IACCRE                                                                                                 PEABADI                             733~SC  S  1                     I      D     T          S 
0                                                                S                                                                           D E ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5   8B  70A.2  48C  09A4P            9.
AOCLOACCI                                    C 11T1L     .27           03            0         27-
. ..... IC.'CENTRA-  ILANNED  ~ ~          ~             ~             ~            ~             EULICDEB  NEOA, -7I                                          7377E9l38                              A05         -9.
CI   OEAAEL   CNINTEO   2-C  0E                              03            00         .057          .3            .090---------                                  --------
3.0E AD  OCIT    088)                      300L010.0.0.3.0.2 0 .0.000                                                             DEB    98891   RTED.  0D9S0.0                                              3            N 3-0L,I
0   0            .0                  'N    IP- EB   5021RI809017.                                .           7A          1             30          7 
DEBTI  DEBTACSEO                                7.I72E                                0 4           E40           7.
1.   IANT ELI.E.T 01 T.TAL                                                                         I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~INCI ENL TOAERBTOTAL-  99        .            -                           N             A         5,
114"TIENTI     ~~~~~~~~~~7 G. ~~~~~~5 7.0                                                       T ..OA  880   BOLEBDESLT889.9                                7. 9'I8NC93                                          0 
999                                                         189.7.T         19.                                                      AC   8A989N9SW15-3.8                                        0.0          8  9         9  0         RS1          8 
98RE R       TUT129.                                               95.                                                     EOCONCAC                                                                                -BE         `0            -0
---D    ------------1--------28-.5                                                      -                                             98  89./RAS-CAL818-0.2                                     700-3----                               8            7.
PASLIC 8880 989               .8            .0                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1880 988   SEOTICED/TOTAL DEBT.             SS 
97088 CLSLIE SBLT BElT        .9            .0 -                                                   08791 888087~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ':  8880  NBAO'ICE/790L -S7.a                                                         1
9S88AW L GRO 90                                              .08,           I.0                                                         ET99184  E25.                                                        312            39          330          2
TOTALR MULTIELA8T   8NLERAL   8897 09                       179.9          150.30"
GOV S                      161.                                                                    E--E,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~112L09U58    180    NCN9N   ICM



- 28 -
ANNEX I
Page 6
OFFICIAL LENDING TO HONDURAS BY MAJOR LENDERS AND SECTORS, 1970-79
(in millions of constant FY79 US dollars) /1
IBRD/IDA    IDB      CABEI /2    AID      TOTAL
Transport                   104.0        38.2     113.5          -      255.7
Power                       121.0       77.0       69.2       10.6      277.8
Education                    13.6       20.7          -       10.2       44.5
Health                          -         7.3         -         .4        7.7
Housing                         -        14.1         -        1.3       15.4
Agriculture                  32.1        75.9      12.8       29.2      150.0
Manufacturing                15.0        91.9      12.5        4.2      123.6
Water and Sewerage              -        56.9       6.5          -       63.4
Other                        19.5         2.5       9.9       34.6       66.5
305.2      384.5      224.4       90.5   1,004.6
|1    IBRD commitment deflator used for price adjustments.
.2    Excludes operations with the private sector.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN HONDURAS
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS  1/ (Net of Cancellations)
(As of December 31, 1979)
Loan or
Credit                                                     US$ Million Amount
No.   Year        Borrower            Purpose       Bank   IDA   Undisbursed
Seventeen loans and credits fully disbursed    61.1   34.5
841     1972  Emp. Nacional de      Generation and   12.3       -       0.8
Energia Electrica    Transmission
896     1973  Honduras              Roads              18.8     -       0.2
434     1973  Honduras               Second Live-
stock Dev.        -     6.6       1.0
954     1974  Honduras              Education           3.0     -       0.8
1081    1975  Emp. Nacional de      Generation and
Energia Electrica    Transmission    35.0       -        1.4
628     1976  Honduras              Agricultural
Credit             -    14.0      6.5
1341/2  1976  Honduras              Highways          35.0      -      15.1
1395/6  1977  Honduras/Emp.
Nacional Portuaria  Ports              12.0     -        5.0
777     1978  Honduras              Education           -      5.0      5.0
1576    1978  Honduras              Regional
Development      10.5     -       10.4
1629    1978  Emp. Nacional de
Energia Electrica   Power              30.5     -       23.6
1659    1979  Honduras              Industrial Cr.   15.0       -      15.0
1673    1979  Honduras              Tourism           19.5      -      19.4
Total                                 252.7    60.1
of which has been repaid              29.1     1.0
Total now outstanding                 223.6    59.1
Amount sold                 4.5
of which has been repaid  3.1          1.4      -
Total now held by Bank
and IDA 1/                           222.2    59.1
Total undisbursed                      91.7    12.5    104.2
1/ Including exchange adjustment.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 2
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of December 31, 1979)
Amount in US$ Millions
Year                  Obligor      TyPe of Business    Loan    Equity   Total
1964/66       Emp. de Curtidos
Centroamericana
S.A. (ECCASA)           Tannery         0.30    0.08      0.38
1969/70       Cia. Pino Celulosa
de Centroamerica
(COPINO)             Pulp and Paper      -      0.08      0.08
1978          Textiles Rio Lindo,
S.A. de C.V.            Textiles        9.00   .1.00    10.00
Total gross commitments                  9.30    1.16    10.46
less cancellations,
termination, repayments
and sales                               6.30    0.16      6.46
Total commitments now held
by IFC                                  3.00    1.00      4.00
Total undisbursed                          -        -



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 3
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Loan/Credit No.
Ln. 841   Fifth Power Project:  US$12.3 million Loan of June 28, 1972,
Date of Effectiveness: December 1, 1972, Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
See discussion in para. 34 above.
Ln. 896   Sixth Highway Project:  US$18.8 million Loan of May 30, 1973;
Date of Effectiveness: August 27, 1973; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980.
The project's main objectives have been achieved. The construc-
tion of the Tegucigalpa-Talanga Road (the main project component),
the Comayagua-La Libertad Road, 80 km of feeder roads, and
technical and economic studies for 430 km of feeder roads have
been finished. Preparation of engineering studies for 3 rural
roads has delayed completion of project works about two and
one-half years beyond the original schedule, which necessitated
an extension of the loan's closing date.
Cr. 434   Second Livestock Project:  US$6.6 million Credit of October 29,
1973; Date of Effectiveness: January 18, 1974; Closing Date:
December 30, 1979.
The Government has largely achieved the objectives of this
project. All funds have been committed and the final dis-
bursement application is being prepared.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understand-
ing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 4
Ln. 954   First Education Project:  US$3.0 million Loan of January 9,
1974; Date of Effectiveness: April 8, 1974; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980.
This project (which was financed also by a US$3 million IDA
credit which has been fully disbursed) includes agricultural
training centers, an extension to the agricultural school at
Catacamas, vocational training centers at San Pedro Sula and
Tegucigalpa and teacher training facilities. These project
elements are all substantially completed. The small amount of
remaining funds has been committed for equipment and furniture
for the Catacamas school.
Ln. 1081  Sixth Power Project:  US$35.0 million Loan of January 27, 1975;
Date of Effectiveness: May 5, 1975; Closing Date: December 31,
1981.
See discussion in para. 34 above.
Cr. 628   First Agricultural Credit Project:  US$14.0 million Credit of
July 2, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: November 30, 1976;
Closing Date: June 15, 1981.
This credit, which includes funds for agrarian reform settle-
ments as well as for individual farmers, is proceeding satis-
factorily. All credit funds were committed ahead of schedule
by the end of 1979. Difficulties in recruiting suitable
internationally experienced technicians, who have now all been
hired, have resulted in slower disbursements than forecast for
technical assistance operations.
Ln. 1341/ Seventh Highway Project: US$35.0 million Loan (including
1342 US$7.0 million on Third Window Terms) of December 16, 1977;
Date of Effectiveness: March 16, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
The project is proceeding satisfactorily with construction
works ahead of schedule and of good quality. Due to heavy
rainfall, additional protection works are planned for a portion
of the Talanga-Juticalpa-Catacamas road. Procurement of
maintenance equipment is 90 percent completed; consultants in
maintenance operations have been retained and their technical
assistance is progressing well. Preparation of the Highway
Master Plan is complete.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 5
Ln. 1395/ Third Port Project: US$12.0 million Loan (including US$5.0
1396  million on Third Window Terms) of April 22, 1977;  Date of
Effectiveness: December 22, 1977; Closing Date: December 31,
1980.
This loan finances the construction of Puerto Castilla on the
north coast and the expansion of San Lorenzo in the south. The
civil works contractors at Puerto Castilla are about twelve
months behind schedule, mainly because of failures in key
equipment and delays in obtaining proper spares and making an
effective start on pile driving. The new facilities at San
Lorenzo have been put into operation.
Cr. 777   Second Education Project:  US$5.0 million Credit of April 6,
1978; Date of Effectiveness: August 15, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982.
Disbursements have been delayed by procurement difficulties
but the construction of the rural primary schools should
begin shortly. The design of the forestry school is completed
and bidding has begun, and design of the agriculture schools
is nearing completion. Specialists in school mapping and rural
education are being recruited, and in-service teacher training
should begin shortly.
Ln. 1576  Guayape Regional Development Project:  US$10.5 million Loan of
June 16, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: December 18, 1978;
Closing Date: April 30, 1983.
The Government has established the project unit and appointed
its staff and other officers required for the project. The
special revolving fund is now operating and procurement docu-
ments have been approved by the Bank. Three training courses
have already been carried out, and a research program is being
implemented. Credit operations and road construction and
maintenance have begun.
Ln. 1629  Nispero Power Project:  US$30.5 million Loan of November 14,
1978; Date of Effectiveness: April 16, 1979; Closing Date.
September 30, 1982.
See discussion in para. 34 above.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 6
Ln. 1659 Industrial Credit Project: US$15.0 million Loan of March 8,
1979; Date of Effectiveness: July 5, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
The new Industrial Development Fund has been established and
capitalized; its initial staff has been recruited. Participa-
tion agreements have been signed with CODHEFOR and a number
of commercial banks. The Bank has approved 6 of the first
10 subprojects presented for review.
Ln. 1673 Tourism Development Project: US$19.5 million Loan of June 25,
1979;  Date of Effectiveness:  November 8, 1979;  Closing Date:
December 31, 1984.
The foreign experts and their local counterparts have been
hired and interagency agreements for project implementation
have been signed.



- 35 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
HONDURAS
EL CAJON POWER PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:         Approximately 5 years
(1975 through 1979)
(b)  Project prepared by:                   ENEE with the help of consultants
(c)  First Presentation to the Bank:        January 1975
(d)  Departure of Appraisal Mission:        November 1978; updated in
October 1979
(e)  Completion of Negotiations:            June 1979
(f)  Planned Deadline for Effectiveness:  July 22, 1980
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) Prior to October 30, 1980, ENEE would complete its organization
and management study, and, based on the study's recommendations
and the Bank's comments, adopt measures to improve ENEE's organi-
zation and management by March 31, 1981 (para. 30);
(b) Construction of the El Cajon transmission facilities will be
initiated by September 1, 1982 and completed by August 31, 1985
(para. 42);
(c) ENEE would consult with the Bank before making any substantial
changes in its arrangements for project engineering consulting
services (para. 48);
(d) ENEE would maintain tariffs sufficient to achieve an at least
9.0% rate of return on revalued assets, except for the first
three years of the operation of El Cajon, during which tariffs
would be maintained at a constant level in real terms (para. 52);



- 36 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
(e) ENEE would submit to the Bank inspection programs for the
project's civil works six months before entering critical
construction and subsequent maintenance stages (para. 59);
(f) Until the project is completed, ENEE would inform the Bank of
any proposed major new power investment and would furnish to
the Bank a report for comments showing the economic and financial
justification of such investment; the Government would agree to
take all action to prevent duplication of facilities and unneces-
sary investment, and to ensure that any power sector expansion
is based on economically justified programs, would be financed
on appropriate terms and is within ENEE's capacity (para. 53);
(g) ENEE would prepare a detailed program, satisfactory to the Bank,
on the principal measures required, and a timetable for land
acquisition and environmental and resettlement activities, and
Government would make adequate budgetary allocations for these
activities (para. 54);
(h) Government would permit ENEE to make short-term placements of funds,
and the Central Bank would provide ENEE with an initial US$5.0
million line of credit (para. 32); would make equity contributions
totalling US$113.2 million, through specified yearly minimum amounts;
and would take such actions as necessary to provide whatever
additional resources are required for the project beyond what is
available to ENEE from other sources (para. 44).
(i) Conditions for Loan/Credit effectiveness would be:
(1) Presentation to the Bank of a satisfactory program for
handling ecological matters (para. 54);
(2) Fulfillment of conditions to first disbursement of the IDB
loan and satisfactory progress on other financing arrange-
ments to meet the project funding plan (para. 46); and
(3) Appointment by ENEE of a financial administrator (para. 48).



Gulf ot Honduras                                        Atlantic   Ocean
PUER-'o CORTES                                                                                                S
3BAW    D9U          A
D                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Trajillo
Puerto Co,t~                       "                     CrEA           iip 
aCiba     .
Bil.                                                     %                                      Cv 0   C) L A  N C  h   COLON
dnAThML                    CORTES                                        ATLAN                                                \
zcra~~~~~~~~~                                          ~         ~        ~~ ~ ~~~~~                                   ~        ~        ~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ..  \.s.  . j/   
LAPUERTE                                                             MA:e               VALL
COYOLES         Oht  GA
GRACIAS
/' , ~                                 'S "ad A^cg  D :  , ,5 u C             A L                      ARAISO/ ..
A SAYTA                                        0 /            ).....                                                                                                     A 
CERIO MALIN                                                                        DI OS
W-3
C  0  A   N P   EMhtrkO M A YA  U A
.23 MW                      G~~~~~~UACA MAYA                                                0
dE C........                                                                         g                                                                                    i ED
Las  .s..ro.z                                            Tobyo0...epequesa
YAGUA.1M.                                                                              /        'BC R GU  
)                                  0    ~ ~                                  HONANCIAS
994  WNqcqomeOX      ./   1                                     Main Power System
____________.________________________i                                                                       EXISTrNG               fPROJEUT             IJNDER C0NSTRUCTION,
I N t I  U C A  'H   LUTECA (                                 *H roeuwer stsans                           N Ssebstott
>  g   4ffroseftL  LucesfA  0>eXt,  e n z o    X             ,    ,~~~~E  Diesel poer dtottOLa                          -     - 135t TrSnerulsion Lines
/   I                1>,>           \    zY  *D ee \        |                  *~~~~~~~~~~           ~ Saabslotion        [Jo  Diesel power sttions
EXICDf             CoHb;bSeav   s'sa        GvZ of~ )OSeA                                                                                            110 IlRNwSlN  IE.ydro power Motitons
_i-]  ih,  at  < >y kntsfconnewtlLc 138i<V r Maior poterfNIl hydro sites 15Maorpotetial ydrasite
S  ,  >  -> f ( 3SKV - Ds~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OpL rtrnenm boandOtries
E1 5AL.AZHUA Erdby  tU                                                              Future  lines _                              .   nternotonai boundaries
f scific         ,3,\ FAIM                       ,< r         rt                                      0       20      40      60       80      liO0Q           20           40           60         u
spe'G~~~~~~~~~~'Q  ...~~~~Mies.
OCt f P                           a,e Teleim                                                                                                                        0 5M>
t__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ ___ .I a   ,   trby   te^Dw sror  th                                                    , l
LEL        RA                                    ...........Tttetsrrbr+        S 87                                               6                                             S               cs



