Memorandum of Agreement
(El Caj6n Power Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
UNION BANK OF SWITZERLAND


﻿MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
A.   Recitals
1.   International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
(hereinafter called the World Bank) has agreed to lend to Empresa
Nacional de Energia Electrica (hereinafter called ENEE) an amount
in various currencies equivalent to one-hundred and five million
United States Dollars (US$105,000,000) (hereinafter called the
World Bank Loan), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Loan Agreement dated March ?7, 1980 (hereinafter called the World
Bank Loan Agreement) to assist in financing the El Caj6n Power
Project (hereinafter called the Project).
2.   A consortium of Swiss Banks including Union Bank of
Switzerland (hereinafter called the Swiss Banks) have agreed to
lend to the Republic of Honduras (hereinafter called the Republic)
a total amount of twenty-three million five hundred thousand Swiss
francs (Sfrs. 23,500,000) for the sam,, Project, on the terms and
conditions set forth in a Loan Agreement dated as of May 22,
1981 and in a Finance Credit -Agreement dated as of May 22, 1981
(hereinafter called the Swiss Banks Loan Agreements). Union Bank
of Switzerland has agreed to act as agent for the Swiss Banks
under the Swiss Banks Loan Agreements (hereinafter in such capa-
city called the Agent).
3.   The World Bank and the Agent, on its own behalf and on
behalf of the Swiss Banks, hereby acknowledge that neither party,
in making their loans to ENEE and the Republic, respectively, have
relied on information or judgements concerning the Borrower, the
Project or the country in which the Project is located, provided
by or obtained from the other party and that each party has made
its loan in the exercise of its own independent judgement in
accordance with its normal standards and practices.
4.   The World Bank and the Agent, on behalf of itself and
the Swiss Banks, have deemed it convenient to make arrangements,
with the consent of ENEE and the Republic, for the exchange of
information and views on matters of common interest. It is,
however, agreed that (i) neither the World Bank on the one hand,
nor the Agent and Swiss Banks on the other, will rely on the other
party to inquire into or verify the accuracy of any information
provided by ENEE or the Republic or to review or evaluate the
condition of ENEE or the Republic, the Project or the country
where the Project is located, and (ii) each party will take, or


﻿-2-
refrain from taking, any decision or action under the World Bank
Loan Agreement or the Swiss Banks Loan Agreements, as the case may
be, on the basis only of its own independent judgement, without
reliance on the information provided by, or expected from the
other party or the views expressed by such party.
5.   Whenever used in this memorandum the terms defined in
the World Bank Loan Agreement and the Swiss Banks Loan Agreements
have the meanings therein given to them.
B.   Information and Consultation
6.   The World Bank and the Agent, on its own behalf and
on behalf of the Swiss Banks, shall as soon as practicable make
available to each other all information received from ENEE or the
Republic that may be of common interest with respect to the
service, or the accomplishment of the purpose, of their respective
loans, except information received by the World Bank or the Agent
of any Swiss Bank which the recipient, in its sole judgement,
considers to be of a confidential nature.
7.   The World Bank and the Agent, on its own behalf and
on behalf of the Swiss Banks, shall (a) to the extent practic-
able,   afford each other a reasonable opportunity to exchange
views before taking any action which may lead to (i) the suspen-
sion, cancellation, or acceleration of their respective loans, or
(ii) a substantial amendment of the Project, and (b) at the
request of either party, exchange views on any substantial and
adverse change in the financial condition of ENEE or the Republic
or in the progress or cost of the Project; provided, however, that
this shall in no way limit or impair the independent right of
decision and action of the World Bank or of the Agent and the
Swiss Banks   under the World Bank Loan Agreement or the Swiss
Banks Loan Agreements, respectively.
C.   Miscellaneous
8.   The rights or obligations of the World Bank or the
Agent under this Memorandum shall not be assigned or otherwise
transferred to any third party (including a substitute agent of
the Swiss Banks under the Swiss Banks Loan Agreements) without the
written consent of the other party.


﻿-3-
9.   The parties hereto agree that any notice or request
given or made pursuant to this Memorandum shall be deemed to have
been duly given or made when it shall be delivered to the follow-
ing addresses:
For the World Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                        Telex address.
INTBAFRAD                             89699  (WU)*
Washington, D.C.                      64145 (WUI)*
248423 (RCA)
For the Agent:
Union Bank of Switzerland
Bahnhofstrasse 45
8021 Zurich
Switzerland
Cable address:                    Telex:
BANKUNION                        813 811 ubs ch
Zurich                           812 205 ubs ch
*    Only for telex within United States of America and Canada.


﻿This Memorandum will come into force and effect upon signa-
ture by the World Bank and the Agent and acceptance by the Repub-
lic and the ENEE.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
By    /     /Q
Date
UNION BANK OF SWITZERLAND
By
Date
ACCEPTED:
EMPRESA NACIONAL DE ENERGIA ELECTRICA
By
Date
REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
By
Date


