Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 22929
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-26590; PPFI-P8520)
ON A
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 8.60 MILLION
TO THE
GOVERNMENT OF ALBANIA
FOR A
HEALTH SERVICES REHABILITATION PROJECT
November 2, 2001
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective September 29, 2001)
Currency Unit = Leks
1 Lek = US$ 0.007085
US$ 1.00 = 141.15 Leks
FISCAL YEAR
January 1  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
C:IDA  Canadian Intemational Development Agency
FoM   Faculty of Medicine
GOA  Government of Albania
ICR   Implementation Completion Report
IDA   International Development Association
IPII  Institute of Public Health
MCOH  Ministry of Health
PCU   Project Coordination Unit
PHC   Primary Health Care
PMR  Project Management Report
SA:R  Staff Appraisal Report
SIIC   Swedish Health Care
TNS   Tirana Nursing School
UOM   University of Montreal
USAID United States Agency for International Development
Vice President:   Johannes F. Linn
Country Manager/Director:    Christiaan J. Poortman
Sector Manager/Director:    Arnin H. Fidler
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Akiko Maeda



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ALBANIA
Health Services Rehabilitation
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                       l
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                       1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry            2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                               4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                 9
6. Sustainability                                                                    10
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                     11
8. Lessons Learned                                                                   12
9. Partner Comments                                                                  13
10. Additional Informnation                                                          13
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                 15
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                 17
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                 19
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                 20
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                 22
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                    23
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                24
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



Project ID: P008253                                        Project Name: Health Services Rehabilitation
Team Leader: Akiko Maeda                                   TL Unit: MNSHD
ICR Tvpe: Core ICR                                         Report Date: November 2, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: Health Services Rehabilitation                 L/C/TF Number: IDA-26590:
PPFI-P852C
Country/Department: ALBANIA                                               Region: Europe and Central
Asia Region
Sector/subsector: HC - Primary Health, Including Reproductive
Health, Chi
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:  03/25/1992                               Effective: 02/14/1995
Appraisal:  02/14/1994                                MTR: 05/15/1998
Approval:  11/08/1994                               Closing: 03/31/2000          03/31/2001
Borrower/lmplementing Agency: REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA/MIN. OF HEALTH & ENVIRONMENT
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      Johannes F. Linn                           Wilfried Thalwitz
Country Manager:     Christiaan J. Poortman                     Kemal Dervis
Sector Manager:      Armin H. Fidler                            Ralph W. Harbison
Team Leader at ICR:   Akiko Maeda                               Ellen A. Goldstein
ICR Primary Author:   Akiko Maeda
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:                         S
Project at Risk at Any Time:



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
According the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) dated November 8, 1994, the Project Objectives were to
help prevent deterioration in health status during the economic transition by improving the quality of
basic preventive and curative health services. To support these general objectives, the following
specific project goals were identified:
(i) Upgrading selected primary and secondary facilities to minimum sanitary and physical standards;
(ii) Strengthening treatment skills of hospital physicians and nurses; and
(iii) Building capacity at the central and district levels to manage health resources and implement
sectoral reforms.
The project objectives focused on addressing the immediate needs of the health care system in response
to the Borrower's priority concern, which focused on preventing the deterioration of health care services
during the difficult economic transition perod facing Albania at the time of project identification. Since
this was the first World Bank project implemented by the Ministry of Health, the project design was kept
simple and goals limited to meeting the urgent rehabilitation needs and modest capacity building
activities.
3.2 Revised Objective:
Although minor modifications were introduced within some project components during implementation
(see 3.4 below), they did not require revisions in the development objective in the Credit Agreement.
3.3 Original Components:
The original project design comprised the following components:
A. HEALTH SERVICES REHABILITATION: (US$12,400,000.00; 78% of total)
A. 1. Rehabilitation of Primary Health Centers: This subcomponent was designed to support the
consolidation and rationalization of primary care network in the six selected pilot districts. The project
would support the rehabilitation and refurbishment of 100 primary health care centers in six pilot districts
(Shkoder, Puke, and Malesie Madhe in the north, and Vlore Saranda and Delvina in the south). Of these,
40 PHC centers were identified for complete replacement, including the construction of new buildings, and
the rest would require varying degrees of rehabilitation and upgrading. It was agreed that the PHC centers
not selected for upgrading or rehabilitation in these six pilot districts would be phased out during project
implementation, and their staff redeployed or reduced according to a consolidation plan.
A.2. Rehabilitation of Regional Hospitals: The Government selected two major district hospitals (Shkoder
and Vlore) located in the six pilot districts to become Regional Hospitals serving the needs of their
respective regional constituents. The project would support the preparation of hospital masterplans for
these selected hospitals to transform them from district to regional hospitals, and finance the first phase of
infrastructure development, focusing on the consolidation of core medical functions (operating theaters,
radiology, intensive care units); upgrading of utilities and other basic support functions (kitchen, laundry,
sterilization, electrical, mechanical, waste disposal); and general building repairs.
A.3. Support for Health Facilities Maintenance: This subcomponent was designed to strengthen the
sustainability of health facilities upgrading carried out in A. 1 and A.2 by introducing appropriate
preventive and applied maintenance norms and procedures for all public heatlh facilities; and develop MOH
capacity for planning equipment investments, with attention to equipment standardization, spare parts
management and dissemination of technical information to the health facilities managers.
B. Capacity Building (US$3.6 million; 22% of total)
- 2-



B. 1. Management of Basic Health Services: This subcomponent was designed to provide training in
planning and management to district health teams in order to support a more decentralized decision-making
and resource management system. The training was proposed to be carried out jointly by the Department
of Public Health in the MOH and the Institute of Public Health, with external technical assistance provided
by UJniversity of Montreal.
B.2. Hospital Staff Retraining: This subcomponent included support to retraining of hospital physician,
and nurses, and was designed to complement the ongoing in-service training programs for primary care
personnel supported by EU/PHARE and UNICEF, and the hospital nurse training program supported by
teh Swiss Government. Hospital Physician Training subcomponent was designed to include: (i) training
needs assessment; (ii) training program design based on the needs assessment; and (iii) implementation of
the prioritv training program through the Retraining Fund. Hospital Nurses Retraining subcomponent wxas
designed to complement the ongoing Nursing School curriculum development and training support provided
by the Swiss Government, and the project financing was directed towards limited facilities repair and
provision of equipment and furniture to upgrade the training facilities and improve the learning environment
for the staff and students.
B.3. Health Policv and Planning: This subcomponent was directed towards building up the capacity of the
recently-established Ministry of Health, and focused on two priority areas: (i) central level health plann 'ng
and financing capacity building; and (ii) development of pharmaceutical policies and strategies to improve
the efficiency and effectiveness of pharmaceutical procurement and distibution in Albania.
(i) Health Planning and Financing: This subcomponent was designed to provide technical assistance,
training and some equipment upgrading to strengthen planning and financial management capacity in
the central ministry. Priority activities included: (a) preparation of drug pricing and reimbursement
policy to increase cost sharing, improve targetting of drug subsidies for essential drugs, and harmonize
remuneration to public and private pharmacies for similar products; and (b) study on developing a
capitation payment system for reimbursement of primary care services, with particular emphasis on
quality of maternal and child health.
(ii) Drug Policy on Procurement and Distribution: This subcomponent was aimed at supporting the
formulation of a comprehensive pharmaceutical policy to improve the efficiency and reliability of drug
distribution system in Albania. The project included technical assistance to support the privatization, of
Fufarma, strengthening of MOH capacity for stock and distribution management, and development of
an alternative procurement and distribution capacity based on private sector contracting.
4. Proiect Coordination Unit: The project included support for the operating cost and salaries of
contractual staff for the PCU, external training in procurement and project administration for key PCU
staff, equipment and vehicles for project supervision use by PCU staff, and one year assistance by a
Project Adviser who would provide regular advice on project management, implementation and
procurement processes and conduct on-the-job training for the PCU and the Technical Service Department
of MOH.
3.4 Revised Components:
No formal restructuring of the project took place. However, the following adjustments were made in
response to the disruptions and delays caused during the 1997 civil crisis and Kosovo crisis (see Section
5.1, below).
Revision in Component B.3. Health Policy and Planning.
-3 -



Although the Drug Pricing Policy was completed in 1995, the preparation of the rest of the activities were
held back as a result of the subsequent security crisis. During the Mid-Term Review, it was agreed that
the main part of the undisbursed funds under this component would be reallocated to meet the re-evaluated
priority needs of MOH. This involved the cancellation of the originally proposed support to Drug Policy
Study on Procurement and Distribution, and its replacement with the following studies: (i) Health
Financing Study; (ii) Hospital Sector Management Study; and (iii) Public Perceptions Study on Health
Service Delivery in Albania.
Due to the cost over-runs described in Section 5.1, below, following activities were also cancelled from the
original project components:
Component A. 1 Construction of one health center in Vlora.
Component A.2 Supplemental work for Shkodra Hospital, including the installation of a second elevator
Component B.2 Physician training course in cardiac ultrasound diagnostic imaging techniques, and
fumiture and equipment for the Nursing School Library.
3.5 Quality atfEntry:
N/A
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Overall, the project has achieved most of its objectives, and this ICR gives a satisfactory rating to the
project outcome. The project has succeeded in significantly upgrading the quality of the infrastructure and
working conditions in the targeted regional Hospitals and clinics in six pilot districts, as well as the Tirana
Nursing School. The project also contributed to the establishment of an effective management training
program for the district level health staff, and provided some critical training in emergency care and
diagnostic and treatment skills among hospital physicians. Finally, it supported technical assistance in
health financing and health facilities management which identified a number of key recommendations that
could form the basis for future programs to improve the quality and efficiency of the Albanian health
systems.
4.2 Outputs by components:
A. Health Services Rehabilitation
A.1 Rehabilitation of Primary Health Centers
The project successfully completed the construction and rehabilitation of 99 out of 100 primary health care
(PHC) centers originally identified in the SAR, and fully furmished and equipped these renovated health
centers according to established standards. As indicated in Section 3.4, above, the construction of one
PHC center was not completed due the lack of sufficient funds in the IDA Credit to finance the construction
of this last facility. As most of the new centers are located in the poor and deprived communities, their
rehabilitation significantly improved the quality of working environment for the PHC staff and patients in
these communities. The process of identifying the priority PHC centers for upgrading during project
preparation also helped to establish the functional standards and a regional rationalization plan for the PHC
network. However, one of the expected outputs of this subcomponent was not achieved: in the SAR, it
had been agreed that the upgrading of the priority PHC facilities would be accompanied by closures of
substandard PHC centers not included in the priority list, and the redeployment of staff and recurrent
budget resources to the upgraded facilities. This essential step in service rationalization has not been fully
met during project implementation, and will require a close follow up from the local authorities and the
Ministry of Health.
-4 -



A.2 Rehabilitation of Shkodra and Viora Hospital
The project contributed to significant improvements in the quality of infrastructure and medical facilities in
the two targeted regional hospitals. The preparation of the hospital masterplans for Shkodra and Vlora
Hospitals is also a significant achievement under this project. While investments from IDA Credit has been
limited to the procurement of medical equipment in Vlora Hospital and the first phase of infrastructure
rehabilitation in Shkodra Hospital, the masterplans provide MOH with a sound long-term investment
program for these key hospitals, and ensure coordinated investments from various donors with appropria7 e,
sequencing of rehabilitation which will minimize disruptions to patient care.
The new ICU and operating theatres in Shkodra Hospital and Vlora Hospitals became operational in the
second quarter of 2001. The new facilities represent a significant improvement in the working environment
and quality of services for both staff and patients, and are enabling these regional hospitals to provide
surgical services to patients who were formerly referred to Tirana. In this respect, the project has achieved
one of its main objectives of improving the quality and efficiency of the system within the region.
However, under the SAR, it had been agreed that the upgrading of hospitals in Shkodra and Vlora would be
accompanied by complementary streamlining of the district hospitals in Puke, Saranda and Delvina which
were not selected for upgrading. These district hospitals were expected to downsize their services to four
basic inpatient specialties, and redeploy their staff accordingly, thereby contributing the cost-savings anc
ratiornalization of services that would offset the increased operating and maintenance cost at the newly
upgraded Regional Hospitals. Unfortunately, this important measure has not been realized, and as a result
the objective of achieving greater efficiency and rationalization of resources has not been fully realized.
A.3 Support for Health Facilities Maintenance
This subcomponent has been implemented primarily through the Swedish Health Care (SHC), which
provided training and technical assistance on hospital equipment maintenance in Vlora and Shkodra
Hospitals. While the client indicated that SHC offered quality training and technical assistance on
maintenance management in these hospitals, the ultimate impact of their inputs has been limited. In Vlorm,
the hospital team showed little interest or commitment to upgrade their capacity; in Shkodra, the hospital.
technical team showed enthusiasm and participated fully in the training program, but many of the trained
staff have left the hospital after receiving training, leaving the hospital with limited capacity to manage the
new facilities and medical equipment. In their final report, SHC drew attention to the major gaps in the
institutional and staff capacity to manage and maintain medical equipment effectively, and offered a
number of recommendations to address these shortcomings. These included: the establishment of
maintenance norms and procedures for all public health facilities, and implementation of guidelines on
planning for equipment investments, including equipment standardization, spare parts management and
dissemination of technical information to the health facilities managers.
The ICR mission also urged MOH to take immediate measures to strengthen maintenance management mn
these two hospitals in order to avoid the deterioration in the performance of the new medical equipment and
facilities. To this end, MOH has agreed to take immediate measures to address the maintenance needs of
the two regional hospitals, as well as review the recommendations in the SHC report for developing an
effective maintenance system at the central and regional levels.
B. Capacity Building
B.1 Management of Basic Health Services The ICR mission evaluated this subcomponent as one of the
most successful outputs of the project. Initially, 160 district health officers were given a short, two-week
management training course provided by Albanian management and public health specialists. Despite the
ready availability of the course materials and organizational framework, MOH was unable to sustain these
short-term training courses, in part due to the difficulty in finding available instructors, as well as the
- 5 -



coordination problems between the Faculty of Medicine and the Institute of Public Health (IPH), the
institutions responsible for joint implementation of the training program.
To overcome these initial constraints, MOH reached an agreement with Ministry of Education and Faculty
of Medicine to establish a partnership between University of Montreal (UoM), through CIDA financing,
and IPH to develop and implement a long-term training program in health planning and management.
UoM's prior work experience with MOH provided a basis for a good understanding of the local conditions,
and contributed to the design of an appropriate and feasible training program. Under this partnership, a
5-month training program in health planning and management for district health managers was designed
and training of trainers conducted. IPH also introduced a flexible recruitment policy that permitted
non-IPH staff to be hired on a competitive basis as part-time trainers for the program. This arrangement
allowed the program to draw upon a pool of qualified trainers from all private, public and international
organizations in Albania, which contributed to the quality of training. In total, over 60 district health staff
-- including district health directors, deputy directors and district chief-nurses from all districts in Albania
-- underwent intensive management training conducted over two 5 month periods. To support IPH training
activities, the project also renovated the training facilities within IPH to provide a positive learning
environment and modem equipment for teaching purposes.
Based on the success of these programs, MOH and the Ministry of Education, in cooperation with the
Faculty of Medicine and IPH, and with technical support from UoM, are planning to develop strategies to
institutionalize this training activity. Other donors, including Open Society for Albania - SOROS
Foundation, Swiss Government, and CIDA have expressed interest in supporting this activity. In view of
the proposed decentralization of health care services, management training of district level health staff will
be critical for building capacity at that level, and support to these programs should be encouraged.
B.2. Hospital Staff Retraining.
Hospital Physician Training The Faculty of Medicine did not initially show the capacity or the inclination
to conduct a training needs assessment and identify appropriate training programs. The project was
therefore unable to make use of the Physician Retraining Fund, while resources were spent on refurbishing
and upgrading of the Faculty seminar rooms. During the Mid Term Review this subcomponent was
restructured to implement a more modest and targeted training program that focused on meeting the more
immediate needs of the hospitals undergoing renovations supported by the project. Based on these
considerations, the physician training programs focused on emergency care and selected diagnostic
techniques. Specifically, six training sessions of 4-8 weeks were conducted and about 120 physicians were
trained in pediatric and adult emergency care and laboratory diagnostic techniques. An additional group of
about 55 physicians were trained in the proper use and diagnosis of ultrasound imaging for abdominal and
obstetrical cases. Training in cardiac diagnostic imaging had been included in the program, but could not
be implemented due to lack of sufficient funds at the end of the project, and to delays caused by internal
disagreements within the Faculty of Medicine over the assignment of responsibilities. The project also
procured ultrasound equipment for the Faculty of Medicine to support the training program in diagnostic
imaging. The Faculty of Medicine intends to continue these training programs through other funding
sources to institutionalize the continuing medical education program initiated under the project.
Hospital Nurses Retraining subcomponent was designed to complement the ongoing new three-year
curriculum development at the Tirana Nursing School (TNS) which is being supported by Ecole du Bon
Secours (Geneva) through Swiss Government financing. The project renovated the TNS training facilities
and the School Library, and provided equipment and furniture to improve the training environment for the
nurses. The first class of 84 nurses participating in the new curriculum graduated in 1998, and TNS has
- 6 -



shown strong commitments to improving the level and status of nurses in Albania. The TNS is continuing
to receive support from various foreign nursing schools and has demonstrated management capacity to
coordinate these inputs effectively. Therefore, the IDA Credit investments in the school is being put to
goo(l use.
B.3 Health Policy and Planning.
Health Planning and Financing: During Mid Term Review, a decision was taken to change the scope of
activities under this subcomponent in order to avoid duplicating the technical assistance provided through)
other donors, notably those of USAID and UK Know-How Fund. Since these donors were already engaged
in supporting Health Insurance Institute on payment systems and strengthening MOH capacity in health
planning and budgeting, MOH agreed to reallocate the IDA Credit to finance the following three studies:
(i) Albanian Public's Perception Survey on Health Care System The report, comnpleted in December
2000, investigated the patient and staff perceptions and expectations of the role of health care serviceS
in Albania. The findings and recommendations from this report played a key role in promoting the
importance of patient's rights, which is now a centerpiece of the Ministry's medium-term strategy for
the health sector.
(ii) hlospital Management Study. The study undertook an in-depth assessment of the hospital
management in Albania. Its findings and recommendations have been well received by the Albanian
counterparts in the selected hospitals, as well as by the Order of Physicians. To benefit fully from the
study, MOH will need to find the means to review and disseminate the report, particularly among the
hospital managers and hospital directorates, and to incorporate its recommendations in the development
of the hospital sector.
(iii) Health Services Financing Study. The study offers an analysis of the financial flows in Albanian
health sector using the National Health Accounts framework, and a number of general
recommendations, including options for expanding the public revenue base for health financing, using
capital budgeting, and reforming the provider payment system to improve the performance the health
systems at all levels of care. The recommendations in this report provides a starting point for defining
the new roles and functions of the Health Insurance Institute and the Tirana Regional Health Authori ty,
an activity currently supported by the Health System Recovery and Development Project.
B.3.2 Drug Policy on Procurement and Distribution.  A Drug Pricing and Reimbursement Study was
completed in 1996, but the outbreak of civil unrest during the period immediately following the completion
of this study prevented MOH from reviewing and disseminating its recommendations, and implementing the
follow up actions. As indicated above, during MTR a decision was taken to reallocate the remaining
balance of funds under this subcomponent to finance the three health sector studies identified under Health
Planning and Financing (B.3. 1, above), which left no funds for undertaking a comprehensive drug policy
analysis. At the time, it was also recommended that further technical assistance for drug rationalization
under the ongoing Health Systems Recovery and Development Project, but this has not taken place. The
ICR noted the critical need for undertaking a comprehensive pharmaceutical policy review aimed at
improving the efficiency and reliability of drug procurement and distribution in Albania, as well as
re-examining the recommendations which were contained in the 1996 Drug Pricing and Reimbursement
Study on the drug pricing structure, the copayment system, and the role of Fufarma and the MOH in the
procurement and distribution of drugs. The ICR mission was informed that USAID will be financing a
comprehensive pharmnaceutical rationalization policy study, which would address these concerns.
- 7 -



C. Project Coordination. The project financed the establishment and operations of a functional PCU. The
effectiveness of PCU in the first few years of project implementation was hampered by MOH refusal to
use IDA Credit to finance external technical assistance to provide project management support to PCU.
Following the Mid Term Review, the PCU underwent restructuring process, and secured financing under
IDA Credit 3067 to recruit an external consultant, RMC Ltd (Canada), who provided on-the-job training
and advisory support to PCU in all aspects of project implementation, but particiularly in the area of
procurement. Financial management and installation of the Project Management Reporting (PMR) system
was supported by an international Financial Management Specialist at the World Bank's Tirana Country
Office. The streamlined PCU is now providing effective project management support to the second IDA
Health Project (Health Systems Recovery and Development Project).
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
N/A
4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project has attained mixed results in terms of its impact on institutional development. It should be
noted that by design the project was not expected to undertake major sectoral reforms, but was directed
towards addressing the more immediate needs of the new Government of Albania to prevent the
deterioration of health services during the difficult transition phase. Given the relative lack of experience of
the Govemment in implementing major investment projects, an attempt was made to keep the project
components were also kept simple and manageable. The more complex institutional development activities
were expected to be taken up in the second Health project.
Among the most successful aspects of the project in terms of institutional development included the
establishment of the District Health management training program within the IPH, and to a more limited
extent, the continuing physician education program under the auspices of the Faculty of Medicine. The
Tirana Nursing School has already established an effective curriculum through the support from the Swiss
Government, and therefore the IDA Credit contributions were complementary rather than instrumental in
the institutional development of the TNS.
Under the Health Planning and Financing component, the project supported a number of key studies,
including the Health Financing Study, the Drug Pricing and Reimbursement Study, the Hospital
Management Study and Patient Perception Study, each of which address some of the key issues in health
care management and financing. The findings and recommendations of these studies will require careful
review and discussions among the various stakeholders in the system, and should contribute to
strengthening the MOH policies and programs to improve the quality and efficiency of health system in
Albania. However, in order to make full use of the these studies MOH will require additional technical
assistance and training to translate the study recommendations into practical action plan. Some of these
studies will be used to inform the discussions on Health Insurance Institute and Tirana Regional Health
Authority under the Health Systems Recovery and Development Project.
The project has provided technical assistance to upgrade the Health Facilities Maintenance capacity in
Shkodra and Vlora Hospitals. As indicated in Section 4.2, above, this has been less than successful despite
the strong technical assistance from Swedish Health Care. A major constraint in achieving institutional
capacity building has been the lack of commitment from the hospital managmeent (Vlora Hospital) and the
high turnover rate of technical staff (Shkodra Hospital). In light of these experiences, it is evident that
- 8 -



more resources may have been required to support the maintenance capacity building at higher levels of
authority (e.g., strengthening regional and central level bioengineering units) so that the maintenance
capacity could be made more generally available, and secondly, more support could have been given to
building the capacity of hospital management team and not limite the support narrowly to the technical
team. By broadening the scope of capacity building, it might have been possible to avoid the risk of
relying on the training of few individuals to carry the responsibility of hospital maintenance. Since the
project has invested substantial resources into the upgrading of hospital equipment and facilities, the lack of
institutional capacity to ensure effective maintenance and operation of these investments represents a major
risk to project sustainability.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The first 3 years of project implementation were severely affected by a series of economic and social
upheavals in Albania. The year 1996 was marked by an increase in political instability and a growing
macroeconomic crisis initiated by the fraudulent pyramid schemes. The collapse of the pyramid schemes
in 1997 led to major civil unrest, and resignation of the incumbent Government. There was a brief returrL
to calm in 1998, but in September 1998 a coup attempt and the outbreak of Kosovo crisis caused another
brief period of civil unrest. Stability and economic growth gradually returned in 1999 and project was
able to resume its normal operations. Fortunately, most of the major works and equipment procurement
took place after the turmoil, so that the project did not suffer any loss in capital from these events. The
project was originally expected to be completed in March 2000, but was granted a one year extension until
March 31, 2001 to account for these unexpected events.
The turmoil in the first few years of the project contributed to the discontinuity in some of the project
outputs and for many of key studies to be produced at the very end of the project and left little time for
MOH to review and absorb their findings and recommendations. MOH is encouraged to make better use of
the outputs from this proejct in the ongoing Health Systems Development and Recovery Project.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Government Budget Allocation: The Government has been generally very responsive in providing
counterpart financing, including unexpected additional financing to cover the project cost-overruns
described in Section 5.4, below. While there were some delays in the final payment of the consultants at
the end of the project due to elections and change in government, this issue was resolved at the time of the
ICR.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
As this was the first World Bank project implemented by the Ministry of Health, there were predictable
delays in project implementation due to the lack of experience among both MOH and PCU staff. The
project provided for external technical assistance to provide on-the-job training to PCU on project
management, but this assistance was not as effective as expected, and delayed PCU's capacity building.
Following the Mid-term Review in 1998, the project recruited another Project Implementation Advisor
(RMC, Ltd.) through the Health Systems Development and Recovery Project (IDA 3067) for one year to
strengthen project management capacity within MOH and PCU. This external assistance was effective irL
improving procurement management, but financial management remained relatively weak. Better capac:ity
in financial management would have helped the project to avoid some, if not all, of the unexpected cost
overruns due to currency exchange rate fluctuations. Between 1999 and 2000, the PCU underwent
streamlining to unify the project staff from this project and the second Health Project (IDA Credit 3067),
and this resulted in significant improvements in project management, including financial management. The
-9-



second Health Project is now benefiting from the improved performance of the PCU.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
At the time of project effectiveness, the total project cost was estimated at US$16.0 million equivalent, with
IDA Credit contribution of US$12.4 million equivalent and Government contribution of US$3.6 million
equivalent. Two unforeseen developments during project implementation resulted in an increase in the
total project cost. The first was an increase of approximately US$850,000 over the original estimate for
the rehabilitation of the regional hospitals. The Bank reviewed the additional cost requirements and
determined that these were essential inputs for the successful rehabilitation of the hospitals (see Supervision
Mission Aide Memoire from May 2000). Secondly, the IDA Credit value declined in US dollar terms by
approximately US$535,000 due to a significant exchange rate change between SDR and the US dollar.
In total, the US dollar value of IDA Credit declined to US$11.9 million, and the Government contribution
requirements increased by US$1.3 million equivalent during the course of implementation. The
Government eventually covered the entire US$1.3 million contribution, but the last US$250,000 were paid
six months after project closing date and resulted in delayed payments to two consulting firms responsible
for Health Financing Study and Hospital Management Study.
While the magnitude of the currency fluctuation was perhaps not foreseen at the time of project
preparation, a better cost analysis of hospital construction requirements during project preparation might
have avoided the additional S$850,000 cost to the project. Moreover, a better monitoring and management
of project disbursement by the PCU would have helped to avoid the overcommitment of funds which also
contributed to the unexpected cost over-runs. Under the ongoing Health Systems Development &
Recovery Project, the PCU team has developed a new disbursement planning and monitoring report which
would help to keep close track of remaining project funds in actual US$ equivalent and avoid the
cost-overuns experienced under the first Health Project.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Sustainability of Infrastructure Investments
Maintenance Capacity in Hospitals and Health Centers. While the project has achieved significant
improvements in the quality of health facilities in the targeted regions, the sustainability of these
improvements are subject to some risks due to the persistent weakness in the maintenance management
capacity at the facility level. The Swiss Government indicated their intention to finance additional technical
training for Shkodra Hospital, which would help to address the capacity building requirements for this
particular hospital. However, there is a need to undertake a more comprehensive review of the need for
improving facilities maintenance capacity by the MOH in order to sustain the quality of services in the
newly upgraded hospitals and health centers.
Maintenance and Operational Budget. The allocation of adequate operational and maintenance budget will
be critical for the proper functioning of the new facilities. For Shkodra alone, it is estimated that the
maintenance cost of the new installations would amount to over US$250,000 per year. MOH confirmed
Government commitments to allocate sufficient funds from the MOH budget to cover the incremental
operational maintenance cost of the new hospital facilities. The Medium Term Expenditure Framework for
fiscal years 2002 - 2004 supports a substantial increase in health budget which should help MOH to meet
its financial obligations in increasing budget allocations for maintenance and operations.
- 1 0 -



Sustainability of the Training Programs
* District Health Management Training - This training program has had positive response from the
participants and through the strong support from Institute of Public Health and University of Montreal,
thie training courses will continue to be provided to new groups of district health staff. The flexible
recruitment arrangement organized by IPH has played a key role in maintaining the quality of training
and as a means of overcoming the frequent staff turnover in the public sector.
*   Nurse Training Tirana Nursing School has shown strong leadership and commitment towards the
irnprovement of nursing education and quality of nursing care in Albania. TNS has already established
relations with various foreign nursing schools, which are providing the necessary technical assistance
in the development and implementation of the new nursing curriculum. Therefore there is a good
likelihood that the IDA Credit investments in the school will be well utilized in the coming years.
*   Physician Training. By contrast, Faculty of Medicine has generally shown less consistency in their
capacity to organize and coordinate the training programs for physicians. This had contributed to the
very slow start in the development of physician training program under the project. Nonetheless,
towards the end of the project, greater consensus was achieved to allow for the implementation of
retraining programs in emergency care and diagnostic imaging techniques. FoM has indicated its
intention to pursue the implementation of these continuing education programs.
Sustainability of the PCU
The PCU established under this project is now effectively managing the second World Bank health proje:t,
and it is expected that PCU will manage other future MOH investment projects financed by other sources
Based on the above considerations, the ICR rates project Sustainability as "Limited".
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
N/A
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
IDA team played a proactive role in the project design, ensuring that the project was well-balanced between
infrastructure investments with capacity building in the critical sectors of the health system. The project
design also took careful consideration of the project's complementarity with the other donor-financed
activities. While not all the elements identified in appraisal were included in the final project, it is evident
that the team took care not to overburden the project with too many overly ambitious initiatives.
7.2 Supervision:
During supervision, the project faced frequent changes in team leadership (7 Task Team Leaders) which
was detrimental to maintaining the continuity of supervision. The inability of the supervision mission to
visit Albania during periods of civil unrest and upheaval also contributed to delays in project
implementation. However, MOH and PCU expressed their appreciation for the Bank team members whc,
visited Albania during some its most difficult and dangerous periods. They also indicated their
appreciation to the staff at the Tirana Country Office was beneficial in providing continuous day-to-day
support to MOH and PCU in project implementation, and that this continuous Bank support played a key
role in improving project performance following the difficult period following the civil unrest of 1997 and
1998. In late 1999, an international Financial Management Specialist was posted in the Tirana Country
- 11 -



Office in late 1999, and his continuous presence and technical assistance to the PCU staff was instrumental
in improving the financial management capacity at the PCU, as well as in the installation of the Project
Management Report (PMR) system. Moreover, the assignment of the project team leader in the Tirana
Country Office played a key role in improving the overall performance of the project in the last two years
of its implementation.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Based on the above consideration, the ICR rates the Bank performance as Satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
There were long delays in project preparation, which began in 1991 and was completed in 1994, due in part
to the changes in Government during the difficult transition period facing Albania.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Government has been responsive in meeting and exceeding their obligation in providing the needed
counterpart financing In particular, they have shown strong commitments to the project by agreeing to
cover the unplanned cost over-run of US$ 1.55 million. Moreover, they have indicated their commitment to
increase budget allocation for maintenance to support the MOH in meeting the added expenditures
associated with maintaining and operating the two regional hospitals.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
During the first 3 years of the project, MOH and PCU experienced a slow start in project implementation
due to their relative lack of experience in project management, and which was further exacerbated by the
intervening periods of civil unrest. From 1998 onwards, the project showed marked improvements in
implementation performance, and the project was able to complete all of the activities agreed upon during
the Mid-Term Review within the revised timeframe. This is a major accomplishment in light of the many
constraints faced by the project during the early years of implementation.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Based on the above consideration, the ICR rates the Borrower performance as Satisfactory
8. Lessons Learned
The main lessons learned from the project are described below.
8.1 Rationalization of Health Delivery System. A major objective of this project was to support the
rationalization of health delivery system in the targeted regions. The SAR indicated that the upgrading of
hospital and primary care facilities would be accompanied by closures or downsizing of the services
provided in those facilities which were not selected for upgrading. The project design provided no
resources or activities to support this streamlining process, and assumed that staff redeployment and
resource reallocation would be automatically implemented by the local health authorities. The design
underestimated the level of effort and resources required to achieve a health service rationalization, and
may have overlooked the technical and political complexity associated with such activities.
The project experience indicates that in order to achieve effective rationalization of health services in the
region, there is a need for a more explicit and integrated approach to investment planning in the health care
sector. One alternative would be to prepare a regional health plan in advance of any future health service
rationalization program. Preparing such a comprehensive regional plan would help to guide the
- 12 -



implementation of the rationalization program, and ensure a better integration and coordination among the
different elements and stakeholders in the planning processes. To be comprehensive, the plan should
include the key elements in the health care system, including projections of patient flow and referrals
between primary care and hospital services; establishment of service standards and identification of gaps
between existing services and minimum standards for facilities and staffing; workforce planning and
training needs assessment; and estimation of capital and recurrent budget requirements.
8.2 Strengthening Maintenance Management Capacity. The project design may have underestimated the
level of technical assistance required to ensure the institutionalization of adequate maintenance manage ment
systems in the upgraded health infrastructure, and this poses a major risk to the sustainability of the project
investments. In light of the limited institutional capacity existing in Albania, the project would have
bernefited from a more extensive technical assistance that included capacity-building support at different
lev As of authority (e.g., strengthening regional and central level bioengineering units) and not limited to
facrility-level management. Furthermore, a more comprehensive hospital management training progra:n
that included facility and medical equipment management, would ensure that maintenance activities would
be ,upported within the broader framework of hospital management system. The Hospital Management
Study provides a good basis for consideration of future hospital management program that would begin to
acLeress these issues in a more systematic manner.
8.3 Institutionalizing Outputs from Technical Assistance Activities. Due to the slow start in the
preparation and implementation of the Health Planning and Financing Component of the project, there was
relatively little opportunity for MOH and other key stakeholders to review and discuss the main findings
ane recommendations of the technical studies produced by this project. Allocation of additional resour-ces
for dissemination workshops and conferences might help to ensure greater opportunities to review thesc
technical studies and provide a structured forum for dialogue among the key stakeholders for each of thr
studies.
8.4 Institutionalization of Training Programs. The District Health Management training program offirs an
effective model for designing a flexible recruitment of trainers which would help to overcome the
difficulties that public institutions face in retaining qualified staff. This model might be replicated in cther
training programs where they face difficulties in finding and retaining qualified trainers within the pub lic
sector.
8.5 Monitoring and Evaluation. While the SAR identified a number of key health outcome and output
indicators for monitoring and evaluation purposes, it did not identify activities or allocate specific resources
for undertaking these monitoring and evaluation activities. Data collection and analyses of these proposed
indicators are not trivial and would have required substantial technical assistance to realize under this
project. As a result, none of the required data were collected and it was not possible to evaluate the irrTpact
of the project activities in terms of health utilization rates or health outcomes in the regions where the
project has upgraded the health facilities.
8.6 Procurement and Supervision of Works. An evaluation on the process of the construction and
equipment of health services has been undertaken by the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) and a number of
specific recommendations have been made to improve the efficiency and quality of future design and
construction of health facilities in the Albanian context. These are described in the PCU Report entitled
"Civil Works Quality in the Health Centers Constructed or Reconstructed under the first World Bank
Project and Recommendations for Ensuring a Better Quality on the Second Project" listed in Annex 7.
8.7 Project Disbursement Monitoring. To avoid the unexpected cost-overruns from currency fluctuations
- 13-



experienced under this project, PCU has now devised a new disbursement tracking system which will allow
frequent and detailed monitoring of the actual balance in the project funds in US$ equivalent terms. The
PCU will provide this report regularly to the Bank as part of their progress reporting system.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
This ICR was prepared with the assistance of the MOH and PCU, which provided all the background data
and closely reviewed the IDA's ICR mission. Their comments have therefore been incorporated into the
ICR.
(b) Cofinanciers:
N/A
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
None
10. Additional Information
- 14 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                    Projiiied in }last PSR                Actual/Latest Estimate
Outcome indicators were identified during                                     No baseline established and no data
appraisal but no provisions were made within                                  collected in the targeted areas.
the project to establish the system and
undertake data collection and analysis.
Moreover, no baseline levels were indicated,
nor expected improvements during the
project implementation. Consequently,
none of the outcome monitoring activities
were undertaken during the project.
Health Status outcome indicators:
Infant mortality rates, under-five mortality
rates and matemal mortality rates
.Health Services Utilization indicators: total
PHC consultations, PHC consultations per
capita, first time PHC visits; child
immunization coverage rates for DPT,
polio,measles.
Output Indicators:
14ndicaorMatrlx                     Projctd inlsPS                        Actual/Latest Estimate
Al. Upgrading Primary Health Care: 100                                        99 Primary Health Care Centers were bu 11
PHC centers will be renovated/rebuilt.                                        and equipped by EOP. One PHC was not
constructed due to insufficient funds.
A2. Upgrading Regional Hospitals: the                                         Hospital operating theatres and engineering
rehabilitation of 2 hospitals should be                                       departments in Vlora and Shkodra Hospitl:ls
completed and equipment installed.                                            were upgraded, and the new facilities were
opened to public in February 2001 (Shkodia)
and May 2001 (Vlora).
A3. Strengthen MOH capacity to plan and                                       Comprehensive maintenance program was
implement health facilities maintenance                                       prepared for MOH and training provided tD
program for buildings and equipment.                                          key engineering staff in MOH and
Vlora/Shkodra hospitals.
B1. Management of Basic Health Services:                                      160 district health staff received short (2
planning and management training provided                                     week) training course provided by MOH/Dept
to district health teams. About 160 MOH                                       of Public Health.
central & district staff trained in basic                                     Two rounds of intensive district training
management, 46 staff trained in more                                          conducted by IPH & UoM, with each session
specialized management & training                                             about 30 persons for a total of 60 persons
techniques.                                                                  trained.
32.1 Retraining Hospital Staff- s 250                                         About 175 physicians received in-service
hospital physicians will be retrained by the                                 training /retraining in pediatric and adult
end of 1998, 50% of which by the end of                                       emergency care and laboratory diagnostic
1997.                                                                        techniques; Faculty of Medicine refurbished
the training seminar room, and purchased :3
teaching ultrasound equipment to support tile
training program on diagnostic techniques.
Two courses conducted on ultrasound
diagnostic techniques for abdominal and
obstetric cases, but the last course on
cardiac diagnostic imaging was cancelled
due to insufficient funds.
E3.2.2 The facilities of the Tirana School of                                 Tirana Nursing School (TNS) received
tNursing will have been rehabilitated and                                     equipment and pedagogic materials, and
equipped by the end of 1996.                                                  renovated its training facilities. In addition
library facilities at TNS were renovated bul
furniture and equipment will need to be
- 15 -



procured from other sources.
8.3 Health Policy and Finance                                              Since other donor agencies (USAID, UK
6 external fellowships in planning and                                     Know How Fund) provided technical
economics completed; Drug Prcing and                                       assistance to Health Insurance lnstitute and
Reimbursement Study completed; Annual                                      MOH on health financing, the project
rolling 3 year pupblic investment program and                              restructured this component to fund 3 prority
annual budget submission prepared; satfflng                                studies:
survey and staffing plans completed; seminar                               (i) Health Financing Study
on MCH program development completed.                                      (ii) Hospital Sector Management Study
(iii) Public Perception and Expectations of
Health Delivery System.
End of project
- 16 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal   Actual/Latest   Percentage of
Estimate      Estimate       Appraisal
Project Cost By Component             LUS$million t  Us$million   _____
A. I Primary Health Care                              3.26            4.11            126
A.2 Regional Hospital Upgrading                       7.43            8.00            108
A.3 Health Facilities Maintenance                     0.14            0.06             43
B.I Management of Health Services                     0.53            0.59            111
B.2 Hospital Staff Retraining - Physicians and Nurses  0.90           0.98            109
B.3 Health Policy & Financing                          1.28           0.83             65
B.4 Project Coordination                              0.53            0.48             90
Total Baseline Cost                                  14.07           15.05
Physical Contingencies                               1.08
Price Contingencies                                  0.86
Total Project Costs              16.01          15.05
Total Financing Required              16.01           15.05
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procuemt Method
Expenditure Category      ICB           2NB          Other         N.B.F.     Total Cost
1. Works                      3.90          3.10         0.00          0.00          7.00
(3.70)        (2.60)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (65.30)
2. Goods                      1.70          0.00          1.40          1.50         4.60
(1.60)        (0.00)       (1.20)        (0.00)       (2.80)
3. Services                   0.00          0.00          3.30         0.00          3.30
(0.00)        (0.00)       (3.30)        (0.00)       (' 3.30)
4. Miscellaneous              0.00          0.00          0.00          1.10         :[.10
Incremental recurrent costs    (0.00)      (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       40.00)
5. Miscellaneous              0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00          (.00
(0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)        0.00)
6. Miscellaneous              0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00          (.00
(0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
Total                      5.60          3.10          4.70          2.60         16.00
(5.30)        (2.60)       (4.50)        (0.00)       (12.40)
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Prouremnentl Method'
Expenditure Category      1GB          NC             t2          N.B.F.     Total Cost
1. Works                      6.20          3.82         0.00          0.00        10.02
(4.32)       (2.98)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (7.30)
2. Goods                      1.45          0.00         0.92          0.00         2.37
-17-



(1.35)         (0.00)          (0.79)         (0.00)         (2.14)
3. Services                       0.00            0.00           0.00            2.39           2.39
(0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)         (2.21)         (2.21)
4. Miscellaneous                  0.00            0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00
Incremental recurrent costs      (0.00)          (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                  0.00            0.00            0.26           0.00           0.26
(0.00)         (0.00)          (0.18)         (0.00)         (0.18)
6. Miscellaneous                  0.00            0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
Total                          7.65            3.82            1.18           2.39           15.04
(5.67)         (2.98)          (0.97)         (2.21)         (11.83)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
2Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local governent units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Percentage of Appraisal
Component               Appraisal Estimate            Actual/Latest Estimate
IDA       Govt.      CoF.       IDA        Govt.     CoF.    IDA    Govt.  CoF.
Al. Health Centers         3.23       0.62                 3.34       0.78                103.4  125.8
A2. Hospitals              5.70       2.70                 5.99       2.01                105.1   74.4
A3. Health Facilities      0.15       0.00                 0.06       0.00                40.0    0.0
Maintenance
B1. Maintenance for        0.60      0.00                  0.57       0.02                95.0    0.0
Health Services
B2. Hosp. St. Retr. Doc. +  0.95      0.07                 0.81       0.17                85.3   242.9
Nurses
B3.Sect Plan.&Pol. Dev.    1.34       0.10                 0.67       0.16                50.0   160.0
Fin+ Drug Policy.
B4 Project Coordination    0.52       0.06                 0.40       0.08                76.9   133.3
TOTAL                  12.45                            11.85                            95
- 18-



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
No economic or financial analysis was conducted during project preparation. The project involved the
replacement of existing health facilities, with the consolidation of the PHC network in the six pilot districts
intended to increase resource recurrent budget allocations to the remaining primary care centers. Some
increase in maintenance cost for regional hospitals were expected. The ICR mission confirmed that MOH
had made provisions for increasing budgetary allocation for maintenance of the two Regional Hospitals,
Shkoder and Vlora.
- 19 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty           Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)   Implementation Development
Month/Year    Count           Specialty                      Progress      Objective
Identification/Preparation
March 1992                   7   Mission Leader; Health Systems
Development consultant;
Pharmaceuticals consultant;
Employment Services consultant;
Cash Benefits consultants;
Education Specialist; Food
Subsidies Specialist
May 1993                     6   Mission Leader; Health
Financing Specialist; Public
Health Specialist; Pharmaceutical
Specialist; Hospital Specialist;
Architect
Appraisal/Negotiation
February 1994                5   Task Manager; Sr.
Implementation Specialist;
Operations Officer; Health
Planning consultant; Health
System Management
consultant
Supervision
December 1994                2   Operations Officer;                 S             S
Implementation Specialist
March 1995                   2   Operations Officer;                 S            S
Implementation Specialist
February 1996                3   Sr. Health Economist; Health        S             S
Specialist; Sr. Implementation
Specialist
April 1996                   1   Sr. Health Economist                S             S
September 1996               2   Sr. Health Economist; Health       S             S
Specialist
May 1998                     7  Health Specialist/Team Leader;
Operations Officer; Public Health
Specialist; Implementation
Officer; Sector Director;
Consultant; Procurement
Specialist
December 1998                5   Health Specialist/Team Leader;      S             S
Task Manager; 2 Procurement
- 20 -



Specialists; Operations Officer
June 1999                    4   Sr. Health Specialist/Team         S             S
Leader; Public Health
Specialist/Tasm Manager;
Procurement Specialist;
Operations Officer
June 2000                    4   Sr. Health Specialist/Team         S             S
Leader; Public Health
Specialist/Task Manager;
Implementation Adviser;
Financial Management Specialist
December 2000                5   Sr. Health Specialist/Team         S              S
Leader; Public Health
Specialist/Task Manager;
Procurement Specialist; Sr.
Financial Management
Specialist; Sr. Operations Officer
ICR
May 2001                    2    Sr. Health Economist/Team          S              S
Leader, 1 FMS
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation               63.4                       164.4
Appraisal/Negotiation                    41.4                        97.6
Supervision                             192.2                       268.6
ICR                                         5                          35
Total
- 21 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
Macro policies                         O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
FSector Policies                         OH  OSUOM  ON  O NA
N Physical                               OH *SUOM ON ONA
O Financial                              O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
X Institutional Development              O H  O SU * M  O N  0 NA
ZEnvironmental                           O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Social
O Poverty Reduction                O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
O Gender                           OH OSUOM ON *NA
O Other (Please specify)           O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
F Private sector development             0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
O Public sector management               0 H  O SUO M  0 N  0 NA
El Other (Please specify)                O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
- 22 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                Rating
N Lending                                           OHS OS OU OHU
[ Supervision                                       OHS OS  OLU  OHU
N Overall                                           OHS OS O U O HU
6.2 Borrower performance                            Rating
Z Preparation                                       OHS OS  OU  O HU
E Government implementation performance             O HS OS  O U  0 HU
X Implementation agency performance                 OHS OS  0 U  O HU
0 Overall                                           OHS OS  O U  O HU
- 23 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. Aide-Memoire and Back-To-Office Report for ICR Mission, June 2001.
2. Ministry of Health report on project completion, July 2001 (revised November 2, 2001).
3. Report on Civil Works Quality in the Health Centers Constructed or Reconstructed under the first
World Bank Project and Recommendations for Ensuring a Better Quality on the Second Project, PCU
Report, June 2001.
4. Drug Pricing Policy and Reimbursement Study, Euro Health Group, June 1995.
5. Albanian Public's Perception Survey on Health Care System December 2000.
6. Hospital Management Study, Metis, June 2001.
7. Health Services Financing Study, Barents Group! KPMG, June 2001.
- 24 -



- 25 -



IBRD 25813
\-\~ ~ ~~~~~~~ E ED.  RFEP.  O    Y U G  S LA V IA                                                                    2 o"
+  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Skdr te- De esPK
,    9     3g             _  ~~~~~~~~~.Han i Ho;i;,  -\  <.; 
. . ~~~~V_ < /t<. SI~~~~~~~~~IKODER                                       U 
42   AD-RIA TIlC                                                                                                                      42    Pk       2 Ke  
NEA-H.LTH -SERVICES                                      )          'oPrkll 
--REHABILITATON PROJECTtAilot  ,D   l -8,.iE t< PU
-- i Komru41    9JAn    \  .,              FYR
.  -          ~PtLOTO7STkiCfT.S                                                           \ <                    MACEDONIA
*          SETh$E r,lkR 6 ONhL HQSPlfL;)iIrrE  Ts..~                            >i)
4 2ONAL CAATL                                     \
:       Q Ci.TRCT lBOU,NDARikS .                 Ae         ,_      f       r_Sb          Liirh           4
. -      iPkEFECTUrJF EOUf APtiE$                     4.          9Krb'.,/ <               r4    
iNWkNAYOALiii r6OUNVfrAP&iw                                           ffot' ,N_ :-~ r. a <? v+tognX  Prenja s .^, 
~~~~~~~~~~~~2O0 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
Alq ~ ~ ~ 0 -.e y                                              POT7   C  ri       -     L)S                       hrd 
,ntn   ..d ....                                   24 uhje   
H '                                                                                              h        '   f8k, T),-,i,cu 
> ~~~                               ~ ;     '2mOM  b ho i)o
O'*,  tS  (S tO   ,trvov nt  ;' i-  
PI ,LOrTd 's 'r',
sPdt ~ ~  ~     ~     ~     ~    \; oF 'un  t  erp-en,   r                     Pre  .          ,
or  'n enosmn           - -i  y,.\ ti'*'r'i1 - ,ok
CTS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OTkP~9
-402   #49 ttClNtriesfXlors>                          AijrokaMA;E=                                O NIA
SIES O ieJriir<fm3Ron01sft1rb  H0 '       di2                            $DTA          Kkvja           GRE    
Rt sBItA ; mf TI ON  r     h  
{   Impl, orfthet fqrt af   , .,rtifO^tf-erWfTiG QN         ,          .' 
1'MIO  TOWNS iirrd i9r ruc,.  pE.....
INTERNAMONAL ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~                             ~OTOE 1994IAk E



