DoMlt of
The World Bank
WI OMaCAL USE oNl
Repwt No, P-6373-ALB
NEKRADiI!AND RECONI4ENATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT or T
TERNATIONAL BM FOR RIECONSTRUCTION AND DEYOPNENT
TO THE
EXECOTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN AN AllUNT BQUIVAILET TO US$12.4 MILLION
TO
ALBANIA
FOR A
-  EALTHI SERVICES RERABILITATION PROJECT
NOVIER 8, 1994
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No. P-   6373 ALB
Type: MOP
This document has a reswicted ditibution and may be used bv recipiess WIy in te perfomance of
their ofiWcial duties. Its condte  may 'ot othetbise be dcosed witout Wd   k athorization.



CURRENCY WUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Lek
US$1.00 = Lek 101
(September 1994)
AR¢REV _IATINS AND ACRONYMS
CAS            Coutry Assistance Strategy
DPr            District Project Team
EU             European Union
HSRP           Health Services Rehabilitation Project
IDA            International Development Association
MOH            Mistry of Health
MOF            Ministry of Finance and Economy
PCU            Project Coordination Unit
PHC            Primary Health Center
RPAP           Rural Poverty Alleviation Project
TSD            Technical Services Department
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ALBANIA
HEALTHI SERVICES EALATION PROJECT
Credit and Project Summarv
Borrower                  Albania
lFeneE :                  Miistry of Health and Environmental Protection (MOH)
Amomi:                    SDR 8.6 (US$12.4 million equivalent)
Tf ns:                    Standard IDA, with 40 years maturity
Locn   Foreif  Taxes  lIl9
-uS$ Million- 
Government of Albania           1.5    1.4    0.7        3.6
IDA                             4.2    8.2    0.0    12.4
Total Finaning Requirements     5.7    9.6    0.7    16.0
Econnic Rate ot Retun:   Not applicable
FbveKty Qumegory:         Not applicable
Staff AppraiSal RMport:   No. 12768-ALB
MID:                      IBR)D 25813
Thb *owson kmS a resu    diwilmo anld ma be used byt mdpk  only in theptrmo
aofi1cW&Wm  dsoumm         thas. tscwas*bqlO 9  edsdooedWodd  =&ma*



MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTRNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO ALBANIA
OR A HEALTH SERVICES REHABILITATION PROJECT
1     I submit for your approval the following memorandum and recommendation on a proposed Credit
to Albania for SDR 8.6 million, the equivalent of US$12.4 million, on standard IDA terms with a
maturity of 40 years, to prevent further deterioration of basic health services during Albania's economic
transitiou and begin building institutional capacity for planning and management of health sekvices in a
decentralized system.
2.     C yLSec0WrJ BakWmrnd. Forty years of isolation and extreme communist rule, followed by
a violent and destructive period of political transition in 1990-1991, have left Albania at a level of poverty
er capita income of US$290 in 1993) and underdevelopment unmatched anywhere in Europe. Today,
with a democratic govermnent in place and economic reforms underway, Albanians are seeing the first
signs of renewed growth in a more market-oriented economy. This has strengthened their political
commitment to carry out far-reaching reform in both economic and social spheres.
3.    Given the country's level of economic development, it is remarkable that Albanians enjoy a life
expectancy of nearly 73 years. While this figure equals or exceeds Central and Easterm European
countries having three to ten times Albania's income level, the determinants differ considerably. Infant
and maernal mortality in Albania remain two to four times higher than in most European countries, while
premature adult mortality due to chronic diseases is much lower. A more active, agrarian lifestyle and
a lower-fat diet contribute to this adult longevity.
4.    Albania's favorable health status relative to other low-income countries also reflects its extensive
network of public health services, and its long-standing emphasis on primary care. Under the former
regime, the health system was characterized by: i) universal entitlement to a full range of medical and
dental services; ii) a public sector monopoly on service provision and drug supply; iii) centrally-planned
resource allocation based largely on input levels :beds, staff) rather than services rendered; and iv)
centralized management systems, which offered few incentives to improve the quality of care, increase
efficiency and control costs. As Albania grew increasingly isolated, medical personnel were cut off from
global advances in medical technology and pharnacology, while the local drug industry became locked
into outmoded production lines and processes. The regime took pride in its network of facilities, favoring
construction of new infrastructure at the expense of less-visible maintenance and operating expenditures.
By 1989, with 1.0 primary care facility and 5.3 hospital beds per 1,000 inhabitants, the physical
infrastructure had become unsustainable given Albania's limited resources. Medical staffing levels (1.4
physicians per 1,000 inhabitants, 2.5 nurses per physician) approached European standards, adding to the
heavy fiscal burden. Deterioration of facilities and equipment, inadequate recurrent expenditures,
obsolete drug therapies and outdated medical skills, resulted in low-quality care and inefficient use of
resources.
5.    The violence of the political transition dealt another blow to the ailing health system. Civil unrest
led to widespread looting, destruction and expropriation of social infrastructure.  In addition, the
economic transition intensified fiscal pressures and disruption of centrally-planned supply mechanisms,
bringing the health system to the brink of collapse by 1991. For the past two years, almost the entire
supply of drugs and vaccines in the country has been provided through humanitarian assistance, to stave
off a resurgence of infectious diseases which would fiuther elevate Albania's infant mortality rate. Much
of the primary care network is partially or completely inoperable due to damage, deterioration,
expropriation or insufficient initial investment. Only 60 percent of primary health centers have any
source of heating (mostly wood), while only 40 percent have running water and 14 percent have basic



-2 -
laboratMy equipment. Health center equipment typically consists of a stethoscope, some syringes and
a cooking pot for sterilization, while the drug supply is limited to aspirin and outdated parenteral
solutions. With the primary care network in shambles, basic curative care has become largely hospital-
based. However, shortages ofdrugsand medical supplies, coupled with unacceptable sanitary conditions,
undermine the value of hospital care. In these circumstances, the Government is struggling to maintain
basic health services during the transition, while defining the poticies which will reshape and restructure
the health sector over the medium term.
6.    Policy Framework and Strategy for Reform. Improvement of health status in Albania depends
most heavily on reductions in morbidity and mortality for women of reproductive age and children. Ile
avaiability and quality of primary health care will be an important factor in promoting maternal and child
health. Government intends,-anfd-public'opinion increasingly expects, thatAlbania will reach stadirds
of materna and child health generally found in European countries at much higher income levels. To
this end, Government has adopted as the overr'ding objective of its health policy to mahitain access to
basic health services during the transition, and increase the emphasis on comprehensie primary care as
the most cost-effective means of improving health status. The Ministry of Health-through its Directorate
of Maternal and Child Heath-has drafted a proposed National Primary Health Care Plan, which calls for
decentralized management of health services (although fmancing of health services will remain
predominantly centralized, from budgetary resources), and development of comprehensive primary health
centers offering: i) preventive services and health promotion (including health education, nutition,
immunization, maternal and child health, family planning and prevention of sexually-transmitted diseases);
ii) health protection (clean water and sanitation, endemic disease control); and iii) curative care (traument
of common diseases such as respiratory infections and diarrheal disease, availability of essential drugs,
first aid for emergencies).
7.    To increase efficiency in the health system, and maximize the impact of limited resources,
Government will concentrate its efforts on maintaining a reduced number of primary health centers in a
filly operational state. Adequate access to services will be maintained, while eliminating many partially
or completely nonfunctional facilities throughout the public system. This strategy is reflected in the
Government's document "A New Policy for Health, which was presented to the donor comnmunity in
April 1993. To ensure access to comprehensive primary care, rationalize delivery of secondary and
terdary care, merease efficiency, control costs and improve the quality of care at all levels, Government
intends to implement a medium-term strategy which includes:
a.    streamlining the network of public health facilides, through an approximate 50 percent
reduction in the number of health posts and primary health centers, and a 35 percet
reduction in the number of hospital beds;
b.    progressively rehabilitating and reequipping this streadmined network of public facilities;
c.    retraining and redeploying existing medical personnel, and improving pre-service training
in the areas of family medicine and basic inpatient specialties;
d.    eliminating bottlenecs in the supply of critical inputs, especially drugs;
e.    developing new financing mechanisms which will provide incentives for cost containment
and quality of care;
f.    encouraging the development of private sector providers and pharmaceutical suppliers.



-3-
8.    In the past I8 months. Govament has tak  measures to: i) def  a new sructure for the public
healdth system, nd develop guidelines for seamlining the nework; h) close many rural hospis, to
nealy achieve Its goal of reducing inpatiet capacity by 35 pecent; il) select a smll numberof ditrct
hospits for upgrading t comprehensive secondary care hospitals; iv) authorize private sector dentists
and pharmaceutical suppliers; v) retict eruime  of medical     using students In line with future
needs; and vi) begin deining a medim-term public investment program for rehabilitation of faicilties and
retftri  of medical peonel. Goverment is now seeking extn    pport for its health policy and
associated invemn program. Goverment also Ited to dewp new pricing policies andpayme
mechanisms forbealth services and drugs, and geneat additiona revenes for health through introduction
of a modest payroll contribution and wider application of user fees. Goverment has requested technical
and financal asstnce from =IDA fr reform in these area, which it hopes to pursue througu the
medium-term development of a national health insurancr system.
9.    ratin    f       orID XAInDly&m§nt. M aintaing basic s enFices as part of a broader - cial
safety net is a high priority for IDAIBRIM   in countries undergoing the difficult transition to a market
economy. Tis is particularly so in a low-income country like Albania, where dsing unemployment has
pushed many families into absolute poverty, and a lack of resources has led to the virtud collapse of the
public health system. This Project, which emphasizes human resource development, poverty allvWiatio
and strengthening of the social safety net, is consistent with the Bank's country assistance srate  (CAS)
for Albania, which was discussed by the Board on September 14, 1993. For the past two years, the donor
community has p.ovided emergency or huanitarian assistance to shore up the system. Now, Governmen
has begun to articulate a strategy for moving beyond the crisis phase to develop a more effective and
fcially sustainable health system, drawing on both the public and private sectors. Extnal investment
resources and technical support will be necessary to implement this strategy over the medum-term. Inl
providing assistance, IDA can draw on its experience with health system reform in other Central and
Eastern European counties, as well as in countries with income levels and healdt status shnilar to those
in Albania.
10.   Though the Health Services Rehabilitation Project, IDA will provide suppo for cost effective
health ierventions in reas where Albanian resources and donor fuding are Jackig or insufficient. IDA
has worked in close collaboration with the donor community to coordiate areas of itvention and
ide    financing gaps. This Project wil focus predominantly on immediate rehabilitation, retraining ad
improved service delivery. ITe methodology for sreining and rehabilitatng the public health network
which is being developed for six pilot districts under this Project will be replicated nationwide over the
medium term, with extig parallel financing from other donors (e.g. EUIPHARE, Italy), as well as
follow-on projects supported by IDA. This first Project would also support inl steps in longer-term
institon-building and policy reform. A complementary IDA-funded Health Financing and Restucring
Project will be prepared to provide more enxenive support for institution-building, resource management
and implemenion of health finance reforms.
11.   poect Oectie. The Project would help prevent deterioration in health status durng the
eConomic transition by improving the quality of basic preventive and curative health services. This will
be accomplished by upgrading primary and secondary facilides to minimum sanitary and physical
standards, improving treatment sklls of hospial physicians and nurses (to complement skl-trining
progms for primary care personnel supported by other donors) and building capacity at the central and
district levels to manage health resources and implement sectoral reforms.
12.   VPrb1ect DescriXion. The Projec consists of a main component to rehabilitate prinary and
secondary health services, and a complementary component to build institdonal capacity at the district
and central levels.



-4 -
13. Componeiat A: Health Services Rehabilitation (US$10Q9 million base cost): The Project would
ini  the long term-tern task of rehabilitating and streatlining the network of public health facilities
in order tdevelop an appropriate district-level health pyramid offering basic clinical services at the.
primary and secondary level. El,  this component would support the rehabilitation and upgrading of
100 prmary health centers- (PHCs) out of n initial network of 200 in six pilot districts (wfth an
aggregate population of around 600,000). The remaining 100 centers would be phased out. Selected
PHCs would be upgaded to mt new stadards formulated by the MOH in consultationwith IDA. Mhe
Project would finance architectural/engineering services, rehabilitation of buildings and basic office
fniture and medical supplies (medical equipment is being supplied as part of an on-going EUIPHARE
project).    cnd, the component would support the rehabilitatlon and upgrading of two sewndary
referral hospitals (Slkodra and Vlore) serving these districts and surrounding areas, The Project would
finmce preparation of functional master plans or long term development of these hospital complexes,
civil works covering the most essential rehabilitation needs, priority medical equipment and training of
hospital officers in modem hospital management.  hkid, the component would strengthen capacity to
plan and implement a comprehensive health facilities maintenance program (buildings and equipment)
through development of maintenance norms/procedures and staff training.
14.   Component B: Capait Building (US$3.2 million base cost): TMis component would provide
assistance to: i) improve management of basic health services at the district level; ii) provide in-service
training for physicians and nurses in district and regional hospitals; and iii) build institutional capacity
at the central level to define and implement sectoral reforms. The Project will support the establishment
of a national team of trainers to provide management training to health officers in all 36 health districts.
W,ith respect to medical staff retraining, the Project will support preparation of a needs assessmnt and
establishme  of a Retraining Fund for hospital doctors, and material support for ongoing retraining
programs for hospital nurses (EU/PHARE and UNICEF are providing in-service training for primary care
personn-l). At the central level, the Project will support training, policy studies and technical assistance
to improve sector planning, health financing and drug distribution. A portion of the credit (US$0.5
million) will also be set aside to cover the costs of project coordination.
15.   PJroect Financing. Total project costs are estimated at US$16.0 million equivalent including
coningencies and taxes, with a foreign exchange component of US$9.5 million. The proposed IDA
credit of US$12.4 million would finance 78 percent of total project costs, including 86 percent of foreign
costs and 74 percent of local costs. Government local cost financing of US$2.1 million equivalent will
cover incremental recurrent costs and taxes. Foreign exchange costs of US$1.5 million will also be
fimanced by Government for imported hospital equipment. Estimated project costs and financing plan are
provided in Schedule A. Procurement methods and disbursements are described in Schedule B. A
Project Preparation Facility advance of US$775,000 is being used to carry out the master plans and
architectural/engineering work for facilities rehabilitation, as well as training, preparatory studies and
establishment of the project coordination unit.
16.  EPjitj rndlementation. The Project will be implemented over five years by the MOH and
district project teams (DPTs). The MOH Department of Public Health will have overall responsibility
for PHC rehabilitation, with the Technical Services Department (TSD) providing technical supervision
of the works. The DPTs will have primary responsibility for the implementation of rehabilitation works
within their districts. The Department of Hospitals will have overall responsibility for hospital
rehabilitation. The TSD will again provide technical supervision for the civil works, while the Directors
of Shkdra and Vlore Hospitals will have primary responsibility for rehabilitation of their respective
hospitals. Overall responsibility for capacity buildhig activities will lie with the MOH Departments of
Human Resources, Economics and Pharmacy.



17.   EInc &gainbi   hvestments in rehabilitation will be linked to the downsizing of facilities
and streamiing of the public health network, as welt as to improved planning and budgeting for
maintenance  tivities. The norms and procedures for downsizing and streamlining which have been
developed for the project's six pilot zones will be applied nationwide, enha1ing the fcial
susinability of the system as a whole. Overall, the streamlining of the indrastrucre network will be
budget neutral, with savings generated by elimination of redundant facilities and staff serving to increase
the operafing and maintenance budget for the rehabRitated network. While some staff reduction is
envisioned in the pilot areas, the full extent of staff redundancy on a nationwide basis-and, hence, the
fll extent of savings to be generated over time-will only be known following a survey of staffing
patens to be supported by the Project.  Financial sustainability of the health system wifl also be
enhanced by capacity building acdvities at the central level, which will focus on improving sector
planningnd budgeing and developing financing mechanisms for health services which create incentives
for great efficiency, cost recovery and cost containment.
18. Lessons from Previous BankllDA lnvolvement. This will be the first IDA-supported project in
the health sector in Albania. However, emergency assistance for health has been provided through the
IDA Critical Imports Project, which has supplied essential drugs and trucks for drug distribution. In
addition, preparation of the Health Services Rehabilitation Project (HSRP) was supported by a Japan
Grant which permited, inter alia, necessary sector work to assess priority health issues, and to help
Government ariculate a strategy for primary health care. IDA also has a portfolio of on-going human
resources projects in Albania, including the Labor Market Development Project, the Social Safety Net
Development Project, the Rural Poverty Alleviation Project (RPAP) and the upcoming School
Rehabiitation and Capacity Building Project. The HSRP will benefit from lessons leaned under these
projects, particularly the need to keep project design simple, relying, to the maximum extent possible,
on local capacity for implementation and technical support-in order to Improve implementation
performance and strengthen ownership of the project. The HSRP wvill make use of experience under the
RPAP in supervising highly decentralized civil works, and will make use of RPAP's community-ased
civil works to actually cary out rehabilitation of primary health centers in select rural areas. Experience
under another project, the Albania Housing Project, resulted in development of an adapted procedure and
stadardized bidding documents for local contracting for civil works. These procedures and documens
will be foalowed under the HSRP, in keeping with other IDA-funded projects.
19.                 . During negotiaons, IDA received assurances will be sought that: (I) the PHC
network in the six pilot districts will be consolidated over the project implementaion period according
to an implementaton p'.an agreed with IDA; (ii) the four hospitals in the pilot districts which were not
selected for upgrading to regional hospitals will be streamlined to offer only four basic inpatient
specialties, and their staff adjusted accordingly in accordance with a schedule agreed with IDA; (iii)
rehabilitated PHCs and regional hospits will be staffed according to norms agreed with IDA, (iv) a
sector-wide staffing survey and recommended staffing plan will be completed and discussed with IDA
by mid-term review (March 31, 1997), and recommendations implemented thereafter as agreed with IDA;
(v) a rolling, three-year public investment program for health will be prepared annmly, and the MOH
and MOF will review the draft health sector budget (recurrent and investment budgets) with IDA and
agree on rehabilitation and consolidation objectives for the coming year under the IDA project by
November 30 of each project year; (vi) the results of the Drug Pricing and Reimbursement Study will
be discussed with IDA by April 30, 1995, and implemented thereafter as agreed with IDA; (vii) it wiRl
maintain throughout the project a Project Coordination Unit with staffing, functions and authorities
acceptable to IDA; (viii) MOH will prepare and submit to IDA by March 31 and September 30 of each
project year, reports on the progress achieved in Project implementation according to performance
indicators agreed with IDA; (ix) a mid-term project review would be conducted by March 31, 1997,
according to terms of reference agreed with IDA. Preparation of a Needs Assessment for hospital
physicians' retraining and agreement with IDA on priority areas for physicians' retaing will be a



-6-
condition of disbursement for the physicians" retraining subcomponent.  Preparation of a Project
Operational Mual, acceptable to IIDA, will be a condition of credit effectiveness.
20.   Envirownental Aspects.  his is a Category C project The Project Is expected to have a
beneficial enviromental impact drough improved sanitation systems and staff training for the disposal
of medical was  in rehabilitated health facilities.
21.   ProgrSM  ObJecive Categoris. lbe Project seeks to maintain broad access to basic social
services. As -such, it fals within one progra;n objective -category: Poverty- Reduction and Human
Resources Development (100 percent).
22.  -Projec Benefits. The Projea will help prevent further deterioration in health stats (i.e. increses
in premature and preventable morbidity and mortality) during the economic transition by improving the
quality of basic primary and secondary hea h services. Specifically, it will begin rehabilitation of a
streamlined primary care network and its secondary referral hospitals. It will also update the skills of
medical personnel and improve management of health services at the district level. By building
insiitutional capacity at the central level in the areas of sector planning, health finance and drug
distribution, the Project will begin to improve resource management and incentive structures in the health
sector.
23.   Project Risks. The complexity of procurement for rehabilitation of primary health centers and
regional hospitals is a risk. This will be particularly difficult for a Ministry with no previous experience
in Bank lending and procurement procedures. To facilitate civil works procurement, the Project wfll
follow a simplified local procurement procedure developed for the IDA-funded Housing Project. In
addition, the Project will provide training in procurement and contracting in both the Project Coordination
Unit and the Tecbnical Services Department of the MOH. Another Project risk is the almost complete
lack of familiarity with decentralized decision-making and management in Albania, and the decision by
Government to build local capacity for management of health resources without extensive recourse to
technical assistance. To address this, the Project will focus on building a core team of trainers at the
national level which can transfer management skills and introduce management systems at the district
level. A twinning arrangement with an academic institution wil provide limited technical support to the
national team.
24.   Recommendadi . I am satisfied that the proposed Credit will cowmply with the Articles of
Agreement and recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
Lewis T. Preston
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
November 8, 1994



7 -
Schedude A
Page l of I
ALBANIA
HEALTH SERVICES RElABUATION PROJECT
--US$ Million-
A. Health Serv;ces Rehabilitaton
1. ReIiitation of Primary  ealth Centers .              2.1      1.1        3.2
2. Rehabilitation of Regional Hospitals                 2.5      5.0        7.5
3. Health Facilities Maintenance                        Q1       0i         0.2
Sub-total                             4.7      6.2       10.9
B. Ca.g  Bidm
1. Management of Basic Health Services                  0.1      0.4        0.5
2. Hospital Staff Retraining                             0.3     0.6        0.9
3. Sector Policy and Planning                           0.3      1.0        1.3
4. Project Coordination Unit                            QOj      OA         0
Sub-total                             0.8      2.4        3.2
Total Base Costs                      5.5      8.6       14.1
Physical Contingencies                                   0.5     0.6        1.1
Price Contingencies                                     Q.       Q          Q2
Tot Project Costs                        
Government of Albania                                  2.2 W    1.4       3.6
IDA                                                    4.2      8         1A
Total Finandng Requirements           6.4      9.6       16.0
Espmated Disbursements (US$ million)
IDA EYE49FY6 FY 94 Y                                           FY97  FY1  FY2
Annual                                 0.8    2.7    3.9    3.3    1.5    0.2
Cumulative                             0.8    3.5    7.4   10.7   12.2   12.4
Cumulative as % of total               6.4   27.8   58.8   84.9^  98.4  100.0
11 FIs may not total eacy due to rounding.
ZI Incides loca taxes ad dute etmated at US$0.7 million.



Page 1 of 2
ALBANIA
HEALTH SERVICES REHABILITATION PROJECT
PROCUkMENr ARRANGEMENTS A1
(USS million)
Category of Expenditure                           ICB         Other        N.B.F kl Total
1. Civil works                                    3.9          3. 1c/                    7.0
(3.7)       (2.6)                     (6.3)
2. Equipment, vehicles, furniture
materials                                   1.7          1.4 dL      1.5  1        4.6
(1.6)       (1.2)                     (2.8)
3. Technical assistance, fellowships                           3.3 fI                    3.3
and training                                            (3.3)                     (3.3)
4. Incrementa  recurrent costs                                              1.1 gI       1.1
(0.0)
Total                                  5.6        7.8          2.6          16.0
(5.3)      (7.1)        (0.0)       (12.4)
Note: Figures in parheses are the rpecti  amounts financed by IDA.
1V Fgremayoadupexaclyduto  .ding.
b/ N.B.F. - Non-Dank Financed eenditur-.
i/ Civil wors (aggegate US$2,6 million equivalent) for primay health care failidie (US$2,000 - US$100S000) to be awatded
tough local competitve bidding for small works in accordance with pocedus and docAmentation greed with IDA.
4/ Intntiona shopwg (aggrga  IDA - US$890,000) packae estmated betwee US$10,000 and US$100,000 per contct
Local hppin4 (aggregate IMA - US$310,000) pax,age estimated at les thaa US$10,000 per conrct; and
D:rc contactn  (aggreate IDA - US$40,000) prpietary im such as journals and computer software.
I/ Hospitlt equipt financed by Government.
Ip Servs of CoontsutantigtiuonS (advis, ees, feIIowshipslttaining) to be engagd i accordance wit MA Guieline
for th Us of Consult.
g1 Roem of recut expenditure financed enrely by the Govermen and procured in accordance with regu  Governme
poedure.



-9-
:Schedu-. 
Page 2 of 2
Wthdrawal f  eroceds of the Credit
tCATEXRYX                                AMOUN OQF THE CREDIn
PERCENT OF EXPENDITURES
ALLOCATE                          3TQ BE NCD
(SDR Million)
1. Civil Works                 4.0                             100 perent of foreign
expenditures; and 85 pecent
of local expeditures
2. Goods                       1.7                             100 percent of foreign
expenditues; 100 percent of
local expenditures (ox-
factory cost); and 85 percent
of local expenditures for
itms procured locally
3. Technical assistance
and tran                  1.1                              100 perment
4.  Doctores Training Fund     0.4                             100 percent
5. Project Prpation
Advance                   0.5
6. Unallocated                 0.9
TOTAL           8.6



- 10-
page I of I
ALBAMA-
-HEALTH SERVICES REHABILITATION PROJECT
Timetable of 1    oect    ing Events
(a) Time taken to prepare               24 months
(b) Prepared by                         Ellen Goldstein
(Task Manager)
Leonardo M. Concepcion
(Sr. Implementation Specialist)
Jim Stevens
(Operations Officer)
(c) First II)A mission                  1992
(d) Appraisal mission departure         February 1994
(e) Negotiations                        August 1994
(-) Planned date of effectiveness       February 1995
(g) List of relevant PCRs and PPARs     Not applicable



- 11 -
STATUS OP BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ALIAIA
A. UArM=RQlR 0 KIR 2Rn
(As of AugustS1 1994)
0  .   .           '                 .                     ''    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~USS.Mle
Caeda    Piseal
-No.     -YML          DmLpiect
2404     1992      Republh of Albania  Crtida Impora Project                        41.1        6.4
2461     1993      Republo of Albani  Rur! Poverty AJUleati                          2.4        0.4
2492     1M        Republi of Abana  Teuba Assitanc for economic Reform              4.0        3.7
2499     1993      Republic of Albania  T p       h     S                           18.0       173
2524     1993      Repubdic of Albania  Agut  Sector A4justment                     20.0       14.1
2534     1994      Repubro of Albania  Housing                                      15.0       11.1
2543     1994      RepubLic of Albanis  Social Safety Not                            5.5        4.6
2544     1994      Republic of Albania  Labor Market Devepment                       5.4        4.9
2610 1   1994      Repbi of Albania  Dumes Water Supply                             11.6       12.2
2633 #     94      Republi of Albaoia  School Rehab. and Capacity Buildiog           9.6       10.0
264 s'   1995      Republo of Abania  Technical Asistnc for Tax Mod dnlratic         4.0        4.1
2659 L    1995     Rpublio of Albna  Enepri  and Financial Setor Astment Credit  1             MA
Total                                       151.6
Of Which  Repaid                        -
Total Now Hdd by IDA                        151.6
Total Amount Sold                             0.0
Of Which: Repaid                         0.0
Total Undisbunred                                      1042
B. SAOP IPC INVESI1TA
(As of August 31. 1994)
Th    are no IPC opeation ih Albania
October 7, 1994
af  lhe stu of tee project is described in a sepa weport on all. aIA finamned prjes in exeuion which is
updftd twice yeary and circul    to the Bxecuti  Dieco  an Apdl 30 and October 31.
h   Tbo Undisbursed amounts are the USS equialen of th amount in SDR remaining undisburd, at do prsnt
St  Net yet fetwve.



.  RO 25813
/          ~~~FE D.  RER  OF   U GOS LAV IA                                        2-
CR  IA                                              1                                )
42? ADRIATIC
SE4r                                                                                            A D R t A T I C 0 C 42
-   -     -~.ALB-ANIA           -k -                                     ?
HEALTH SERVICES                          t   /                     i
REHABILITATION PROJECT                                       D I  4
c"~1&ui4.~  4 ____FYR
PILOT DISTRiCt                    U        CSJ \MAEOI
41~ ~ ~ ~~~~~ < Ž. mwns-                                                                    1R
jDURS WJE~~~A t>CEDONIA
SM SISF§OR jREGIONAL H0Pn!LSK  M Z 
MINORTOWNS                   l                           A,N        S
ITALY ~    INTONLCAfA
-DWCT BOUND. Aq s,a    
41'VERS                  '
E"ATION INa AAr]
ITALY                  -                                                  \ 
4rr /The bowKoW64 o*2r4 .
o/  k2knoio showi      °       8    16 24 \,s  GRLCE 
~~~~t a                   K-MTt   r.
any judOonet an the eg
°rv sTch                                                                            1994
OCMOBER 1994



