Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 12768-ALB
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ALBANIA
HEALTH SERVICES REHABILITATION PROJECT
NOVEMBER 8, 1994
Human Resources Sector Operations Division
Central and Southern Europe Departments
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Lek
US$1.00 = Lek 101
(September 1994)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CEE         Central and Eastem Europe
CY          Calendar Year
DEcon       Department of Economics
DHC         District Health Committee
DHosp       Department of Hospitals
DHR         Department of Human Resources
DHT         District Health Team
DPH         Department of Public Health
DPT         District Project Implementation Team
DPharm      Department of Pharmacy
EU          European Union
EME         Established Market Economies
FUFARMA  Public Sector Drug Distribution Agency
FY          Fiscal Year
HSRP        Health Services Rehabilitation Project
ICB         Intemational Competitive Bidding
IS          Intemational Shopping
IDA         Intemational Development Association
LCB         Local Competitive Bidding
LS          Local Shopping
MOH         Ministry of Health
MOF         Ministry of Finance and Economy
OECD        Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
PCU         Project Coordination Unit
PHC         Primary Health Center
PIP         Project Implementation Plan
POM         Project Operational Manual
SOE         Statement of Expenditure
TA          Technical Assistance
TOR         Terms of Reference
SAR         Staff Appraisal Report
TSD         Technical Services Department



ALBANIA
HEALTH SERVICES REHABILITATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Credit and Project Summary .............................................. i
I.  HEALTH STATUS AND SERVICES IN ALBANIA .
A. Health Status of the Population                                     .1
B. Health Services in Transition .3
C. Issues for Health System Reform .3
C. Government Strategy in the Health Sector .7
E. Role of the International Donor Community .9
F. Rationale for IDA Involvement .10
G. Previous IDA Involvement .11
II.     THE PROJECT  ...............................................  12
A. Project Objectives ............................................ 12
B. Project Description   .        .........................................  12
C. Environmental Impacts  ............                    ............................  19
m.      PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING  AND IMPLEMENTATION   ................. 20
A. Project Costs ............................................... 20
B. Project Financing   .          ..........................................  23
C. Project Management and Implementation .............................  24
D. Project Procurement Arrangements  ................................  29
E. Disbursements  . ............................................  32
F. Status of Preparation   .         ........................................  33
IV.  BENEFITS AND RISKS .......................................... 35
A. Benefits  ................................................   35
B. Risks    ................................................   35
V.  AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION  ..36



Table of Contents (continued)
TEXT TABLES
Table 1: Demographic and Health Indicators, 1991 .............................. 2
Table 2: Project Cost Summary by Component ........                       ........................ 20
Table 3: Project Cost Summary by Category of Expenditure  ....................... 21
Table 4: Cost Summary by Component &Source of Financing  ...................... 23
Table 5: Summary by Expenditure Category & Financing  ......................... 24
Table 6: Project Procurement Arrangements ..........                     ........................  29
ANNEXES
Annex 1: Basic Country Data ........................................... 38
Annex 2: Project Implementation Plan  .              ....................................  39
Annex 3: Detailed Cost Tables . ......................................... 72
Annex 4:  Supervision Plan  ............................................   86
Annex 5: Procurement Plan ............................................   87
MAP:   IBRD  No. 25813 (Albania country map showing prefectures, districts, location of health
Centers and hospitals)
This report is based on findings of an appraisal mission which visited Albania in February 1994. The mission comprised: Ellen
Goldstein, Task Manager, EC1/2HR; Leonardo M. Concepcion, Senior Implementation Specialist, EC1/2HR; James Stevens,
Operations Officer, EC1/2HR; and consultants Thiery Tuxen, Hospital Specialist; and Pierre Fournier, Health Organization and
Management Specialist. The mission's work was supported by Elim Sakiqi, Liaison Officer, EC2AL. This report incorporates
earlier work by Teresa Ho, Task Manager for the initial stages of project preparation, EC2HU; and consultants Jean-Marc
Guimnier, Pharmaceutical Specialist and Gilles des Rochers, Health Finance Specialist. The Peer Reviewers are: Denis Broun,
PHN and Philip Musgrove, PHN. Andrew Rogerson, EC2HU, Manager Central European Services and Ralph W. Harbison,
Chief, EC1/2HR are the supervising managers. Kemal Dervis, EC2DR is the Country Director.



ALBANIA
HEALTH SERVICES REHABILITATION PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
BORROWER:    Albania
BENEFICIARY:  Ministry of Health (MOH)
AMOUNT:          SDR8.6 million (US$12.4 million equivalent)
TERMS:           Standard IDA, with 40 years maturity
PROJECT
OBJECTIVES:    The Project will help prevent deterioration in health status during the economic
transition by improving the quality of basic preventive and curative health services.
This will be accomplished by upgrading primary and secondary facilities to
minimum sanitary and physical standards, improving treatment skills of hospital
physicians and nurses (to complement skill-training programs for primary care
personnel supported by other donors) and building capacity at the central and district
levels to manage health resources and implement sectoral reforms.
PROJECT
DESCRIPTION:  The Project consists of a main component to rehabilitate primary and secondary
health services, and a complementary component to build institutional capacity at the
district and central levels. The Project will be implemented over a five-year period
by line Departments of the MOH, with implementation activities coordinated by a
Project Coordinating Unit.
Health Services Rehabilitation (US$10.9 million base cost). This component will
support: i) rehabilitation and upgrading of 100 primary health centers out of an
initial network of 200 in six pilot districts (with an aggregate population of around
600,000); ii) rehabilitation and upgrading of two secondary referral hospitals
(Shkoder and Vlore) serving these districts and surrounding areas; and iii)
strengthened capacity to plan and implement a comprehensive public health facilities
maintenance program (buildings and equipment) through development of
maintenance norms/procedures and staff training.
Capacity Building (US$3.2 base cost million). This component will provide
assistance to: i) improve management of basic health services at the district level;
ii) provide in-service training for hospital physicians and nurses; and iii) build
institutional capacity at the central level to improve sector planning, health financing
and drug distribution. A portion of the proposed IDA Credit (US$0.5 million) will
also be set aside to cover the costs of project coordination.



- ii -
BENEFlT:          The Project will help prevent increases in premature and preventable morbidity and
mortality during the economic transition by improving the quality of basic primary
and secondary health services. Specifically, it will begin rehabilitation of a
streamlined primary care network and its secondary referral hospitals. It will also
update the skills of medical personnel and improve management of health services
at the district level. By building institutional capacity at the central level in the areas
of sector planning, health finance and drug distribution, the Project will begin to
improve resource management and incentive structures in the health sector.
RISKS:           The complexity of procurement for rehabilitation of primary health centers and
regional hospitals is a risk. This will be particularly difficult for a Ministry with no
previous experience in Bank lending and procurement procedures. To facilitate civil
works procurement, the Project will follow a simplified local procurement procedure
developed for the IDA-funded Housing Project. In addition, the Project will provide
training in procurement and contracting in both the Project Coordination Unit and
the Technical Services Department of the MOH. Another Project risk is the almost
complete lack of familiarity with decentralized decision-making and management in
Albania, and the decision by Government to build local capacity for management of
health resources without extensive recourse to technical assistance. To address this,
the Project will focus on building a core team of trainers at the national level which
can transfer management skills and introduce management systems at the district
level. A twinning arrangement with an academic institution will provide limited
technical support to the national team.



Estimated Project Costs                                     Lal   Foreign    Tota1
--------US$ Million
A. Health Services Rehabilitation
1. Rehabilitation of Primary Health Centers                 2.1       1.1        3.2
2. Rehabilitation of Regional Hospitals                     2.5       4.8        7.3
3. Health Facilities Maintenance                            DA1      0Q1         02
Sub-total                                4.7      6.0        10.9
B. Capacity Building
1. Management of Basic Health Services                      0.1       0.4        0.5
2. Hospital Staff Retraining                                 0.3      0.6        0.9
3. Sector Policy and Planning                               0.3       1.0        1.3
4. Project Coordination Unit                                 O.1    0Q4          0 5
Sub-total                                0.8      2.4         3.2
Total Base Costs                         5.5       8.6       14.1
Physical Contingencies                                      0.5       0.6        1.1
Price Contingencies                                         0 5       Q           140
Total Project Costs                      642
Financing Plan
Government of Albania                                      2.2       1.4        3.6
IDA                                                        4.2       8.2       12.4
Total Financing Requirements             6.4       9.6       16.0
Estimated Disbursements (US$ million)
IDA FY                                     FY94   FY95   FY96   FY97   FY98  FY99
Annual                                    0.8     2.7     3.9    3.3       1.5    0.2
Cumulative                                0.8     3.5     7.4   10.7    12.2   12.4
Cumulative as % of total                  6.4    27.8    58.8   84.9    98.4  100.0
1/ Figures may not total exactly due to rounding.
21 Includes local taxes and duties estimated at US$0.7 million.






ALBANIA
HEALTH SERVICES REHABILITATION PROJECT
I. HEALTH STATUS AND SERVICES IN ALBANIA
1.1    Forty years of isolation and extreme communist rule, followed by a destructive period of political
transition in 1990 and 1991, have left Albania at a level of poverty and underdevelopment unmatched
anywhere in Europe. With a per capita income of about US$300 in 1993, and a highly agrarian labor
force, the Albanian economy is more characteristic of low-income developing countries than of
neighboring countries in Central and Eastern Europe (CEE). Between 1990 and 1992, civil unrest,
disruption of production, destruction of infrastructure and the financial collapse of inefficient state
enterprises led to a 35 percent decline in real incomes. Rising unemployment, impoverishment and ethnic
tensions also threaten the fragile political stability which has been maintained since 1992 when democratic
elections brought the current Government to power. However, with a rebound in agricultural production
and the expansion of informal sector trade and services in 1993, the Albanian population is seeing the
first signs of renewed growth in a more market-oriented economy. This has strengthened the political
commitment to carry out far-reaching reforms in both the economic and social spheres.
A. Health Status of the Population
1.2    Albanians enjoy a life expectancy of nearly 73 years, far surpassing life expectancy in developing
countries at similar income levels (Table 1). This equals or exceeds life expectancy in CEE countries
having anywhere from three to ten times Albania's income level, although the determinants are quite
different. Infant and maternal mortality in Albania remain two to four times higher than in other
European countries (other Central and Eastern European--CEE--countries, and particularly the established
market economies--EMEs), while premature adult mortality due to chronic diseases is much lower than
the European norm.
1.3    Albania exhibits the high fertility/high infant mortality pattern more typically seen in developing
countries. The population has the youngest age structure in Europe, and the highest age-specific fertility
rates. As a result, the country has a high crude birth rate and rapid population growth which will
continue well into the next century. Infant mortality is, however, lower than in other developing
countries at similar income levels--reflecting the relatively high level of educational attainment among
women, the extensive and accessible primary care network and the success of past immunization programs
which achieved coverage rates of more than 95 percent. Nonetheless, at 32 per 1,000 live births in 1993,
the infant mortality rate in Albania is nearly double the CEE average, and its downward trend stagnated
in the mid-1980s, and reversed in the past two years.



- 2 -
Table 1: DEMOGRAPHIC AND HEALTH INDICATORS, 1991
Albania     EME 1/      CEE 1/
Weighted     Weighted    Kenya   India    China
Average      Average
Per capita income (USS)        300        21,183        1,390       340     330       370
Crude birth rate                25          13           11         45       30       22
Cnde death rate                 6            9            9         11       10        7
Crude rate of natural increase  19           4            2         34       20        15
Life expectancy (male)          70          73           67         57       60       67
Life expectancy (female)        76          80           75         61       60       71
Total fertility rate           3.1          1.7          2.1        6.5     3.9       2.4
Infant mortality rate          30.8          8           17         67       90       38
Maternal mortality ratio 2/     50           7           29         Estimated 200-600   115
1/     The countries of the CEE are Albania, Bulgaria, Croatia, the Czech Republic, Former Yugoslav
Republic of Macedonia, Hungary, Poland, Romania, Slovenia and Yugoslavia. The weighted average
given here excludes Albania. The EME countries include: Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada,
Denmark, Finland, Germany, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway,
Portugal, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, the United Kingdom and the United States.
2/     Data are for various years, 1988-92.
Source: World Development Report. 1993, World Bank. 1992 Annual World Health Statistics World Health
Organization.
1.4    The crude death rate of the Albanian population is very low, reflecting both the young age
structure of the population, and low death rates among adults age 15-65. Relative to the rest of Europe,
Albania has less premature adult mortality due to cerebro- and cardio-vascular diseases, lung, stomach
and breast cancers, cirrhosis and other chronic diseases which tend to be associated with lifestyles and
occupational hazards in industrialized countries. A more active, agrarian lifestyle, a lower-fat diet and
less abuse of alcohol and cigarettes contribute to adult longevity in Albania. However, mortality rates
above age 65 tend to be higher than in other European countries because the health system cannot offer
the high-quality, high-tech chronic care for the elderly typically found in wealthier countries.



- 3 -
B. Health Services in Transition
1.5    Under the former communist regime, the Albanian population had universal entitlement to a full
range of medical and dental services, provided through a public sector monopoly on service delivery and
drug supply. Resource allocation within the public health system was centrally planned, and based largely
on historic levels and/or physical inputs (e.g. number of beds or staff), rather than on capacity utilization
or services rendered. Management decisions were also highly centralized, and the system offered few
financial or administrative incentives to improve the quality of care, increase efficiency or control costs.
The regime took pride in its network of facilities, favoring construction of new infrastructure at the
expense of less-visible maintenance and operating expenditures. As Albania grew increasingly isolated,
medical personnel were cut off from global advances in medical technology and pharmacology, while the
local drug industry became locked into outmoded production lines and processes. Deterioration of
facilities and equipment, inadequate recurrent expenditures, obsolete drug therapies and outdated medical
skills resulted in low-quality care and inefficient use of resources. By 1989, with 1.0 primary care
facility and 5.3 hospital beds per 1,000 inhabitants, the physical infrastructure had become unsustainable
given Albania's limited resources. Medical staffing levels (1.4 physicians per 1,000 population and 2.5
nurses per physician) approached European standards, adding to the heavy fiscal burden. Capacity
utilization in the sprawling network was low, while fiscal and foreign exchange constraints further limited
critical recurrent expenditures, depriving the system of drugs, medical supplies, spare parts and
maintenance.
1.6    The violence of the political transition dealt another blow to the ailing health system. Civil unrest
led to widespread looting, destruction and expropriation of social infrastructure associated with the former
regime. Health personnel deserted facilities, especially in rural areas. In addition, the economic
transition intensified fiscal pressure and disrupted centrally-planned supply mechanisms, leading to the
virtual collapse of the public health system by 1991. Government revenues declined by 35 percent in
real terms between 1990 and 1992. Efforts were made to protect public spending in the health sector,
which registered a decline of 14 percent in real terms during the same period, rising as a share of GDP
from 3.3 to 4.5 percent. However, the prolonged fiscal crisis led to a real decline of 10 percent in public
spending for health in 1993 which totaled only 3.9 percent of GDP.  The prospect of negative or
negligible real growth in budgetary resources in the next few years has provided additional impetus to
increase the efficiency of resource use in the health sector. To achieve this, Government needs to define
policies that will reshape and restructure the health sector over the medium term, while struggling to
restore basic health services during the economic transition. This difficult task falls to a new Ministry
of Health (MOH), established only in 1991.
C. Issues for Health System Reform
Premature and preventable death, disability and disease
1.7   In comparison with countries at similar income levels, Albania has done remarkably well in
reducing infant, child and maternal mortality. Health status has even surpassed that of China, another
low-income country noted for its progress in improving health indicators. Building on this strong
foundation, Albania now aspires to a health status for women and children which is more in line with



wealthier, neighboring CEE countries. At the same time, the near collapse of the public health system
is jeopardizing progress to date. To maintain or improve health status, Albania will have to combat the
familiar determinants of infant, child and maternal mortality in the developing world: poverty, poor
sanitation, malnutrition, high-risk pregnancies, unsafe abortions and inadequate preventive health
programs. The impact of these factors in Albania is reflected in the available statistics: nearly one-
quarter of all infant death is due to prematurity and low birth weight. Respiratory infections and
diarrheal disease are the leading causes of death among post-neonatal infants and children. From 50 to
75 percent of drinking water sources in both urban and rural areas are contaminated, contributing to a
prevalence of parasitic infections which is far higher than in other CEE countries. Although past
immunization coverage rates approached 100 percent, vaccine effectiveness in recent years has been
spotty, leaving only 40-50 percent of children adequately protected.
1.8    A reduction in premature and preventable death and disease among women of reproductive age
and their children will have the greatest positive impact on the overall burden of disease in Albania. This
will require more effective maternal and child health (MCH) interventions in areas such as family
planning, prenatal care, growth monitoring, nutrition education, household sanitation, immunization and
treatment of common childhood diseases (e.g. diarrheal disease and respiratory infections). Some of these
interventions, such as family planning and growth monitoring, were previously unknown in Albania.
However, strengthening health promotion and preventive services will be particularly challenging due to
continued public suspicion of Government-sponsored health education efforts, which were tainted by
political ideology and propaganda in the past.
Breakdown of basic health services and supply networks
1.9   Social unrest and fiscal constraints have taken a toll on the health system, exacerbating long-
standing structural weaknesses and inefficiencies. The primary care network has been decimated, the cold
chain has broken down, hospitals lack basic sanitary systems and supply bottlenecks impede drug
distribution. A survey of the primary care network undertaken in 1993 found an excessive number of
facilities (967 health centers, 2,312 rural health posts, or ambulancas) partially or completely inoperable
due to damage, deterioration, expropriation or insufficient initial investment. Twenty-four percent of
health centers and 65 percent of health posts were found to be completely destroyed or occupied by
squatters. The majority of operating health centers are damaged, and while 80 percent have electric
lighting, only 60 percent have any source of heating (mostly wood), 55 percent have toilet facilities, 40
percent have running water and 14 percent have basic laboratory equipment. In many cases, health center
equipment consists of a stethoscope, some syringes and a cooking pot for sterilization.
1.10   Less than 40 percent of rural health centers have an official pharmaceutical outlet, entitling them
to a minimal allocation of drugs--often nothing more than aspirin and outdated parenteral solutions.
Otherwise, rural patients must travel to public pharmacies in urban areas to buy drugs--often several
hours away. Fufarma, a public enterprise, is responsible for almost all distribution of drugs in Albania,
with little or no accountability for inventory and financial flows, and a poor record for efficiency. Due
to fiscal constraints, Albania's drug supply for the past two years has been financed almost entirely from
humanitarian assistance, a temporary source of funding which is now tapering off. Many vaccines have
also been supplied through humanitarian assistance, but the breakdown of the cold chain has undermined
the effectiveness of the immunization program. With the primary care network in shambles, basic
curative care has become largely hospital-based. Shortages of essential drugs and medical supplies,
coupled with unacceptable sanitary conditions, limit the benefit of both outpatient and inpatient hospital
care.



-5-
Low-quality health services
1.11   Today, health personnel in Albania remain isolated, and lack in-service training to upgrade skills.
At the same time, they are often over-specialized for the type of family medicine needed, particularly in
rural areas.  The curricula for general practice physicians and nurses needs to be updated and
strengthened. The average age of functioning medical equipment in Albanian hospitals is 25 years,
compared to 7 years in Western Europe. Some equipment, dating back more than 40 years, can properly
be classified as museum pieces. Drug production facilities are also obsolete, and quality control is weak
due to a lack of modem laboratory equipment. Profarma, the parastatal responsible for local drug
production, is locked into production lines which are both outdated and economically inefficient.
Substandard equipment and procedures pose a serious threat to the safety of the national blood supply,
as well. The lack of basic drugs and equipment at all levels of the system undermines the value of
investments in facilities and staff. Rehabilitation and reequipment of a streamnlined network of public
health facilities, coupled with retraining of medical staff, are essential to improve the quality of health
care.
Weak sectoral planning and resource allocation
1.12   The Ministry of Health has no locus for sectoral planning and policy analysis, and the
management tools and information systems needed to inform the planning process are largely nonexistent.
Until very recently, the MOH had no department to manage human resource development. Financial
accounting at all levels of the health system is extremely weak and fragmented, and plays little role in
budgeting. A share of the central Government health budget is disbursed directly to districts, and
expenditure data at this level are not adequately recorded or synthesized for sectoral planning purposes.
1.13  Investment programming also needs to be strengthened, and little effort is made to take into
account associated recurrent costs. This is particularly worrisome given the influx of aid-financed
investments. Resource allocation within the sector needs to be based on a better assessment of the cost-
effectiveness of alternative health interventions, as measured by their impact on the health status of the
population. Resources should then be shifted towards interventions which have the greatest potential for
reducing morbidity, disability and premature mortality within the population. In Albania, this will shift
resources towards health promotion, primary and secondary prevention programs, public health and
sanitation measures and basic clinical services. However, to make appropriate decisions, the MOH needs
to strengthen its capacity to analyze policy options and assess alternative investment strategies.
Excessive public health infrastructure
1.14   An excessive public health infrastructure spreads resources too thinly and creates an
unmanageable fiscal burden. In Albania, catchment areas for public health facilities vary greatly, but tend
to be too small for efficient use of resources. Each primary health center (PHC) serves an average of
only 3,700 inhabitants and each district hospital-ostensibly the entry point for secondary care-serves an
average of 89,000 inhabitants. If fully functional, the primary care network (health centers plus lower-
level health posts) would provide one access point for every 950 inhabitants. Currently, the average
health center has six rooms, many of which may be nonfunctional due to lack of basic utilities, equipment
and drugs. Staffing levels are also fairly high in primary care, with an average of seven staff members
per rural health center. This often includes unnecessary specialists, laboratory technicians and nonmedical
staff (drivers, clerks, etc.). Such an extensive primary and secondary care network is neither necessary
nor financially sustainable.



- 6 -
1.15   Government needs to streamline the network of primary care facilities, concentrating resources
on the rehabilitation of a reduced number of PHCs, restricted in size. There is also scope for reduction
and redeployment of medical staff at all levels of the system, although such changes warrant study, and
are sure to face opposition from the profession. Hospitals, particularly those offering secondary care,
have low occupancy rates coupled with long average-lengths-of-stay (ALOS), indicating excess capacity.
Larger catchment areas need to be established for a restricted group of hospitals offering comprehensive
secondary care, rather than trying to develop comprehensive care in 35 smaller, district hospitals. The
administration of tertiary care facilities also needs to be rationalized, to prevent duplication and/or
underutilization of specialized equipment and services.
Lack of decentralized managerial capacity
1.16   After forty years of central planning, Albania is moving toward more decentralized management
and financing of public services.  The Local Government Law of 1993 transfers financial and
administrative responsibility for many public services to the district and municipal levels. Education and
health services are included, although it is recognized that an immediate transfer of these social services
is not feasible from either a fiscal or administrative standpoint. Such a transfer would jeopardize basic
social services at a time of severe social dislocation associated with the economic transition. However,
the law does envision the eventual transfer of public health services to local government. In the interim,
a share of the central government budget is set aside for district health services, as distinct from the local
budget (still financed largely by central tax revenues) for public services which have been fully
transferred to local responsibility. Regardless of whether health financing is ever fully transferred to the
local government budget, the efficiency and responsiveness of health services must be improved through
more decentralized and autonomous management.
1.17   Govermment has chosen to retain 35 administrative districts, each with a District Health Officer
and a District Health Council which will oversee primary and secondary health facilities and other health
services within the district. It is recognized that efficiency in the health system could be improved
through the establishment of catchment areas for secondary health facilities which are larger than the
existing districts. For this reason, a decision has been made to downgrade most district hospitals, so that
they offer only the most basic inpatient care, while a small group would be upgraded to regional hospitals
offering comprehensive secondary care to larger, multi-district catchment areas. Although this new health
hierarchy has been adopted, it will take time and commitment to define, develop and test the training
programs, management tools, information systems, supervisory arrangements and incentive structures
needed for effective district-level management of health services.
Undefined role and regulatory framework for private health services
1.18   Since November 1992, Albania has had no legal barriers to private sector health services.
However, the role of private health services within a mixed public/private system is still being defined,
and the necessary legal and regulatory framework is not in place to guide private sector entry and activity
in health care markets. The Government is looking toward greater private sector involvement in health
services, under the assumption that well-functioning private markets will create the incentives necessary
for efficient allocation and use of resources in the health sector. However, efforts to create these
incentives must take into account well-recognized imperfections and failures in the health care and
pharmaceutical markets. In particular, these markets are characterized by asymmetry of information
between the buyer and the seller. Efficient markets require perfect information, but health care
consumers rely heavily on health care providers and pharmacists to supply information on alternative
treatments and drugs. If providers' income is linked to consumers' choice of treatment, information may
be distorted, resulting in excessive, inappropriate or unnecessarily expensive treatment.



1.19   Overcoming market failure requires an active role for Government in the regulation of private
health services. This includes, inter alia the licensing of providers and pharmacists, accreditation and
inspection of facilities, registration and quality control of drugs, establishment of reporting requirements
and the development of pricing policies for ambulatory and inpatient care, as well as pharmaceutical
products. In the absence of appropriate legal and regulatory frameworks, clandestine private services-
public sector staff and equipment 'moonlighting" in the private sector and collecting unreported fees-
have flourished, while overt private sector initiatives have been limited. Several dozen private
pharmacies have been established, mostly selling highly-subsidized drugs purchased from Fufarma. Some
private dentistry has also been established, although most dentists have begun to operate in a modified
public sector scheme which introduces performance-based financial incentives.
Undiversified sources of revenue and underdeveloped Dayment mechanisms
1.20   The public health system in Albania-as in most low-income countries-is financed almost entirely
from general budgetary revenues. Indeed, general budgetary revenues are likely to remain the dominant
source of health financing in Albania for many years to come. However, additional revenues could be
generated for the health sector by diversifying financing sources to include modest payroll contributions
and a wider range of out-of-pocket user fees. On the expenditure side, payments to health facilities and
pharmacies for drugs and services are in the form of budgetary allocations which provide no incentives
for efficient use of resources, cost containment or improved quality of care. Under the existing system,
public funding of health services cannot be separated from public delivery of health services, which acts
as a brake on development of private sector care. In the medium-term, Albania needs to introduce new
payment mechanisms which create appropriate financial incentives for health care consumers and
providers, and remunerate public and private sector providers equally for equivalent services. Both the
diversification of revenue sources and the introduction of new payment mechanisms will require a more
complex health financing administration than is currently in place.
D. Government Strategy in the Health Sector
1.21  Improvement of health status in Albania depends most heavily on reduction in morbidity and
mortality for children and women of child-bearing age. This will depend, in part, on the availability and
quality of primary health care. The Government is strongly committed to the objectives laid out in the
United Nation's Health For All by the Year 2000 strategy. With respect to maternal and child health,
the Albanian Government and populace are determined to achieve standards found in other European
countries at much higher income levels.
1.22  In a strategy document presented to the donor community in April 1993, Government articulated
its overriding objective in the health sector: to maintain access to basic health services during the
transition, and increase the emphasis on comprehensive primary care as the most cost-effective means of
improving health status. To this end, the MOH -- through its Direction of Maternal and Child Heath -
has drafted a proposed National Primary Health Care Plan, which will be finalized in the coming year.
The plan calls for decentralized management of health services at the district level, to better respond to
the needs of local populations. It envisions facilities, termed "Family Health Centers", offering
comprehensive primary care 24 hours a day. This would include preventive services and health
promotion (including health education, nutrition, immunization, maternal and child health, family
planning and prevention of sexually-transmitted diseases), environmental protection (clean water and
sanitation, endemic disease control) and curative care (treatment of common diseases such as respiratory
infections and diarrheal disease, availability of essential drugs, first aid for emergencies).



- 8 -
1.23   To increase efficiency in the health system, and maximize the impact of limited resources,
Government will concentrate its efforts on maintaining a reduced number of primary health centers in a
fully operational state. Adequate access to services will be maintained, while eliminating many partially
or completely nonfunctional facilities throughout the public system. Pre-service and in-service training
programs will be developed for general practitioners, nurse practitioners and midwives at the primary
level. While the Primary Health Care Plan has not yet been finalized, it is largely reflected in the
Government's broader strategy document, entitled "A New Policy for Health". To ensure access to
comprehensive primary care, rationalize delivery of secondary and tertiary care, increase efficiency,
control costs and improve the quality of care at all levels, Government intends to implement a medium-
term strategy of:
a.    streamlining the network of public health facilities, through an approximate 50 percent
reduction in the number of health posts and primary health centers, and a 35 percent
reduction in the number of hospital beds;
b.    progressively rehabilitating and reequipping this streamlined network of public facilities;
c.    retraining and redeploying existing medical personnel, and improving pre-service training
in the areas of family medicine and basic inpatient specialties;
d.    decentralizing planning and management of health services to the district level;
e.     eliminating bottlenecks in the supply of critical inputs, especially drugs;
f.     developing new financing mechanisms which will provide incentives for cost containment
and quality of care;
g.     encouraging the development of private sector providers and pharmaceutical suppliers;
h.     building institutional capacity for policy analysis and planning at all levels of the health
sector;
L.     enhancing the Ministry of Health's capacity for regulation and quality control of drugs
and health services.
1.24  In the past 18 months, measures have been taken to begin implementing this strategy. The
administrative structure of the public health system has been redefined, and guidelines and procedures
have been developed for a decentralized health mapping exercise to streamline the hierarchy of public
facilities. Many small, rural hospitals have been closed, reducing total inpatient capacity from 16,000
to 11,000 beds. Further reduction to a total of 10,000 beds is envisaged. Certain district hospitals have
been selected for upgrading into regional hospitals offering comprehensive secondary care to sufficiently
large catchment areas (300,000-350,000 people). The remaining district hospitals will be scaled back to
offer only the most basic inpatient services. Recruitment of medical and nursing students has been
reduced in line with future needs. Profarma has been granted greater financial and administrative
autonomy in the production of drugs, and private sector pharmacies and dentists have been authorized.
Family planning activities-previously illegal--have been authorized nationwide. A medium-term public
investment program for rehabilitation of facilities and retraining of personnel has been defined, and
Government has successfully sought external support for its health policy and associated investment
program.



- 9 -
1.25   Government has also taken the first steps to accomplish more complex tasks such as development
of the legal and regulatory frameworks for health services and drug supply, restructuring of public
enterprises in the pharmaceutical sector and strengthening health financing and financial management.
These efforts will need to be intensified in coming years. Government intends to generate additional
resources for health through the introduction of earmarked payroll contributions and a wider range of user
fees. At the same time, Government is planning to develop new pricing policies and payment
mechanisms for pharmacies, outpatient care and hospitalization in order to: i) create financial incentives
for increased efficiency, cost containment and improved quality of care; and ii) facilitate private sector
development by remunerating public and private providers equally, on the basis of services rendered.
Government has requested financial and technical assistance from IDA for reform in these areas, which
it hopes to pursue through the medium-term development of a national health insurance system.
E. Role of the International Donor Community
1.26  In the aftermath of political upheaval and social unrest, the international donor community
responded to the emerging crisis in the health sector by providing humanitarian assistance--a portion of
which is still arriving today. Bilateral donors such as Italy, Greece, Switzerland and the U.S., along with
many charitable and/or non-governmental organizations provided aid, mostly in the form of drugs,
vaccines and medical supplies. The European Union (EU) also launched an emergency program which
is still underway, providing drugs and raw materials for drug production (ECU 7.0 million), emergency
repairs and basic equipment for five regional hospitals (ECU 2.4 billion), equipment kits for primary
care facilities and repairs of the cold chain (ECU 4.9 million).
1.27   Humanitarian and emergency assistance from abroad mitigated supply constraints in the health
sector in 1992 and 1993, all the while creating new logistics challenges for Government. At the same
time, Government began to elucidate a strategy for an effective and financially sustainable health system
in Albania (IDA assisted this effort with technical support). Through the preparation of an initial strategy
document and the organization of several donors' meetings, Government has elicited and coordinated
donor support for this strategy. At the primary care level, in addition to providing basic equipment to
all primary care facilities, the EU will rehabilitate selected primary health centers, and retrain primary
care personnel (general practitioners, nurse practitioners and midwives) in family medicine under a health
sector restructuring project (ECU 6 million). UNICEF, UNFPA and WHO will support cost effective
interventions at the primary level, including training and supplies for immunization, micronutrient
supplementation, nutrition education, diarrheal disease control, treatment of respiratory infections, family
planning and AIDS prevention (approximately US$4.0 million). At the secondary and tertiary care levels,
in addition to emergency repairs of regional hospitals by the EC, a number of bilateral and non-
governmental donors are supporting hospital rehabilitation, predominantly in tertiary care facilities.
Switzerland, France and the EC are also strengthening hospital management through training and twinning
programs.
1.28  In the pharmaceutical sector, Government intends to reduce its dependence on humanitarian aid
and emergency distribution systems (e.g. distribution by Italian military forces) through the adjustment
of drug policies and development of supply mechanisms which are reliable and financially viable. Donors
have coordinated their assistance in this area: the EC is strengthening drug inspection and quality control;
WHO is providing support for improved drug selection and registration, and for rational drug use; IDA
has made a commitment to support development of pricing and privatization policies in the pharmaceutical
sector-as well as improved management of public sector distribution systems. At the central level, a
number of donors have provided technical assistance and logistical support to the newly established
Ministry of Health to strengthen planning and management in the sector.



- 10-
F. Rationale for IDA Involvernent
1.29    Maintaining basic social services as part of a broader social safety net is a high priority for
IDA/IBRD in countries undergoing the difficult transition to a market economy. This is particularly so
in a low-income country like Albania, where rising unemployment has pushed many families into absolute
poverty, and a lack of resources has brought the public health system to the brink of collapse. The
Bank's country assistance strategy (CAS) for Albania reflects this priority, emphasizing human resource
development, poverty alleviation and strengthening of the social safety net during the transition. For the
past two years, the donor community has provided humanitarian assistance in order to maintain a
minimum supply of drugs and vaccines in the country, and prevent a resurgence of infectious diseases
which would further augment Albania's elevated infant mortality rate. Now, Government has begun to
articulate a strategy for moving beyond the crisis phase to develop a more effective and financially
sustainable health system, drawing on both the public and private sectors. External investment resources
and technical support will be necessary to implement this strategy over the medium-term. In providing
assistance, IDA can draw on its experience with health system reform in other Central and Eastern
European countries, as well as in countries with income levels and health status similar to those in
Albania.
1.30    Government has requested IDA assistance to facilitate a transition in the health sector in keeping
with the broader economic transition. Through the Health Services Rehabilitation Project (HSRP), IDA
will provide support for cost-effective health interventions in areas where Albanian resources and donor
funding are lacking or insufficient. IDA has worked in close collaboration with the donor community
to coordinate areas of intervention. In particular, IDA will not provide support for medical equipment
and training in family medicine at the primary care level, because available external resources are deemed
sufficient relative to the country's absorptive capacity over the next few years. Financing gaps have been
identified, however, in the following areas: i) rehabilitation of primary and secondary care facilities
responsible for preventive care and basic clinical services; ii) strengthening of management at the district
level to improve the quality of basic health services; iii) in-service training of hospital staff; and iv)
capacity-building at the central level to improve sector planning, policy reform and resource management.
The methodology for streamlining and rehabilitating the public health network which is being developed
for six pilot districts under this project would be replicated nationwide over the medium-term, with
existing parallel financing from other donors (e.g. EU/PHARE, Italy), as well as follow-on projects
supported by IDA. This first project would also support initial steps in longer-term institution-building
and policy reform. A proposed IDA-funded Health Financing and Restructuring Project would provide
more extensive support for institution-building, resource management and implementation of health
financing reforms.
G. Previous IDA Involvement
1.31    This will be the first IDA-supported project in the health sector in Albania.  However,
emergency assistance for health has been provided through the IDA Critical Imports Project, which has
supplied essential drugs and trucks for drug distribution. In addition, preparation of the Health Services
Rehabilitation Project was supported by a Japanese Policy and Human Resources Development Grant
which permitted, inter alia, necessary sector work to assess priority health issues, and help Government
to articulate a strategy for primary health care during the transition.'
See Albania: Health Sector Reform during the Transition, World Bank Report No. 10362-ALB, World
Bank, March 1992; and Albanie: Le Secteur des Soins de Sante Primaires, Consultants' Report, World
Bank, March 1993.



- 11 -
1.32    Although the HSRP will be IDA's first intervention in the health sector, IDA has an portfolio
of on-going human resources projects in Albania, including the Labor Market Development Project
(LMDP), the Social Safety Net Development Project (SSNDP), the Rural Poverty Alleviation Project
(RPAP) and the upcoming School Rehabilitation and Capacity Building Project (SRCBP). The HSRP
will benefit from lessons learned under these projects, particularly the need to keep project design simple,
relying, to the maximum extent possible, on local capacity for implementation and technical support--in
order to improve implementation performance and strengthen ownership of the project. Indeed, the
Project Coordinating Unit for the HSRP has successfully drawn on the experience of the LMDP and
SSNDP project units to become fully operational without reliance on external support. An arrangement
is now being finalized to share the services of a one external Project Advisor among three or four human
resources projects, including the HSRP.
1.33    Experience under another project, the Albania Housing Project, resulted in development of an
adapted procedure and standardized bidding documents for local contracting for civil works. These
procedures and documents will be followed under the HSRP, along with other IDA-funded projects.
The HSRP will also make use of experience under the RPAP in supervising highly decentralized civil
works, and will make use of RPAP's community-based civil works to actually carry out rehabilitation of
primary health centers in select rural areas.



- 12 -
II. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives
2.1    The HSRP would help prevent deterioration in health status during the economic transition by
improving the quality of basic preventive and curative health services. This would be accomplished by
upgrading primary and secondary facilities to minimum sanitary and physical standards, improving
treatmnent skills of hospital physicians and nurses (to complement skill-training programs for primary care
personnel supported by other donors) and building capacity at the central and district levels to manage
health resources and implement sectoral reforms. The HSRP would lay the groundwork for more
intensive institution-building and implementation of sectoral reforms, with support from IDA-funded
follow-on projeAs.
B. Project Description
2.2    The HSRP consists of two components: Health Services Rehabilitation and Capacity Building.
Tley are described below, with implementation arrangements and institutional responsibilities described
in Chapter III: Project Costs, Financing and Implementation. Project implementation is expected to be
completed over a five-year period (November 1994 through September 1999).    The project
implementation plan is described in Annex 2. Total project costs including contingencies, taxes and duties
are estimated at US$16.0 million equivalent (US$14.1 million base cost). Detailed costs of each
component are shown in Annex 3. The Project would finance civil works for hospital and health center
rehabilitation and upgrading, as well as equipment, external and local training and specialist services, and
incremental operational costs generated by the investments.
Component A: Health Services Rehabilitation (US$10.9 million base cost)
2.3    The HSRP would initiate the long-term task of rehabilitating and consolidating the network of
public health facilities in Albania, in order to develop an appropriate district-level health pyramid offering
basic clinical services at the primary and secondary level. It would provide assistance for: i) the
rehabilitation and upgrading of about 100 primary health centers (PHC) in six pilot districts; ii)
rehabilitation and upgrading of two secondary referral hospitals serving these districts and surrounding
areas; and iii) strengthening of health facilities maintenance capacity in the sector. Each of these elements
is outlined below and described in more detail in Annex 2.
A.1 Primary Health Centers (US$3.2 million base cost)
2.4    Considering the magnitude of the health facilities rehabilitation program, and constraints on
resources and local implementation capacity, six pilot districts in two regions (Shkoder, Puke, Malesie
Madhe in the north, and Vlore, Saranda, Delvina in the south) were chosen for project coverage. In
1993, the Government carried out a nationwide physical inventory of existing PHCs (functioning and non-



- 13 -
functioning) and plotted health facilities maps for the six districts. The MOH Departments of Public
Health (DPH) and Technical Services (TSD) collaborated in formulating an improved set of national
standards for establishing PHCs, taking into account criteria2 agreed with IDA. On the basis of additional
detailed engineering data gathered in March 1994 to complement the health maps, and the application of
the revised standards, the 200 existing primary care facilities in the six districts would be consolidated
into a smaller network of 100 PHCs3 capable of providing adequate quality primary health care to the
aggregate population of around 600,000. About 90 of the 100 PHCs are in existing premises, the rest
are to be located in new sites4 more accessible to the majority population within the catchment area of
the PHC. Based on the engineering assessments, 40 of the 100 PHCs would be provided entirely new
buildings either because existing facilities are too deteriorated to rehabilitate economically and need to
be completely replaced, or because of relocation. The rest would necessitate varying degrees of repair
and/or upgrading of existing structures. All rehabilitated PHCs would be staffed according to norms
agreed with IDA (Annex 2, Table B). The twenty six PHCs which have been selected for rehabilitation
during the first year of project implementation are also listed in Annex 2, along with the implementation
schedule of this component. PHCs to be built or rehabilitated during succeeding years would be specified
at the annual joint reviews of the health sector budget.
2.5    Existing PHCs which were not selected for inclusion in the consolidated network, would be
phased out of operation during the project implementation period, with redeployment/reduction of staff
as appropriate. The consolidation of these facilities would be linked to the entry into operation of the
rehabilitated PHCs nearby. The conditions of closure, in terms of staff redeployment and redirection of
all expenditures associated with the PHCs (supplies, maintenance, etc.) are described in the Project
Operations Manual (POM). During negotiations, the Government agreed that it would: (i) consolidate
the PHC network in the six pilot districts in accordance with an implementation plan agreed with
IDA; and fii) staff the PHC facilities rehabilitated under the project according to norms agreed with
IDA.
2.6    For the Primary Health Centers subcomponent, the HSRP would finance the costs related to the
rehabilitation of about 100 PHCs including: i) services of local architects/engineers to prepare the
prototype designs and detailed engineering plans, and to supervise construction, ii) civil works and
provision of basic utilities; and iii) essential building equipment (heaters and washers) and furniture. The
Project would also provide medical supplies for cost-effective primary care interventions, to complement
medical equipment being provided to the 100 PHCs by EU/PHARE under an ongoing parallel project.
A.2 Regional Hospitals (US$7.5 million base cost).
2.7    Government has selected the largest district hospitals for upgrading to regional referral hospitals
which offer comprehensive secondary care to a sufficiently large catchment population (300,000-350,000
2      These criteria include, among others, sizes of catchment population, proximity to hospital services, staffing
needs, staffing, facilities design prototypes utilizing appropriate building technology and incorporating
provisions for the appropriate disposal of medical and other wastes, etc.
The Rural Development Fund which is responsible for implementing the Rural Poverty Alleviation Pilot
Project (Credit 2461-ALB) (RPAP) has agreed to coordinate its program of rehabilitating rural health
facilities with the HSRP, and clear the proposed locations of the RPAP health facilities rehabilitation
projects with the MOH in order to avoid duplication of investments and conform with the PHC
consolidation objectives of the HSRP.
These new sites are Government property with road access and ready for new construction



- 14 -
inhabitants). Within the six pilot districts where PHCs are to be rehabilitated, two of the five existing
district hospitals have been designated as regional hospitals - Shkoder (620 beds) and Vlore (500 beds).
Services provided by these two regional hospitals would complete the pyramid of health services extended
by the consolidated network of PHCs and the other three hospitals.  Government agreed during
negotiations that the district hospitals in Puke, Saranda and Delvina, which were not selected for
upgrading to regional hospitals, will be streamlined to offer only four basic inpatient specialties, and
have their staff adjusted accordingly, in accordance with a schedule agreed with IDA. Government
also agreed that the two regional hospitals rehabilitated under the project will be staffed according
to norms agreed with IDA.
2.8    The HSRP would rehabilitate/upgrade the building facilities and equipment of the regional
hospitals of Shkoder and Vlore. The scope of the rehabilitation/upgrading work would be based upon
a set of functional development plans to be prepared by a hospital planning specialist for each regional
hospital complex. These functional development plans would outline the medium- to long-term
development and investment priorities, and describe, inter alia, the: i) range of medical services to be
provided; ii) operational and organizational restructuring which may be needed to deliver secondary level
medical services efficiently; and iii) staff development (and recruitment) needs. The hospital planning
specialist would assist two local architectural/engineering firms selected in accordance with procedures
agreed with IDA, prepare the detailed designs and construction plans for rehabilitation and upgrading
works identified in the functional development plans as the highest priority investments. A medical
equipment specialist would assist TSD prepare priority equipment lists, relevant technical specifications
and bidding documents. The building investment priorities, which would be agreed with IDA before
detailed engineering plans are prepared, may include, inter alia: i) rearrangement of functional spaces
aimed at consolidating expensive medical facilities and services, such as, operating theaters, radiology
facilities, intensive care units, kitchen, laundry, sterilization services, etc; ii) provision and/or upgrading
of utility systems-electrical, mechanical, communications, appropriate disposal of medical, solid and
other wastes; and iii) critical general building repairs. Priority medical equipment would be acquired or
replaced as appropriate. The reconfiguration/consolidation of hospital services and facilities may also
require changes in the current operational and management practices of the two regional hospitals, for
which training of selected personnel would be needed and provided for under the project.
2.9    For the Regional Hospitals subcomponent, the HSRP would finance: i) the professional services
(6 person-months) of a hospital planning specialist to prepare the functional development plans and
assist/collaborate with ii) two local architectural/engineering firms which would prepare the detailed
architectural and engineering construction plans and bid documents for priority works; iii) services (4
person-months) of a medical equipment specialist; iv) civil works covering the most urgent repair and
upgrading needs; v) priority hospital/medical and related equipment; and vi) study visits (6 person-
months) for selected officers of the two hospitals and MOH to observe/acquire training on modern
hospital operational practices.
A.3 Public Health Facilities Maintenance (US$0.2 million base cost)
2.10   The HSRP would strengthen capacity in the health sector, in particular, within the TSD, to plan
and implement an effective public health facilities (buildings and equipment) maintenance program.
Building this capacity would include: i) developing appropriate preventive and applied maintenance norms
and procedures with due attention to environmental considerations; and ii) developing capacity to plan
equipment investments, particularly with respect to equipment standardization, spare parts management,
and dissemination of technical information to the health services network. For this subcomponent, the
HSRP would finance the services of a hospital maintenance specialist (3 person-months) to assist TSD



- 15 -
formulate a comprehensive maintenance program, and train its staff in core practices. The TSD would
then be responsible for managing the national program and for assisting/training district personnel in
maintenance planning, practices and budgeting. The Project would also finance a study tour (2 person-
months) for select MOH staff to observe hospital maintenance practices abroad; training and
demonstration equipment and software; and the publication and dissemination of maintenance
manuals/instructions to public health officers nationwide.
Component B: Capacity Building (US$3.2 million base cost)
2.11   The HSRP would improve treatment skills of hospital physicians and nurses (to complement skill-
training programs for primary care personnel supported by other donors) and build capacity at the central
and district levels to manage health resources and implement sectoral reforms. The project would support
four areas: (i) management of basic health services; (ii) retraining hospital staff; (iii) health policy and
planning; and (iv) project coordination. These subcomponents are outlined below; implementation
responsibilities and evaluation criteria are described in Chapter III and in Annex 2.
B.1 Management of Basic Health Services (US$0.5 million base cost)
2.12   This subcomponent would provide planning and management training to district health teams in
support of more decentralized decision-making and resource management within the public health system.
The training of district managers in planning and management techniques would be carried out by the
MOH's Department of Public Health (DPH) and Institute of Public Health. External technical support
would be provided by the University of Montreal which has an ongoing relationship with MOH/sector
staff and knowledge and familiarity with the local working environment. The sustainability of improved
management techniques would be enhanced through development of a permanent capacity for management
training and advising, through a core team of trainers drawn from the Institute and the DPH. Members
of this core team would benefit from short- and long-term external fellowships in health planning and
management, many of which are underway as part of project preparation. In addition, the Institute-with
support provided through the University of Montreal--will organize two seminars designed to introduce
the team of trainers to pedagogic techniques which should help them to develop and conduct training
seminars more effectively.
2.13   The strategy for district-level training which has been defined by the MOH entails two training
phases:
(i)    A first phase of training, to be carried out during the first two project years, is designed
to introduce district managers in all 36 districts, as well as select staff from the central
level, to general concepts and techniques of health management and program
development. A total of approximately 160 persons would be trained in a series of two-
week training seminars developed and conducted by the Institute of Public Health, with
external technical support. This initiative is designed to help the MOH consolidate its
new management structure which consists of District Health Teams (DHTs) and
emphasizes district-level decision making.
(ii)    A second phase of training, to be carried out during project years three and four, would
offer more intensive training in specific management and planning techniques to district
health officers and key central level staff (about 46 persons). Training would be



- 16 -
organized in six modules corresponding to disciplines such as health planning, health
information systems, financial management, program evaluation, etc. The training
modules would be developed and conducted by the Institute's core team of trainers.
External trainers would assist in conducting the first round of training modules--each
would be delivered at least twice under the HSRP--and in carrying out an evaluation of
each module following its first delivery.
2.14   For the Management of Basic Health Services subcomponent, the HSRP would finance the
technical assistance contract with the University of Montreal under a twinning arrangement with MOH
which consists of about 16 person-months of specialist services. The project will also finance about 39
person-months of external fellowships in health services management and planning; the costs (including
materials and per diem) of organizing local training seminars for about 200 members of the 36 District
Health Teams and central support personnel; and office equipment and one computer workstation 5 with
appropriate software for the Institute of Public Health.
B.2 Retraining Hospital Staff (US$0.9 million base cost)
2.15 This subcomponent would support development and implementation of the Government's program
to retrain (i) hospital physicians and (ii) nurses. It complements retraining programs for primary care
personnel (general practitioners, nurses and midwives) being supported by EU/PHARE and UNICEF,
as well as an ongoing hospital nurses' training program being supported by the Swiss Government
through a Swiss Nursing School, Ecole le Bon Secours. Given its focus on improving the skills of
doctors and nurses currently working in district and regional hospitals, it should result in an immediate
improvement in the quality of health service delivery at the secondary level.
(i)    Hospital Physicians Retraining (US$0.6 million base cost). Retraining of hospital
physicians would be carried out through: a) preparation of a needs assessment by MOH;
and b) subsequent design and implementation of retraining activities to be financed by a
Retraining Fund. The most urgent needs include the improvement of routine hospital
practices (e.g. hospital hygiene, sterilization procedures) and upgrading of curricula for
basic inpatient specialties. Once retraining needs have been systematically assessed, the
Dean of the Faculty of Medicine will be responsible for commissioning the preparation
of retraining programs by interested faculty and medical personnel. Proposed programs
would be submitted to a small committee of MOH directors for review and approval in
accordance with priority retraining needs agreed with IDA. Funds would be provided
under the HSRP as a Retraining Fund (US$0.5 million) managed by the Dean of the
Faculty of Medicine and the Project Coordinating Unit.. The Fund would support the
participation of foreign lecturers and training specialists, the preparation of documentation
and the costs of organizing seminars. In addition, the HSRP would finance office
equipment and workstations for training coordinators at the Faculty of Medicine, as well
as a study visit to examine similar retraining efforts in other countries. The preparation
of an acceptable Retraining Needs Assessment defining priority retraining needs would
be a condition for disbursement of the Retraining Fund.
5     Workstation includes a personal computer, printer, computer accessories and standard software, and
office furniture for one person.



- 17 -
(ii)   Hospital Nurses Retraining (US$0.3 million base cost). Project support for nurses
retraining would complement a program which is currendy funded by the Swiss
Government to revise curricula and training techniques in Albania's Nursing Schools.
The project would not fund training seminars directly, but would supply pedagogic
equipment, supplies, furniture, office equipment and limited facilities repair which would
allow the MOH and the faculty of the nursing schools to better prepare and deliver in-
service training programs in hospitals as well as at the nursing schools. Nursing school
staff would be assisted in preparation and delivery of these retraining seminars and
courses by the staff of the Ecole le Bon Secours, with which the MOH has an ongoing
twinning arrangement.
B3 Health Policy and Planning (US$13 million base cost)
2.16   The HSRP would assist the recendy-established MOH to build capacity at the central level for
policy development, sector planning and resource management.  As a first intervention in the health
sector, the HSRP would support only the initial steps in a longer-term process of institution-building and
implementation of relatively complex sectoral reforms. These initial steps would permit more intensive
institution-building and policy reform in the health sector over the medium term, to be supported by IDA-
funded follow-on projects. Under this first Project, support would be provided in two areas: i) Health
Planning and Financing; and ii) Drug Policy and Distribution.
(i)    Health Planning and Financing. The HSRP would support training, study visits,
technical assistance, policy studies and associated office equipment and supplies to
strengthen planning and financing. This would include support for improved resource
management (infrastructure planning, staffing, etc),  budgeting and investment
programming in the Department of Economics (DEcon). The Health Financing Unit in
the DEcon would be supported in its first phase of introducing new pricing policies and
cost reimbursement mechanisms for health services and essential drugs. As a highest
priority, Government will seek to reduce subsidy rates on drugs and eliminate lump-sum
subsidies to Fufarma, the inefficient parastatal which formerly had a monopoly on drug
distribution. It would do so through development of a pricing policy and reimbursement
mechanism for drugs which: a) increases cost-sharing through introduction of
copayments; b) channels drug subsidies for essential drugs to the pharmacy level; and c)
remunerates public and private sector pharmacies equally for similar products. A Drug
Pricing and Reimbursement Study would help Government to define this pricing policy
and an administrative mechanism for cost-sharing. The HSRP would also support a study
and follow-up actions to develop a capitation payment system for reimbursement of
routine primary care. The HSRP would also assist the MOH in national program
development for cost-effective health interventions at the primary level, to improve the
quality of maternal and child health.
(ii)   Drug Policy and Distribution. IDA has joined with the EU and the WHO in making
a commitment to support both the formulation of a coherent pharmaceutical policy and
the improved efficiency and reliability of drug distribution mechanisms in Albania. This
will require fundamental restructuring of the pharmaceutical sector over the medium
term. In this Project, IDA would support training, study visits, technical assistance,
policy studies and associated equipment and supplies needed to carry out only the first
steps in this medium term process. With input from an audit report completed as part
of Project preparation (with funding from a Japanese grant), the MOH decided to support



- 18 -
privatization of Fufarma and development of an alternative public sector procurement and
distribution capacity which would rely on private sector contracting to improve
efficiency. The HSRP would provide support to study this proposal (the results of which
can only be implemented in the medium term) and strengthen logistics management
capacity in the MOH Department of Pharmacy (DPharm).
2.17   During negotiations, Government provided assurances that: (i) a sector-wide stafring survey
will be completed and discussed with IDA by mid-term review (March 31, 1997), and
recommendations will be implemented thereafter as agreed with IDA; (ii) a rolling three-year public
health investment program and the draft health sector budget (recurrent and investment budgets)
will be prepared annually by MOH and MOF and reviewed jointly with IDA by November 30 of
each project year. During the annual health sector budget review, IDA and the MOH would agree
on rehabilitation and consolidation objectives for the coming year under the IDA project. In
addition, the results of the Drug Pricing and Reimbursement Study would be discussed with IDA
by April 30, 1995, and implemented thereafter as agreed with IDA.
2.18   For the Health Policy and Planning subcomponent, the HSRP would finance 44 person-months
of specialist services, 52 person-months of external training and short-term study tours, local training
seminars and workshops, and office equipment aid computers for the Departments of Economics and
Pharmacy.
B.4 Project Coordination (US$0.5 rillion base cost).
2.19   For the project to be implemented smoothly and efficiently, the Project's multifaceted activities
have to be coordinated and monitored effectively, communications and linkages between implementing
institutions maintained, and resources made available to implementing units in a timely and effective
manner. For this purpose, the MOH has established a Project Coordination Unit (PCU) in the Office of
the Planning Advisor, under the general direction of the Minister of Health, to oversee and coordinate
project-related implementation activities. The PCU consists of full-time qualified staff headed by a
Project Director, assisted by a Procurement Officer, a Financial Officer, and a bilingual secretary. An
appropriate number of support personnel would be recruited as needed for the PCU. The responsibilities,
staff functions and resource requirements of the PCU are described in detail in Chapter HI. Close
collaboration between the PCU and the Technical Services Department (TSD), in particular, would be
needed in the area of procurement of works and goods (equipment, materials, furniture). During
negotiations, Government provided assurances that it would maintain the Project Coordination Unit
throughout the project implementation period with staMng, functions and authorities acceptable to
IDA.
2.20   For the Project Coordination subcomponent, the HSRP would finance: i) 12 person-months of
assistance by a Project Adviser who will advise PCU, as well as conduct the local training of PCU/TSD
staff on project implementation, coordination and procurement processes; ii) three person-months of
external training (on procurement, project administration) for key PCU and TSD personnel; iii)
computers, office equipment and three vehicles deployed for project supervision use by the PCU and
TSD; iv) salaries of contractual PCU staff; and iv) operational costs for project coordination during the
project implementation period.



- 19 -
C. Environmental Impact
2.21   This is a Category C project--No Appreciable Environmental Impact. The HSRP has positive
environmental features brought about by the improvement of sanitation facilities for the disposal of
infectious wastes and other solid wastes in the rehabilitated health centers and hospitals (footnote 2, para.
2.4 and para. 2.8). Environmental considerations concerning the use of materials available locally for
health center and hospital rehabilitation and maintenance (para. 2.10), would be factored into definitions
of building quality and maintenance standards, and in specification of building materials.



- 20 -
III. PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING AND IMPLEMENTATION
A. Project Costs
3.1    Summary of Project Costs. Total project cost is estimated at SDR8.6 million (about US$12.4
million equivalent) including contingencies, local taxes and duties. Total contingencies (physical and
price) amount to US$1.9 million which represent 13 percent of total base cost (US$14.1 million). The
project cost includes the rehabilitation of facilities, furniture, equipment and materials, vehicles,
consulting services, fellowships and training and incremental operating costs generated by the investmnents
during the implementation period. Base cost estimates were calculated in US dollar equivalent and reflect
costs at the time of negotiations in August 1994. The estimated project costs are summarized in Tables
2 and 3 below and shown in detail in Annex 3 .
Table 2: PROJECT COST SUMMARY BY COMPONENT
(US$thousand)
(US$
(Lek '0001                  '000)           Foreign  Base
Locai   Foreign    Total    Local  Foreign   Total   Exch. Costs
A. Health Services
Rehabilitation
Primary Health Centers    214,557  111,081  325,638   2,146   1,111    3,256      34    23
Regional Hospitals        248,120  495,000  743,120   2,481   4,950    7,431      67    53
Health Facilities Maintenance    4,963    8,625   13,588  50      86      136     63     1
Subtotal                   467,639  614,706  1,082,34   4,676   6,147   10,824      57    77
B. Capacity Building
Management of Basic Health
Services                   10,867   42,375   53,242      109    424       532     80     4
Retraining Hospital Staff  33,879   56,345   90,224      339    563      902      62     6
Health Policy and Planning  28,762   99,278  128,040    288    993    1,280       78     9
Project Coordination        9,131   44,125   53,256       91    441      533      83     4
Subtotal                    82,639  242,123  324,762      826   2,421    3,248     75    23
Total BASELINE COSTS       550,279  856,829  1,407,10   5,503   8,568   14,071      61   100
Physical Contingencies     52,217   55,293  107,510    522       553    1,075     51     8
Price Contingencies        44,127   41,717   85,844    441       417     858      49     6
Total PROJECT COSTS        646,623  953,622  1,600,46   6,466   9,538   16,005      60   114



- 21 -
Table 3: PROJECT COST SUMMARY BY CATEGORY OF EXPENDITURE
(US$thousand)
(US$
(Lek '000)                  '000)          Foreign  Base
Local   Foreign    Total    Local  Foreign   Total   Exch. Costs
1. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works - Hospitals   141,751  187,000  328,751   1,418   1,870    3,288  57    23
B. Civil Works - Health
Centers                 181,982   84,573  266,555   1,820    846    2,666       32    19
C. Civil Works - Other
facilities                4,140        0    4,140       41       0      41       0     0
D. Equipment, Vehicles and
Spares                   24,862  327,109  351,971      249   3,271    3,520     93    25
E. Furniture             11,088   11,870   22,958      111     119     230      52     2
F. Architectural &
Engineering Fees         25,205   16,419   42,623      252    164      416      39     3
G. Specialist Services    3,312  121,975  125,287       33   1,220    1,253     97     9
H. External Training          0   36,150   36,150        0    362      362    100      3
I. Local Training        58,063   32,608   90,671      581     326     907      36     6
J. Materials and Supplies  5,316   39,125   44,441      53    391      444      88     3
Total Investment Costs    455,718  856,829  1,312,54   4,557   8,568   13,126    65    93
I. Recurrent Costs
A. Staff Salaries             0        0         0       0       0       0       0     0
B. Vehicle 0 & M          3,450        0    3,450       35       0      35       0     0
C. Equipment 0 & M       70,329        0   70,329      703       0     703       0     5
D. Building 0 & M        20,781        0   20,781      208       0     208       0     1
Total Recurrent Costs      94,560        0   94,560     946       0      946      0     7
Total BASELINE COSTS      550,279  856,829  1,407,10   5,503   8,568   14,071    61   100
Physical Contingencies   52,217   55,293  107,510    522    553    1,075        51     8
Price Contingencies      44,127   41,717   85,844    441       417     858      49     6
Total PROJECT COSTS       646,623  953,840  1,600,46   6,466   9,538   16,005    60   114
3.2    Basis of Cost Estimates. Project costs were estimated on the following basis:
(a)    Base Costs. All project costs were estimated in US dollars because inflation of the Lek
over the life of the Project is difficult to predict. Costs shown in Lek are the result of
converting dollar estimates at the official rate of 101 Lek/US$1.00 (September 1994).
The average costs of consulting services are based on recent contracts for comparable
services in other IDA-financed projects in Albania, i.e.: i) local consultants at US$100
per month; and ii) foreign specialist services at US$16,000 per month. This unit cost
includes fees, relocation/recruitment costs, housing and subsistence, and overheads.
Short-term fellowships and study visits are estimated to cost US$7,000 per staff month
on the average. Price estimates for medical equipment are based on current catalogue



- 22 -
prices provided by a hospital equipment consultant. Furniture costs are based on itemized
lists and current market prices in Albania. Information on PHC building costs were
gathered from consultations with private building contractors, these average about
US$120 per square meter for refurbishing and US$230 per sq.m. for new construction.
Hospital rehabilitation costs would average about US$200 per square meter.
Remunerations of local staff are based on current public service salary scales.
(b)    Contingency Allowances. Project costs include a contingency allowance for unforeseen
physical variations (US$1.1 million), equal to five percent of the estimated base cost of
consulting services, fellowships and staff salaries, and ten percent for all other project
items. Because of the significant differential between local and foreign price escalation
rates, the overall price increases for the Project (US$0.9 million equivalent) are based on
estimated annual foreign price increases at the rate of 2.8 percent applied to both foreign
and local costs for the duration of the HSRP.  This approach is justified on the
assumption that the Government will continue the policy of adjusting the Lek exchange
rate to reflect the inflation differential between Albania and its trading partners.
(c)    Foreign Exchange Component.  The foreign exchange component was estimated as
follows: i) building refurbishment - 55 percent for hospital rehabilitation, and 30 percent
for PHCs and other minor facilities; ii) office and medical furniture and equipment,
materials and software - 95 percent; iii) expatriate consulting services, fellowships and
studies - 100 percent; iv) local consultants, local training, local staff salaries - 0 percent;
and v) maintenance costs - 0 percent. The resulting foreign exchange component,
including contingencies, is estimated at US$9.6 million, or about 60 percent of total
project cost.
(d)    Taxes. Project costs include an estimated US$0.7 million equivalent in taxes on locally
procured works, goods and services. In January 1994, the Government issued an
exemption on the payment of duties and taxes on goods (equipment and materials) and
services imported directly in connection with foreign-financed projects such as the
proposed HSRP.
3.3    Recurrent Costs.  Recurrent cost estimates included in the total project cost are only the
incremental operating costs generated by project investments. These recurrent costs arise from: i)
maintenance of new equipment and vehicles; ii) maintenance of rehabilitated facilities; and iii) salaries
of several PCU staff. These costs are included in total project costs only to ensure that these amounts
are budgeted as Government counterpart funds on an annual basis. They represent approximately 0.5
percent of the MOH's recurrent budget, and are thus deemed sustainable, particularly given the broader
fiscal impact of the project, which takes into account recurrent cost savings resulting from streamlining
of the public health network (see below).
3.4    Project Sustainability.  Investments in rehabilitation under the HSRP would be linked to the
downsizing of facilities and consolidation of the public health network, as well as to improved planning
and budgeting for maintenance activities. The norms and procedures for downsizing and consolidation
which have been developed for the project's six pilot zones would be applied nationwide, enhancing the
financial sustainability of the system as a whole. Overall, the consolidation of the infrastructure network
would be budget neutral, with savings generated by elimination of redundant facilities and staff serving
to increase the operating and maintenance budgets for the rehabilitated network. While some staff
reduction is envisioned in the pilot areas, the full extent of staff redundancy on a nationwide basis--and,



- 23 -
hence, the full extent of savings to be generated over time-would only be Inown following a survey of
staffing patterns to be supported by the HSRP.
3.5     Financial sustainability of the health system would also be enhanced by capacity building
activities at the central level which are supported under the HSRP. These activities would focus on
improving sector planning and budgeting and developing financing mechanisms for health services which
create incentives for greater efficiency, cost recovery and cost containment.   Thus, increased
Government spending on non-wage operating costs--particularly essential drugs, medical supplies and
maintenance--would be sustainable in coming years due to: i) consolidation of physical infrastructure; ii)
rationalization of health personnel; iii) elimination of unnecessary lump-sum drug subsidies; iv) generation
of additional revenues for recurrent expenditures through introduction of a payroll contribution; and v)
cost recovery on drugs through introduction of out-of-pocket copayments.
B. Project Financing
3.6 The proposed IDA Credit of SDR8.6 million (US$12.4 million equivalent) would finance 78 percent
of the total project cost, or 86 percent of the foreign exchange component and 74 percent of local costs
net of taxes. Government would finance the remaining 14 percent of foreign exchange costs, 26 percent
of local costs and all taxes and duties, for a total of US$3.6 million equivalent. On the Government's
request, IDA has approved a Project Preparation Facility (PPF) with a Project Preparation Advance of
US$775,000 equivalent to complete project preparation activities including staff training and equipment
and vehicles for the PCU and TSD for project coordination activities. The project financing plan is shown
in Tables 4 and 5 below.
Table 4: COST SUMMARY BY COMPONENT & SOURCE OF FINANCING
(US$ thousand)
Duties
Govt.           IDA             Total            For.   (ExcL      &
Amount   %    Amount   %    Amount   %           Exch.   Taxes)  Taxes
A. Health Services Rebabilitation
Primary Health Centers          618    16    3,232      84    3,850      24     1,302    2,317    230
Regional Hospitals            2,698     32    5,652     68    8,350      52    5,448    2,518    384
Health Facilities Maintenance     3      2       150    98       153      1       96       54      3
Subtotal Health Services
Rehabilitation                  3,318    27    9,035      73   12,353     77     6,847    4,889    617
B. Capacity Building
Management of Basic Health
Services                          4      1      595    99        599      4      471      125      3
Retraining Hospital Staff        74      7      954    93    1,028        6      637      388      3
Health Policy and Planning       98      7     1,345    93    1,443       9     1,107     282     53
Project Coordination             63    11       518    89        581      4      476      105      0
Total Disbursement              3,557    22    12,447    78    16,005    100    9,538    5,790    676



- 24 -
Table 5: SUMMARY BY EXPENDITURE CATEGORY & FINANCING
(US$ thousand)
Local  Duties
Govt.          IDA            Total           For.   (Excl.    &
Amount   %    Amount   %    Amount   %         Exch.   Taxes)  Taxes
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works - Hospitals  250    7   3,732    94    3,991    25    2,264   1,487    240
B. Civil Works - Health
Centers                   474    15   2,686    85    3,160    20        997   1,973    190
C. Civil Works - Other
facilities                  7    15        39    85       46      0        0      43      3
D. Equipment, Vehicles
and Spares              1,583    42    2,161    58    3,744    23    3,484       107    153
E. Furniture               41    15      231    85       272      2     140      91    41
F. Architectural &
Engineering Fees            0      0     473   100       473      3      185    288       0
G. Specialist Services      0      0    1,366   100    1,366      9    1,329      37      0
H. External Training        0      0     394   100       394      2     394        0      0
I. Local Training           0      0    1,049   100    1,049      7     376    674        0
J. Materials and Supplies  62    12      454    88       516      3     453        4     59
Total Investment Costs    2,416    16  12,584    84   15,009    93    9,621   4,704    685
II. Recurfent Costs
A. Staff Salaries           0      0        0     0        0      0        0       0      0
B. Vehicle O & M           41   100         0     0       41      0        0      41      0
C. Equipment 0 & M        848   100         0     0      848      5        0    848       0
D. Building O & M          25   100         0     0      258      2       0    258        0
Total Recuffent Costs     1,147   100        0      0    1,147     7        0   1,147      0
Total Disbursement        3,572    22   12,584    78   16,156   100    9,621   5,851    685
C. Project Management and Implementation
3.7    The Minister of Health would exercise final authority over the implementation of the HSRP. In
keeping with the Project's capacity-building objectives, MOH line departments and units will implement the
project components, assisted by qualified specialists as necessary. To ensure that project objectives,
performance targets and schedules are met successfully, the Project Coordination Unit established in the
Office of the Planning Advisor under the general direction of the Minister (para. 2.16), would be responsible
for coordinating all project-related tasks.  Key personnel of the PCU  include the Project Director,
Procurement Officer, Financial Officer, and secretary, all of whom are proficient in English. Support staff
would be recruited as necessary as the workload moves towards peak stages. The PCU would be
strengthened by an external Project Adviser (para. 2.16)
3.8   Project Coordination. MOH will maintain PCU as a compact, well-equipped unit with direct access
to decision-making authority in the Ministry and other agencies involved in the HSRP. The PCU would have



- 25 -
three sets of main responsibilities: coordination and monitoring of project-related implementation activities;
administration of procurement action; and management of project funds. In all three areas, the PCU will
channel as appropriate any implementation problems/issues which require the attention of MOH management
and/or IDA. The PCU's specific responsibilities are:
(i)    Coordination and monitoring. The PCU will be the principal liaison with other institutions
outside the MOH, including IDA and other donors, for project administration and supervision
purposes. It will ensure that all resources utilized under the HSRP (financial, physical, staff,
etc.) are in accordance with the Project's priorities and objectives. To this end, the PCU
will a) maintain up-to-date, detailed implementation schedules of each component/sub-
component; b) monitor compliance by the institutions concerned, with Project/Credit
covenants and with agreed performance indicators; and c) monitor the placement and
performance of staff undertaking external training, and of consultants contracted under the
HSRP. The PCU will prepare and distribute consolidated semi-annual progress reports on
project implementation; and annual financial audit reports.
(ii)   Procurement. The PCU would have overall responsibility for ensuring that all procurement
activities under the HSRP are undertaken in accordance with the procedures and
documentation agreed with IDA. To this effect, PCU will clear all standard procurement
documentation for works, goods, and services after obtaining IDA's prior approval where
required. The PCU will ensure that the Standard Bidding Documents (SBD) prepared by the
Bank for IDA-financed operations in Albania, are appropriately modified to suit project
requirements, and used consistently. The PCU will not itself conduct the procurement of
works and equipment contracts, but will review/clear bid award recommendations for major
works and equipment contracts undertaken by TSD (para. 3.8). PCU will forward the
relevant bid documents to IDA for prior review and/or no objections, and will be responsible
for obtaining and/or following up on Government/MOH action respective of IDA's
procurement action. The procurement of fellowships and technical assistance (TA) contracts
will be implemented by the PCU, with assistance as appropriate, from the relevant
implementing departments/units in finalizing proposal documents and evaluating TA proposals
received (para. 3.9a). The matrix of procurement responsibilities under the Project is shown
in Annex 5.
(iii)   Management of Project funds. The PCU will take measures to facilitate the flow of
resources to MOH agencies to enable successful implementation of their project-related tasks.
The PCU will administer the Special Account (para. 3.25) established for the HSRP, process
disbursement applications, and monitor the use of Credit funds. PCU will maintain up-to-
date accounts and records (contracts, purchase orders, guarantees, etc.) of all project-related
expenditure (investment and recurrent, IDA and Government counterpart funds), and keep
updated estimates of the total costs involved to complete the Project. The PCU will monitor
and take appropriate steps to obtain adequate Government counterpart funds to finance the
planned project activities. In this connection, the PCU will consolidate the estimates,
prepared by each implementing Department/unit, of the financial and resource needs of their
respective components for the succeeding implementation year. These consolidated budgetary
estimates would be discussed with IDA during the annual project performance reviews, but
sufficiently in advance of the Government's annual budgetary presentation/approval processes
to accommodate appropriate changes.



- 26 -
3.9    Project Implementation Responsibilities. The implementation of each project subcomponent would
be carried out by the respective MOH technical departments/units, as described below. The procurement and
contract payment responsibilities are outlined in Annex 5:
Component A: Health Services Rehabilitation
Facilities Rehabilitation and Maintenance. The Department of Public Health (DPH) will have
overall responsibility for PHC rehabilitation. The Department of Hospitals (DHosp) will have overall
responsibility for hospital rehabilitation. TSD will exercise overall technical responsibility over the
implementation of all rehabilitation and upgrading works, and be responsible for implementing the
Facilities Maintenance subcomponent by developing a strategy for the maintenance of all physical
assets (buildings and equipment) in the public health system. A District Project Team (DPT) in each
pilot district will have primary responsibility for implementing the rehabilitation and furnishing of
PHCs within their respective districts. The Directors of the Shkoder and Vlore Hospitals will have
primary responsibility for the rehabilitation of their respective hospitals.  The TSD will:  i)
collaborate with DPH and DHosp to ensure that MOH standards for PHCs and hospitals are met; ii)
supervise the work of architectural/engineering consultants; iii) prepare bid packages and bidding
documents for major works and equipment; and iv) in collaboration with PCU, conduct and evaluate
bids, award contracts, and supervise the performance of contractors' and suppliers' contracts. The
Department of Pharmacy (DPharm) will be responsible for the procurement and distribution of
medical supplies for primary care to be delivered to PHCs. Implementation responsibilities for
facilities rehabilitation are described further in Annex 2.
Component B: Capacity Building
Managrement or Basic Health Services. Implementation of this sub-component will be under the
responsibility of the DPH. DPH will collaborate closely with the Institute of Public Health and
Department of Human Resources (DHR) for training activities. The training component would be
implemented in two phases: Phase 1, general training workshops for district and central level staff
in health management and program development, will be prepared and executed by the DPH in
collaboration with DHR, with external support through the twinning arrangement. Phase 2, modular
training programs for specific health management and programming disciplines, will be prepared and
implemented by the Institute of Public Health with the collaboration of the DPH and DHR, with
limited external support through the twinning arrangement. A staff member from the Institute of
Public Health, who would benefit from a long term fellowship at the twinning institution, will assume
responsibility upon his return for preparation and implementation of the training modules.
Retraining Hospital Staff
Needs Assessment: The assessment of retraining needs for physicians will be carried out by the DHR
in close collaboration with the Director of Hospitals for Physicians Training. The DHR will be
responsible for: i) ensuring close cooperation with the Faculty of Medicine and Nursing School; ii)
communicating the results of the assessments to Faculty of Medicine staff; iii) eliciting feedback on
the assessment findings from teaching staff; and iv) developing consensus on retraining needs.
Program Design and Implementation for Physicians Retraining: An institutional framework for
retraining has been designed with the close collaboration of the DHR, the Faculty of Medicine, and
district hospital administrations. The Physicians Retraining Fund will be managed by the Vice Dean
for Post-Graduate Training who would be responsible for organizing and coordinating the preparation



- 27 -
of training seminar proposals by the staff of the Faculty of Medicine. Regional and district hospital
staff, who currently serve as correspondents to the Faculty of Medicine for the practical training of
student doctors, would be responsible for facilitating the delivery of seminars held in regional and
district hospitals.   The Director of Hospitals for Physicians Training will be responsible for
approving specific training seminar proposals once they are developed by the schools and for
developing a methodology, in cooperation with the PCU, for evaluating results.
Nurses Retraining: The DHR will be responsible for approving retraining programs developed by the
Tirana Nursing School with the support of a Swiss Nurses' Training Institution, Le Bon Secours.
MOH has an existing and successful twinning arrangement with Le Bon Secours. The TSD will
procure the equipment (with PCU clearance) and materials to support the Tirana Nursing School.
Health Policy and Planning.
Health Planning and Financing. The MOH Department of Economics (DEcon) will have primary
responsibility for all project activities related to annual budgeting, investment programming and
strengthening of the health financing administration. DEcon will be assisted in these tasks by an
external Financial Planning Consultant. Responsibility for investment programming will also lie
with the MOH Office of the Planning Advisor and Committee for Health Planning (a committee of
all MOH senior managers), which will have overall responsibility for sector planning and donor
coordination. The staffing survey and recommended staffing plan will be the joint responsibility of
the Office of the Planning Advisor and the Department of Human Resources. National program
development for cost-effective maternal and child health interventions at the primary level will be the
responsibility of the Department of Public Health.
Drug Policy and Distribution. The MOH Department of Pharmacy (DPharm) will be primarily
responsible for Project activities aimed at developing drug policy and building capacity for logistics
management. DPharm will take joint responsibility with the Department of Economics for
completing the Drug Pricing and Reimbursement Study and implementing its recommendations.
Training and technical support for logistics management will be managed by DPharm.
3.10   Each implementing technical department/unit would ensure that its respective project activities are
carried out in accordance with agreed project objectives and performance targets. A Project Operational
Manual will be compiled by the PCU from documents developed during project preparation and appraisal.
The POM would constitute the implementation guidelines for each component/sub-component, and will
include, for each project component, detailed TORs for consulting services, base implementation schedules
and procedures, performance targets and monitoring indicators, detailed cost estimates, and technical
background as appropriate.    Specific tasks, assigned in the POM, for which the implementing
departments/units would typically be responsible include:
(a)   in collaboration with the PCU: i) finalizing TORs for the specialist services, feasibility
studies, and training required in their respective parts of the Project; ii) assigning bid
evaluation committees; iii) evaluating proposals received for consulting services; and iv)
authorizing the award of contracts;
(b)    defining the conditions of closure in terms of redeployment of staff and redirection of all
expenditures (supplies, maintenance, etc.) associated with PHCs;



- 28 -
(c)    monitoring the implementation of local training and seminars; and identifying and tapping
local expertise to assist in activities such as preparation of detailed procedures and updating
implementation schedules;
(d)    preparing periodic reports on the implementation progress of their respective components,
and submitting these to the PCU for inclusion in the semi-annual report on project
performance;
(e)    preparing physical and financial forecasts of future activities required to implement their
component(s) of the Project, and forwarding these estimates to the PCU for inclusion in
budgetary proposals for the succeeding implementation year (para. 3.6c).
3.11   The preparation of a POM in form and substance acceptable to IDA, would be a condition of
credit effectiveness.
3.12   Monitoring and Reporting. The PCU would be responsible for project monitoring. The Project
Implementation Plan outlined in Annex 2 includes a framework for systematic monitoring and evaluation of
progress in project implementation. It identifies a set of performance indicators to be used in project
supervision. A detailed outline for routine progress reporting would be included in the POM. This outline
would be designed in such a way as to encourage regular monitoring of project activities and resource
availabilities. On a semi-annual basis, the PCU would submit to IDA a consolidated report on the status of
project implementation, covering each component, its objectives and activities, and including: i) current status
and issues; ii) deviations, if any, from the implementation plan and project targets; iii) recommendations for
actions and forward planning; and iv) actual and planned expenditures. During negotiations, Government
provided assurances that MOH will prepare and submit to IDA by March 31 and September 30 of each
project year, reports on the progress achieved in Project implementation according to performance
indicators agreed with IDA.
3.13   Mid-Term Review and Evaluation. By March 31, 1997 (or about two and one-half years after Credit
Effectiveness), the PCU would undertake jointly with IDA a mid-term review of progress in project
implementation to determine whether: i) the HSRP's intended objectives remain valid; ii) implementation is
advancing satisfactorily to justify its continued implementation; and iii) any adjustments to, or significant
restructuring of, the Project are necessary to improve its effectiveness. The Project Operational Manual will
be updated following the mid-term review and the annual work program for the following year would reflect
the recommendations made. During negotiations, the Government provided assurances that a mid-term
project review would be conducted by March 31, 1997, according to terms of reference agreed with
IDA.
3.14   Project Completion and Evaluation. Project completion is expected by September 30, 1999. The
PCU would be responsible for preparing a Project Implementation Completion Report.
3.15  IDA Supervision. Because this is the first project in the health sector in Albania, the HSRP would
require intensive supervision, especially in the first year of implementation. Project monitoring reports and
indicators, the POM, and a careful review of project expenditures and availability of project resources would
form the basis for the supervision missions. Staffing for supervision missions would need to include, in
addition to the task manager and project implementation specialist, periodic visits by specialists in health
planning, pharmaceutical policy and health finance. The Supervision Plan is shown in Annex 4.



- 29 -
D. Project Procurement Arrangements
3.16    Project procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 6.  Standard Bidding Documents have
been developed by IDA for Albania and would be utilized for the procurement of IDA-financed works,
goods, and related services. Expenditures financed entirely with Government funds are shown under the
N.B.F. (Non-Bank Financed) column. A Procurement Plan (bid packaging, estimated costs, timing) is
provided in Annex 5.
Table 6: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS I/
(US$ million)
Category of Expenditure                              ICB          Other        N.B.F b/ Total
1. Civil works                                       3.9           3.1 _l                      7.0
(3.7)        (2.6)                       (6.3)
2. Equipment, vehicles, furniture
materials                                      1.7           1.4 di       1.5 _/        4.6
(1.6)        (1.2)                       (2.8)
3. Technical assistance, fellowships                               3.3 f/                      3.3
and training                                               (3.3)                       (3.3)
4. Incremental recurrent costs                                                   1.1 g/        1.1
(0.0)
Total                                    5.6         7.8           2.6          16.0
(5.3)       (7.1)         (0.0)        (12.4)
Note: Figures in parenthes are the respective amounts fuianced by IDA.
I Figures may not add up exactly due to rounding.
k/ N.B.F. - Non-Bank Fmanced expenditure.
pI Civil works (aggregate US$2.6 million equivalent) for primary health care facilities (US$2,000 - USS100,000) to be awarded
through local competitive procedures for snmall works in accordance with procedures and documentation agreed with DA.
g/ InterationaI shopping (aggregate US$890,000) packages estimated between US$10,000 and US$100,000 per contrct;
Local shopping (aggregate US$310,000) packages estimated at less than US$10,000 per contract; and
Direct contraeting (aggregate US$40,000) proprietary items such as jounals and computer software.
e/ Hospil equipment financed by Government.
/ Services of consultants/institutions (advisors, experts, fellowships/training) to be enaged in accordance with IDA Guidelins
for the Use of Consultanu.
g/ Itema of recurrent expenditure financed entirely by the Government and procured in accordance with regular Govermnt
procedure.



- 30 -
3.17  The PCU would have overall responsibility for procurement activities under the project (para.
3.8(ii)). Specific procurement responsibilities under the HSRP are provided in Annex 5.
3.18   Procurement procedures under the Project would be as follows:
(i)    Procurement of Goods. Goods procured under the HSRP would consist of medical
equipment, medical supplies, office equipment and supplies (including computers and
related-equipment, software, photocopy machines, facsimile machines), vehicles, training
materials and furniture. To the extent feasible, invitations for bids on equipment would
be grouped into sizable bid packages in order to promote competition and benefit from
economies of scale in bid prices. Contracts for goods estimated to cost the equivalent
of US$100,000 or more would be procured following international competitive bidding
(ICB) procedures in accordance with the Guidelines - Procurement under IBRD Loans
and IDA Credits (May 1992). Goods procured through ICB would constitute about 55
percent of the total cost of IDA-financed goods. The remaining 45 percent of IDA
financed goods would be in minor packages suitable for procurement methods other than
ICB as follows: (a) contracts for goods estimated to cost between US$10,000 and
US$100,000 per package (aggregate IDA US$890,000), may be procured through
international shopping (IS) on the basis at least three price quotations from suppliers
from three eligible source countries; (b) contracts for goods (aggregate IDA US$310,000)
estimated to cost less than the equivalent of US$10,000 per contract, including (i)
essential PHC furniture which are of simple manufacture, bulky, and limited in quantity
as procurement is timed with completion of PHC works contracts, and (ii) off-the-shelf
items such as office and training supplies and small equipment, may be purchased
through local shopping (IS) on the basis of a minimum of three price quotations
obtained from qualified suppliers; and (c) contracts for goods which IDA agrees are of
a proprietary nature, e.g. computer software and medical journals/reference materials,
etc. (aggregate US$40,000 IDA financing), may be acquired through direct procurement
from proprietors and/or copyright holders, in accordance with procedures acceptable to
IDA. Other hospital equipment (aggregate value US$1.5 million) would be financed
entirely by the Government.
(ii)   Procurement of Works. Civil works contracts include the rehabilitation and upgrading
of 100 primary health centers in six districts, and the rehabilitation of two regional
hospitals. Civil works contracts for the two regional hospitals would be procured
following ICB procedures in accordance with IDA Procurement Guidelines. Local
contractors competing for works contracts under ICB, would be given a margin of
preference of seven and one-half percent (7.5%) in bid evaluation over competing foreign
bids, in accordance with relevant provisions in the IDA Procurement Guidelines.
Contracts for the rehabilitation of the 100 PHCs are dispersed and of small value, with
contracts estimated to range between US$2,000 and US$100,000 (aggregate IDA US$2.6
million). It is not feasible to create large enough packages for these contracts to attract
foreign bidders, so works contracts for the PHCs would be awarded following local
competitive bidding procedures for small works, in accordance with the procedures and
documentation agreed with IDA.



- 31 -
(iii) Procurement of Consulting Services. Consultants for specialized and professional
services financed under the HSRP would be selected in accordance with the Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency (August 1981). Specialized services include five consulting packages (aggregate
IDA US$1.0 million) which could be provided by qualified consulting firms or
institutions: detailed architectural/engineering services for rehabilitating two regional
hospitals, management of basic health services, development of drug policy, and district
management training. The technical assistance package for district management training
(US$250,000 over three years) would be awarded on a sole source basis to the
University of Montreal which has established close working relationships with the MOH.
IDA has found the qualifications and performance of this institution satisfactory, and
retaining the services of this institution will not disrupt the ongoing programs. The
HSRP also includes specialized services (aggregate IDA US$0.5 million) more
appropriately awarded to individual specialists selected from a short list because the fields
of expertise are unrelated, or in the case of construction supervision-services are needed
concurrently in different geographic locations.  To the extent feasible, external
fellowships and training programs (aggregate US$1.5 million IDA financing) shall be
included as part of the technical assistance packages procured from consulting firms and
training institutions. Local training would be carried out at MOH headquarters and at
local MOH offices, with the assistance of above specialists. The list of consulting
services and training needs supported by the HSRP is shown in Annex 2.
(iv)   Incremental Operating Costs. Building and equipment maintenance services, staff salaries
(except PCU contractual staff which are financed by IDA) and other incremental non-
salary recurrent costs would be financed entirely by the Government and would be
procured in accordance with current Government procedures.
3.19   Contract Review. The procurement documentation to be submitted for prior review by IDA
includes: invitations for bid, instructions to bidders, bidding documents, bid evaluation reports, and draft
contracts. It is estimated that prior review would cover about 58 percent of the value of all contracts for
civil works, goods and consulting services. The remaining contracts would be subject to selective post-
award reviews by IDA. A detailed list of procurement packages under the HSRP is provided in Annex
5. Prior review by IDA would be required for all ICB contracts, as well as the following contracts.
(i)    Civil works: the first PHC works contract awarded using local competitive bidding
procedures in each of the six districts;
(ii)    Technical Assistance: (a) contracts above US$50,000 equivalent-all procurement
documentation (budgets, TORs, selection procedures, short lists, letters of invitation,
evaluation report, draft contracts); (b) single-source consultant contracts and assignments
of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by IDA- all procurement documentation
(see above); (c) contracts below US$50,000 equivalent-TORs; and (d) amendments to
the employment of consultants raising the contract value to more than US$50,000-TORs;
(iii) Fellowships and Training: TORs or external fellowships and study visits.
3.20   Procurement Information to be Provided by the Borrower. The PCU would promptly inform IDA
of contract awards and procurement issues, and would include the following procurement information in
periodic progress reports:



- 32 -
(i)   revised cost estimates for individual contracts and the total project, including best
estimates of allowances for physical and price contingencies;
(ii)   revised timing of procurement actions, including advertising, bidding, contract award and
completion time for individual contract; and
(iii)  status of aggregate limits on specified methods of procurement.
E. Disbursements
3.21   The HSRP is among the first IDA operations in the human resources sector in Albania, and
therefore, the country disbursement profile is speculative. The HSRP has been designed within the
capacity of MOH to execute over a five-year period, and credit funds are expected to be fully disbursed
within twenty-two (22) quarters of Board Approval (by March 31, 2000). Disbursements would be made
as follows:
(i)    Goods (equipment, furniture, medical supplies, materials and proprietary items): 100
percent of foreign expenditure; 100 percent of ex-factory cost of locally-manufactured
items; and 85 percent of the cost of locally procured items;
(ii)   Civil works: 100 percent of foreign expenditure and 85 percent of local expenditure;
(iii)   Technical assistance, studies, fellowships, and (local and external) training: 100 percent.
3.22   MOH staff salaries, operation and maintenance costs of facilities (building and equipment) and
other non-salary operational cost would not be funded out of the IDA credit.
3.23   All withdrawal applications will be fully documented except that contracts for goods and works
under US$100,000 equivalent and contracts for technical assistance, studies, fellowships and training
under US$50,000 will be supported by Statements of Expenditure (SOE) certified by the PCU Project
Director. The required supporting documentation would be retained by the PCU for at least one year
after receipt by IDA of the audit report for the year in which the last disbursement was made. This
documentation would be made available for review by the auditors and by visiting IDA staff upon
request. The processing, disbursement and monitoring of the allocations of the proceeds of the IDA
Credit and Government counterpart financing would be managed by the PCU in coordination and
consultation with the MOF.
3.24   Secial Accont. To facilitate timely project implementation, the Government would establish,
maintain and operate, under terms and conditions acceptable to IDA, a Special Account for the PCU,
denominated in US Dollars in a bank acceptable to IDA. Payments of eligible expenditure (works,
goods, furniture, specialist services, training) may be made by the PCU out of the Special Account. The
Special Account may be established in US Dollars, with a total authorized allocation of US$600,000.
The initial deposit into the Special Account will be $300,00, until the aggregate amount of withdrawals
from the Credit account shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 1,00,000. The Special
Account would be replenished on a monthly basis or when the undisbursed balance falls below an amount
equal to 50 percent or less of the initial deposit. In addition, monthly bank statements of the Special
Account which have been reconciled by the Borrower would accompany all replenishment requests.
_ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ -    --------- _-- - - - - - -



- 33 -
3.25   The Ministry of Finance has introduced new procedures to be carried out by the Treasury
Department to monitor the flow of funds deposited in special accounts established for public institutions,
such as the Special Account in the Bank of Albania opened by the Treasury Department for the PCU
under the proposed project. The MOF assigns a code number identifying each Special Account, as well
as an item code number for different categories of eligible expenditure. To inform the Treasury of
expenditures under the Special Account, the PCU would submit a monthly statement indicating the
amount and category (as defined by the Treasury) of each payment.
3.26   Payments of works and furniture contracts administered by the DPT would also be subject to the
MOF requirements. The PCU issues to the District Health Officer heading the DPT an authorization to
spend the funds for project-related works and furniture contracts in the district. The District Health
Officer would verify the amount and purpose of payment stated in the invoice submitted by the local
contractor or furniture supplier, and forward the invoice with its certification to the PCU. The PCU
would, in turn, issue instructions to effect payment out of the Special Account. Responsibilities for
processing contract payments under the Project are shown in Annex 5.
3.27   Project Account and Audits. Separate project accounts would be maintained by the PCU. The
project accounts, including the PCU accounts and the Special Account, would be audited in accordance
with the Guidelines for Financial Reporting and Auditing of Projects Financed by the World Bank (March
1982). Within six months of the end of Government's fiscal year, IDA would be provided with an audit
report of such scope and detail as IDA may reasonably request, including a separate opinion by an
independent auditor acceptable to IDA, on disbursements against certified SOEs. The separate opinion
should mention whether the SOEs submitted during the fiscal year, together with the procedures and
internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related withdrawal
applications.
F. Status of Preparation
3.28   Project preparation undertaken thus far would permit timely implementation of project activities.
MOH has established a Special Account for the PCU. A Project Preparation Advance (US$775,000) has
been authorized and is disbursing. The PCU is fully operational, the Project Director, Procurement
Officer, Financial Officer and bilingual secretary have been appointed and are in place. A Project
Adviser to the PCU has been contracted on TOR satisfactory to IDA. MOH has completed a detailed
district mapping exercise and has selected all 100 sites for PHCs to be rehabilitated under the HSRP, as
well as the 26 PHCs to be rehabilitated during the first project year. IDA has approved design prototypes
for three types of PHC facilities. PCU and TSD staff have received initial procurement training in
Tirana, organized by IDA, and the PCU Procurement Officer has already completed the intensive course
on procurement conducted by ILO/Turin. Three MOH staff selected for short-term fellowships in health
planning and management are already in place at the training institutions (Harvard and Boston Schools
of Public Health). Coordination and implementation responsibilities of the PCU and the implementing
departments/agencies have been established, and detailed first-year implementation plans for each
subcomponent have been developed by each implementing unit/department with assistance from IDA.
The PCU has drawn on the experience of other IDA Project Units in Tirana to initiate project preparation
activities without the benefit of external technical assistance, demonstrating a growing capacity to
implement the HSRP.



- 34 -
IV. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
4.1    The HSRP would help prevent further deterioration in health status (i.e. increases in premature
and preventable morbidity and mortality) during the economic transition by improving the quality of basic
primary and secondary health services. Specifically, it would begin rehabilitation of a streamlined
primary care network and its secondary referral hospitals. It would also update the skills of medical
personnel and improve management of health services at the district level. By building institutional
capacity at the central level in the areas of sector planning, health finance and drug distribution, the
HSRP would begin to improve resource management and incentive structures in the health sector.
B. Risks
4.2    The complexity of procurement for rehabilitation of primary health centers and regional hospitals
is a risk. This will be particularly difficult for a Ministry with no previous experience in Bank lending
and procurement procedures. To facilitate civil works procurement, the Project will follow a simplified
local procurement procedure developed for the IDA-funded Housing Project. In addition, the HSRP will
provide training in procurement and contracting in both the Project Coordination Unit and the Technical
Services Department of the MOH. Another Project risk is the almost complete lack of familiarity with
decentralized decision-making and management in Albania, and the decision by Government to build
local capacity for management of health resources without extensive recourse to technical assistance.
To address this, the Project will focus on building a core team of trainers at the national level which can
transfer management skills and introduce management systems at the district level. A twinning
arrangement with an academic institution will provide limited technical support to the national team.



- 35 -
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
Agreements Reached at Negotiations:
5.3    During negotiations, the Government agreed that:
(i)   the PHC network in the six pilot districts would be consolidated over the project
implementation period according to an implementation plan agreed with IDA and the
PHCs rehabilitated under the project would be staffed according to norms agreed with
IDA (para 2.5);
(ii)  the district hospitals in Puke, Saranda and Delvina, which were not selected for
upgrading to regional hospitals, would be streamlined to offer only four basic inpatient
specialties, and have their staff adjusted accordingly, in accordance with a schedule
agreed with IDA (para 2.7);
(iii)  the regional hospitals rehabilitated under the project would be staffed according to norms
agreed with IDA (para 2.7);
(iv)   a sector-wide staffing survey will be completed and discussed with IDA by mid-term
review (March 31, 1997), and recommendations implemented thereafter as agreed with
IDA (para 2.17);
(v)    a rolling three-year public health investment program and the draft health sector budget
(recurrent and investment budgets) will be prepared annually by MOH and MOF and
reviewed jointly with IDA by November 30 of each project year. During the annual
health sector budget review, IDA and the MOH would agree on rehabilitation and
consolidation objectives for the coming year under the IDA project. (para 2.17);
(vi)  the results of the Drug Pricing and Reimbursement Study will be discussed with IDA by
April 30, 1995, and implemented thereafter as agreed with IDA (para. 2.17);
(vii)  it will maintain throughout the project a Project Coordination Unit with staffing,
functions and authorities acceptable to IDA (para. 2.19);
(viii)  that MOH will prepare and submit to IDA by March 31 and September 30 of each
project year, reports on the progress achieved in Project implementation according to
performance indicators agreed with IDA (para. 3.12);
(ix)   a mid-term project review would be conducted by March 31, 1997, according to terms
of reference agreed with IDA (para. 3.13).
Condition of Effectiveness
5.4   The preparation of a Project Operational Manual (POM) in form and substance acceptable to IDA,
would be a condition of credit effectiveness (para. 3.11).



- 36 -
Condition of Disbursement
5.5   The preparation of an acceptable Retraining Needs Assessment defining priority retraining needs
would be a condition for disbursement of the Retraining Fund (para. 2.15(i)).
Recommendation
5.6   Subject to the above, the proposed operation would provide a suitable basis for an IDA credit of
SDR8.6 million (US$12.4 million equivalent) to the Government of Albania on standard IDA terms, with
40 years maturity.



- 37 -
ALBANIA
HEALTH SERVICES REHABILITATION PROJECT
ANNEXES
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Annex 1: Basic Economic, Social and Sector Data
Annex 2: Project Implementation Plan
Annex 3: Detailed Cost Tables
Annex 4: Supervision Plan
Annex 5: Summary of Procurement Arrangements



- 38 -
ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 1
ALBANIA
HEALTH SERVICES REHABILITATION PROJECT
Basic Country Data
Demo&ap_hy                                                                                 Year'
Total Population (million)                         3384                                     1992
Density (pop./sq.km)                                118                                     1992
Percentage of Population in Rural Areas              64                                     1990
Population Growth Rate (annual rate)                 2                                      1991
Economy and Labor Force
GDP (USS million)                                    692                                    1992
Annual Per Capita GDP (USD)                          204                                    1992
Inflation (5)                                        237                                    1992
Total Labor Force (million)                        1680                                     1992
Male  (%)                                     48                                    1992
Female (%)                                    52                                    1992
Labor Force Participation Rate (% of labor force)    74                                     1992
Health
Life Expectancy at birth (male)                      70                                     1991
Life Expectancy at birth (female)                    76                                     1991
Infant Mortality (per 1,000 live birth)              31                                     1991
Maternal Mortality Ratio (per 100,000 live births)   50                                     1988
Total Fertility Rate (live births/woman)               3.1                                  1991
Hospital beds (per 1,000 inhabitants)                  4.4                                  1991
Physicians (per 1,000 inhabitants)                     1.4                                  1991
Nursing personnel (per physician)                      2.5                                  1991
Education
Gross Enrollment Ratios (% of relevant age cohort)
Primary                                       94                                    1992
Secondary                                     45                                    1992
Source: Albanian Ministry of Economy, Statistics Bureau, World Bank and IMF staff estimates.
l All 1991 and 1992 data are estimates.



- 39 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 32
ALBANIA
HEALTH SERVICES REHABILITATION PROJECT
Project Implementation Plan
1.    The following Project Implementation Plan (PIP) outlines the procedures for implementing each
component/subcomponent of the HSRP. The PIP describes the scope of each project component, the
inputs and sources needed at each implementation stage, procedures applicable for critical tasks, the
implementing units/institutions and their responsibilities, and the expected outputs/outcomes of the project
interventions at Project completion. This PIP would be the basis for the Project Operational Manual
(POM) to be prepared by the PCU jointly with the implementing units/institutions. The POM would
describe in greater detail the elements outlined in this PIP, delineating specific targets for each project
year, and the necessary resources to meet these targets. The POM would be updated during the joint
MOH/IDA annual reviews of project performance.
The Project
2.    The main objective of the HSRP is to help prevent deterioration in health status during the
economic transition by improving.the quality of basic preventive and curative health services. This
would be accomplished by upgrading primary and secondary facilities to minimum sanitary and physical
standards, improving treatment skills of hospital physicians and nurses, and building capacity at the
central level to manage health resources and implement sectoral reforms. The HSRP consists of two
components described in more detail below: (a) Health Services Rehabilitation; and (b) Capacity Building.
The Project is expected to be completed over a five-year period (November 1994 through September
1999). Total project costs including contingencies, taxes and duties are estimated at US$16.0 million
equivalent of which IDA would finance US$12.6 million, and the balance by Government. Detailed costs
of each project component are shown in Annex 3.
Component A: Health Services Rehabilitation
3.   The HSRP initiates a national program of rehabilitating and consolidating the existing public health
facilities network. The consolidated network would support the development of an appropriate district-
level health pyramid offering basic clinical services at the primary and secondary level. This Project
component will: (a) rehabilitate/upgrade around 100 selected primary health centers in six pilot districts;
(b) rehabilitate/upgrade two secondary referral hospitals serving the pilot districts and surrounding areas;
and (c) strengthen sectoral capacity to maintain the health physical infrastructure. The implementation
plan and output indicators for this component are provided in Tables F and G below.



- 40 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 32
A.1 Primary Health Care Centers (US$3.3 million base cost)
4.    Background. A nationwide survey I of primary health care facilities (PHC) gathered basic
statistics for developing a national program of consolidating the PHC network. This data, used in
conjunction with MOH's definition of the basic features of a PHC broadly estimated the number of
facilities needed nationwide to provide an adequate level of primary health care. Due to constraints on
available resources and implementation capacity, Government and IDA agreed to proceed with the PHC
rehabilitation program on a pilot basis. Thus, the HSRP would cover two geographic regions, each
comprising three contiguous districts. These districts (Shkoder, Puke, Malesi e Madhe in the Northern
Region; and Vlore, Saranda and Delvina in the Southern Region) were selected as they combine a mix
of economic and geographic conditions roughly representative of the country as a whole. They also
include districts where implementation of the MOH policy of downsizing the number of health centers
has already progressed much farther and more enthusiastically.   Based on detailed engineering
assessments of existing facilities in the six pilot districts and applying the norms and design standards (see
Tables A and B below) agreed with IDA, it was determined that the 200 existing PHCs in the six pilot
districts could be consolidated to an efficient network of about 100 PHCs capable of providing adequate
access to primary care to an aggregate population of 600,000.  These standards, together with a
demonstration of community support for the Project 2 were applied in selecting the sites for PHCs that
would constitute the streamlined network. The detailed engineering assessment revealed that about 70
percent of existing PHCs need complete building replacements because the advanced state of deterioration
plus the inappropriate configurations of existing structures make repairs and or upgrading uneconomic.
The health mapping exercise also indicated the advisability of relocating some PHCs to sites more readily
accessible to the majority population in the catchment area of the PHC, ten of the 100 consolidated PHCs
would be located in new sites. These sites are public property and do not pose any constraints to early
implementation.
1 A nationwide survey of PHC facilities was conducted in July/August 1993, with technical assistance
extended to the MOH by EC/PHARE. The survey reveals that there exist officially 967 primary health
centers in Albania (206 urban and 762 rural). About 15 percent of urban and 24 percent of nrual health
centers no longer function as such, either because of destruction or occupation of the premises by squatters.
In addition, there also exist 2,312 ambukancas (rual health posts where a nurse or midwife provides
preventive care and first aid, and is visited by a doctor from time to time, but not daily), of which around
800 still function. The Project will not rehabilitate the ambulancas.
2 Community involvement is non-financial in nature and comes in the form of, inter alia, providing clear title
of ownership of the property occupied by the PHC, ensuring security arrangements to protect the facility
from vandalism, etc, and demonstration of readiness/capacity to sustain routine building maintenance with
local resources.



- 41 -
ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 32
TABLE A: Primary Health Care Center Architectural Worksheet
I------------------------------------ ------        ------- ~~i--------- -------- ----- ------
*                                     i Area        ' 1Total |Attomance Gross  |
|       Type of Accommodation         I per  MNo.of|  Net Ifor _aLls|Building|Furnitur|Equipmt I
Facility               I Placelunitsl Area I  and   1 Area  iCost  b/I Cost  |
. | *2  1  1 Sq.m-ICircutatnI Sq.._. USS0 WO   USS0   I
* TYPE 1: PHC for 4000 popuLation            '             '         ' f                |
Examination/ConsuLting Room           17.3 1  1 1 17.3             O1           S0.43 I
ITreatment Room                       : 8.61    1 :  8.6              0.43
I Storage/UtiLity Room                1 4.5      1 1 4.5
Waiting Area                          118.2      1 118.2                        5S0.15
Toilet                              :4.5    2 1 9.0                                ...n .
SUBTOTALS      57.5      32.0      89.5   S1.01    $0.58
I     .                                     ,         ,  =  =  =  =  =  =  =  =,I I  a 
I TYPE 2: PNC for 4-S8  poputation        0                                             *  
I Examination/ConsuLting Room         1 17.3 1  2 1 34.6 1                     1 $0.86
ITreatment Room                       110.8 1  1 110.81              :         :50.291
Pharmacy                            : 8.6 1  1 1 8.61                            0.29:
Storage/UtiLity Room                I 4.5 1  1 1 4.5         t1              1 
Waiting Room                        :18.2 :    1 :18.2                       1 $0.30:
Toilets                                4.5 1  2 1 9.0               1        I         :.
SUBTOTALS      85.6 1   42.0   1 127.6    S1.74 I 50.76
TYPE 3: PHC for 10-30000 populationI.       I            *                   j
Examination/Consulting Room         1 17.3 I  3 1 51.8 1            1        1 S1.17 I
Treatment Room            |15.0                 11 15.01                    S10.39
Laboratory                          :10.5       1:1o0.5                      :S0.34
Pharmacy                            :13.1       11 13.1                      :50.34
Storage/Utility Room                1 8.6 1  1    8.6
Waiting Area                          42.3 1  1   42.3                          S 50.30 1
Office (2 staff)                      13.5      1 1 13.5 1                      S O 50.76
IToilets                              :5.4      2   10.8             :         I. .:-
SUBTOTALS     165.7       59.0 1 224.7: S3.30    51.03
1ATERNITY NMDULE                                                                $0.63
Patients room (2 beds)                16.8 1  1 1:16.81                          0.63
Labor room                          5 9.0 1  1 1 9.01                   1    |0.50              a
DeLivery                            :20.2 1  1 :20.2:                           $0.75
Storage/UtiLity Room                1 6.0 1  1 1 6.0
Midwife                             :8.1:    1 1 8.1                I        10.29
ToiLet                              1 3.6 1,   1:  3.6              *                 :
SUBTOTALS      63.7       25.0     a 88.7 1 52.17 : $0.27 |
-------  ---------                                                              --------  --------



- 42 -
ANNEX 2
Page 4 of 32
Table B: Primary Health Care Center Staffmg Norms
Type of Facility              Personnel Category              Number of Staff
Type 1: PHC for 4,000         full-time physician             0
Population or      full-time nurse/midwife         1-2
less
l _______________________    visiting   physician              1-2
|' Type 2: PHC for 4,000-    full-time physician              2
8,000              full-time nurse/midwife        2-3
l _______________________    visiting   physician             0
Ty.pe .3  PHC for 8,000-    full-time physician              1 per 2,000 population
Population          full-time nurse/midwife        2 per physician
I _______________________    visiting   physician             0
Maternity module (2 beds)   full-time physician               0
full-time nurse/midwife        1
visiting physician             0
5.    Project Scope. For the 100 selected PHCs (Table C), the HSRP will finance: (a) the rehabilitation
including selective replacement of buildings (see Table B) in the six pilot districts; (b) essential furniture;
and (c) services of local architects/engineers to: (i) finalize designs of prototype PHC centers; (ii)
complete detailed engineering plans and bid documents; and (iii) supervise the works contracts. The
HSRP will also finance medical supplies for cost-effective primary care interventions to complement
medical equipment being provided to the 100 PHCs by EU/PHARE under an ongoing parallel project.
The total base cost is estimated at US$3.1 million equivalent. Detailed estimates of the cost 3 of this
3 Construction/rehabilitation costs of the PHC facilities are based on three basic prototype designs (70 sq. m.,
105 sq. m., and 170 sq.m.) . The facilities include working spaces for up to three physicians and related
support staff, and service facilities. A supplementary module (maternity unit) is attached to selected PHCs.
The average unit construction cost of new buildings in urban/semi-urban areas is currently estimated
(February 1994) at US$200 per square meter, with facilities in rural areas costing approximately 20 to 25
percent higher. Based on the survey of existing PHCs, the cost of building rehabilitation/upgrading would
range between 30 to 60 percent of the cost of new structures. In addition, provisions for water supply (deep
well pumps in rural areas) and external works (about ten percent of building cost) would have to be added
in most cases. Engineering fees, including construction supervision costs, are estimated at about five percent



- 43 -
ANNEX 2
Page 5 of 32
subcomponent and the annual investments needed during the five-year project implementation period are
shown in Annex 3 of this Staff Appraisal Report. The consolidation of the existing PHC network implies
that the operations of a number of redundant PHCs should be phased out ' over a reasonable period in
order to achieve the cost effectiveness and efficiency objectives.  MOH has begun to take significant
steps in this direction in not resuming the operations of non-functioning PHCs. During implementation
of the HSRP, these steps would be carried further in the six project districts by phasing out PHCs
excluded from the rehabilitation program, including, as necessary, implementing measures to redeploy
personnel and/or terminate the services of redundant staff, all in accordance with the schedule agreed with
IDA during negotiations.
of civil works costs. The indirect foreign exchange cost of civil works for PHC facilities is estimated at
about 30 percent of total cost.
4 The plan and timetable for this phase-out operation would indicate, among others: (i) the number PHCs to
be closed in each district annually; (ii) number of staff expected to be redeployed and/or terminated; (iii)
outline of the training/retraining programs for affected PHC staff; and (iv) annual budgetary implications
of the phase-out operation.



- 44 -
ANNEX 2
Page 6 of 32
Table C: List of PHCs to be Rehabilitated
Location    lDistric,TyWe  Rehab 0,Btlg Area   Cost5wm2 ',construct Cost CUSSODD), Fumi,Equiip :Nedic :TotaL
*         ~~~of      !Popula-: of'1 or                                  ---------           ----' tureI imint iSuppLyl Cost/ 
*        ~~~PHC      ; tion  IPNC :RepLace:Existl Add 'Rehab, Add   Rehab           -Ad    Totat   Cost   Cost   Cost IPHC
lilNarte               17836  T2 IRehab  122  --150 :                       18.3:   0.O    18.31   1.51   0.81   0.4:1 21.3:
2  Shushice              7 533  T2 IRehab  263:--: 701                     18.41    0.0:   18.4:  1.81   0.8:  0.4:  21.4:
3 1Vilahin            :9962 :T2 I Rehab   757              a50 a        :37.9:   0.0:  37.9:  l.8    O.8~  0.41   40.91
14   4at Poro*            4827: T2 IRehab   130   -           100 113.0               0.0:   13.0    1.8:   0.8:   0.41   16.01
Mat  orikumn            8909  T2 IRehab  277  --81:                      22.4    0.0:22.4:1.8:0.8   0.4   25.4:
6 6Novosele             15925 1T2 RepLace: ---:1128:               : 200:1  o.o:  25.6:   25.6:   1.81   0.81   0.4:   28.61
17 :Sheriste            18996   T2 IRehab 1a :8 40 : 100 1 200 1   8.8 : 8.0 116.8 :1.8 :0.8 I0.4 119.8
8   KaLtarat             43341 T2 :Replace:, ---  1281             200:    0.0:   25.61   25.6:   1.8:   0.8:   0.4:  28.6:
9   Raanice             :4139 :T2 I Rehab I 140                80 :         11.2 : 0.0 :11.2 11.8 10.8 I0.4 I14.2
I 10 1IBrataj               4650 1 T2 IRehab 1 300    ---      50 1        1  15.0 1 0.0 1  15.0 I1.8 : 0.8 I  0.4 :  18.0
111 I Sevaster **          6341 1T2 I Rehab 1 300 1 --- I100 I            1 30.0 : 0.0 1 30.0    1.8 1 0.8 :  0.4      33.01
1l2  Kote               1 8408 1T2 1Reptacel 184 1--- I50:                : 9.2:10.0:19.2 : 1.8 10.8:10.4 112.2 :
113 1Dhermni            1  1575 1 T2 :RepLace: --- : 128 :         1 220 :   0.0     28.2 1 28.2 1  1.8 1 0.8 I 0.4 1 31.2 1
114 1Kuc                :  1800 :1T2 IRepLacel --  1 128 :1        :220       o .0 : 28.2 :  28.2 1  1.8 : 0.8 : 0.4 1 31.2 1
115   Tre VeLtazer **     4530 1 T2 :RepLacel --- :128 1           1 220 :   0.0 1 28.2 1 28.2 :  1.8      0.8     0.4 1 31.2 
116 :Selenice  *        1 14313 : 3 IRepLace: ---   225 :          : 200 :   0.0 : 45.0 : 45.0 '3.3     1.0 10.5 1 49.8 
117   Himare            I9300   T2 IRepLacel  -  1 128 :           1 200 1   0.0 1 25.6 1 25.6     1.8 1 0.8 10.4 1 28.5 
118 1Vtore HC 1         180000 1 T3 IReptacel --1 225 1            1 200 1   0.0     45.0 1 45.0     3.3 1  1.0     0.5    49.8 
119 IVLore CH2                   :T3 :Rehab 1300 1--150 I                 1  15.0      0.0 :  15.0 1 3.3 I  1.0     0.5 119.81
:20   VLore HC3                  1T3  Rehab  280         --50 1           1 14.01    0.0:1  14.0:13.3 1  1.0 :0.51   18.8:
Maternity Units Inumber>1  5 1 Add  I  -  1 445 1            I 200 I   0.0 1 89.0 1 89.0 I 11.0 1  1.5:  1    101.5 
120 1SUSToTAL VLORE   1193378 1    1           1                1  1      01 213.2 1 348.3 1 561.5 1 53.0: 18.3: 8.4   641.21
I ISARAND                                           a      a     g      aaa                                                
I  1 1KonispoL *            3348 :T3   Rehab :249 1-   :152 :              :37.8 1 0.0 137.8 :3.3 :1.0 10.5 142.6
2 2Memoraq                3100  Tl  Rehab  164:-               75 ~         12.31    0.01   12.3:  1.11   0.61   0.3:  14.31
13 1Markat             13140 :Til  Rehab :49 1-   1100                   : 4.9 1 0.0 1 4.9 11.1 :0.6 :0.3 16.9 
4   Lukove             14510 :Ti: Rehab 1248 1-   175 I                  118.6        0.0 :18.6    1.1 10.6 10.3 120.61
5 1Grave              13479 1Ti   Rehab   III  -   172 1                18.0 1 0.0 1 8.0 11.1 10.6 10.3 110.0 
I6 1 Livadhja **        15240   T2 IRehab  1198 I-   :150                1  29.7 1 0.0 129.7 11.8 10.8 10.4 132.71
:7  Partizani*         :3456  T2  RehabI326  --74:                         24.1:    0.0:   24.1:   1.8:0.8   0.4:27.1:
18  Borsh*             13400  T2  Rehab  252  -- 1431                       36.0:   0.01   36.0:  1.81   0.81   0.4:  39.0:
9   Mursi             15840 1T2 IRehab   344    -            75         125.8        0.0    25.8 11.8 :0.8 10.4    28.8
110   KsamniL              3107 1T2 IRehab   248   -   172 1              117.9        0.0 117.9 11.8    0.8 :0.4 120.9
fli   Saranda NC 1    125600 1T3 IRepLacel --- : 225: :1200:1   0.0:1 45.0:1 45.0:1 3.3 1  1.0 1  0.5:1 49.8 1
112   Saranda HC 2    1          1 12 IRepLace: --- 1 128 1        1 200 1   0.0 : 25.6 1 25.6 1  1.8 1 0.8 1 0.4 1 28.6 1
IMaternity Units Inumbter>1  4          AddI ---   356 1      1 200 1   0.0 1 71.2 1 71.2 1 8.8 1  1.2 1              1 81.2 
I12 1SUBTOTAL SARAliDA642201          :                        -      .    215.2  141.81357.0  30.6  10.4:  4.61402.6:
--- --- -- --- -- --- ---    -- ---  I-                            ----.---    --  --  --- -- ---  --- -- ---  -- --- --



- 45 -
ANNEX 2
Page 7 of 32
----------------- !-------                ------- !----------- ----------- !----------------------- i------ i------ i------ -------
Location         'Distric,'Typel, Rehab  1, Sidg Area    Cost:$/m2  ',Construct Cost (US$= ), Fumi',Ecpjip  11ledic    Totat 1,
Of          'Poputa-11 of  ,  or    11 ----- 11 ------I----- 11 ------I--------I------- 11 ------- 1, ture    mnt  I'Suppty,' Cost/  11
POC           I ition    1PUC  iReplacelExisti, Add   Rehab,' Adcl   Rehab                 Add      Totat    Cost    Cost    Cost             PNC
----------------- -------                 -------                                      ------- ------- ------- ------ ------ ------ -------
1  1 Finiq                     4991    T2    Rehab    316                   149              47.1         0.0      47.1        1.8      0.8       0.4      50.1
IDELVIRR
2    Krongi                     1338    TI    Rehab    235                  149              35.0         0.0       35.0       1.1      0.6       0.3       37.0
3    Nesopotan                 4138    T2    Rehab    121                   149               18.0        0.0       18.0       1.8      0.8       0.4       21.0
4    ALiko                     2779    T2    Rehab    193                   145               28.0        0.0       28.0       1.8      0.8       0.4       31.0
5    Kalase                     1210    TI    Rehab    141                   71               10.0        0.0       10.0       1.1      0.6       0.3       12.0
4275    T2    Rehab    352                  159               56.0                                       0.8      0.4       59.0
6    Vergo                                                                                                0.0       56.0       1.8
7    PiLake                    2061    Tl    Rehab    128                    78               10.0        0.0       10.0       1.1      0.6  1,  0.3  J,  12.0
8    Delvine HC 1             15000    T3    Rehab    500                   100               50.0        0.0       50.0       3.3       1.0  1  0.5  1  54.8
9    DeLvine NC 2                      1 T3  iRepLacel --- 1224  1                1200  1    0.0  1  44.8  1  44.8  1  3.3               1.0  1  0.5  1  49.6  1
Maternity Units  Inumber>l  3  1  Add    I ---    267  1                    1200  1    0.0  1  53.4  1  53.4  1  6.6  1  0.9                          60.9
-------------                             -------                                      ------- i------- i------- i------ i------ ------ -------
ISUBTCYFAL DELVINA  1 35792  1                                                          254.1  1  98.2  1 352.3  1 23.7  1  7.9  1  3.5  1 387.4
---- ------- ----
I    Hat Vetipoie              1504    T2    Rehab    311                   150              46.7         0.0      46.7        1.8      0.8       0.4      49.7
',SHKODER
2    Ura e Shtrenite            1185    Ti    Rehab         50    _40    190    200            9.5        8.0       17.5       1.1      0.6       0.3       19.5
3    Rragam                     1215    Ti    Rehab    198                  150              29.7         0.0       29.7       1.1      0.6       0.3       31.7
4    Koman **                    600    T2    Rehab    123                  150               18.5        0.0       18.5       1.8      0.8       0.4       21.5
5    Mat BarbuLtush            3262    T2    Rehab    190                   150               28.5        0.0       28.5       1.8      0.8       0.4       31.5
6    Hat Oblik                 2702    T2    Rehab    105            24    100                10.5        0.0       10.5       1.8      0.8       0.4       13.5
7    Haimet **                 2041    T2    Rehab    210                   150              31.5         0.0      31.5        1.8      0.8       0.4      34.5
8    Grude e Re                2052    T2    Rehab    133                   150               20.0        0.0       20.0       1.8      0.8       0.4       23.0
9    Trush                     2906    T2    Rehab    200                   150              30.0         0.0       30.0       1.8      0.8       0.4       33.0
10    Nes                       4100    T2    Rehab    105            24      50                5.3        0.0        5.3       1.8       0.8      0.4        8.3
11    Bushat                    8200    T2    Rehab    176                    50                8.8        0.0        8.8       1.8       0.8      0.4       11.8
12    Knsmac                     2000    T2    Rehab    150                   50                7.5        0.0        7.5       i.8       0.8      0.4       10.5
13    Guri ZL                    2000    T2    Rehab    105           24      50                5.3        0.0        5.3       1.8       0.8      0.4        8.3
14    Mat Miede                  2000    T2    Rehab    142                   50                7.i        0.0        7.1       1 8       0.8      0.4       10.1
1.8       0.0         1.8      1.1       0.6       0.3       3.8  1,
15    Drisht                     1500    Tl    Rehab         60       30      30
16  1 Vukjakaj Gegaj**l  3000  1 T2  IRehab  I 2CIO                        150               30.0        0.0       30.0       1.8       0.8      0.4       33.0
17    Pog                        1200  1 T2  IRehab  1 160                    50                8.0        0.0        8.0       1.8       0.8      0.4       11.0
18    Vio MNELE              I  29a4  I Ti  IReplacel --- 1  90  1                 0, 220  1,   0.0       19.8  1,  19.8  1,  1.1         0.6      0.3       21.8
19    VeLipoie Plazh   1   1900  1 T2  IReptacel --- 1128  1                       1200  1    0.0  1  25.6  1  25.6  1  1.8  1  0.8  1  0.4  1  28.6  1
20    Muriqan                1  1166  1 Ti IReptacel --- 1  90                       220  1    0.0  1  19.8          19.8  '  1.1 1,  0.6          0.3  '  21.8
21    Shtoi i Ri             1  1471  1 Ti  IReplacel ---  1  90  1                  220  1    0.0  1  19.8          19.8  1  1.1 1  0.6           0.3  1  21.8
22    Kish Ar                1    800  1 Tl IReptacel --- 1  90  1                 1220  1    0.0  1  19.8  1  19.8  1  1.1 1  0.6  1  0.3  1  21.8  1
23    Theth                  1    800  : TI :Replacel ---  1  90  1                  220  1    0.0  1  19.8  1  19.8            1.1 1  0.6         0.3  1  21.8  1
24    Prekai                 1    400  1 Ti IReplacel ---  1  90  1                  220  1    0.0  1  19.8  1  19.8            1.1  1  0.6        0.3  1  21.8  1
25    Kir-                   I    800  I TI  :RepLacel ---  1  90  1               1220  1    0.0  1  19.8  1  i9.8  I  1.1  1  0.6                0.3  1  21.8  1
26    Ndrejaj-Shosh **I  1000  I T2  IReptacel --- 1128  1                           220  1    0.0  1  28.2  1  28.2  1  1.8  1  0.8  1  0.4  1  31.2  1
27    Shkoder HC I           I 80000  I T3  IRepiacel --- 1225  1                    200  1    0.0  1  45.0  1  45.0  1  3.3  1  1.0               0.5  1  49.8  1
28    Shkoder HC 2                      1 T3  IReplacel --- 1225  1                1200  1    0.0  1  45.0  1  45.0  1  3.3  1  1.0                0.5  1  49.8  1
29    Shkoder HC 3                      1 T3  IReptacel --- :225  1                1200  1    0.0  1  45.0  1  45.0  1  3.3  1  1.0  I  0.5  1  49.8  1
30    Shkoder HC 4           1          1 T3  iRepLacel ---  1225  1               1200  1    0.0  1  45.0           45.0       3.3       1.0      0.5       49.8
Maternity Units  Inumber>l  5  1  Add    I ---  1445  1                       200  1,   0.0  1,  89.0         89.0    11.0         1.5               101.5
----------------- !-------                -------                                      ------- ------- ------- ------ ------ ------ -------
30  1,SU13TOTAL SKKMER  li32788  1                                                            298.5    469.4    767.8    64.0    24.3    11.4    a67.5
---- :----------------- i------- i---- i-------                                              ------- ------- ------- ------ ------ ------ -------



- 46 -
ANNEX 2
Page 8 of 32
Lcation    1DIatrIc  of    ohr   t *td  Ar-      t Coct:fuhzZ  Cmutruct Ccet CS001o) I Furni,Equip lMW1c I Tota
PK          tint  PK  Rer    -__                            ------ -__  _____  ---__  _________   turo    mir  suppLy  Ccost/I
PhCPpl ce Exi AddR        Add   R b    Add    Tote tcost   Cost    ct  PTo
2tPora ^*            t 2223   T2   Rehb   200             I S          30.0          0.    30.0    1.8    0.8    0.4    33.0
2 tblle^^               5260   T3   Rehab t323 t                       43t 3 t            43.3    3 3  1.0    0.5    48.1
3   Fthe Arrez   ^^ 17005   T3   Rehab   289   ---   150             ' 43.4      00 43.4    3.3 I l.Oj  0.5'  48.21
| 4 | Luf               6870   T2   Rehab   119    20  101             12.0     0 :0    12.0    1.8 1 0.8 g 0.4    15.0 1
ai 5 | CJeg; n ^^7680   T3   Rehab   432           11 00 W:0               4o.2    3.3    1.0.1 0.5    48.0
| 6  | Dcrdhce..                 . 3784 1  T2  Reh h   b                 198  0-32 152    t          t 30.1    1  30. 1 0  1.81
t 7   t   ocl. ^^ t .I  3900 4 T2  Rehab   18 ---                     1 2 001  19.81  19.21   1.8    0.8    0.43   21.8 
KrthpuL             2843  T2  Rep lce  --  1Z 9  I t        220 t0      2192 I 28.2 I  1.8    0.8    0.4 31.2 8
19   s 1err qet 1200 1            Tl IReplace  --- t 90            220 0t     0    19.81  19.8    1.1    0.6    0:3    2 21.8 I
" 0 , Ft*t     t         1234   T1   opt pce  ---     90        t220 t       -     19. a    19. a    1.1    0.6     0.3    2 1.8 
11   Arat                17   I |T1 IR pt:cel --- 1 90           2  20 t     -     19. a    19.8 t11 1  0.6    0 03    2 1.8 
12   Buglon              1457   T1  oRplct co ---    90 t      1220 t      19-8 t19.8 t1.11  0.6 t0-3    2 1.8 
13 tortur                11651 TI IReptci  ---                 ' go  220  0 .01  19.8 a    19.8    1.1    0.6    0.3    21.8'
14   Berishe* .Vogel    163 U    T1 OR pl C   ..      90        12201    0.0 1 19.81   19.81   1.1    0.6    0.3    21.8
' 15 tMaeria      to  1123 t T1 IR*pl&ce  --- 1 90             1220'   0.0    19.8    19.8 I 1.1 I  0.6 1 0.3 1 21.8 '
5    anity Units tnuimb ro   6 t Add              I 534 t        200 1  0.0 I 106.8    06.8   13.2 I 1.8                2 1 121.8 !
15 ISUTOTAIL PUnE         59121                                          22  '1Z1.1   273.6 1 494.7 1 39.8 113.0 1 5.6 t 553.1 1
-I          -      ---    I ----------1--   --  I- I -               I                -       L-1-               -. 1.
t  l"ALESI        "RDhE  t   t I  ----    ---      ---    ---    ----    ----  I----    ----  i
1    toKto              4900 1 Ti I Rehab I 131   --- 1 150 1       t  19.7      0.0    19.71   1.11   0.61  0.3    2 21.7 1
I 2   Baiz              17000   T2 I Rehab  "146t ---1 0loo            114.61    0.0   14.6    1.8   0.8    0.4    17.61
1 3 tVrake                 35001 Tl   Rehab 1190   --- t42                 8.0      0.01    8.01  1.11  0.6    0.3'  10.01
I4   Gruemire*             5W    T2   Rehab   150   ---   10O             15.0      0.01  15.01  1.81  0.8,  0.4!  18.0w
I5 IVuket                  2 21301 Ti   Rehab    74    20    40            3 0      0.0        0 t     1'  0.6    0.3      5.01
I 6   Zagore ^          ; 2200 IT2 I Rehab   200   ---    30           I  6.0       0.0     6:0    1:8    0:8    0.41    9.01
I7            1J 24151 Tl   Rehab    80    101   30   120                  2.4      0.0     2:4    1.1    0.61  031 3      4.4
8   Selc           t1500    T1 gRqpLcce| ---     90 t          2        -       98t198t11,06                   .3    28 
1 9 1 KopLik       ^       UW8200   T3 IReplce  ---   225     t   200      0    45.0  t 45.01  3.3   1 1.0  t 0.5 I 49.8 1
10   Buz1   Uj3            2500   T1 IReplace  ---    go           220     0.0 I 19.8    19.8  1.1    0.6    0.3   21.81
11t Breto ht 2200 t T1 topL&ct ---t 90t     220                          0 0.t 19- a    19- a    1.1    0 06  0.3t 21.8|
12  Rect 2600t T1  oRpl&ceg ...   90o                            220   0.0   19.8   19.8   1.1  0 06  0.3t 21.8 
13   Kushe Hot        t 3000 0    Ti  RepLce  --- 1 90 t       1 220     0.0    19.8 | 19.8 t  1.1 ' 0 6 ' 0.3    21.8 a
1141 Vermosh            1 18501 Ti  Rapt cel ---  190            I 220     0.0    19.8 t 19.8    1.1   0:6    0.3  21.81
I    I "aternity Units  mniudmer   3    Add    -      267          200     0.0    53.4    53.4    6 6.61  0.9          j 60.9
-- --                    ....                        .....         I  I                 I        I......        ......    I --
114_1RJTOTAL NALEESi   48995 M ////111111/Il/I/l/I               Ill/I   68.6   217.2   285.8   26.3 ' 10.3    4.7   327.1
100_   CJUUTOTAL       1534294                                            __//IIII//Il/I ill/i Il/////I 1278.6 11548.4  2819.0 1237.4   84.2   38.2 13178.8 1
--    --------------  -------  ---- t------- --- ----- |----- |----- -----  |-------  ------- I------ |---    ---I--- 



- 47 -
ANNEX 2
Page 9 of 32
6.    Implementation Responsibilities. Implementation of the PHC subcomponent would be the
overall responsibility of the Director of the Department of Public Health (DPH) which has central
authority over the operations of PHCs. The Technical Services Department (TSD) will provide the
technical expertise to help DPH formulate national standards for facilities and equipment, ensure
conformity of the consolidated PHC network with these standards, and oversee the PHC construction
and equipment program. The Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) will monitor overall implementation
progress, and compliance with procurement procedures agreed with IDA. A District Project Team
(DPT) will be set up in each district and will be directly responsible for the rehabilitation and
furnishing of PHCs within their respective jurisdictions. DPTs will keep the DPH, PCU and TSD
up-to-date on the status of implementation in the district. The District Health Officer would lead the
DPT, which would also include the district or local engineer, an accountant, and a PHC specialist.
DPTs may commission local architects or engineers as needed, to carry out the day-to-day supervision
of construction. The responsibilities of the DPT comprise the following:
(a)    Bidding and contract award: DPTs will implement the civil works and furniture
bidding and contracting processes for the PHCs in their jurisdictions. DPTs would:
(i) prepare a detailed technical dossier for each PHC describing the physical needs for
rehabilitation, building plans, specifications, furniture needs, cost estimates, as well as
other legal or institutional requirements; (ii) prepare bidding packages and documents
using the standard formats prescribed by the PCU and agreed with IDA; and (iii)
invite and conduct the bids. Bidding would be conducted by a district bid committee
presided by the District Health Officer, the district engineer, and the district Treasury
representative with a TSD representative as observer. Procurement procedures are
described in paras 3.17 - 3.19 of the SAR. Procurement procedures and the matrix of
procurement responsibilities are outlined in Annex 5.
(b)   Implementation of construction and furniture contracts. Each DPT will administer the
works and furniture contracts within its jurisdiction, and will be responsible for
monitoring contractor performance and quality of construction, measuring completed
works/furniture deliveries, and processing payments to contractors/suppliers.
Contract payment and disbursement procedures administered by the DPT would be
subject to the MOF requirements and carried out in accordance with the matrix of
responsibilities described in Annex 5. Upon approval of contract awards, PCU issues
to the District Health Officer heading the DPT an authorization to spend the funds for
project-related works and furniture contracts in the district. The District Health
Officer will verify the amount and purpose of payments stated in the invoice submitted
by the local contractor or furniture supplier, and forward the invoice with its
certification to the PCU. The PCU would, in turn, issue instructions to effect
payment out of the Special Account.
7.    Implementation Plan.  Table D outlines the implementation timetable and schedule of civil
works procurement. Implementation s would proceed in the following manner. Each DPT would
5 The following actions have been completed as of negotiations: (a) detailed engineering data of all PHCs
in the six districts were compiled and PHC sites plotted on geographic maps; (b) definition of new national
standards for PHCs takdng into account IDA's comments; (c) preliminary architectural designs of prototype



- 48 -
ANNEX 2
Page 10 of 32
commission local architects/engineers to prepare detailed construction plans and bid proposal
documents to rehabilitate the PHCs in the designated grouping. The Standard Bidding Documents
prescribed by IDA would be adapted by the DPTs for this purpose, and the resulting documents
cleared with the TSD before construction bids are invited.. Concurrently, TSD will prepare the
furniture standards for PHCs and the corresponding standard procurement documents. DPTs will
indicate their specific requirements on the standard furniture bids documents, and upon clearance by
TSD proceed with procurement. Procurement of furniture packages would be timed in a manner that
would synchronize furniture deliveries with the conclusion of construction works in each construction
group. Similarly, DPharm will prepare the procurement packages for PHC medical supplies timing
deliveries of medical supplies with the entry into operations of the rehabilitated PHCs in each group.
The PHCs to be included in succeeding groups to be rehabilitated/built would be identified during the
joint annual review of the health sector investment program and budget. The actual timing and
number of PHCs included in subsequent groups may be adjusted (advanced/increased) depending upon
the District's demonstrated capacity to implement the project.
PHC facilities. MOH will present the ruial PHC prototype designs for IDA review at negotiations;
and (d) 26 out of the 100 PHCs have been identified for implementation at the start of the Project, and
designated as Group 1.



- 49 -
ANUNEX 2
Page 11 of 32
Table D: PHC Rehabilitation Implementation Schedule
--  D     Districts
Description of Item/Activity       hkQd Puke  Malesi Vlore Sarand Delina
Number of PHC facilities          30    15    I4             Ja      9
of which: Replacement   13       8      7      9      2      1
Rehabilitation  17    7     7      11    10       8
Selection of PHCs (completion)    05/94 05/94 05/94  05/94  05/94  05/94
Preparation of PHC bid document packages:
Group 1 (09/94-11/94)             5 phc  5 phc  5 phc  5 phc  4 phc  3 phc
Group 2 (08/95-10/95)             9 phc  5 phc  5 phc  5 phc  4 phc  3 phc
Group 3 (08/96-10/96)             8 phc  5 phc  4 phc  5 phc  4 phc  3 phc
Group 4 (08/97-10/97)             8 phc  -      ----   5 phc  -      -
Bidding and contract award:
Group 1 (11/94-03/95)             5 phc  5 phc  5 phc  5 phc  4 phc  3 phc
Group 2 (10/95-02/96)             9 phc  5 phc  5 phc  5 phc  4 phc  3 phc
Group 3 (10/96-02/97)             8 phc  5 phc  4 phc  5 phc  4 phc  3 phc
Group 4 (10/97-03/98)             8 phc  -      -     5 phc  -       -
Construction period and commissioning:
Group 1 (04/95-03/96)             5 phc  5 phc  5 phc  5 phc  4 phc  3 phc
Group 2 (03/96-02/97)             9 phc  5 phc  5 phc  5 phc  4 phc  3 phc
Group 3 (03/97-02/98)             8 phc  5 phc  4 phc  5 phc  4 phc  3 phc
Group 4 (03/98-12/98)             8 phc  -      -      5 phc  -      -



- 50 -
ANNEX 2
Page 12 of 32
Table E: Primary Health Centers for Rehabilitation and Consolidation in Project Year 1
DISTRICT    REHABILITATION              CONSOLIDATION
SHKODER    Oblik                        Velinaj
Barbullush                 Ranxa
Velipoje-Qender            Rroshkull
Vukjakaj-Gejaj             Boksi
Ndrejaj-Shosh              Guci e Re
PUKE         Berishe                    Bushat
Merture                    Lumbardhe
Porava                     Qerret i Siperm
Bugjon                     Bregu
Blerim                     Fierze
MALESI E    Vermosh                     Zagore
MADHE    Bratosh                      Pjetroshan
Koplik                     Sterbeg
Buze-Uji                   Bogic-Polvar
Zagor
VLORE        Poro                       Fitore
Trevllezer                 Bishan
Sevaster                   Hoshtim
Shushice                   Matogjin
Selenice                   Risili
Armen
SARANDA    Livadhja                     Xare
Borsh                      Meyoq
Konispol                   Cuke
DELVINE    Delvine e Re                 Bajke
Kalase                     Lefterhor
Aliko                      Stjar
A.2 Regional HosDitals (US$7.4 million base cost)
8.    Background. District hospitals constitute the second tier of the district level health pyramid.
In line with its regionalization plan, the Government selected a small number of district hospitals to
be upgraded to regional hospitals offering referral secondary care to a sufficiently large catchment
population of approximately 300,000-350,000 inhabitants. The hospitals of Shkoder (620 beds) and
Vlore (500 beds) would complete the network in the project's six pilot districts wherein the
rehabilitation of PHCs and training in management of basic health services would be carried out. The



- 51 -
ANNEX 2
Page 13 of 32
development of an appropriate district level health pyramid offering basic clinical services at the
primary and secondary level also implies rationalization of the Government investments in hospitals.
9.     Since 1992, bed capacity has been reduced by 25 percent in the two regional hospitals and by
30 percent in the three district hospitals in the project zone. Government has also agreed to limit all
district hospitals (i.e. those not to be upgraded to regional hospitals) to providing at most four basic
inpatient specialties (internal medicine, surgery, pediatrics and obstetrics/gynecology), and adjust
staffing accordingly. Reduction of the standard work week to 40 hours has increased staffing needs
by nearly 20 percent, absorbing some excess labor in hospitals. However, Government has also
agreed-as an interim measure until a more definitive study of staffing patterns is undertaken-to
establish a norm of 1.5 staff per bed in district and regional hospitals. To achieve this norm,
Government will reduce non-medical personnel in the hospital sector by six percent in 1995, including
all hospitals in the project zones. During negotiations, the Government agreed that: (i) the
district hospitals in Puke, Saranda and Delvine, which would not be upgraded to regional
hospitals will be streamlined to offer only four basic inpatient specialties, and their staff
adjusted accordingly, as agreed with IDA; and (ii) rehabilitated hospitals will be staffed
according to norms agreed with 1DA. It is recognized that further staffing changes in the project
zones-particularly further reduction and/or redeployment of staff from district to regional hospitals-
will be necessary based on the development of functional master plans for the two regional hospitals
and subsequent restructuring of hospital operations. This question will be addressed as part of the
broader sector-wide staffing survey and recommended staffing plan. During negotiations, the
Government agreed that a sector-wide staffing survey will be completed and discussed with IDA
by mid-term review (March 31, 1997), and recommendations implemented thereafter as agreed
with IDA.
10.    Project Scope. The HSRP would support the most urgent and essential rehabilitation and
upgrading work on the Shkoder and Vlore hospitals. 6 The rehabilitation/upgrading work would be
based upon a set of functional master plans 7 laying out the medium-/long-term development and
6  The existing hospital facilities comprise various old structures, the most recent built in the early 1980s,
which house medical services including surgery, pediatrics (with separate buildings for premature infants),
matemity, infectious diseases, and psychiatric departments, and utilities. The quality and technology of
the existing physical plant is generally well below acceptable standards for modem hospitals. Both the
Shkoder and Vlore hospital facilities have major deficiencies which include: (a) antiquated and non-
functioning medical equipment and technology; (b) deficient/sub-standard utilities - sanitary, electrical,
water, heating, medical waste disposal, laundry, kitchen, communications; (c) redundant expensive facilities
such as laboratories, surgical theaters, x-ray suites, sterilization rooms; (d) poor building and space
planning characterized by the disorderly internal/external circulation of patients, emergency cases, public,
vehicular traffic and access to services; and (e) other major deficiencies (e.g. weak structures, inadequate
radiation safeguards, poor isolation of intensive care/sterile areas, leaking roofs/plumbing, dark
passages/rooms, broken fenestration, deficient access facilities for the handicapped, etc.). Moreover, the
poor physical environment in the two hospitals discourage good medical and sanitary practices, and have
negative impact on the physical and psychological health of patients, as well as on the attitudes and
efficiency of hospital personnel. All these deficiencies point out a need for a well conceived rehabilitation
and upgrading of the hospital physical plant.
7  The functional master plan would outline the medium-/long-term development program of each hospital
complex. The plan would be prepared in close consultations between the MOH Department of Hospitals,



- 52 -
ANNEX 2
Page 14 of 32
investment priorities for the two hospital complexes. The HSRP would finance: (a) professional
services of hospital development planners (6 staff months) to prepare the two functional master plans;
(b) professional services of two hospital design specialists/firms, to prepare detailed architectural and
engineering designs and bid documents for priority works; (c) services of a medical equipment
specialist (4 staff months) to finalize the priority equipment lists/specifications and bid documents and
assist in equipment bid evaluation; (d) civil works covering the most urgent/essential rehabilitation
and upgrading needs; (e) priority medical and related equipment; and (f) training in modem hospital
operational practices for selected officers of the two hospitals and the MOH. The total base cost is
estimated at US$7.4 million equivalent. Detailed estimates of the cost 8 of this subcomponent are
shown in Annex 3 of the SAR.
11.    Implementation Responsibilities.  Implementation of this subcomponent would be the
overall responsibility of the Director of the Department of Hospitals (DHosp), which exercises
authority over the operations of hospitals in the country. The Directors of Shkoder and Vlore
Regional Hospitals will oversee the project implementation progress in their respective hospitals and
report to the DHosp Director. The TSD will provide the technical support to both DHosp and the
hospital directors. TSD will: (a) supervise the work of consultants in the preparation of hospital
equipment lists and specifications, detailed hospital rehabilitation plans and bidding documents; (b)
conduct the bidding processes for works and equipment; and (c) supervise the construction and
equipping of the two hospitals. The DHosp will be responsible for the design of the hospital staff
training program which would be implemented in collaboration with the regional hospital Directors.
The PCU will closely monitor the implementation of all these activities and clear contracts before
signature. Paras. 3.17 to 3.19, and Annex 5 of the SAR outline the procurement procedures, matrix
of responsibilities for the procurement processes and payment of contracts, respectively.
12.    Implementation Plan. There are three implementation phases in this subcomponent:
Phase 1. (July through October 1994) -- PCU will recruit a hospital planning specialist to
describe, inter alia, the (i) scope/range of medical services to be provided in the hospital complex; (ii) the
order of priorities and timing of the hospital upgrading investments; (iii) operational and organizational
restructuring which may be needed to deliver medical services efficiently, and (iv) projected staff
development (and recruitment) needs. The functional master plan would be accompanied by a schematic
architectural plan of the hospital site laying out all facilities (buildings, utilities, approaches and circulation,
etc.) and indicating the planned redistribution, integration, expansion and/or demolition of buildings
necessary in order to upgrade the complex. The functional master plan would form the basis for preparing
the detailed architectural and engineering plans and bid documents for the priority works and equipment
to be financed under the HSRP.
8  Cost estimates of the priority works are based on detailed engineering assessments and of the existing
buildings carried out by TSD with the assistance of engineering consultants in 1993. Measurements were
taken of building structural elements and utilities that needed immediate attention, and unit costs were
applied on these quantities to arrive at the total budget for priority works. Allowance was given to some
consolidation/rearrangement of hospital services and utilities. The direct/indirect foreign exchange cost
of civil works is estimated at about 65 percent of total building cost. Professional architectural/engineering
services are estimated at about 10 percent of civil works costs. Equipment costs were based on a list of
critical hospital equipment that either need replacement or are not available in the existing complexes.



- 53 -
ANNEX 2
Page 15 of 32
prepare the functional master plans and site layouts of the two hospital complexes in
collaboration with TSD, DHosp, and the directors of the Shkoder and Vlore Regional
Hospitals. IDA's comments/no objections would be sought on the rehabilitation and
upgrading priorities identified in the functional master plans. Concurrently, TSD would
prequalify and select two local architectural/engineering firms to prepare the detailed
construction documents for the priority rehabilitation works. PCU will recruit an equipment
specialist to prepare the detailed priority hospital equipment requirements of the two hospitals
Phase 2. (October 1994 through June 1995) -- Detailed plans and construction bid documents
based on priorities agreed with IDA would be prepared by qualified local engineering firms
assisted by the hospital planning specialist. Specifications for the priority equipment and bid
documents would also be prepared. Building contractors would be prequalified by TSD.
International bids would be invited after PCU has sought IDA's no objections to the final
priority hospital rehabilitation plans, bid documents and contractor short list (for civil works).
Phase 3. (beginning July 1995) -- Tenders would be invited for civil works and equipment
supply contracts. Contracts would be awarded following receipt of IDA's no objections.
Construction works and delivery of equipment supply contracts would commence during this
stage. Concurrently, DHosp would recruit specialists to prepare the training programs on
modem hospital operational practices for selected staff of the two hospitals and MOH.
Candidates for external training in these areas would be selected. The training programs
would be elaborated in consultation between DHosp and the MOH Personnel Department.
The training plan would be forwarded to IDA for comments and no objections. Staff training
programs (local and external training) would take place during this phase.
A.3 Public Health Facilities Maintenance (US$ 0.14 million base cost)
13.   Background. The large majority, if not all, of public health facilities in Albania are in a
state of advance physical deterioration due to the chronic lack of financial resources to
rehabilitate/upgrade the antiquated (and in some cases, vandalized) facilities, and the general lack of
maintenance. There are heroic efforts by staff of PHCs and hospitals to clean the premises of the
facilities, but these actions often fall far short, in terms of regularity, technique and determination, of
what is necessary to prolong the functional life of the health infrastructure. Substantial investments to
upgrade the quality of health facilities would quickly be wasted unless equal effort and commitment
are invested by both MOH and local health administrators to sustain the upkeep of the physical plant.
14.     Scope. The HSRP would strengthen capacity in the health sector, in particular, within the
TSD, to plan and implement an effective public health facilities (buildings and equipment)
maintenance program. Building this capacity would include: i) developing appropriate preventive and
applied maintenance norms and procedures with due attention to environmental considerations; and ii)
developing capacity to plan equipment investments, particularly with respect to equipment
standardization, spare parts management, and dissemination of technical information to the health
services network. For this subcomponent, the HSRP would finance the services of a hospital
maintenance specialist (3 person-months) to assist TSD to formulate a comprehensive maintenance
program, and train its staff in core practices. The Project would also finance a study tour (2 person-
months) for select MOH staff to observe hospital maintenance practices abroad; training and
demonstration equipment and software; and the publication and dissemination of maintenance
manuals/instructions to public health officers nationwide.



-q 54 -
ANNEX 2
Page 15 of 32
prepare the functional master plans and site layouts of the two hospital complexes in
collaboration with TSD, DHosp, and the directors of the Shkoder and Vlore Regional
Hospitals. IDA's comments/no objections would be sought on the rehabilitation and
upgrading priorities identified in the functional master plans. Concurrently, TSD would
prequalify and select two local architectural/engineering firms to prepare the detailed
construction documents for the priority rehabilitation works. PCU will recruit an equipment
specialist to prepare the detailed priority hospital equipment requirements of the two hospitals
Phase 2. (October 1994 through June 1995) - Detailed plans and construction bid documents
based on priorities agreed with IDA would be prepared by qualified local engineering firms
assisted by the hospital planning specialist. Specifications for the priority equipment and bid
documents would also be prepared. Building contractors would be prequalified by TSD.
International bids would be invited after PCU has sought IDA's no objections to the final
priority hospital rehabilitation plans, bid documents and contractor short list (for civil works).
Phase 3. (beginning July 1995) - Tenders would be invited for civil works and equipment
supply contracts. Contracts would be awarded following receipt of IDA's no objections.
Construction works and delivery of equipment supply contracts would commence during this
stage. Concurrently, DHosp would recruit specialists to prepare the training programs on
modem hospital operational practices for selected staff of the two hospitals and MOH.
Candidates for external training in these areas would be selected. The training programs
would be elaborated in consultation between DHosp and the MOH Personnel Department.
The training plan would be forwarded to IDA for comments and no objections. Staff training
programs (local and external training) would take place during this phase.
A.3 Public Health Facilities Maintenance (US$ 0.1 million base cost)
13.   Background. The large majority, if not all, of public health facilities in Albania are in a
state of advance physical deterioration due to the chronic lack of financial resources to
rehabilitate/upgrade the antiquated (and in some cases, vandalized) facilities, and the general lack of
maintenance. There are heroic efforts by staff of PHCs and hospitals to clean the premises of the
facilities, but these actions often fall far short, in terms of regularity, technique and determination, of
what is necessary to prolong the functional life of the health infrastructure. Substantial investments to
upgrade the quality of health facilities would quickly be wasted unless equal effort and commitment
are invested by both MOH and local health administrators to sustain the upkeep of the physical plant.
14.    Scope. The HSRP would strengthen capacity in the health sector, in particular, within the
TSD, to plan and implement an effective public health facilities (buildings and equipment)
maintenance program. Building this capacity would include: i) developing appropriate preventive and
applied maintenance norms and procedures with due attention to environmental considerations; and ii)
developing capacity to plan equipment investments, particularly with respect to equipment
standardization, spare parts management, and dissemination of technical information to the health
services network. For this subcomponent, the HSRP would finance the services of a hospital
maintenance specialist (3 person-months) to assist TSD to formulate a comprehensive maintenance
program, and train its staff in core practices. The Project would also finance a study tour (2 person-
months) for select MOH staff to observe hospital maintenance practices abroad; training and
demonstration equipment and software; and the publication and dissemination of maintenance
manuals/instructions to public health officers nationwide.



- 55 -
ANNEX 2
Page 16 of 32
15.   Implementation Responsibility and Operatdonal Plan. The TSD would be responsible for
managing the national program and for assisting/training district personnel in maintenance planning,
practices and budgeting. TSD will collaborate with the District Health Officers and the Shkoder and
Vlore Hospitals, in organizing the maintenance training and demonstration programs. Implementation
of this program would begin in 1995 with the recruitment of a maintenance specialist by PCU. The
draft maintenance program would be discussed with IDA. Meanwhile, candidates for external
training would be selected and fielded for training. On return of the trainees, TSD will begin
implementation of the program in the pilot districts.



TABLE F: Fadlities Rehabilitation Implementation Plan
__    Pct^tY      _ _ _ _~~~1  19414               I _I   1  l99               1996 ----''ll1                            191             119      
tg.mHea do Co--WM""     -      - 111    -    -11H11 -t 111-1111                   t 11111111111
dm~~~~o
-LA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
Wm1B;g1:}1J1{f1[S l
I _... _ ......I II  1 -6    I  0                IIIIIlIlIlI__1__III          1   :   



Ll~~~~~~~~6 I1IIIlII_Y    .......       Ye 21       Yo ya_  :__IIIIa       Y  5 _ lI
hhl>ue_lr_W___  ___   __   _ttt AcItivity  194    1    1 1 1 1- 1    1 199   1  199  _I 197T  I    I    I 1198 
IX|W04~~~~~                       ~    ~~~ ~ Fnn A MJ AS0OJIF AMJJAsoNr i FIA A M111-1 JI A1111111S111    1 NI            MII       I IIIJiAS OJIMAMJJASOND
gterA "FLT SEVIE                                                4    tttHA010241ITAT-1 1X 
-lc-.- uf.  f Pk   H.e C-w  -Gdd-                                                                                      d- d.%  >1  llElSlllli 
q-w -       _ a 0- F,j v- N                                                 111-1 X            1    lllllllB l,
Ci -" IWk1sI|     W                                            [R    lftlth Sfit
.6       .     _ FM 6-i                                  _1   llz 1    lzlIlllll                                IIIIIZl11Xn 1 
F,p-~~~~~~~~~~~~~ F- f    t C                                               ll_1                    0||}}}0{0+3
1*A  .. 0._ %W FW l         l__1Il         NIIIIIII         IIIIIII1
Fwii111 II___11       Ill1IILL      *llllll ,,,,,{
PMb^IIIII.+i                                         i*                                   I H IIIIIIIIIII                q   
CIVM~~~~~~ IV               r-_                l            ML                 |X_1kii           ||0III    :I
00%  kI III I   WA           M                                              ,    ,          ,  ii&t8i        J  I IIIIIIII|I1
C-gd"p111 _     _1111          111Iiill       1 #-1dIIIIIIIl 
I-----:    -  -   t e A12  t t  t lklltllll X  111111-1111111f1111111,1 41~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U
1.mt                                          ___1111aa_11I         MnIjlI_ll                        IIIII11"l!I1
1% Pm._._ _                                                                                                                                        1111.I
W%.       _                  11*          ____1       i  _XLll     1bl1l_llIiinuoiiilllT
Ao-4 f--.----"-.f&L  W, v-,d  1121- 
1X-_i..    111                                  t          llllllllllllllllel~tl
ow wok.                    I1111II101 S1t11m iS S                                                               E
_d..dIdm_4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o



TABLE F: Facilities Rehabilitation Impleinentation Plan
PCowlWr_n-    rect A ..........ty....  I IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII11 199  1 1 1 11               1 199
"A             -~.          111110   -         - - - - - - - ----+                     ll:llllllIIIIIT                  II
Ic__ i-  _"o      11111r - - - - - -     -         -      -  -  -  -  -  -      -s-qllllllr                     n
nFosnel_ IIIiL                                                                                                                    r     l111|I11
R.k. _=Illl   -Oubllllllnllllll
lp.Wo' W-* T  *-Iil                             t               tE3E       M     S IUiiiilllliiill
|m"P rt-i T- _ ~    a                                                                   L__
Itowat  ililli            E               S E    1IIIIiIiIIII4I4}44sIIIIi084t^t~~~I 
1-t--* - I I I I I @ - - - - - - _ _ I I _ _ _ _ L _ _ _ I I l l _ X | | | j X X X s l Z l t rl s | | I | | | | ! | 1 1 1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
, H.I.IPk1d iI!1!g Qi:20t
""e                 .      f 2o       I I{               {   1Mti                           gEonX                       0
ft_-z.1111                   --------X                                      111141111141--1



- 59 -
ANNEX 2
Page 20 of 32
Table G: Output Indicators for Facilities Rehabilitation
Component/Activity            Output               Target    Revised   Completion
Target
Rehabilitation of PHC    1. Rehabilitation and   End second
Facilities            furnishing of 27 PHCs      project year
2. Rehabilitation and      End third
furnishing of 31 PHCs      project year
3. Rehabilitation and      End fourth
furnishing of 29 PHCs      project year
4. Rehabilitation and      End fifth
furnishing of 13 PHCs      project year
Rehabilitation of     1. Shkoder and Vlore       6 months
Regional Hospitals    functional master plans    after start-up
completed
2. Hospital equipment bid  6 months
documents completed        after start-up
3. Construction bid
documents completed        1st semester
of Year 2
4. Construction bids
awarded                    4th quarter
of Year 2
5. Hospital rehabilitation
completed and equipment    4th quarter
installed                  of Year 4
Hospital staff trained
Year 3
Facilities Maintenance   1. Equipment maintenance    End first
Program               program designed           project year
2. Maintenance training    Coterminous
completed in project PHCs   with PHC
completion
3. Maintenance training for   Completed
._______________   regional hospitals   in Year 3



- 60 -
ANNEX 2
Page 21 of 32
Component B: Capacity Building
First Year Implementation Plan--Capacity Building
16.   Given that the Health Services Rehabilitation Project is the first IDA project in a
recently-established Ministry of Health, it will be a formidable challenge to the
implementation capacity of the line departments. This is particularly true in the area of
capacity building, the benefits of which are less immediate and tangible than those of the
rehabilitation and reequipping of facilities described above. It was viewed by the MOH and
IDA during project appraisal as particularly important to carefully assign implementation
responsibilities, establish timetables for completion of project activities and underscore the
need for accountability in project implementation. The following matrix of activities and
implementation responsibilities was prepared during appraisal as a tool to facilitate the
capacity building components during the first year of project execution. They focus only on
the early stages of project implementation to emphasize an orderly progression of activities,
and avoid overloading the administrative capacity of the PCU and other implementing units.
More detailed matrices for later project years are being developed as part of the Project
Operational Manual.



llhbh H: MATh OF IMZMTATION   NSEMMES AND STAPMG
0 -I I Ma _  f Baue Healt Servkes
1. Dma Tal                     Vbkb      d  B                  Dr. SUlumd                      Comdpad
2. Approve Tet                 ViJD.pL   He 11_                Drs. Siai_d & Hlio              CaMyed
3. Saed A_N uim                V_*4 Dp PUAN NmI                Dr. Sianoud A NMuDs             Cazyded                         CA4im of NqedYim
4 Sem 4  *ai    I              Dt.        H Mel PCU            Dr. Hado&&r.Wh                 C     bmpkued fat 2 U_u         2 of 4  _UW  inaL . EqgImm
f_  I yr IDSph, 1993
S. Follw upas2 umu vho         DgVL       lie" PCU             Dr.H    .Hoft k                 Oclu, 1994
comupleesi do2 inowA teai.4
6. CalmS dz  m FHC fr           UI m he_i_mIDqIL PR            Dr. Niro                        Dmber, 1994
7. Piqie.                           BMWI   dl   h  heeib/Dqe pH  Dr. Marilo                    Fewraymq ud, 1995
3. Selue tzua h *f w Pe   ci Ha* IbW*A DepL PR                 Dr. Mawo ri.cb, 1993
9. FP& Phaw Tairg                   H" B             PR        Dr. HMi.o                       May, 1995, _=y, 1997
10. hepaw              U       PIs Da b   omum                 Dr. ShsiIdr. Nod                Dederw, 1994 - J_ 1995           Ml
11. Sl -_                      Pds 1MW _0ub&=                  Dr. SImalmIDr. Nl                 I1996, Ww 197
12. FUdugagls m-o w.S_9.       Pdb                             Dr. SlhfafmDr. Nd          Si 1995, FP  19"5                                                4
13.  _OH                       Pdb  aub  daM                   Dr. SimolIDi. No          _i 1996                              B            1.pnao te pmudW by
uieds _a o  eed



Table H MAIThX OF BDMIZME4TION RUItONlllLrh11 AND &AFMM
IS-pe  DocLo Rd Cm__
1. Rdk  .IW N_A                      PW_= DOpe wi MmdL   i,. Al* vA D. UMd.         CubLam         C_im         m _db he
2.mby, Dpep. ( HF-b     Dr- Ka6b. C_Z_                        3
2. _qono =-smi_- a-__Fodl                                    Dr. UKDr K*       .      oib
2. V m  1md           am W. m   mpDr. Kr                                            C=Xd
-F_f to -&*            *                                     'a d  o
MW d _y +_W hFb.  D w y                                                               pupD_
TA-hM19
S. P  _umu                         C,   *,bU E.IJ                                  1  d"4y1  rk~m  t
S.|_mi F_Db -d    f _.0--i
doN   Idudt                         bf iiMiaMdli Fmsdiy Pu.. "  Dr. Ken, Wr Mqid     D..smur.
7. Pmumc. *au    -d    ^ -     __IF_QJ                         .Wi      .__
.*I.g_                              Me" Fmmb,       p       Dr. kaiim.Dr. Ab       D.mi.
I                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1994
S. E     -ff                        M pmubIFa*  y Pum       Dr. Kmnm, Dr. Al       Dooemb-.
Ds_mW                                          19'"4
9. Daub. at    pip.n  imda Sd        bbaci Pum,  a           Dr. MS.k Dir. A%L Dr.  1     1995
~-   f SW    R          4l                     Dupe.         Zjii Dr. Kri
10. Ric_dm of _                      MmIi mInby              Dr.                    Puj IT YI 243



Table H: MATRIX OF IMPLEENTATION RESPONSIBILITIES AND STAFFING
Component: Spedacst Nurses Retraiig  Component
_ Ativit                     Agenc Responsible           xan         blo           F  .
1. Cotact 'Bon Secours" School to arrange    Human R urce Dept./     Dr. Alqi with Dr. Koa      Completd
extension of technical support            Nursing ScDool
2. Prepe equipment needs for in-service   Nursing School             Dr. Koka                   Completed
training progm
3. Identify training facilities, materials nd  Human Resources       Dr. Alqi, Mr. Mborja       Completed
equipment to allow expansion of in-service  Department
training activities
4. Develop selection criteria and select  Nursing School             Dr. Koka                   Completed
"nure trainers' from among hospital staff
nurses
5. Procurement and delivery of podagogic  Project Coordination Unit    Mr. Shehu                January, 1995
and office equipment to the nursing school
6. Prepare nursing and maagement          Nursing School             Dr. Koka                   January, 1995    The World Bank may be asked to
trining of trainer courses                                                                                       underwrite these ctivities
7. Review training of triner ppols        Nursing School with the    Dr. Koka with Dr. Alqi     Febnuiry, 1995
Peronsel Dept.
8. Engage experts to train the trainers   Nursing School/PCU         Dr. Kokl/Mr. Shehu         June, 1995
9. Execution of retraining program        Nursing School             Dr. Koka                   Project Yrs. 1-
4                                                5 



Table H: MATREX OF IMPLEMKATION RESPONSIBILITIES AND STAFFING
Subcomponent: Health Planning and Financing
AMMIV Ravosible          -     Mara  r Roa ble                             D                            n
Enoll two cdidas for  astm-te               Depaitmeit of PubLic Heafth        Dr. Harito                   Coapltd
fsflowiiipa in bealh pl        ud           (DPan
EnroU 2 candidates for lonh-term            Depa_mea of PubLic Health          Dr. Harito                   Conapeted                        London School of
&eWwhip in healh pinaqg and                 (DPH)                                                                                           Hygine&h1M
mapmgeient.                                                                                                                                 Boe  School of Public
Reamt
Enoll first candidate for long-mm           Depanment of Economics             Mr. Kadiu                    Coapleted                       London School of Hygiene
fellowship in health economics.             (DEcon)                                                                                         and Tropical Medicinc
Fmclizee terms of referme  for              Proect Coordination Unit           Mr. Kadiu with Mr.           Conyieted
Fnancial Plnning Conmktant (FPC).           (PCUl) and DEcon                   Shehu
Recruit Fuanci Pbnning CotPat.              PCU and DEcon                      Mr. Kadiu with Mr.           NovJDcc., 1994
Shehu
Appoiut second candidate for                Depatment of Economics             Mr. Kadiu                    Jamry, 1995
felovwhip in health economics as           (DEcon)
nationsl counterpart to FPC
Orgaiz MCH Progm Developmeit                D     nment of Public Health       Dr. Harito                   Proect Yar I
Wodbhop                                     (DPH)
b-
t4>



Table H: MATREX OF IMPLEMENTATION RESPONSIBILITIES AND STAFFING
Subcomponent: Health Planning and Financing (continued)
Azitz                              Azenc Reonrible                  Manager Remoonible                Comol6tion Date
Prepare anIna budget submiinion and           Department of Economics            Mr. Kcdiu, Mr. Haxhi           November 1994 (and
rolling three-year pubic inve6ment                                                                              each .baequett year)
program
Procure equipment                             Project Coordination Unit          Mr. Shehu                      P"ject year I
(PCU))
Lii
Enroll second candidate for long-term         Departmnnt of Public Health        Dr. Harito                     Prject year 2
fellowahip in health panning and
mnnagement.
Enroll scond candidate for long-term          Dcpartment of Economics            Mr. Kxdiu                      Project year 2
fellwship in health economics.



Table H: MATRIX OF MPLEMEINTATION RESPONSIBLITI AND STAFFING
Component: Drug Policy and Distribution
DMr Pricing and Reinbuemenat Study
Clear terms of refereace           Dept. of Pharmcy and           Dr. Saliaei with Mr.           Complted
(TOrS) Vn  prepre db               Dept. of Economices            Kadiu
list
Launch tenders                    Project Coordination            Mr. Shehu                     October, 1994
Unit
Evaluate consultants' bidc
aEd awarte conatsc                 PCU, DPharm, DEcon             Mr. Shchu with Dr.             November, 1994
Salicsi and Mr. Kadiu
OrPil-in opHIZg traig             DPharm and DEcon                Technical working group        November/Dec, 1994             Technical working group:
session in MOH                                                                                                                  M.Gyi   s  u
Mr. Gjyli, Ms. Luga
Collhbornte with/facilitate                                                                                                     (DPharm); Ms. Cico
work of con/u litatS               DPharm and DEcon               Technical working group        JaInuary, 1995                 (DEcon), MOF
representative
Review draft repolt and
prepare written a omtnd            DPharm and DEcon               Dr. Saliasi with Mr.           Februay, 1995
Kadiu, tech working grp
Organiize discussion session
Or draft repont                    DPharm and DEeon              Technical working group        February, 1995
Draft implmetrtion plan
fr atudyreomntatn tionr           DPharm and DEcon                Dr. Saliasi and Mr.           March, 1995
for awdy reconumndatiom                        ~~~~~Kadiu
Select candidates for bort term
fellowships in  gitis                       DPhrm                          Dr. Slii                       Project yaemr 1
finanial mangeme_ and drug pricing
and procurement policy
Inylmekt drug pricing policy and
reimbuwme-nt mechanism for  aid             Darm and DEon                  Dr. Sahasa a  Mr.              Prc years l-S
drugs                                                                      K*diu
Impmemet procrensu and ditribution                                                                                                                                       O
activities btch Pt sctor |uppli.            DPhalm                         Dr. Saliao|                    Pojec yea  2-5



- 67 -
ANNEX2
Page 28 of 32
Monitoring and Evaluation--Capacity Building
17.  Three types of indicators would be used to monitor and evaluate the capacity building
components of the project: (a) input indicators to measure whether capacity building inputs such as
technical assistance, equipment, and staff training are delivered on time, in the right quantity and
quality; (b) output indicators to measure whether and to what extent services or products to be
delivered such as training programs and studies are actually delivered; and (c) outcome indicators to
measure the effectiveness of the services and products delivered and the extent to which project
objectives are actually attained.
18.  The detailed project cost tables in Annex 3 of this SAR list project inputs in the amounts and
timing proposed for project implementation; these tables would form the basis for monitoring the flow
of project capacity building inputs. Quality of project inputs would be measured against specifications
for services or goods to be delivered as indicated in procurement and service contracts. Capacity
building outputs and outcomes and the criteria with which to measure their achievement are set out
below.
Table I: Output Indicators for Capacity Building
, Component/Activity              Output               Target      Revised   Completion
.                                                                |__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   j   Target
Management of Basic   1. First series of general   End second
Health Services        training seminars in health    project year
management completed for
160 staff
2. First series of modular  End third
training seminars for       project year
specific management
disciplines completed for 46
staff                       End fourth
project year
3. Second series of modular
training seminars for
specific management
disciplines completed for 46   End second
staff                       project year
4. Pedagogic seminars
completed



- 68 -
ANNEX 2
Page 29 of 32
Physicians Retraining    1. Needs assessment     6 months
completed                  after start -
up
2. Equipment Delivered     End first
project year
3. Number of training      Three
programs completed per
year
Nurses Retraining     1. Equipment Delivered     End first
project year
2. Number of training      Two
programs completed per
year
Health Policy and     1. External fellowships
Planning              completed:
2 health planning        Board
approval
1 health planning        End first
1 health economics       project year
End second
1 health planning        project year
1 health economics       January
1995
2. Drug Pricing and
Reimbursement Study
completed                  November
30 of each
3. Preparation of annual   project year
rolling three-year public
investment program and
standardized annual budget   Midterm
submission                 project
review
4. Staffing survey and
recommended staffing plan   June 1995
completed
5. Seminar on MCH
program development,
development of supply list
for Primary Care Fund



- 69 -
ANNEX 2
Page 30 of 32
Outcome indicators
19. Outcome indicators would assess whether the development objectives of the project have been met.
The key objective of the project is to help prevent deterioration in health status during the economic
transition by improving the quality of basic preventive and curative health services. For this reason, it
was decided that outcome indicators should focus on the evolution of health status and the utilization of
health services (as a demand-side indicator of quality of care) in each of the six pilot districts, as
compared to the national average. The ability to assess the impact of project activities is hampered by
two factors: i) limited availability of reliable baseline and subsequent data; and ii) the impossibiity of
isolating project effects from exogenous factors (e.g. economic growth) at the national and district level
which impact on health status and utilization of health services. In addition, it is not possible to
disaggregate the relative importance of improvements in physical infrastructure (rehabilitation) and
improvements in health system management resulting from capacity-building activities. Nonetheless,
a limited number of indicators have been selected to assess the overall impact of the project in the pilot
districts, based on the existing health information system in Albania. These indicators are listed below,
and would be tracked throughout the project implementation period as follows (separate tables would be
prepared for each district and for the nation as a whole, as outlined in the Project Operational Manual):
Table J: Outcome Indicators
District                         1993   1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999
Health Status
infant mortality rate       |                             ___
under-five mortality rate
n| atermal mofality rate=                _       _      =       =      =      _
Utilization of Health Services    =      =       =      ==                     =
Total PHC conitatioA
PHC conultations per capita                    =      =     __       = =_
Total frstt-ime PHC visits
imnmunization coverage rates:
DPr
polio
umesles



Table K. Summary of Technical Assistance
1 .....e..ti.&.evie .                   a.ae . . . 2 34........l. Tk TV
1. Health Services Rehabilitation
A. Facilities Rehabilitation  Hospital Planner        #1           3   2   1   1                7   Implementation
Equipment Specialist     #2                2   1   1   1           5   Implementation
Arch/Engineering
Services: Skodra       #3             lumpsum                         Implementation
Arch/Engineering
Services: Vlora        #4             lumpsum                         Implementation
Construction Supervision    Individuals  as needed                      Implementation
B. Facilities Maintenance   Maintenance Plan          #5                3                       3   Implementation
0
II. Capacity Building
A. Management of Basic        District Management      #6                4   2   7   4          17  Capacity Building
Health Services            Training
Management Workshops                         *                          Local Training
Long -Term Fellowship                  3  12   6                  21   External Training
Short -Term Fellowships                         3  15             18  External Training
Modular Training
Seminars                                         *                     Local Training
B. Doctors Retraining       Retraining Fund Seminars                    *      *   *                 Local Training



Table K. Summary of Technical Assistance (cont.)
~~~....... .. .  .4rbro  t~ot~
11. Capacity Building (continued)
C. Helth Planning and       Health Polky & Planning  17           3   7   6   3               19  Capacty Building
Poky: FRnan
MCi Program Workshop                    *                     11111  Capacty Building
MCH Seminars                                 *                          Local Traini
Long -Term Fellowships
Planning                               12  12                 24  External Training
Finance                                12  12                 24  Extenal Trainn
Short -Term Felovwships               4                            4  Exte   Training 
Study Tours/Training                             *                        Training
D. Health Planni  and       Drug Prcing Study        J8           9   8   5   3               25  Cpacwy Building
Poky: Drug Poliy                                                                           0  Capacity Building
Drug Policy Sem s                       *   *                           Loc Trainn
E. Proet Coordnation        Project Advisor           *9           4   4   2   1              11   Implementation
PCU Technical Staff                  12  24  12   6   4          58   Impementation
Short-Term Fellowships                2   3                        5  External Training
Auditor                  110               1       1    1   1   1
... ... ...   E...
L~~C*~mIcalAsaIutMC  1~~ 24  12   8   4    58.I
ExtematTralntng  999  SS  t~~~~~~  00      06



- 72 -
ANNEX 3: DETAILED COST TABLES



Health Services Rehabilitation
Expenditure Accounts by Components - Totals Including Contingencies
(US$ '000)
Capacity Building
Health Services Rehabilitation  Management
Primary               Health      of Basic   Retraining    Health
Health    Regional   Facilities   Health     Hospital   Policy and   Project
Centers   Hospitals Maintenance  Services      Staff     Planning   Coordination    Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works - Hospitals                -    3,854.9           -           -          -           -            -     3,854.9
B. Civil Works - Health Centers     3,159.7         -            -          -           -           -            -     3,159.7
C. Civil Works - Other facilities         -         -            -           -       46.2           -            -        46.2
D. Equipment, Vehicles and Spares      94.4    3,054.4        34.1        55.5      327.5        57.7        120.0     3,743.6
E. Fumiture                           271.5         -            -           -          -           -            -       271.5
F. Architectural & Engineering Fees   179.0     283.9            -           -          -           -            -       462.9
G. Specialist Services                    -     287.5         49.0       246.5          -       426.8        356.2      1,366.0
H. Extemal Training                       -         -            -       152.2          -       198.8         42.5       393.5
I. Local Training                         -         -         52.7       121.6      552.1       322.9            -     1,049.4
J. Materials and Supplies              43.0         -         17.1        23.2       38.3       394.1            -       515.8
Total Investment Costs                3,747.6    7,480.7       153.0       598.9      964.1     1,400.3        518.7    14,863.4
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Staff Salaries                         -         -            -           -          -           -            -           -
B. Vehicle 0 & M                          -         -            -          -           -           -         40.7        40.7
C. Equipment 0 & M                        -     719.1            -           -       64.0        42.7         21.7       847.5
D. Building 0 & M                     102.6     150.4            -           -          -           -            -       253.0
Total Recurrent Costs                   102.6      869.5           -           -       64.0        42.7         62.4      1,141.2
Total PROJECT COSTS                    3,850.1    8,350.2       153.0      598.9     1,028.1     1,443.1        581.1    16,004.6
Taxes                                 230.3      384.4         2.6         3.0        2.8        53.3            -       676.4
Foreign Exchange                    1,302.4    5,448.3        96.1       471.4      636.9     1,107.4        475.9     9,538.4
>E



Health Services Rehabilitaton
Expenditure Accounts Breakdown
Baw Cast                           ysk d Cndingaemes                   Ple Cofltogncles                          Toeb Incl. Cont        O_ Casb    Pikl
LeeMd                                  Loced                                Local                                   Locdl                          * Prkes    Cas, ma
lEad.   Dwo*. &                PW.    (Exa     Ddl" &                For.   (Kul.  D xe                            (ExaL    Duld*.                Caste a    Physicl
PFo. Exch.   Taxsl    Taxs       Tabtl     Exch.  Taxes)   Taxes       Total    Exch.  TaxesI   Tax.s    Totl   Foe. Exch.   Taxc")    Taxes         ToeAl    Ba. Coss    COOL
L lwstnas C_ts
AClvUWeaf.t      1qompkat          1.8700    1,219.9    197.6      3,287.5   187.0   122.0      19.8      328.8   129.5    946       14.3   238.6      2,188.5    1,436.8    231.7     3,854.9    3,504.4      350.4
B CwIWorksl - HMO a,ds              845.7    1,659.9    159-9      2,l66.5    84.6   166.0      16.0      266.6    68.7   147.2      13.7   227.5       997.0    1,973.0    189.6      3,159.7    2,872.4      267.2
C. CivlWor-O9rhetlh                     -       38.9      2.5        41.4        -     3.9       0.2        41        -      06       0.0      0.6          -       43.4      28         46.2        42.0        4.2
0.E iip7       V hd4chSa VW eSp    3271.1      103.6    145.0      3,519.7   114.5     2.3       3.5      1203     98.4      1.0      42    103.6      3,483.9     106.9    152.7      3,743.6    3,617.9      125.7
EFurn*m                             1187        76.4     34.4       229.6    11.9      7.6       3.4       230      9.4      68       2.8    19.0       139.9       90.9     40.7       271.5       246.8       24.7
F. ech    al& Engki gFew             164.2     252.0                416.2      9.6    17.8                 27.4     6.3    13.0         -    192        180.1      282.8                462.9       434.2       28.7
G.S p.ei. San4eas                  1,219.8      33.1        -      1,252.9    61.0     1.7         -       62.     48.0      2.5        -    50.       1,329.7      37.3        -      1.3660     1,301.0       65.0
H E   Tni,n                        361.5                           361.5    18.1        .         -       18.1    14.0                 -    14.0       393.5         *         -       3935        374.6       18.7
LLoDClTrlnlg                        326.1      580.6        -       906.7    326     58.1         -       907     17.0    35.0               52.0      375.7      673.7        -      1,049.4      954.0       95.4
J. Mtlswid aSuppbs                  3913         3.3     498        444.4    33.7      0.3       50        39.0    26.1     0.2       41      32.3      4530         3.8     589        5159        4740        41.8
Tota l h _vshnt Cos                  8,568.3    3,967.9    589.3    13,125.5   5629    379.7      47.9      9805    417.2   301.0      39.2   757.4      9,538.4    4,648.6    676.4    14,863.4    13,821.5    1,041.9
A SoaE s5_                              -          -        -           *       -        -
IL VhidcO& M                                    34.5        -        34.5       -      3.5                 3.5              2.7               2.7                   40.7                 40.7        37.0        3.7
C.Eq*nwt40& M                                  703.3                703.3             70.3         -       70.3             73.9              739           .      847.5        -       8475        770.5       77.0
O. EBad.O M -&    20                                                207.8  6          208                 208              244               24.4                 12510                 253.0       230.0       230          >
TotWRoeiusnt C.sla                               945.6        .       945.6       -     94.6         .      94.6        .    101.1             01.1         i- 1,41.2            -      1,141.2    1,037.5      103.7
TeXd                                 8,568.3    4,913.5    589.3    14.071.1   5629    474.2      47.9    1,075.1    417.2   402.1     39.2   958.4      9,538.4    5,789.8    676.4    16,0046     1459.0      1,145.7
O ZC
qp 



Health Services Rehabilitation
Expenditure Accounts by Years -- Base Costs
(USS '000)
Base Cost                           Foreign Exchange
94/95     95/96     96/97     97/98      98/99     Total       %     Amount
I. Investment Costs
A CMI Works - Hospitals               -      986.3   1,440.7     860.6          -    3,287.5    56.9   1,870.0
B. Civil Works - HeaKh Centers        -      693.0     853.0     773.0      346.5    2,665.5    31.7     845.7
C. Civil Works - Other facilities  41.4          -         -         -         -        41.4       -         -
D. Equipment, Vehicles and Spares  340.6   1,667.0   1,126.8     374.3       10.9    3,519.7    92.9   3,271.1
E. Furniture                          -       59.7      73.5      66.6       29.8      229.6    51.7     118.7
F. Architectural & Engineering Fees  191.4    90.2      65.6      52.5       16.5      416.2    39.4     164.2
G. Specialist Services             568.6     292.6     242.1     122.9       26.6    1,252.9    97.4   1,219.8
H. External Training               155.5     122.0      31.5      52.5         -       361.5   100.0     361.5
I. Local Training                  130.2     379.5     303.4      93.6         -       906.7    36.0     326.1
J. Materials and Supplies           51.4     115.3     103.7      93.6       80.5      444.4    88.0     391.3
Total Investment Costs             1,479.2   4,405.7   4,240.2   2,489.5      510.9   13,125.5    65.3   8,568.3
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Staff Salaries                     -          -         -         -         -           -       -         -
B. Vehicle 0 & M                    6.9        6.9       6.9       6.9        6.9       34.5       -         -
C. Equipment O & M                  12.0      74.5     181.8     218.8      216.3      703.3       -         -
D. Building 0 & M                     -        6.9      38.8      76.4       85.8      207.8       -         -
Total Recurrent Costs                 18.9      88.3     227.5     302.0      309.0      945.6       -
Total BASELINE COSTS                1,498.0   4,494.0   4,467.7   2,791.5     819.9   14,071.1    60.9   8,568.3
Physical Contingencies             95.7      313.9     336.3     249.5       79.7    1,075.1    51.4     552.9
Price Contingencies
Inflation
Local                           4.1       64.0     134.7     152.6       85.8      441.3       -         -
Foreign                         16.2      95.9     137.7     138.1       29.3      417.2   100.0     417.2
Subtotal Inflation                20.4     159.9     272.4     290.7      115.1      858.4    48.6     417.2
Devaluation                               -         -         -         -          -             -         -
Subtotal Price Contingencies       20.4      159.9     272.4     290.7      115.1      858.4    48.6     417.2
Total PROJECT COSTS                 1,614.1    4,967.7   5,076.4   3,331.7    1,014.6   16,004.6    59.6   9,538.4
Taxes                               3.2      217.1     246.0     164.9       45.1      676.4       -         -
Foreign Exchange                 1,314.4   3,307.6   2,971.6   1,666.9      278.0    9,538.4       -         -
4 w



Health Services Rehabilitation
Health Centers Rehabiliton
D_Sft C_f
amUUom                                   Ur*                           Raw cos
U1.           Om         am         Si?        of         Om         TW         Cost    54U      9mU         17       711       S       Tobi
L  vs.iMd C_ ed
A. PAkb.bUnte of ksU   CaMbom
1. VbomP#Wwy H.     Ci                             cows                               26         32         29         13         100                 -   1380       1699    1540       69.0      5309
2 Sinxd  Plkw,my I        1w  Creum                c      on i'd                      26         32         29         13         100                       67s       108.0    97,9     43.9      337.6
3.utPukin      H*M y CwOu                          axWhidnhl                          26         32         29         13         100                 -    86.6       1066     96.6    43.3       333.1
4. Ssdcw FPI -y Hudh C**m                          oonWlob lsb                        26         32         29         13         100                      188.8      232.3   210.5    94.4       726.0
s. Puk        H      &                             am a %                             26         32         29         13         100                      1216       149.7   136.6    60.8       467.8
6. M_eMmPuFb,inyHud w*m                             l       %                         26         32         29         13         100                       70.3       86.5    78.4    35.1       270.2
8ubbi ft.hmd.u  o Hamm Combus                                                                                                                           -   693.0       6530    77       346.5    2,66.5
IL Pwaulur #r PHOB
1. VkmPIkYy HIICw4U                                a         I                        26         32        29          13         1O0                       13.3       10.4    14.9      6.7       61.3
21 Smmt Pbl yH W CuUu                                        %ab                      26         32         29         13         100                        7.7        9.5      6.6      3.8       2s.6
3. DCW  A*w_y Hsh MM  C rucs C0.0sum %                                                26         32         29         13         100                        6-.        7.3     6.       3.0       22.9
4.SNudr Rknwy HIdth wCuM                                    %&                        26         32         29         13         100                       16.1       19.6    17.9      6.0       61.9
5. Pula PuMy IMw CbIus                             Fq2llnUs                           26         32         29         13         100                 -    10.0        12.3    11.2      5.0       38.5
6. Mds          F MfdhinPA Huiny Chuw              001.plbvW%                         26         32         2D         13         100                        6.0       8A.       7.4      3.3      25.4
8.Ma_  F     _ruim -   PHC.                                                                                                                             -    59.7        73.5   8e.6    29z.        229.6
C~ E__eX" fr ric
1. VF_ Psvn Ho   ceuau                              khw S=                                                                                                   4.7        5.8     5.3      2.4       18.2
2. A  w   PM   H=m        e                          hip -mn                                                                                                 2Z7        3.3     3.0      1.3       10.4
3..MwPVI --VH=M Cwem                                 bmw a                                                                                                   2.0        z5      2.3      1.0        7.9
4 SPh_dw F% my HdM                                   ban -,p mar"                                                                                            6.3        7.7     7.0      3.1       24.2               1
5. Puke PubW  HMOb Cetam                             b mnm                                                                                            -      3.4        4.1     3.8      1.7       12.9
6. MaIa * Mmii. Puiwy Io  Clm                              n                                                                                          -      2.7        3.3     3.0      1.3       10.3 
_8           _     b EgM   for                                                                                                                          -    21.6      *J.8       24.3    10.9        83.9 
0. P"IC Ue_ Suppl
1. Vbp Pjuw  Hha  ("w                                kxm                                                                                              -      2.2       2.7      Z4       1.1        6.4
2.Sw    Pb Puwy lb"  Owmu                            kwp m                                                                                            -      1.2        1.5     1.3      0.8        4.A
3 C*  RPbiuy 4mMh OCuVa                                w ma-                                                                                                0.9         1.1     1.0      0.6        3.5
4, SNo    Plh_ uu_      Ceue                         bm                                                                                               -      3.0        3.6      3.3     1.5       11.4
5. Puke Pwb,-- IHm  h Cuim.                          kwwma                                                                                            -      1.5        1.6     1.6      0.7        5.6
6._             b & de dhmPtkn.ya iCsru              kpumW                                                                                            -      1.2        1.5      1.4     0.6        4.7
Soba PHO Micd Supp4e                                                                                                                                    -      9.9       12.2    11 1       5.0      38.2
E   _     _     _ 'N--'Bg    h wk
1. DA  DOign & _hubq                                    I    %o           10                                                      100              528      26.4       19.8    19.8    13.2       131.9
2. c uu  sa              i                              n                 100          -          -          -          -         100    O.092               6.6        6.6     6.6      3.3       23.2
TOW husmo    Ceob                                                                    s52                                                                       617.5      991.9   90o.4  408.7    3,172.3
A. lemWAdg Coblao
1. VU PHC mog OWM                                     wVY                                                                                                    0.5        2.6     5.9      7.7       16.7
2- Sww    PHC Buuii OU                                  -u    0.3                                                                                                       1.7      3.7      4.9      10.6
3. Dd*  PHC SLw  OL                                   wwj                                                                                            -      0.3        1.6      3.7     4.9       10.5      t
4 Sh,dw PgH-C BL       OiL                            wvw                                                                                             -      0.7        3.6     6.0    10.6        22.9 L 
s. Pile PHC BC  q COILM                               evo                                                                                                    0.5        2.3     5.2      6.6        14.8         CD
6. Mm" PHC bI    OIM                                   WVKM                                                                                           -      0.3        1.3     3.0      3.9        6.5    4
Tl                                                                                                                                                     52nG.8h  -  20.     13.1    29.4      38.9       64.14
Toeds                                                                                                                                                  52.6   620.1    1,005.0   930.6   447.6    3,256.4_ 



HeaKth Services Rehabilitation
Hospital Rehabliafon
Detalbd Costa
Quantle                             una                            Bne  Cost
Unit        94196     96f        97  S7198    989             Total     Cod    94196    9619          97      37n3      9819     Totl
btwsbe  Cost
A. Cill Weds
1. Shkoder Hisplbl Rablitation       compAon V                       30         40        30                 100                -     609.2     812.2      609.2            2,030.5
2.VbrelHIa Rehabiitation              conwlto%a                      30         50        20                 100                -     377.1      6285      251.4            1,257.0
subtl  CiNil Wad                                                                                                                        986.3   1,440.7      860.6            3,287.5
I Atchlbctua & Engnung Fes
1. Slhoder Hoapal DiadEnlndhErlng    cmplti%s              50        30         10        10                 100             86.7      32.3      24.2       16.1       -     161.3
2 Vbm Hopibl Dald d En&etrg           coain%s              50        30         10        10                 100             49.9      25.0       15.0      10.0              99 8
Sublotal Archltacl &   Englneed  Fee                                                                                          138.6      57.2      39.2       26.1             261.1
C. TechnIcal Atance
1. HopialP rnwr                        usallmonth           3         3          1         1                   8      24    72.0       72.0      24.0       24.0       -     192.0
2. EqpmertSpeaclalit                   dalflOh              2         1        0.5       0.5        -          4      18    36.0       18.0       9.0        9.0       -      72.0
Subtotal Technical Assistnce                                                                                                  108.0      90.0      33.0       33.0       -     264.0
0. Hosptal Medkl Equipnwm
1. Stdbr H l Eqipwmr                 comwption V.                    50         25        25                100                -      500 0     250.0     250.0             1,000.0
Z Shkder Prity Hpitl Eqipnert h      conmpleon V                     50         50                           100                      450.0     450.0          -       -     900.0
3. Viom Hospital Equipment           cmpletbon V                     50         25        25                 100                -     200.0     100.0      100.0       -     400.0
4. VoaPrrf HDomEquptoentb f            domplton %                    50         50                           100               -      3000      300.0                        600.0
Subtotal Hosplal Micdkl Equipment                                                                                                      1,450.0   1,0 0      350.0             2 900.0
Totalnvesbnnt Costs                                                                                                             246.6   2,583.5   2.612.9   1,269.7        -   6,712.6
L Racurre* Costa
A. Buildig Maienane
Shld r Hospi Ei  O&U                     annu                                                                                   -       2.6      14.2       29.0    29.0      74.8
Vlore Hpa Budn O&M                        uil                                                                                           1.6      11.5       17.9    17.9      49.0
Sublotl uliding Maintennce                                                                                                        -       4.2      25.7       46.9    46.9     123.7
L H_ospa Equipmen 0M
ShkDdr EqpLert OLM-1                     annu-                                                                                         16.1      36.2       64.4    64.4     181.1
Shider Equipment OLU-2                   uwi                                                                                    -      15.8      63.0       63.0    63.0     204.8
Vlo' Equipment O&U-1                     aua                                                                                    -       6.4      14.5       25.8    25.8      72.5
Vbr Equmenlt O&M-2                       4nual                                                                                         10.5      42.0       42.0    42.0     136.5
Totl Pat ure  Costs                                                                                                                        53.0      181.4     242.1   242.1     718.6
Toal,                                                                                                                           246.6   2,636.5   2,794.3   1,511.7   242.1    7,431.2
%s Fhincd *rm dthaneral suices,
lb Fhwnd bom dUe external aouc
>
CD z
0O 



Heafth Services RehabitPation
Hefi Faeos Mak _mance
Wt      UN           NW   gr i    NM   TO-l  CoKM   NW   P78   am   Totb
A.I                           _             -rdh  3-           -     -      3    15          40   -                   45.0
E.Eui                         k-0                                                        -   239                  -   299
C Iad T_bIU                   ku m-   4.0                                                            -     .      .   4.0
P. T_1_ d  ndSm_Im                                    *                                      15.0           ...1S.O
T_d                                                                                       -13.5              .         135A
0o



Health Services Rehabilitation
Management for Basic Healh Services
D I  Costa
MsS ww
audEee                               unkt                       Ban coso
unnit   5 496       966       397       376        99       Totl      Coo     UN    91         967   979    3I133   Totdl
L hiveslmnui Cosh
A ODbIct Plmuiandli         s
1 .1ST Phase- 0     Trni
Tachnd    Iical                               monb             4          -        -          -                  4    13.5    U4.0         -                -       -    54.0
LavT        Sw                                   is           66         6                            -        172   0.1U4    15        15.0                . *           316
M ida wid Spoe                               kanp              1          1                   -       -          2   312         4.0     4.0       -        -       -      6.0
S      1ST Pls.. - i   TOl T73                                                                                                            19.8                              93.
2.2ND Phs. - Madu  Taing
Tacl IAshun                                   mI                .         2        7        3.5                12.5    13.         -    27.0    945    47.               16 6.
FakoAlps                                      m1iUI            3         12        9         15                 39      35      10S     42.0    315    62.5              136S
TrinIng Equ  Dud la                          pdp                                                                                490.       -       -        .             49.
hU.tb idSLqspI                               hmipe             -          -        6         6        -         12        1        -             6.0      6.0       -    12.0
LocdTraniS,*                                       p                               6         6        -         12    5SS6        -             35.9    359         -    71.
S_fW2ND  Plie - Moadu_ Trini                                                                                                      60.3    69.0   167.    1416         -   43S.8
To ivewsimui Codsa                                                                                                                   134.1    388I   167.9   141.6             532A
L RPcmreui Cost
Toel                                                                                                                                 134.1    60.    167.9   141.          .   532A
CA
iC_*on.d_ - dv_                                                                                                                                 I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
in Ciniipuir waib elda. ~w ~ae eqi~musid midaidbua~ inh
o Z



Health Servoes Rehabltaon
HoIpId Shif R            Dockm
_____Ufa__                                 Um Co
Urf      NM3     NM              3736            TW    Cam    N7                                         T
A. 5quNmud
1. CUs Eqaxnut F* odf  Vb                       h ui                                      4                                   12.2                            12.9
2. Pin" Equm,at M.&  F_ol                       has -                                                                    -    64.7                       -    64.7
3. Oats EuaiMt  hMONrn                                                                                                   - t12.          -         - -        12.J
st_ti                                                            -                                                              30                 --- 90
M k -m*s TPr      _b Pmp-uw is                    hasp                                                                  9610   1320   132.0                -   4W0D
C. T,i Mhi       wnd 8Vin Id                     hsso                                                                   0.5     05       3      OS 05   0.5     2.5
Told bw CsCost                                                                                                            96.5   23.1   132.5       U3O S OS       I
L Utsarmi CoZ
Ak Equ 0mu O6M                                                                                                                   4.2    4.2      4.2     42    16.7
TOW 3A   adit COA                                                                                                                 - 42     42      42   4 te       .7
Totel                                                                                                                      3.5   267.      t- i.           4T
to O0t  e _ubw For         DZpL              _ o   o --FOVfbw0
~ lc   ato da  Iig p.mq     h   b I - 1,  hl-s.  g* easau. uha*. pwssu I  .                                                                                                            0
Id     nti uw s  for FMu i DpL of P _o=
IIz



Healfth Services Rehabilitation
Hospital Staff Retrak*i: Nines
d CoB"s
Js,
__    __        O      __  __                Uft                     Bas Co
UMt      NM              MT  H7*               Toal   Coat    4MSSWl   97                      am n    ToWl
L hIwn_ur Cost.
A Eqs*w,uiA                            kmp s                                                              1245    74.7               .       -    U.2
B. Ru_o  at d Trinin FaMss             ka_ -                                                               41.4                      -            41A
C. UbL yOb                              apkm -                                                             36.0                      -            350
Taw hwmummi Co                                                                                              20.9   74.7                        -   275.6
L Rmcurrut Cosft
A. E_m*OW                                 i                                                                   -     92      92     92      92    368
Tod R.wr et_   92                                                                                                            92      92      92    36.
Total                                                                                                       200.0   639       92      92      92   312A
m Ped.ug.i mu *s ed d _,1mu  RCa udmi a  fd.   t Mmh Sdis.
b 0*.. wdul fr _u  Sdusd
oc
o 



Health Servios RehabII.ion
Sior P m ho d Palry DO_:hpmut Fhine
DL    Co
Udit      S6       UIW      ffl3    271S  _~        Tak     Ced   Sig   _~    ISS    5A73          _ to
A.Eqnoum.
1.C.        ut         _  _ t               w            I                                         I -  1   2316    21                 -- 231
L STaIuU                                  W _moih          6        a        a                      1s    12   720    72A0   72                     2161
C. TramfhPe
l.MCH4 D0.W_ p                            I              1F  I                            -        1     1s   16-               - -            -   160
2. MCH 8ae,*moI                                                                                                 4.6                                 4.6
2. Lw4TJm Al
Hm i       Fu g**                     bn_0.0   40.0                                                                                          -   60
HoW      _Fe                          hy                                                                     40.0   40.-                     -   O0D
STb_ki L_Ti nFdw                                                                                              60.    U         -       -      - ,a"
4.Uh*T_ FAd*o                           _mw                                                                    25.0             -              -   25.0
S6.fJT_  F_hfbu..                                                                                                 -   4SA    36.?   361    J       1227
S.bokiT__pum                                                                                                    1271   1284    3KT  SJ           -  301
D.TNMV    _ WbS&4*.ab                    h .w                                                                    4.0    3.0    2.0    1. A           99
Tloi -uwCA                                                                                                        23&4   203A   112.7   361       -   EAnT
LRA-m,-- Comb                                                                                                                                                       c
A. EqumtOM                                                                                                        Is 1   19      19     Is     1.9    3.7 
L.OtmEwmbim                               how_            12       12       12       0      -       42  0A14    5.0    5.0    50        2.            7.4
TowneaazdCom"                                                                                                       6.9    6.9    69     4.4    1.A   2710
TodJ                                                                                                              2403   20T   1119   41D0    19 60132
l To Y_ .W  D_S
lD          _# fw oySdEmm.k P
_ 2
_'Z



ANNEX 3
- 83 -                       Page 12 of 14
I|   q q |;i     S t|qQq  vtI.I
j i    .QQq *e qi'qqe  -I-1q
** 8        ! e 8--
IQs I . I-
IA~~~~~~I
I~~~~~I
Xg
ilfl i ' t 
IullSd  C    III]
"f;     ".]14I * a-.



HaIh Srvices Rehabiblaon
P.      Cor
L' hw   mcosts
A. WVNd                                      _               3                                                3    24.      74.7       -                               74.7
B.     I nEJta b                          hay mm                                                                            39.8                                       30*
C. Te.dudo Asshidos
1. Pm*.A*dw            .                   m_ _            a        2         1        1                   12      16   12JD      320      16.0    160J           1s.
2.Am^ uf                                                    1       1        1         1        1          5      20    20.0    200       20.0    20.0    200    106.0
3.PCUO 1 r                               _psu              1         1        1         1        1          5   2206       22      2.2      22      2.2      22     11.
4.  _Acuiut                                                1         1        I         1        1          5    1.666     1.7      1.7     1.7      1.7     1.7     6
S.P    _dM     CrM utOos                                   1         1        1         1        1          5    1.56N     1.7      1.7     1.7      1.7     1.7     83
6. swy                                      v                                 1         1        1          5    1.104     1.1      1.1     1.1      1.1     1.1      5.
Sa.*6m  TecgIcAjpauj_                                                                                                      154.      50J    42A       42J       A    3251
0. PCU S_ T,*y k                          hmw  m                                                                            400*                                       400
TOM bwe.sosu Comb                                                                                                            3092  -      -    42.    2    J79.7
E .= mcmr~omb
A V       OM                                                                                                                 6.       6A      6)       6A      GA      34.5
0B Eyi 4.ui OuuM                                                                                                             3.7      37      3.7      3.7     17 .SA
T73d ft.cwmaiCosB                                                                                                             10.      10.     I0.      10J     10J 6  10I
To.d                                                                                                                          319 7    692    512Wi37.                                           O
s Vafidos fo PCU und TSO
lb E_mdbehrfvwi .PCU ud TdWTad Ses
c Sadbm _   r P=l=S _hI pu.amm_   dbwmsmuA aid CmupAwTr.*i
Oii



ANNEX 3
- 85-                               Page 14 of 14
Health Services Rehabilitation
Isbursements by Semesters and Govemment Cash Flow
(USs 000)
Financing  Costs to be
Available   Financed      The Government
IDA       Project               Cumulative
Amount       Cosht    Cash Flow  Cash Flow
I                -       807.0      -807.0      -807.0
2            791.0        807.0      -16.0      -823.1
3            791.0      2,483.9    -1,692.8    -2,515.9
4          1.928.8      2,483.9     -555.1    -3,071.0
5          1,928.8      2,538.2     -609.4    -3,680.4
6          1,875.4      2,538.2     -682.9    4,343.3
7          1,875.4      1,665.9      209.5    4,133.8
a          1,355.6      1,665.9     -310.2    4,444.0
9          1,355.6       507.3       848.3    -3,595.7
10           272.9       507.3      -234.5   -3,830.2
11           272.9           -       272.9   -3,557.3
Total     12,447.3     16,004.6          -    -3,557.3



- 86 -
ANNEX 4
ALBANIA
HEALTH SERVICES REHABILITATION PROJECT
Supervision Plan
Timing        Staff Weeks            Staffinm'
CY1995           16 weeks           Bank resources (16 weeks) of which:
- Task manager (6 weeks)
- Implementation/Operations specialist (6 weeks)
- Health Specialist (4 weeks)
CY1996           12 weeks            Bank resources (12 weeks) of which:
- Task manager (6 weeks)
- Implementation/Operations specialist (6 weeks)
CY1997           10 weeks           Bank resources (10 weeks) of which:
- Task manager (5 weeks)
- Implementation/Operations specialist (5 weeks)
CY1997           10 weeks           Bank resources (10 weeks) of which:
- Task manager (5 weeks)
- Implementation/Operations specialist (5 weeks)
CY1998           8 weeks            Bank resources (8 weeks) of which:
- Task manager (4 weeks)
- Implementation/Operations specialist (4 weeks)
CY1999           6 weeks            Bank resources (6 weeks) of which:
- Task manager (3 weeks)
- Implementation/Operations specialist (3 weeks)
I/   Supp _mty technical inputs would be requested through bilateral/mullateral cooperation in the following
arm: public health specialist, health economics, health planner, management development, public health education
nd heath infonnation systems specialist.



-87 -
ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 3
ALBANIA
HEALTH SERVICES REHABILITATION PROJECT
Procurement Plan
........................................    .................. ........  .. ......... .... ........ ... ............................
PROCUREMENT PACKAGE             Total   Total IDA Method   Procurement Schedule (latest date)
........... .................Cost of  Finan-                   of
No.ot  Package    cing    Procure- Notice/  Document Receive  Contract
Description            Packages USSO000   USSO000   nent   Invitatn  Issue   Proposal Award
............................................................    ........    ............    ..... ......    ...........    ...........    ..............    ........
CIVIL WORKS
PHC Rehabilitation: 6 Districts
Group 1 PHCs                     26      840       714    LCB*    11/94    12/94    01/95    03/95
Group 2 PHCs                     32     1000       853    LCB*    11/95    12/95    01/96    02/96
Group 3 PHCs                     29      935       793    LCB*    11/96    12/96    01/97    02/97
Group 4 PHCs                     13      430       365    LCB*    11/97    12/97    10/98    02/9
Hospital Rehabilitation
Shkodra Regional Hospital         1    2380       2230    ICB     07/95    08/95    09/95    11/95
Vlora Regional Hospital           1     1470      1370   ICa      07/95    08/95    09/95    11/95
FURNITURE
Group 1 PHCs                     26       68        60     LS     06/95    06/95    07/95    08/95
Group 2 PHCs                     32       86        75     LS     05/96    05/96    06/96    07/96
Group 3 PHCs                     29       80        70     LS     05/97    05/97    06/97    07/97
Group 4 PHCs                     13       37        32     LS     05/98    05/96    06/96    07/98
EOUIPHENT AND MATERIALS
Vehicles                          1       76        76    IS    07/94    08/94    09/94    09/94
Office/train equip/computers      4      519       519     Is    07/94    09/94    10/94    10/94
Proprietary MaterLa/Library               36        36     DP     06/95             07/95
Hospital Equipment
Shkodra/Vlora Package 1         1     1500     NBF      ICB     04/95    05/95    07/95    09/95
Shkodra/Vlora Package 2         1     1540      1477    ICB     07/97    07/97    11/97    01/98
PHC equipment                     4      170       170    ICB     four annual purchases 1995-19M
MCH supplies/mterials             4      330       280     Is    four annual purchases 1995-1998
misc supplies/materiaLs                   79        73     LS     four annual purchases 1995-1998
SPECIALISTS/TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Consulting Firms:
Hospitals: Arch/Engg Serv       2      280       280     SL     10/94    11/94    12/94    01/95
District Managemt Training      1      246       246    SOLE    10/94    11/94    12/94    02/95
Drug Pricing Study              1      172       172     SL     10/94    11/94    12/94    02/95
Health Policy and Planning      1      235       235     SL     10/94    11/94    12/94    02/95
Hosp/Equip/Facilities Plan      1      336       336     SL     10/94    11/94    12/94    02/95
Individual Specialists:
Project ImpLement Adviser       1      207       207     Cs     08/94             09/94    10/94
PHC Design/Works Supervian      6      179       179     Cs     as needed for works supervfsion
Auditor                         1      112       112     CS     annual audit of )roject accounts
PCU technical staff                     38        38     Cs
FELLOWSHIPS/STUDY VISITS/TRAINING
Project CoordinationIlmpt                 42        42    FELL      na       na        na     09/94 '
Basic Health Services gmt                152       152    FELL      na       na        na     09/94 *
Financial/Drug Policy & Planning         481       481    FELL      na       na       na      09/94 *
In-service Training Program              788       788
---------- ---------- -----------------  -- ------   --- ----   ----- -- I  ..... .. I -------.-------
ICB  = International Competitve Bidding in accordance with IDA Procurement Guidelines
IS   = InternationaL Shopping in accordance with IDA Procurement Guidelines
LS   = LocaL shopping (minimum of three price quotations)from Independent suppLiers
according to procedures and documentation agreed with IDA
DP   * Direct purchase for proprietary Items, training materials
SL   = Shortliating of firm  in accordance with IDA Guidelines for Consultant Contracts
CS   z Competitive selection of Individuals in accordance with IDA Consultant Guideline.
FELL z Fellowships/external training my be procured as part of technical assistance contract
SOLE = Sole source procurumnnt of consulting services
** a Departure date of selected candidate. for external training
na   * not applicable



- 88 -
ANNEX S
Page 2 of 3
ALBANIA
HEALTH SERVICES REHABILITATION PROJECT
Procurement Responsibilities
Documentation   Bid         Award
Procurement Activity       /Bidding     Evaluation    Clearance   Contract
Process     /Review      /Approval    Signature
Civil Works Contracts:
Primrar Health Centers
Standard Bidding Document      TSD           PCU          IDA
PHC contracts below US$40,000   DPT          DPT          TSD/PCU      DPT
PHC contracts below US$100,000  DPT          TSD          PCU          PCU
PHC contracts US$100,000 or more TSD/IDA     TSD/IDA      PCU/IDA      PCU
Regional Hospitals
Contractor Prequalification    TSD           TSD/PCU    IDA
Hospital bid package           TSD/IDA       TSD/PCU/IDA PCU/IDA    Minister
Furniture. EquiMnent. Materials
Standard Bidding Documents     TSD/IDA                    PCU/IDA      ---
PHC Furniture
Furniture Lists                 TSD/DPT      -----        PCU
Furniture package below US$10,000 DPT        DPT          TSD/PCU      DHT
Furniture package above US$10,000 TSD/IDA    TSD/IDA      PCU/IDA      PCU
Office/Computers/Training Eguipment/Vehicles
Equipment Lists                TSD/End User ----          PCU/IDA
Local Shopping                 PCU           PCU          PCU          PCU
International Shopping         PCU/IDA       PCU          PCU/IDA      PCU
ICB Packages                   PCU/IDA       PCU/IDA      PCU/IDA      PCU
Medical/HosRital Eguipment
Standard Bidding Documents      TSD/IDA      -----        PCU/IDA
Medical equipment lists        TSD/IDA                    PCU/IDA      --
Medical equipment bid packages
Below US$100,000          TSD/PCU      TSD/PCU    PCU/IDA         PCU
Above US$100,000          TSD/IDA      TSD/PCU    PCU/IDA         Minister
Proprietary Materials/Medical Supplies
List of proprietary materials  End User    -----          PCU/IDA
Proprietary materials procurement  PCU/IDA   -----        PCU/IDA      PCU
Medical Supplies for PHCs      DPH/IDA                    PCU/IDA
Procurement of medical supplies    DPharm/IDA   DPharm/PCU PCU/IDA     PCU
Consulting Services/Studies/Fellowshivs
Arch/Engineering (A&E) Services
TORs/contract conditions       TSD/IDA       PCU/IDA      PCU/IDA
PHC A&E services procurement   DPT/IDA       TSD/IDA      PCU/IDA      DPT
Hospital A&E services procurement TSD/IDA    TSD/IDA      PCU/IDA      DHosp
Other Consulting Services and Fellowships
TORs/contract conditions       End User/IDA PCU           PCU/IDA      --
Consulting services procurement   PCU/IDA    MOH Unit   PCU/IDA        Minister
Fellowships                    Dept-unit/IDA  Dept/unit    PCU/IDA     Minister



- 89 -
ANNEX S
Page 3 of 3
ALBANIA
HEALTH SERVICES REHABILITATION  PROJECT
Contract Payment Responsibilities
Measurement  Prepare
Type of Contract          /Evaluate    Payment      Authorize    Pay
Progress     Voucher      Eavment      Contract
Civil Works Contracts:
PHC contracts below US$100,000  DPT          DPT          TSD/PCU      DPT
PHC contracts US$100,000 or more DPT         TSD          PCU          PCU
Regional Hospitals             TSD           TSD          PCU          PCU
Furniture. EcuiRment. Materials
PHC Furniture                  DPT           DPT          TSD/PCU      DPT
Office/Computers/Training Equipment/Vehicles
Local Shopping              End User      PCU         PCU           PCU
International Shopping/ICB  TSD           PCU         PCU           PCU
Medical/Hospital Equipment     TSD/DHosp   TSD            PCU          PCU
Proprietary Materials/
Medical Supplies            DPH          DPH          PCU          PCU
Consultine Services/Studies/Fellowshins
Arch/Engineering (A&E) Services
PHC contracts               DPT          DPT          TSD/PCU    DPT
Hospital A&E/
equipmentTA              TSD           TSD          PCU          PCU
Other consulting services      End User      PCU          PCU          PCU
Fellowships                    End User      PCU          PCU          PCU






IBRD 25813
D.  R E    0                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~21
{J          F E D.   R E F!   O Fw  Y U G O S L A V I A                                  07
CROATIA
aIHrn 1 Hot,      \         -;                          \
\    t           yrz ~~~~SHKCOER |,=_       K U K E  S  
~bz~~  KopIrk SHKODER                                   u
) Shkoddr              qKro j  tKuks PL
-42    A : tC                                                                                                                                      4
A  L B A  N  I A                         Shengiln  $e      Rubik         Kurbnesh            -Rec
RD  u      ~~Rreshen     ~             e
HEALTH SERVICES                                        L                Rr shen
REHABILITATION PROJECT                                               ot                   I B  R
,< B urre   tSa   '>    ,    4   J               FYR
PILOT DISTRICTS                                      u K                                                         FYR
SITES FOR REGIONAL HOSPITAL                    ___
REHABILITATION
MINOR TOWNS                                                      TIRANE
L    NATIONAL CAPITAL
DISTRICT BOUNDARIES                                                                      Libnqzhd
-    PREFECTURE BOUNDARIES                                               K,ra
-      INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                          L                            P,e.ja
41                   RIVERS                                                                        ELBASAN                                        41
IE  R U/.'      
ELEVATIONS IN METERS
1200                                         FIER    Patos
200                                           F                                                             M.liq
ITALY                                                             -'                     or Lsk 
0~~~~~ ~                                                   ~~~~           ~         ~~~~~~~~~ Bo ll  BRAkostet ~
40            The boundaries, colors,.                                                         tixJ4
on  ths map  do  not~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ko;
denominotions ond ony   o   8   16  24         \  k    'wo           \                  G  R E E~~~~~ C  E 
imply, on the part of                    K LOMETERS    Dv  Th                1\
The World fBank Group.                                                            i    
any ludgment on the legal 1s
status of any  terrdtory,                                    -----         |     2 .:f SARANDE 
or any endorsement                                                        rJsek
or acceptance of such                                     
boundories.          1     9           t      <           t    _          z         2 Kc
OCTOBER 1 994



