                                                                                                               99835
Developing Preventive Health Care in Albania
Ana Gjokutaj, Communications Officer in the Tirana Office,
offers this story.
                                                                      Photo Gallery
Lisa, graceful and tall, looks strong, but her eyes betray her
concern as she walks across a short hallway in Albania's
capital to the mammography room for a routine screening.
Her fear is understandable. The 48-year old had a
mastectomy after doctors diagnosed a malignant lump in her
left breast and treated Lisa for cancer.

Lisa has come here from Erseka, a small city 240 km from the
capital Tirana to follow her health situation. It isn't that far as
the crow flies, but the road is bad and climbs over mountains.        Related Links
A one way trip can take most of the day on public
transportation. Until recently Lisa had no choice but to make         The World Bank in Albania
the trip. This was the only place to get a mammogram in a             Albania Country Snapshot
country with a population of just over 3 million. But next time       Health System Modernization Project
Lisa won't have to travel far. A new mammography unit is
                                                                      Health Recovery Project
now operating in the city of Korca, less than an hour drive
from her home town.                                                   Health Services Rehabilitation Project
                                                                      Albanian Ministry of Health
With support from the World Bank, the Health Ministry put four
state-of-the-art mammography machines in four big cities in           Public Health Services in Albania
different areas of Albania at a cost of US$1.9 million. The test      Developing Preventive Health Care in
will be free to all patients.                                         Albania
                                                                      FEATURED VIDEO (Albanian Version)
Each year, 400 new cases of breast cancer are diagnosed in
Albanian women. Most of them are discovered at a late stage, when the disease has advanced, is hard
to treat, and often results in death. Doctors say that being able to diagnose cases early will mean better
chances of survival and higher possibilities of a cure.

The new mammography unit at the Oncology Hospital in Tirana has advanced technology. In addition to
taking images, doctors can also remove tissue to biopsy cells in order to get a precise diagnosis.

"On average, there are 10 mammography examinations per day," says Ilir Loci, technical staff at the
Oncology Hospital in Tirana. "Among those examinations, there are the ones at an advanced stage of
the sickness."

Testing through mammography is still new to Albanian women. There has been a lack of information
and no tradition of preventive health care for breast cancer checkups. Prevention is still in its infancy;
most women go to the doctor when the sickness has already "settled" in the body.

"I was under stress for a long period of time in the family, and later I noticed the nodes. I was scared,"
says Anita from Tepelena, about 200 km from Tirana. "I had my prejudices about this disease and I had
to travel long distances, so it took me a year until I came for the test and started the treatment. The
doctor said I should have come earlier and the treatment would have been more effective and less
painful. But I'm doing well."

This situation is starting to change. There are campaigns aimed at women to raise their awareness of
breast and cervical cancer. And a new campaign is about to be launched urging health care practitioners
to routinely screen women for breast cancer and to refer them for mammograms.

Statistics show that the yearly cost of treating a cancer patient ranges from 15,000 to 40,000 Euros,
depending on how far advanced the disease is. So early diagnosis will both increase women's chances
of living longer and reduce medical costs.
