Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11292-RU
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF HUNGARY
HEATH SERVICES AND MANAGMET PROJECT
MCH 5, 1993
*    ii~ ~~~~~~Y i" 
hnman Resources Sector Operations Division
Central and Southern Europe Departments
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restficted distribution asd may be used by recpients only in the performanee of
their ofaiciidl duties. Its contets may not otherwise be disclosed wihout World Bank authinzaion.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Forint (Ft)
AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATES
(Forints per US$)
Currency Unit     CY1988    CY1989    CY1990    CY1991    1992     1993
October January
US$1.00 - Ft      50.413    59.066    63.206    74.735    79.0    82.7
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CGP       -   Close the Gap Program
GMO       -   Chief Medical Officer
CSO       -   Central Statistical Office
CY        -   Calendar Year
EC        -   Commission of the European Communities
ECU       -   European Currency Unit
FT        -   Forints
FY        -   Fiscal Year
GDP       -   Gross Domestic Product
GNP       -   Gross National Product
GP        -   General Practitioner
HIF       -   Health Insurance Fund
HPD       -   Health Policy Department
HSMP      -   Health Services and Management Project
ICB       -   International Competitive Bidding
ILO       -   International Labor Organization
LCB       -   Local Competitive Bidding
o0W       -   Ministry of Welfare
NBH       -   National Bank of Hungary
NIHP      -   National Institute of Health Promotion
NPHC      -   National Public Health Center
OECD      -   Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development
PAHIP     -   Pensions Admin and Health Insurance Project
PHPU      -   Public Health Program Unit
PMU       -   Project Management Unit
POM       -   Project Operations Manual
SIA       -   National Social Insurance Administration
SOE       -   Statement of Expenditure
TA        -   Technical Assistance
TOR       -   Terms of Reference
WHO       -   World Health Organization



FOR OMCAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF HUNGARY
HEALTH SERVICES AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page Ng.
Loan and Project Summary   . . .     . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                 i
I.  INTRODUCTION .1........................ . .
A.   General/Sector Background  .....                 .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  2
B.   Key  Issues   ........                 ..    ...      ..   ...      ..    ...     ..         .  5
C.   Government  Strategy            . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                       9
D.   Rationale  for World Bank Involvement   . . . . . . . . . . . . .    10
E.   Role of International Donor Community  . . . . . . . . . . . . .    11
II. THE PROJECT.13
A. Project Objectives .13
B.   Project Description  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    13
C. Environmental Impact .20
III.  PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING, MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION .   . . . . .  21
A.   Project Cost   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    21
B. Project Financing .25
C.   Project Management and Implementation  . . . . . . . . . . . . .    25
D.   Project Procurement Arrangements   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    28
E.   Project Reporting and Evaluation   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    33
F. Status of Preparation .33
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited Hungary in July 1992. The
mission, comprising Alexznder S. Preker (Mission Leader, HeaLth Economist, EC1/2HR); Irina Kichi8ina (Le8al
Counsel, LEGEC); Leonardo M. Concepcion (Senior Implementation Specialist, EMTHB), Ilona Szemzo (Operations
Officer, ECI1JZR), and Xhalifa Ikrsmullah (Information Technology SpeciaList, ASTIP). Several teams of
consultants contributed substantially to project preparation: Jeffrey Koplan, Richard Feachem, Tim Byers,
Stephen Blount, Ward Cates, llim McPherson, Michael Marmot, Peter Goldblatt, George Rubin and Erkki
Vartiainen (Public Health); Gunnar Scbioeler and Mathias Kalina (Primary Care); Bjarne Rasmussen, Ole
Nielsen, Astrid de Debuchy and John Roberts (Institutional Care); Richard Eskow (Private Sector
Development); Martin McKee and Charles Normand (Public Health Training); Edward Pfieffer (Public Policy);
Gilles Dussault, Richard Southby and George Jobnson (Health Services Management Training); Niels Sentzen and
Jan van Es (Family Medicine Training); lnge Nielsen and P. Nl van Lin (Nursing Training); Ulla Runge
(Occupational Therapy Training); Frank Ibsen (Social Services); and Howard L. Bleicb, Jerome Jackson and
Edna Moody (Management Support Systems). Lia Achsien, Rose Pavis and Sabrina Buffnan (ECZ/2IR) provided
assistance with text processing and copy editing. Task Manager: Alexander S. Preker (ECI/2HR); Division
Cbief: Ralph W. Harbison (ECl/ZHR); Director: Kemal Dervis (EC2DR); Peer Reviewere: Xavier Call (LASUR);
Willy De Geyndt (ASTPH); and William MoGreevey (PHRHN)
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (continued)
Fagg No.
IV.  BENEFITS AND ISKS  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  35
A.  Benefits  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   35
B. Risks ............................ .  35
V.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMNENDATION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  36
Tables 
Table 3.1:  PROJECT COST SUMMARY BY PROJECT COMPONENT . . . . . . . . . .  22
Table 3.2:  PROJECT COST SUMMARY BY CATEGORY OF EXPENDITURE . . . . . . .  23
Table 3.3: FINANCING PLAN  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  25
Table 3.4:  FINANCING REQUIREMENTS BY YEAR  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  25
Table 3.5: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS  ............. ..... .  28
Table 3.6:  FINANCING PLAN BY DISBURSEMENT CATEGORY . . . . . . . . . . .  31
tChart
Chart 3.1:  CHART OF PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION RESPONSIBILITIES  . . . . . .  26
Annexes
Annex 1 :  Public Health and Disease Prevention  . . . . . . . . . . . .  39
Annex 2:   Close the Gap Program ....  .  .  .    ......  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  67
Asmex 3 :  School of Public Health ....  .  .  .   .....  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  73
Annex 4 :  School of Health Services Management  . . . . . . . . . . . .  89
Anex 5:   Statistical Tables  ....  .  .  .   ...... .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  103
Annex 6 :  Detailed Project Cost Estimates . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 109
Annex 7 :  Project Implementation Schedule . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 117
Annex 8 :  Project Management Unit and Implementation Arrangements . . . 125
Annex 9 :  Organizational Charts ....  .  .   . ..... .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . 131
Annex 10:  Project Supervision Plan  ....  .   . ..... .  .  .  .  .  .   . 133
Annex 11:  Technical Assistance Schedule ............... . 135
Annex 12:  Schedule of Disbursements ... .  .   . ..... .  .  .  .  .  .   . 141
Glossary of Terms .... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . 143
Bibliography of Materials in the Project Files  . . . . . . . . . . . . . 145
References.. .   ...  147
L  : IBRD-23624R ............................ . 149



REPUBLIC OF HUNGARY
HEALTH SERVICES AND MANAGRMET P-ROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Loan and Project Summary
ApRRQWZI:       Republic of Hungary
BENEFYCIARIS: Ministry of Welfare (MOW), Public Health Institutions, Local
Government Health Services, Medical Universities and the
Central Statistical Office (CSO).
ILAN AMN:   US$91.0 Million Equivalent
ITEMS:          Fifteen years, including a five-year grace period, at the IBRD
standard variable interest rate.
PROJECT        The Health Services and Management Project has two main
OBJECTIVE:      objectives: (a) to improve health status by beginning to close
the gap between Hungary and Western European countries and by
supporting the Government's program of restructuring the
health sector to focus on more effective interventions; and
(b) to provide more efficient and higher quality care by
strengthening the institutional capacity of the health sector
in policy-making, management and evaluation.
PROJECT        The proposed Project will provide technical assistance,
DESCRIPTION:   fellowships, training, preparation of studies, development of
health programs, computer hardware and software, medical and
office furniture, equipment, teaching materials, refurbishment
of facilities and incremental recurrent costs. The Project,
which will be implemented over seven years, consists of the
following two components:
The Healta Services Development Component (US$62.7 million
base cost) will support the Government's program of
restructuring the health sector to focus on more effective
interventions through strategic investments in public health
and selected institutional services; it will complement
ongoing reforms financed by other international donors that
aim to strengthen community services, primary care and the
private health care sector. The Project will support proven
action-oriented approaches to public health, as well as the
creation of a Close the Gap Program (US$14 million base cost)
to launch new initiatives in health promotion and disease
prevention. Tt will also strengthen certain institutional
services targeted for special attention because of their
direct impact on Hungary's most pressing health problems.
The Policy-Making and Management Component (US$43.1 million
base cost) will strengthen the institutional capacity of the



- ii -
health sector by: (a) supporting the establishment of Schools
of Public Health and Health Services Management;
(b) strengthening the NOW Computing Center and introducing
management support systems in selected institutions;
(c) developing the project management capacity of NOW staff;
and (d) supporting the preparation of preinvestment studies
for restructuring hospitals and strengthening specialist
services.
BENEFITS:      The Project's ultimate benefit will be improved health
achieved within an environment of tight constraints on public
expenditures. Mortality and morbidity will be reduced over
the long term, following the implementation of a national
strategy to decrease smoking, alcohol consumption and
unhealthy diets, and following the improvement of a clinical
response capability to related diseases. The quality and cost
effectiveness of health care will be enhanced through the
switch in focus from curative hospital care to preventive
medicine and primary care. A new and more effective balance
ir. the public/private mix will allow the public sector to
focus on specific areas of clear-cut market failure. Further
gains in efficiency and more effective care will result from
the improved professional training and better health services
management techniques introduced through the Project. These
measures will contribute to expenditure control in the health
sector and have important cross-benefits for the companion
Pensions Administration and Health Insurance Project.
RISKS:         The Project's major risks include:  (a) the weak institutional
capacity of the MOW to implement major reforms; (b) the need
to create new administrative structures such as the planned
new School of Public Health and School of Health Services
Management; and (c) the loss of expenditure control due to the
introduction of performance-related reimbursements for health
care providers which could jeopardize the financial viability
of the Health Insurance Fund (HIF). Specific Project
interventions have been designed to contain these risks. The
Schools of Public Health and Health Services Management will
address the weak institutional capacity of the health sector
by providing training and fellowships in policy-making,
management and evaluation. Extensive twinning arrangements
with similar institutions in western countries and technical
assistance will reduce the risk of establishing new
administrative structures. Management consultants will be
hired to strengthen project management and to enhance project
implementation. Finally, policies will be introduced to
contain health care expenditure and prevent a cost explosion.
The Bank will conduct a mid-term review of these policies to
ensure that they will have been effective and that they will
not have had adverse spill-over effects on the state budget.



- tii
Estimated Prolect Costs I/
Local Foreign Total
------US$ Million-----
HEALTH SERVICES DEVELOPMENT
1.  Public Health                                          3.8      27.5    31.2
2.  Institutional Care                                    12.7      18.8    31.5
Sub-Total Health Services Development                 16.5      46.3    62.7
POLICY-MAKING AND MANAGEMENT
3.  Public Health and Management Training                  5.0       5.0    10.0
4.  Management Support Systems                            10.5      17.5    28.0
5.  Project Management Unit                                0.3       1.7      2.1
6   Preinvestment Studies                                  0.0       3.0      3.0
Sub-Total Policy-Making and Management                1S.8      22A    43.1
Total Base Costs                                          32.3      73.6   105.9
Physical Contingencies                                     3.0       5.5      8.4
Price Contingencies                                        6.3      12.0    18.3
Total Project Costs                                   41.6      91.0   132.6
Financing Plan                                           Local   Foreign  Total
..... ............. __-   1~
------US$ million-----
Government of Hungary                                     41.6       0.0    41.6
World Bank                                                  0.0     91.0    91.0
Total Financing Requirements                          41.6      91.0   132.6
Estimated Disbursements
IBRD FY                         FY93  PY94  FY95  FY96  FY97  FY98  FY99  FYOO
Annual                           4.0   6.0  17.3  24.4  16.8   9.0   8.2   5.3
Cumulative                       4.0  10.0  27.3  51.7  68.5  77.5  85.7  91.0
Cumulative as X of Total          4%   11   30X   571   751   85%   94X  100l
/ Detailed numbers may not add up to totals because of rounding.
Includes taxes and duties estimated at US$15.1 million.



REPUBLIC OF HUNGARY
HEALTH SERVICES AND MANAGEMENTRWOJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.1.     Hungary has been experimenting with economic reform since 1968, but
it wac not until a democratic Government was elected in mid-1990 that the
country became fully engaged in introducing a market economy. As a middle-
income country, with an estimated per capita income of US$2,690 in 1991 and a
population of 10.6 million, Hungary has been a front-runner in th3 economic
transformation presently taking place in Central and Eastern Europe.
1.2.     Although the health sector consumes 5.6 percent of GDP, the health
system has been remarkably ineffective in promoting good health and preventing
disease. In fact, the Ministry of Welfare (MOW) and the local goveniments,
responsible for provision of health and social services, face a major
challenge in closing the gap in health status, mortality rates and life
expectancy between Hungary and its western neighbors. Life expectancy of 73.7
years for women and 65.1 for men is among the lowest in developed countries,
and mortality from cardiovascular disease is nearly the highest in the world
and increasing, especially for males in the prime working ages of 35 to 55
years. For comparison, life expectancy at birth in Western Europe is around
71 years for males and 77 years for females. An important issue facing the
health sector is the skewed allocation of resources between curative and
preventive services. Extensive, but; poorly targeted, investments during the
early 1970s led to a massive build-up of acute care hospitals and training of
medical specialists at the expense of adequate primary care, basic diagnostic
and therapeutic equipment, long-term care and rehabilitation services.
Training of public health specialists, health service managers, general
practitioners, nurses and many other health care personnel was seriously
neglected. There are virtually no incentives to motivate patients to maintain
good health and to use scarce resources judiciously, or to encourage health
care workers and institutions to provide high quality care. The private
sector was, until recently, excluded from nearly all health activities.   The
recurrent budget required to operate these ineffective and inefficient health
services now outstrips the country's financial resources.
1.3.     The Government is, therefore, trying to restructure the health sector
in an attempt to improve health status, and in this way, contribute to the
alleviation of the grim social conditions left by decades of low standards of
living, disregard for the environment, unhealthy lifestyles, and misdirected
priorities in the provision of health and social services. Two closely linked
projects, this Health Services and Management Project (HSMP), and a related
Pensions Administration and Health Insurance Project (PAHIP), will support the
strategic health sector investments needed to facilitate Hungary's drive for
integration into the market economy of Western Europe.



A. General/Sector Background
1.4.     Over the past two decades life expectancy at birth for males has
fallen by 0.9 years and life expectancy at age 30 for males has fallen by 4.2
years, despite improved infant and child mortality. Life expectancy for
Hungarian females has stagnated over the same period. By contrast, Western
European countries have witnessed substantial increases in life expectancy for
both men and women. Infant mortality rates have fallen from 86 per 1,000 live
births in 1950 to 15.1 in 1991, but remain around double the Western European
average.
1.5.     The core of this bleak situation lies mainly in high and increasing
mortality rates from certain non-communicable diseases in adulthood, which
have exceeded gains from continuing decreases in infant mortality. Age-
standardized death rates for men aged 30 to 69 years rose between 1970 and
1985 by over 30 percent for all causes and by about 30 percent for
cardiovascular causes. The equivalent figures for women were increases of
about nine percent and five percent, respectively. The major causes, in
descending order of importance, of mortality and years of potential life lost
in males aged 15 to 64 years, are cardiovascular disease (of which acute
myocardial infarcts are the leading cause) and cancers (of which lung cancer
is the leading cause)   Other reasons for which mortality rates in adults in
Hungary are strikingl higher than in other European countries include chronic
respiratory disease, tuberculosis, and appendicitis.
1.6.     The main characteristics of the Hungarian health sector will be
reviewed briefly under the following headings: (a) Health Services
(Prevention a:-d Health Promotion; Care in the Community; Treatment in
Institutions; and the Private Sector); and (b) Management (Human Capital and
Utilization of Services).
Health Services
1.7.     Prevention and Health Promotion.  Public health ard disease
prevention activities are carried out at both national and local levels by the
Sanitation and Epidemic Prevention System (SANDEPID). SANEPID stations are
responsible for disease surveillance and reporting, control of communicable
diseases, monitoring of en7ironmental heal  t, food hygiene, health education
and preventive medicine. Among the few tangible achievements of the SANEPID
stations has been their contribution to programs that supply vaccines to
pediatricians and conduct surveys and follow-up actions for the control of
communicable diseases. They are also responsible for traditional public
health functions such as work place safety, assessing risk levels and
enforcing orders to change specific occupational practices. Success in this
area has been rather limited. More controversial, however, is that many
SANEPID stations have microbiological and immunological laboratories which
provide clinical testing for local hospitals which often do not have their own
services. In contrast, most public health services found in western countries
do not provide clinical laboratory services for hospitals.



1.8.    I     ;ar it She Comq   . The Hungarian Health Service is comprised of
a highly structured network of health care institutions that provide
comprehensive care for over 90 percent of the population. Additional parallel
health services are provided by other Ministries,l/ public enterprises,
medical cooperatives and a small private sector. The MOW is responsible for
formulating health policies, planning, monitoring and evaluation, and
providing a limited range of highly specialized tertiary care and medical
education. Hungary is one of the few countries in Central and Eastern Europe
to have embraced, in principle, the World Health Organization's (WHO)
Declaration of Alma Alta (1978), and the Health For All 2000 which have set
targets for primary care throughout the world. The primary care network,2/
under the responsibility of local government (Ministry of Interior), was
designed to be the first point of contact for individuals and families,
bringing health care as close as possible to where people live and work, and
providing a critical link in continuity of care (4,537 catchment districts for
adults and 1,445 for children). The present case load is 2,282 people per
general practitioner (GP). Ideally, the primary care network provides a
comprehensive range of preventive, medical and social care to all ages, and
coordinates more sophisticated interventions at higher levels of care. The
MOW is trying to improve this system by upgrading the training of family
doctors and other primary care workers, / and introducing a new set of
incentives to improve the quality of community care (local government
responsibility, privatization of assets, and performance-based capitation
payments for family doctors).
1.9.    Treatment in Institutions.  After the Second World War, most Western
European countries put a high priority on developing and expanding hospital
services. Hungary, and most other Central and Eastern European countries,
went through the same development during the 1970s, putting a premium on
achieving arbitrary normative standards in the number of beds and doctors per
capita, but have not enjoyed the economic growth necessary to sustain this
activity. This has led to a massive expansion in hospitals, out-patient
clinics and mediral centers without an adequate recurrent budget. By 1990,
there were 101 beds per 10,000 population (71.3 active beds), which is in the
high range of values observed in the OECD.A/ Although these beds were
designed for acute care, many are used for long-term cases due to a shortage
of chronic ,are beds and related support services elsewhere in the system.
Hospitals are large, undifferentiated and multi-pavilion complexes that are
difficult and expensive to run (often 1,500 to over 2,000 beds, spread out
over several blocks). In 1990, ownership of most hospitals, clinics and
1 Other Ministries that provide parallel health services include Ministry of Transport (rallways),
Ministry of Industries (occupational health), Ministry of Interior (polcea), Ministry of Defense
(armed forces), Ministry of Justice (prisons) and Ministry of Foreign Affairs (embassies).
2/ An effective primary care network comprises general practitioners tGPs), coumunity nurses, health
visitors, social workers end allied primary health oare workers.
See the discussion on Human Capital below.
_/ This bed/capita ratio does not include additional beds found in the parallel health services provided
by other Ministries.



diagnostic centers was transferred from the MOW to local governments under the
Ibinistry of Interior. Major capital investments are still financed by the
MOW, but all recurrent expenditure, including renovations and repairs for
local government health services, is financed by the Social Insurance
Administration (SIA). During the past two years, construction of hospitals
and clinics has largely ceased due to a marked reduction in the investment
budget for the health sector. Some medical drugs, syringes, gloves, needles,
small instruments and electronic equipment (much of which is imported or
depends on imported inputs) are now in short supply.
1.10.    The Private Sector.  For four decades, the state dominated nearly all
economic activities in Hungary and systematically excluded the private sector
from playing a significant role in the financing, ownership and provision of
health services. The MOW is now actively supporting the new Government's
economic reform program to stimulate private markets and reduce the size of
the state by encouraging privatization of: (a) family doctors offices;
(b) ambulatory diagnostic clinics; (c) non-hospital-based therapeutic
facilities; (d) pharmaceutical producers, wholesalers and retailers; and
(e) enterprises that manufacture medical supplies and equipment. Some success
has been observed in privatizing small businesses. Major joint ventures
between western firms and Hungarian polyclinics, hospitals and pharmaceutical
manufacturers have, however, been much more sporadic. Private supplementary
health insurance plays virtually no role in the financing of health care,
although direct out-of-pocket expenditure (mainly as co-payments for drugs and
under-the-table gratuities) is estimated at 20 percent of total health care
expenditure, indicating a future capacity for development in this area.
Management
1.11.    Human Canital (Providers).  Since the 1970s, the total number of
doctors, nurses, dentists, and pharmacists per capita has increased
significantly to reach a doctor/population ratio that is within the mid-range
for the OECD, and similar to that found in many other Central and Eastern
European countries. By 1990, the health services employed 202,600 people
(33,400 in full-time active posts while the rest work on a part-time basis or
in non- clinical-related posts). There were 29.3 doctors, 3.6 dentists, 3.4
pharmacists, 53.8 nurses and midwives per 10,000 inhabitants. The allied
health care worker/doctor ratio, nurse/doctor ratio and nurse/bed ratio are
low by western standards. The mix of medical personnel is characterized by a
predominance of specialists, even at the primary care level, where internists,
gynecologists, pediatricians and dentists provide the first point of contact
with the health system. Over 76 percent of doctors are specialists, and more
than 50 percent of these have a subspecialty. Unlike other Central and
Eastern European countries, Hungary has a small, though insufficient, formal
training program to prepare doctors for general practice or family medicine.
Training for different roles in the health workforce starts at one of three
levels: vocational secondary schools; worksite training and apprernticeship;
and university level. Vocational secondary schools and worksite training have
been combined under one category called middle-level education, and university
education has been categorized as high-level training. Entry to medical
school is limited by quotas and competition among applicants. The MOW is
responsible for financing the educational components of doctors' training



- 5 -
while the SIA indirectly finances the service components in terms of the goods
and services used by students while they rotate through various clinical wards
of teaching hospitals. Most non-medical training is under the responsibility
of, and financed through, the Ministry of Education.
1.12.    Utilization of Services (Consumers\.  Utilization of health services
in Hungary is high compared with many Central and Eastern European courtries.
On average, a person in Hungary visits a physician 14 to 16 times per year
(including dentists), compared with a range of 2.0 to 12.8 physician visits
per person reported in the OECD. Cross-boundary flows from neighboring
countries, which may account for as much as 3 million people, and unreported
visits to private doctors and parallel health services may cause significant
distortions in these utilization patterns. In 1990, the number of hospital
bed days per capita was 2.8 in Hungary, compared with a range of 0.1 to 4.9 in
OECD countries. The average length-of-stay in hospitals was in the mid-range
of patterns in Western Europe (9.9 days in active hospital beds and 32.2 days
in chronic beds); occupancy rates were 74.9 percent and 84.6 percent,
respectively. Long queues, waiting lists, low-quality services, and supply
shortages observed in the health ser-vices can be explained largely on the
basis of an imbalance between the needs or demands of the population and the
ability of the health services to manage its scarce resources effectively and
efficiently (drugs, equipment, materials and supplies).
B. Key Issues
1.13.    The key issues that will be addressed by the HSMP, as well as
parallel projects supported by other international donors to strengthen
primary care and the private sector, are summarized below under the following
two headings: (a) Structural Imbalances (Ineffective Public Health Services,
Low Quality Primary Care and Social Services; Distorted Priorities with
Excessive Hospitalization; and Public Sector Monopoly); and (b) Weak
Institutional Capacity (Early and Narrow Specialization; and Poor Management).
1.14.    The health sector in Hungary inherited both strengths and weaknesses
from the previous regime. Extensive social protection against the risks of
illness, tirough access to a comprehensive range of health services for the
whole population, is a notable achievement.5./ Considerable accomplishments
were also made in communicable diseases control, and maternal and child
health.
1.15.    The business of health care should ultimately be to produce good
health. In this respect the health sector has failed to fulfill its central
mandate. Hungarians have the worst health in Europe, with health status
declining relative to western countries since the 1950s and trailing behind
other Central and Eastern European countries (see Annex 1). This is
surprising in view of the fact that, among former socialist states, the
5/ Entitlement to a comprehensive ran8e of benefits bas bee universal since 1975. Physical access was
greatly improved tlzoub investments and trainm of doctors during the 1970s.



- 6 -
country has the highest health care expenditure relative to national income
(5.6 percent of GDP), and among the highest number of doctors and acute care
beds per capita. Leading causes of the health g±p between Hungary and its
western neighbors are well known: half of the adult population smokes
tobacco; the diet is exceptionally high in saturated fat and salt; and
hypertension is not controlled. The population is pessimistic about its
ability to change these and other risk factors.
.16.    Disillusionment and impatience with the speed of the reform process
have led to both unrealistic expectations for the future and to
ccunterproductive nostalgia about the past. This creates a difficult dilemma
for reformers. A political backlash against the socialist framework for
providing health care has created a strong popular demand for a fresh start on
all fronts. Without careful reflection about both previous achievements and
failures, there is a great risk of throwing out the good with the bad.
Furthermore, the move to a market economy has created a false expectation that
all the perennial problems of the past will be fully eradicated in the future,
including poverty, illness, disability, ignorance and resource constraints.
Structural Imbalances
1.17.    Ineffective Public Health Services.  Though public health agencies in
many countries have played an important role in reducing the prevalence of
chronic disease risk factors, the SANEPID public health system was ineffective
in controlling environmental pollution and in reducing lifestyle risk factors,
partly as a result of an inability to influence legislation, policy or public
attitudes, and partly because of the prevailing attitude that "to measure the
problem is to solve the problem." In the past, the deteriorating health
status of the population was known by the Government but not revealed for
political reasons. Today, the Government recognizes that health promotion and
prevention are the means to reducing morbidity and mortality, but clear action
has not been taken to implement effective programs to combat these problems.
1.18.    The current health sector is not structured effectively to address
the huge deficit in public health. To close the gap in health status between
Hungary and Western Europe, it will be necessary for Hungary to develop a
better balance between its public health, primary care and hospital services.
The public health service was reorganized in 1991 to create a large
hierarchical organization out of the pre-existing array of institutions. The
functions of individual institutions were not fundamentally reviewed and,
without additional reforms, the new service will not have the capacity to
design and implement the range of primary and secondary preventive programs
that will be essential to improving health status.
1.19.    Preventive services are especially vulnerable during the present
economic crisis because they are likely to have their budgets cut to a
proportionally greater extent than curative services. Even if some existing
public health structures could easily be closed without risk to the health of
the population, cuts in other areas could undermine the continuation of
essential and effective services for women and children (e.g., immunization
and prenatal care), and could delay or prevent the launching of new
initiatives in such areas as family planning. Legal abortion is still used
extensively to limit fertility due to a lack of information and access to



- 7 -
alternative and affordable methods of birth control. Improved information on
mortality, risk factors and cancer incidence will be necessary to guide and
evaluate the preventive programs proposed by the reforms.
1.20.    Low Quality Primary Care and Social Services.  In principle, Hungary
has embraced the concept of primary health care like many other counxries.
The country has a long way to go, however, before realizing this obj'-tive in
practice for several reasons: (a) there is a widespread cultural reliance on
specialized and institutional care; (b) resources in the primary care setting
are inadequate; and (c) true political commitment to reorienting the health
sector towards primary care still needs consolidation. It is more prestigious
and financially rewarding for medical doctors to work in hospitals and
specialized clinics than to work in the primary care setting where basic
equipment, supplies and drugs are often inadequate. Access to diagnostic
facilities is often difficult, and generalists find their work isolated from
their hospital-based colleagues. The narrow range of clinical skills of non-
hospital-based doctors, who were often trained as specialists, makes it
impossible for primary care services to function properly. As a result,
general practitioners do not play an effective role in screening, secondary
prevention, or risk factor counseling. Patients rightfully feel they are
wasting time in queues only to be told that adequate equipment or supplies is
lacking. They want their diseases treated as quickly as possible, by the best
expert available, and are willing to pay substantial gratuities under-the-
table to be referred quickly to higher, but inappropriate, levels of care.
Ambulances are frequently used to transport non-urgent cases because patients
know it will gain them easier access to hospitals than if they went on their
own.  Developing a stronger commitment to primary care will be critical to re-
orienting the health sector in the future towards more effective and quality
care.
1.21.    The boundaries between health care and social services have important
implications for costs and quality of life, especially in the area of long-
term services for the handicapped and impaired elderly. The social services
system is run largely by local governments and includes neonatology nurses,
social workers, day homes for the aged and home social care. There is little
formal coordination between social services and the health sector to promote
deinstitutionalization through planned discharges and case management. The
resulting lack of chronic care facilities leads to excessive use of hospitals
for social care (20 to 30 percent and above in some cases). Improved
functional links between the various forms of ambulatory and institutional
care, and between health and social services, are necessary to make the
primary health care system less fragmented and to strengthen the continuity of
care it was designed to provide.
1.22.    Distorted Priorities with Excessive HosRitalization.  The capital
investments and recurrent expenditure required to upgrade institutional care
to western standards are far beyond the financial resources that will be
available to the health sector in the near future. Under the previous system,
the NOW relied on policies drawn up at the supra-ministerial level in the form
of five-year national plans. Many imbalances developed because of a lack of
clear priorities in matching scarce resources with urgent needs for acute and
chronic care, and for rehabilitation services. An excessive belief in
economies of scale led to the construction of massive multi-pavilion hospitals



and polyclinics. Most of the advantages of size were lost through poor
communication between pavilions, poor integration among different levels of
care and additional costs of paying for duplications in utilities. Large
1,500- to 2,600-bed hospitals make visiting by families and doctors difficult.
Lack of same-day surgery, pre-admission testing and post-discharge home care
results in excessive and inappropriate reliance on institutional care. With
the transfer in ownership of most hospitals from the MOW to loca) governments
(under the responsibility of the Ministry of Interior), the notion of central
planning and setting priorities disappeared altogether. Every local hospital
now wants the latest in technology and a full range of subspecialties.
Despite present resource constraints, some strategic investments in hospital
infrastructure, training and equipment is necessary to secure more cost-
effective treatment for the main causes of morbidity and mortality, and to
relieve other parts of the health service of inappropriate activities (e.g.,
microbiological and immunological tests performed by the public health service
for acute care hospitals).
1.23.    Public Sector Monopoly.  Many of the problems observed in the health
sector today are evidence of the inefficient allocation of scarce resources by
a public sector monopoly and over-reliance on central planning. Commodities
and services that have economic properties like private goods, but that are
given away free by the state, soon find willing customers on the black market.
Major investments in hospitals, expensive diagnostic equipment and capital
intensive projects that require some government intervention to prevent market
failure, have remained vulnerable to political favoritism. In its attempt to
change this legacy by establishing a new balance in the public/private mix,
the MOW is facing several difficult challenges: (a) shortages of knowledge
and expertise in developing and managing private sector activities; (b) an
inappropriate policy framework for provider reimbursement schemes, provider
contracting, consumer -hoice and quality assurance; and (c) lack of adequate
investment and seed capital to start new private companies. Out-of-pocket
expenditures, a potential source of recurrent financing for new private
initiatives, are largely lost through gratuities (not to mention the loss of
tax revenues to the Government due to such "black marketn activity). The need
to find solutions to these problems is becoming increasingly critical, as the
public sector retrenches to focus on areas of clear cut market failure where
the private sector is unable to secure an equitable and efficient allocation
of scarce resources (public health, expensive hospital care, and care for the
elderly and handicapped). Improved financing of the private sector will be
critical to establishing a more effective balance between the public and
private health sectors.
Weak Institutional Capacity
1.24.    Early and Narrow Specialization.  Professional training has not kept
up with modern trends, especially in fields such as public health and health
promotion, health services management, primary care, nursing and social work.
Quantity in training health care workers was considered a priority during the
1970s, at the expense of quality. Early specialization (technical training of
nurses starts at age 14) provides cheap labor, but deprives youths of broader
skills through a more comprehensive basic education. Higher education focuses
on overspecialization, reflecting the power base enjoyed by specialists within
the medical establishment, with little attention given to disciplines such as



- 9 -
family or community medicine.5/ The training of allied primary health care
workers has been neglected. The low status of general practice and poor
income in the ambulatory setting create strong negative incentives for doctors
who might otherwise be attracted by training in family medicine. Since
medical universities are still under responsibility of the MOW, rather than
the Ministry of Education, they are isolated from mainstream university
activities. The proposed higher education reform in Hungary will change this
in the near future. As a result of these and other factors, postgraduate
training in public health is narrowly based and inadequate to confront the
challenges presented by the poor health status of the population. Hospitals
are usually under the management of a medical director, economic director and
nursing director, none of whom have received training in health services
management, planning and evaluation. Skilled manpower is the most valuable
resource in a health service, and effective training programs are needed to
confront the challenges of the future.
1.25.    Poor Management.  Health services are poorly managed, relying largely
on manual record keeping and obsolescent technology. Few hospital directors
have access to management-based information systems to evaluate health
outcomes, performance and expenditure trends, or to assist in record keeping
(admission/discharge data), accounting, personnel management, materials
management, equipment management and tracking utilization patterns. This
prevents policy-makers, managers and other health care professionals from
maximizing effectiveness and efficiency in provision of services. Highly
specialized clinical workers spend a great deal of their time performing
administrative duties rather than providing medical care. Rigid bureaucracy,
with strict adherence to arbitrary norms, deprives directors and health
personnel of the flexibility and scope in individual decision-making needed to
determine local priorities and to allocate resources according to specific
needs. As the health sector continues to experience strong inflationary
pressures with respect to pharmaceuticals, imported medical technology, and a
catch-up in the relative wage of health workers compared with the industrial
sectors, and as financial resources decrease in real terms, it becomes
increasingly critical to achieve marginal gains through more effective use of
scarce resources and efficient management. In the near future, when
performance-based reimbursement for health care providers are introduced, the
financial viability of many institutions will depend on a skilled and tough
management approach to the number of doctors, active beds and balance of care.
C. Government Strategv
1.26.    With the election of a democratic Government in mid-1990, Hungary
initiated a series of significant reforms aimed at stimulating economic growth
through efficient private markets, liberalizing trade and reducing the
economic role of the public sector (privatization of public assets,
deregulation of many spheres of the economy, reduction in the state budget by
six percent of GDP over three years, and reduction in subsidies to no more
h/ The awarding of postgradtate degrees is liited to the Postgraduate Medical School and most primary
carq doctors are specialsts in internal medicine, Synecology end pediatrics.



- 10 -
than four percent of GDP by 1993). The World Bank and International Monetary
Fund have been active partners throughout this process of structural
adjustment.
1.27.    In support of the Government's economic reform program, and to adapt
the health sector to the needs of a market economy, the MOW has launched a
series of ambitious programs to restructure the health sector to improve
health, to provide more effective and efficient services, and to contain
costs. Notably, financing recurrent expenditure was transferred from the
state budget to contributory social insurance under the administration of the
SIA in 1990. In the future, transfer payments for the non-employed and
copayments will supplement health insurance as a source of health care
financing. The Local Government Act (1990) decentralized responsibility for
ownership, management and provision of health and social services to the local
community level. The Public Health Act (1991) aims to initiate effective
programs to combat the leading causes of poor health. The Primary Care Act
(1992) will reorient the health sector towards more cost-effective and high
quality basic care. Incentives are being introduced to improve efficiency and
productivity of health care providers. Capitation payments have already been
introduced for primary care doctors. Hospitals will soon be reimbursed on a
case-mix basis. Revisions to the Pharmaceutical Act will continue to reduce
unnecessary subsidies for medications and increase cost-recovery.
1.28.    An aggressive series of reforms has also been initiated to establish
a new public/private mix in the provision of health services, which will allow
the public sector to free up resources for improved targeting in specific
areas, as recommended by the Bank's recent Country Economic Memorandum.2/ A
legal framework has been created to privatize the pharmaceutical sector.
Provisions are being introduced to: (a) provide loans for private doctors to
purchase or rent equipment and premises; (b) facilitate contracting-out of
some services to the private sector; and (c) establish supplementary voluntary
health insurance for above-standard care.
D. Rationale for World Bank Involvement
1.29.    World Bank involvement in Hungary's health sector reform is justified
for three main reasons. First, expenditure on health services and income
transfers must be contained if the fiscal balance needed to underpin a return
to economic growth is not to be jeopardized.i/ Although such expenditures
now constitute over 22 percent of GDP, several factors threaten to trigger
further explosive growth in expenditure on health services and cash benefits:
(a) economic liberalization has led to an increase in prices and wages;
v/ I8D, Hungary - Refor= gad Decentralization of the Publlc Sector, Volumes 1 and 2, Report No. 10061-
HU, January 30, 1992.
I TBRD, Smry  Reform and D eentralization of the Publlc Sector. Volumes 1 and 2, Report No. 10061-
HU, January 30, 1992; DMW, Sociol Security Reform In Bumaarv, prepared by G. opits, R. Nolann, G.
sobieber, and Z. SidgSick, October 12, 1990; and TBRD, Hunterv - Health Services Issues and Options
Io guos . Iforlkin Paper. Septenber 10, 1990.



- 11 -
(b) unemployment has led to a growing need for income support programs; and
(c) greater freedom and choice have led to less restraint in demand for health
services. Second, health services and social insurance benefits are financed
by an already punishing levy of 37.5 percent on gross wages (about 16.3
percent for health services alone). The resulting inflation of labor costs
and dampening of the demand for labor are exactly opposite to what Hungary
requires in order to safeguard its international competitiveness and address
its growing problem of unemployment. Third, illness limits individuals'
participation in employment. Reduced incomes due to illness, contribute to
increased poverty, and poverty deprives people of exactly those healthy living
arrangements, diets, and lifestyles which are critical to closing the health
gap between Hungary and western countries. The resulting vicious circle of
illness and poverty, if allowed to continue, will weaken even further the
country's potential for economic recovery and growth, while at the same time
magnifying the upward pressure on public expenditure.
1.30.    Addressing the above issues is an integral part of the Government's
reform program. For these reasons, the Government now proposes: (a) to
reorient the health sector so as to provide more effective interventions; and
(b) to strengthen the MOW, local governments, and related health care
institutions to provide more efficient care. To do so, the many deficiencies
of the health sector must be addressed in a period of economic crisis, when
public sector investments have long been reduced below what is required even
for maintaining the existing capital stock. As demonstrated by Bank studies
of human resources development in Hungary,2/ and elsewhere in the region,
many of the required reform measures will entail substantial capital
investment, a large proportion of which will be imports of equipment and
expertise. With funds not otherwise available to the health sector in the
present economic context, the Project will help finance the most critically
needed investments within the MOW's reform program. These investments will
result in only minimal net increases in recurrent expenditures in the short-
term, and over the medium- to long-term will contain upward pressure on the
state budget.
E. Role of International Donor Community
1.31.    Grant Facilities.  Japanese Grant Funds were requested through the
World Bank and approved in December 1991 for the preparation of the Project.
The US$1.1 million grant facility has substantially covered fees and expenses
for consultants' services required to prepare the loan proposal. The
following other international donors also provided financing for technical
assistance during project preparation: American Government, British Trust
Fund, Canadian Government, Danish Government, Dutch Government and French
Government. Appreciation is expressed to the following agencies for releasing
staff to provide technical assistance during project preparation: Australian
Health Insurance Commission, Australian Department of Social Security,
2/ IRD, Hunaarv - The Transition to a Market Economv: Critical Human Resources issues, Report go. 6665-
SU, August 6, 1990; IBRD, Hungarv - Reform of the Social Policy and Exuenditure, 1992; and I*RQ.
Wuniarv - Roueina Policy Reform in Hungarv. Report No. 9031-EU, November 1990; and the mungary Human
Resources Project (Loan 3313-HV) deals only with the education sector and unemployment services.



- 12 -
Australian Department of Health, Danish Health Board, Finnish Ministry of
Social Welfare, George Washington University, Harvard University, London
School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, University of Minnesota, University
of Montreal, Urgences Sante and US Centers for Disease Control.
1.32.    As agreed with the Government at the onset of Project preparation in
1991, the proceeds from a World Bank loan have been reserved for critical
activities for which such grant facilities will not be available. Independent
financing has, therefore, also been sought from the international donor
community for projects to strengthen social services, primary care and the
private sector, which are an integral part of the Government's Reform Program
for the health sector. Although originally developed by the World Bank as
part of its global health sector reform strategy, the implementation and
supervision of projects related to the proposed social services, primary care
and private sector reforms will be the responsibility of these other donor
agencies, not the World Bank.



- 13 -
II. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives
2.1      The Project has two main objectives: (a) to improve health status by
beginning to close the gap between Hungary and Western European countries and
by supporting the Government's program of restructuring the health sector to
focus on more effective interventions; and (b) to provide more efficient and
higher quality care by strengthening the institutional capacity of the health
sector in policy-making, management and evaluation.
B. Project Description
2.2      The proposed Project will provide technical assistance, fellowships,
training, preparation of studies, development of health programs, computer
hardware and software, medical and office furniture, equipment, teaching
materials, refurbishment of facilities and incremental recurrent costs
(US$105.9 million equivalent base cost; and US$132.6 million total cost
including contingencies).2Q/ It will be implemented over a period of seven
years by the MOW, public health institutions, local government health
services, medical universities, and the Central Statistical Office (CSO)
through the following two components:
(a)   The Health Services Develooment Component (US$62.7 million
base cost) will comprise the following two subcomponents:
(i)     Public Health and Disease Prevention; and
(ii)    Institutional Care.
(b)   The Policy-Iaking and Management Comgooent (US$43.1 million
base cost) will comprise the following four subcomponents:
(i)     Public Health and Management Training;
(ii)    Management Support Systems;
(iii)   Project Management; and
(iv)    Preinvestment Study.
2.3      Recognizing that widespread systemic reform in the health sector is a
long-term process, the Government and the World Bank have agreed that the HSMP
will be the first in a phased series of strategic investments needed to
improve health and adapt the health sector to a market economy. Two aspects
of the Project are especially noteworthy in this respect. First, preparation
of the detailed cost tables that are presented in the Annexes was made
possible by the availability of a Japan Grant facility. As in the case of the
companion PAHIP, these tables reflect an advanced stage of project preparation
J/ Estimated project costs in this chapter are provided without physical or price oontingncies.
Dotaled uwber may not add up to totals because of rounding.



- 14 -
rather than an excessive complexity of the project design itself. Where
possible, non-critical activities were postponed for futur3 investments. For
example, the investments required to upgrade hospitals and specialists
services to Western European standards go far beyond the financial resources
that will be available to Hungary in the short- to medium-term. With the
exception of a few strategic and highly targeted interventions, the HSMP
limits its involvement in the hospital sector to conducting a preinvestment
study of future priorities. Likewise, since the proposed primary care and
private sector reforms will be supported by other donors, these areas were not
included in the Project. The remaining technical complexity is inherent to
the proposed health promotion and disease prevention strategy. This has to be
accepted as part of the cost of doing business in the human resources sectors.
Second, to emphasize the importance of public expenditure control and
Hungary's Economic Reform Program, during negotiations, assurances were
obtained that, for the purposes of cost-containment and to protect the
financial viability of the HIF, the Borrower shall take all necessary measures
through budget caps and other expenditure controls, to ensure that the
aggregate of all expenditures on health services financed through RIF for a
given year, including performance-related reimbursements for doctors,
hospitals and other health care providers, would not exceed the health
services budget of HIF for that year (total HIF budget net of cash benefits
financed through health insurance).
Health Services Development
2.4      This component will support the Government's program of restructuring
the health sector to focus on more effective interventions through strategic
investments in public health and selected institutional services; it will
complement ongoing reforms financed by other international donors that aim to
strengthen community services, primary care and the private health care
sector. The Project will support proven action-oriented approaches to public
health, as well as the creation of a Close the Gap Program (CGP) (US$14
million base cost) to launch new initiatives in health promotion and disease
prevention. It will also strengthen certain institutional services targeted
for special attention because of their direct impact on Hungary's most
pressing health problems.
2.5      Public Health and Disease Prevention (USS31.2 million base cost).
This subcomponent will seek to improve health status through a series of
targeted investments in health promotion and disease prevention activities
(see Annex 1 and 2 for a detailed description). It forms the centerpiece of
the HSMP by setting priorities for the Government Reform Program based on the
leading mortality and morbidity indicators and keeping these at the forefront
of national and local debates about health and health service reforms. During
negotiations, assurances were obtained that, not later than June 1, 1993, a
new Public Health Program Unit (PHPU) shall be established in the Office of
the Chief Medical Officer (CNO) and shall be maintained to manage the Public
Health subcomponent of the Project. The PHPU shall be staffed with a full-
time director and project manager, whose experience and qualifications shall
be acceptable to the Bank and who shall be assisted by competent staff in
adequate numbers. The PHPU shall liaise with the PHU and collaborate with
other implementing agencies.



- 15 -
2.6      The newly established PHPU in the Office of the CMO will be
strengthened to: (a) manage the public health subcomponent of the Project;
(b) manage and disburse the funds of the CGP; (c) analyze and disseminate
information on public health; (d) develop national, regional and local
policies on health promotion and public health action programs;
(e) advise the CMO on public health priorities; and (f) coordinate its
activities with the faculty of the new training programs in public health and
health services management.
2.7      The Project will support the following action-oriented public health
activities: (a) strengthening of the National Public Health Center (NPHC);
(b) chronic disease primary prevention; (c) chronic disease secondary
prevention; (d) school health; and (e) Hungarian health surveys. The NPHC
will be strengthened through a reorganization of its institutions, training,
and communications systems. Hungarian-specific interventions in primary
prevention will be designed and implemented to reduce the levels of chronic
disease risk factors in the population. The current health status of the
Hungarian population and the relationship between behavior and mortality will
be assessed through carefully designed epidemiologic studies in well-defined
geographical regions of Hungary. A strategy of national consensus formation
will subsequently be defined based on the outcome of this demonstration model,
leading to Hungary-specific recommendations on future national policies on
tobacco, alcohol, and diet. The current anti-smoking program of the National
Institute for Health Promotion (NIHP) will be strengthened. Interventions in
secondary prevention will be strengthened through an improved cancer
registration system. National screening programs for cervical cancer, breast
cancer, colorectal cancer and hypertensive control will be developed. The
resulting secondary prevention strategies will be implemented in appropriate
clinical settings. A Health Promoting Schools Project, supported by WHO and
the European Community, will be carefully assessed through a controlled
education experiment in ten intervention and ten control schools using grades
5 through 8 as targets for the assessment. If effective, resources will be
provided to expand the program nationwide. Finally, the Project will support
a major health survey to strengthen information on mortality, risk factors and
cancer incidence, essential to guiding and evaluating the preventive programs
and future investment strategies for health services reforms. The survey will
form the basis for an ongoing outcome evaluation of other interventions to be
introduced through the Project.
2.8      The Project will also create a CGP to launch new initiatives in
health promotion and disease prevention designed to reduce mortality which
will be supported through funding provided on a highly competitive basis (see
Annex 2 for a more detailed description). The main objectives of the CGP will
be: (a) to stimulate innovative, acti.on-oriented intervention programs in
health promotion and disease prevention to control cardiovascular disease,
cancer and injuries; (b) to establish a more substantial and incentive-driven
financing mechanism for action-oriented intervention programs and research in
public health; (c) to foster high quality, action-oriented intervention
programs in chronic disease prevention; (d) to make provision for future
public health initiatives which cannot be anticipated or launched immediately;
and (e) to overcome the pervasive pessimism in Hungary, among the population
and medical profession alike, that effective action in health promotion and



- 16 -
disease prevention could begin closing the gap in health status between
Hungary and Western Europe. During negotiations, assurances were obtained
that the Borrower shall apply the criteria, guidellnes and procedures for
awards of grants under the COP agreed upon with the Bank, and future changes
to, or introduction of, new criteria, guidelinesr and procedures shall be
subject to Bank approval prior to their introduction and implementation. As a
condition of disbursements, the Bank vill require that no withdrawal shall be
made in respect of payments made for expenditures under Category (3) (Schedule
1 of the Loan Agreement) unless Hungarian and international members for the
Close the Cap Committee for the COP have been selected on the basis of
criteria satisfactory to the Bank, and the first committee meeting has been
held.
2.9      The Project will provide technical assistance (494 staff-months),
fellowships and training (147 staff-months), teaching materials, audio-visual
equipment, hardware, software, library resources, and development of studies
and interventions designed to empower the public health system to deal
effectively with the challenges presented by increasing rates of chronic
disease. It will also finance the CGP (US$14.0 million base cost) on the
basis of competitive funding of sub-projects prepared, appraised and
implemented in accordance with criteria and procedures agreed with the Bank.
2.10     Institutional Care (USS31.5 million base cost).  This subcomponent
will support a balanced short-term remedial approach to addressing the primary
and secondary effects of cardio-cerebrovascular diseases, the leading causes
of death and morbidity in Hungary, while the NOW is conducting a more detailed
assessment of the investment needs in the hospital sector and specialists
services.21/ It will upgrade the equipment and buildings of a network of
clearly targeted institutions (local, regional and national) that deal with
the morbidity and mortality of these diseases. Specifically, the subcomponent
will provide diagnostic and therapeutic equipment for: (a) one national and
four regional cardiovascular centers (non-invasive and limited invasive
coronary care services); (b) five selected stroke centers (early detection
equipment); and (c) one national and local rehabilitation service. This will
provide the necessary clinical backup to support, in a balanced manner, the
public health strategy developed under this project, in addition to the
primary care and private sector reforms that will be developed in parallel
under financing from other donor agencies.
2.11     The Project will provide technical assistance (six staff-months),
medical equipment and furniture, and limited civil works to support the
acquisition and installation of the needed equipment. It will provide on-the-
spot training to strengthen the operation and utilization of the new
equipment.
flV Sao details under Preinvuttent Study subcomponent.



v 17 -
Policy-Making and Management
2.12     This component will strengthen the institutional capacity of the
health sector by: (a) supporting the establishment of Schools of Public Health
and Health Services Management; (b) strengthening the MOW Computing Center and
introducing management support systems in selected institutions;
(c) developing the project management capacity of MOW staff; and
(d) supporting the preparation of preinvestment studies for restructuring
hospitals and strengthening specialist services.
2.13     Public Health and Management Training (USS10.0 million base cost).
This subcomponent will support the Government's initiative to: (a) establish
a School of Public Health that will offer a postgraduate training program
(masters level) in public health, two-year supervised placements, retraining
for doctors in the public health service, and fellowships abroad for Masters
and PhD degrees; and (b) establish a School of Health Services Management that
will offer a two-year postgraduate training program (Masters level) in health
services management, develop a continuing education program to upgrade the
skills of managers, and introduce a research program in health services
management. Faculty and professional development will be supported through
postgraduate degree fellowships abroad (Masters and PhD degrees) and
participation in professional conferences and workshops (see Annex 3 and 4 for
a detailed description.) The Project will support reforms in curriculum
development and awarding of higher education degrees in public health and
health services management, consistent with the higher education reforms that
will be introduced by the Ministry of Education under the Higher Education law
to be approved by Parliament and supported by the Human Resources Project.
2.14     The Project will provide technical assistance (37 staff-months),
fellowships (955 staff-months), training, teaching materials, audio-visual
equipment, hardware, software and library resot.ces to establish and
strengthen the described programs. Limited civil works will be required to
adapt and refurbish existing buildings to meet the needs of the new programs.
2.15     Management Support Systems (USS28.0 million base cost).  This
subcomponent will strengthen the management capacity of the health sector by
providing policy-makers, planners and managers with modern information systems
and office equipment necessary to gather accurate and up-to-date information
on reasons for visits to health facilities, health services outputs and health
care expenditure. To strengthen information management within the hospitals,
the Project will provide 60 to 70 workstations and four file servers for each
of 25 selected hospitals, based on size and complexity of function. It will
support development of a Management Information System (MIS) for middle- to
high-level hospital managers and clinicians, and provide application software
as feeder systems for the MIS for Admissions-Transfer-Discharge data
recording, chemistry, hematology, microbiology, radiology, pharmacy, new
financial management modules, electronic mail, and preparation of a mandated
summary that will be given to the patient and the primary care physician. The
system will be developed and tested in five pilot hospitals before deployment
in the remainder of a selection of 20 hospitals over the life of the Project.



- 18 -
2.16     Parallel to the above activities, all hospitals in the country will
be provided with a basic financial management module to support the proposed
new performance-related reimbursement schemes for hospitals and specialists
services. During the initial phase, hospitals will continue to do stand-alone
applications such as personnel, payroll, chart of accounts, materials
management, technology management, word processing, spreadsheets, and
statistical analyses freestanding on personal computers. The financial and
MIS system will be designed to have the capacity to be expanded, as skills
develop and resource-. become available, to include these and other features of
a comprehensive system of clinical computing. A disease monitoring system,
using population-based techniques, will be developed later during the Project
to permit routine monitoring of thospital utilization patterns and, eventually,
monitoring of the costs and outcome of hospital services provided to defined
populations.
2.17     Hospital managers will be trained to use the system to track
expenditures, identify ways to contain costs and operate their services
effectively and efficiently. Clinicians will be trained to identify cost
effective treatments by combining financial data with information from the
admission/discharge information system. Clerical staff will be trained in
data coding, transfers from paper to electronic forms, aggregation of data
from local to national levels, and analysis and interpretation of data. The
subcomponents will provide the software and hardware to develop a quality
control system by various medical colleges and institutes.U2/
2.18     The Project will provide technical assistance (184 staff-months),
fellowships and training (51 staff-months) to support development of the
application software. The Project will provide the necessary hardware,
software, office equipment and limited civil works for offices that will
accommodate the new activities.
2.19     Protect Mana2ement (USS2.1 million base cost).  This subcomponent
will strengthen the capacity of the PhU to coordinate projects in the health
sector, supported by the World Bank and other donor agencies. During the
early phases of implementation, services of project management consultants
will expose the PMU to modern project management techniques such as: control
of critical paths, monitoring resource utilization, overseeing ; y-to-day
operations, evaluating progress, resolving bottlenecks, preparing periodic
progress reports, and ensuring the timely execution of tasks. Consultants
will provide support in the following areas: (a) ensuring that funds (loans,
grants, parallel financing and local counterpart funds), resources (human,
physical and information), and management support are made available to the
Project when required through appropriate budgeting and planning; (b) managing
special accounts established for the Project; (c) processing and/or expediting
loan/grant fund withdrawal applications and draw-downs; (d) consolidating and
preparing progress and evaluation reports, financial records, statements of
expenditure, and audits for the Project; (e) coordinating implementation of
various activities to ensure that project objectives are met, and that the
12/ Technical assistance in the form of a feasibility study would be provided under the Preinvestment
Study suboamponent.



X 19 -
required actions are executed in an efficient and timely manner in accordance
with the planned project processing and implementation schedule; and
(f) undertaking procurement of consultant services, goods and civil works for
the Project to standardize processes and benefits from economies of scale
through bulk procurement. By the end of the Project, Hungarian managers will
have fully mastered the skills of project management. During negotiations,
assurances were obtained that during execution of the Project, the Borrower
shall maintain within the MOW the Project Management Unit (PMU) to be headed
by a full-time project manager, whose experience and qualifications shall be
acceptable to the Bank, and who shall be assisted by competent staff in
adequate numbers. For loan effectiveness, the Bank will require that the MOW
has signed a contract to employ a management consultant firm to strengthen the
PMU's project management capacity.
2.20     The Project will provide technical assistance (111 staff-months),
fellowships and training (six staff-months) until the necessary transfer of
expertise has occurred, making it possible slowly to withdraw the intensive
support provided during the early phases of project implementation. It will
provide the necessary hardware, software, equipment and civil works for PMU to
operate effectively.
2.21     Preinyestment Study (USS3.Q million base cost).  This subcomponent
will support development of a preinvestment study to prepare for an eventual
second phase investment in hospitals and specialists services. It will assist
the MOW in clarifying the roles of major partners in the health care system
and other sectors relevant to health. During a first phase of the study, the
Project will strengthen the MOW's capacity for policy-making, planning,
evaluation, consultation and negotiation by: (a) establishing policy-making
units at the national, regional and local levels; and (b) providing technical
assistance in formulating and implementing policies and legislation relating
to:  (i) health care financing and management; (ii) 'Health for All" policy
development and program implementation (interdepartmental, intersectorial and
environmental); (iii) capital investment; (iv) development of consultation and
negotiation mechanisms as part of the reform process within a democratic
state; and (v) a framework for the development of the nongovernmental private
and independent sector. During a second phase of the study, the Project will
conduct a detailed analysis of the physical facilities and equipment, and
human resources in the health sector with a view to elaborating medium- to
long-term strategies relating to: (a) rehabilitation and improvement of
existing health services (closures, consolidations and conversions), addition
of new capital facilities (construction of major civil works) and introduction
of expensive new technologies (equipment, hardware and software); and
(b) manpower development (this will include a reassessment of professional
development, quality control measures, and the function of existing
professional bodies and institutions).
2.22     The Project will provide technical assistance, fellowships and
training in the form of pilot projects, feasibility studies and policy advice.
It will provide the necessary hardware, software and equipment for the studies
to be conducted in an effective and efficient manner.



20 -
C. Environmental Imoact
2.23     The Project has been classified as C:  "No appreciable environmental
impact." Attention will also be given to appropriate disposal of sanitary,
medical and laboratory wastes.



- 21 -
III. PROJECT COSTS. FINANCING MHANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
A. Prgiog. Cost
3.1      Summarv of Project Coxts.  The total cost of the Health Services and
Management Project is estimated at about 10.2 billion Forint (Ft) or
US$132.6 million equivalent including contingencies, taxes and duties. The
total base cost is estimated at US$105.9 million. Price contingencies between
appraisal (June/July 1992) and the end of the seven-year project
implementation period will amount to about US$18.3 million or 16 percent of
base cost plus physical contingencies. Total contingencies represent
25 percent of the base cost. The foreign exchange component is estimated at
about US$91.0 million including contingencies, or about 69 percent of total
project cost. In an attempt to reduce the scope and complexity of the Project
to a minimum, multiple linked activities that are financed locally through the
MOW's investment budget (Ft. 8.7 billion or US$110 million in 1990) were
excluded from the project design. Had these locally-financed activities been
included under total project costs, the foreign exchange component financed by
the Bank would have been even less than the 60 percent ratio recommended for
Hungary. The total project cost includes technical assistance, fellowships,
training, preparation of studies, development of health programs, computer
hardware and software, medical and office furniture, equipment, teaching
materials, refurbishment of facilities and incremental recurrent costs
incurred during project implementation. The estimated cost distributed among
project components is shown in Table 3.1 below. Project costs are summarized
by expenditure category in Table 3.2. Detailed cost estimates of each project
component by category of expenditure are shown in Annex 6.
3.2      Basis of Cost Estimates.  Project costs were estimated as follows:
(a) Base Costs. Cost estimates are derived from: (a) costs of
consultant services, fellowships and training from ongoing technical
assistance (TA) and specialized services in the Human Resources
Project (Loan 3313-HU) and the Financial System Modernization Project
(Loan 3191-HU); (b) recent quotations obtained from suppliers of
hospital/medical and computer equipment; (c) applications software
costs from comparisons with ongoing software development activities
and estimated requirements for technical books and journals;
(d) staff-unit costs from current public service salary scales with
some adjustments for the remuneration of local technical staff to a
level deemed competitive with the market for specialized services;
(e) building refurbishment costs from consultants' survey of the
costs for these items; (f) funds allocated for the preparation of
studles, estimated on the basis of the aggregated costs of local and
foreign specialized services, unit costs for internal travel and
subsistence, and mission estimates of material and logistic needs;
and (g) on the basis of competitive review of sub-projects prepared,
appraised and implemented in accordance with criteria and procedures
agreed with the Bank for the COP (see Annex 2). All project costs



- 22 -
have been estimated in US dollar terms on the basis of June 1992
priqes adjusted at the official exchange rate of 79.0 Forint per US
dollar (October 1992).
fMle I1:  PROJECT COST SUMMARY BY PROJECT COMPONENT
I of     2
---- Forint Million ---    ---- U8$ million ----  Base  Foreign
Local   Foreign   Total    Local  Foreign  Total Costs Exchange
1.   WL1  SlRVIMS           m
1.1 Public Health
Strengthening of the NPBC W                91.0   1,311.9   1,402.9      1.2   17.0   16.2      172    942
Chronic Disease Primary Prevention         28.8     2586.      285.7     0.4    3.3    3.7       41    902
Chronic Disease Secondary Prevention    136.6       142.9      279.5     1.8    1.9    3.6       32    51X
School Health                              32.9      50.3       83.2     0.4    0.7    1.1       12    61S
Hungarian Health Surveys                  0.0       351.7      352.6     0.0 _4.6  ,48           4X   lOOS
SubteAal:       f 290.2   Z1  319  2     403 L0 9J       3 _ 5 1 2    29X J58
1.2 Institutional Care
Stroke Program                            121.6     423.5      545.1     1.6    5.5    7.1       72    786
Cardiovascular Diseases                   351.5     568.2      919.6     4.6    7.4   11.9    lX    622
Physical Rehabilitation                   506.1     457 4      963.5     6.e  5.9   12 5        lZX    472
sulitatal     979.2   1 449.0   2,428 Z    12.7   1.8 8   31.5       30X    60S
2.   EOICYHMAKM  AMD ..ASER8
2.1 Public Health ead Management Trainina
School of Health Services Management    265.5       140.1      405.6     3.4    1.8    5.3       5X    35X
School of Public Health                 --- 121.3  245.7    3... 1       16   3.2  _4.8          5X    67X
Subtotal:     386.0    3858        772.7 _ 5.0 _.5J             10J  0  eX    502O
2.2 Management Surort System
NOW Computing Center                       57.0     163.3      220.3     0.7    2.1    2.9       32    742
Management Information Support System   748.7   1.187.1   1.935.8   __SLt   15.4  _25.1         242    612
Sdbtotal:   _80.    1.350.4   2.138.1    10.5   17.5   28.0          261    632
2.3 Project Management Unit
Project Management Unit                    24.9     133.8      15J.4    _.9,   1.7   J       .1  21    842
Subtotal:      24.9      133.8     158.L      0.3    1.7     2.1      2X    84X
2.4 Preinvestment Studies
Preparation of Preinvestment Studies        0.0     231.0     231.0      0.0  3.0_A     3.0   3_ 3X _LOOX
Subtotal:       0.0      231.0     231.0   _0.0    3.0    3.0         3X   lOO
TOTAL USK CCETS:   2,486.9   58663.6   8,150.6    32.3   73.6  105.9    1002    692
Physical Contingencies:      229.7     420.4      650.1     3.0    5.5    8.4        6X    652
Price Contingencies:     487.3      924.4   1.411.7      8.3   12.0   18.3       172    65
TOTAL POJECT COSTS:   3.203.9   7.008.4  lO.Z12.3    41.8   91.0  132.6    1251    691
NOTES: Numbers may not add up due to roundins.
Project coats include taxes and duties estimated at US$15.1 million equivalent to 12.92 of the cost
of goods and services except for TA Wich is expected to be tax exempt.
/ Cost includes US$14.0 million (base cost) for the COGP.



- 23 -
Table 3.2: PROJECT COST SUMMARY BY CATEGORY OF EXPENDITURE
X of       %
----- Forint million -----        ---- US$ Million ----   Base    Foreign
Local    Foreign       Total      Local  Foreign  Total   Costs   Exchange
1. 
Fellowshlpa                             0.0       352.6       352.6        0.0      4.6      4.6        41    100l
Specialists                            24.1       736.4       760.5        0.3      9.6     9.9         9x     97X
Training                               73.9         7.2        81.1        1.0      0.1      1.1        1X       9X
Studies/Pzoaram Development  J1 00    1                  823 .7     1 823 .7 0.0    23.7    23.7       22X    100_
Subtetal:      ILV    L2.SO         3,017.9        1.3    37Z9    39Z          37       972
2.  1gJ1T   MfIBRILS and NOIIIMU
Equlpment                             170.5    1,189.0    1,359.5         2.2    15.4    17.7          172      87%
Computer Systems                      351.6       845.7    1,197.3         4.6    11.0    15.5         lS       71X
Proprietary Software/Books             90.6       136.0       228.6        1.2      1.8     2.9         31     60X
Furniture                             137lz        10.7    _ 134J4         1.6 J   0J 1      1 7        21       8X
Subtotal:   Z73         2.1813    2,917.8          9.6    -28.3    37 9    _ 361        752
3.  CIL
Refurbishing                          34.          MA         377.5        4.5      0.4      4.9        5S       7S
Subtotal:    349.5         28.0        377.5       4.5      0.4      4.9       5        72
4. nXM AL,BRin a
Local Staff Salaries                  261.9         0.0       281.9        3.7      0.0     3.7         3X       OX
Computer 0&4                          162.9       181.3       364.2       2.4      2.4      4.7         4S      502
Software Maitenanee                    21.2        60.6        61.8       0.3       0.8      1.1        12      742
Equipment OCM/spare parts             126.6        90.9       217.5        1.6      1.2     2.8         32     422
Building Oam                           30.3         1.3        31.5       0.4      0.0      0.4         ox       42
Non-salary Operational Costs          660.1       200.3       660.4       8.6      2.6    11.2         lX     232
Subtotal:  1.303.0        534.4    1.837.4        16.9 4.9    23.9             23S      292
0V&L BNM  COSIS:  2,486.9    5,663.6    8,150.6            32.3    73.6   105.9        100l      692
Physical Contiagencies:    229.7          420.4       650.1        3.0      5.5      8.4        8S      652
Price Contingencies:       487.3       92. .4   1.411.          6.3        12.0     18.3   _17X     652
101  I               : . r 3.D.ff3203.9  7.008.4    0 L241 a .3   41   91.0   132.6       1252      69X
NOTM: Rumb rs may not add up due to rounding.
Project costs include taxes and duties etimated at U8915.1 million equivalent to 12.92 of the cost of
goods and servies except for TA.
g/  Cost includes US914.0 million (bas eost) for the Close the Gap Program.
(b)  Contingency Allowances.  Project costs include a contingency for
unforeseen physical variations/additions (US$8.4 million) equivalent
to five percent of the base cost of technical assistance and staff
salaries, and ten percent for all other project items. Annual rates
of foreign price increases have been estimated at 2.8 percent in
CY92, 3.9 percent in CY93-94, and 3.8 percent thereafter. Because of
the large differential between the estimated annual foreign and local
inflation rates, the overall price increases for the Project have
been calculated on the basis of the estimated foreign price
escalation rates. This approach is justified on the assumption that



- 24 -
the policy of adjusting the Forint exchange rate to reflect the
inflation differential between Hungary and its trading partners will
continue.l/
(c)  Foreign Exchange Co2monent.  The foreign exchange component is
estimated at about US$91.0 million including contingencies, or about
69 percent of total project cost. Calculations of the foreign
exchange component were derived from an item-by-item analysis
resulting in the following: (a) building works, furniture, local
materials and supplies--8 percent; (b) medical and office equipment,
computer hardware and software--71 percent; (c) books and journals--
88 percent: (d) annual licensing/upgrading costs of computer
soitware--74 percent; (e) imported materials and supplies--67
percent; (f) technical assistance, fellowships, training and studies
--100 percent; (g) incremental recurrent costs for the operation and
maintenance of computer hardware--50 percent; (h) equipment
maintenance--42 percent; (i) local staff salaries--0 percent; and
(j) other non-salary incremental recurrent costs--4 percent.
(d)  Customs. Duties and Taxes.  Project costs include an estimated
average 13 percent, or US$15.1 million equivalent, for customs duties
and taxes on works, goods and services. It is expected that
technical assistance services for the Project will be exempt from
taxes.
3.3     In :emental Recurrent Costs.  Project recurrent costs include
incremental costs directly attributable to the Project, which will arise
mainly from: (a) medical and computer equipment operation and maintenance;
(b) maintenance of applications software; and (c) salaries of new faculty and
staff of the two schools. The additional recurrent (base) cost will total
about US$23.9 million equivalent during the seven-year project period. At
full operational status of the Project (1997), the annual incremental
recurrent cost generated is estimated to be about Ft 397 million (US$5.2
million equivalent), or about 0.2 percent of the projected 1992 recurrent
expenditure (Ft 184 billion) of the MOV. Measures now being instituted in the
health sector (including those being supported by the proposed Pensions
Administration and Health Insurance Project) to reduce recurrent costs such
as, among others, cutting waste on pharmaceutical benefits and hospital care
by only five percent, will place the incremental recurrent cost within
sustainable limits. During implementation, MOW will pay extra attention to
monitoring the adequacy of recurrent funds for maintenance and operation of
facilities and newly instituted programs, and take the necessay actions to
rectify any deficiencies.
I / The followidn calculation Is peovided for iofeortion only and aboe, the effects an project cost
estimates in Forint when applyiug the projected Iceal price escalation rates to both Local nad foreign
costs. The projected price escalation rates for goeds and *ervies are estimated at 19 percent in CY
1992, 13 percent in 1993, 11 percent in 1994. 0 percent in 1995 and 7 percent thereafter.
Local    erea"n    Total
--- Poriat lllian -------
Total Base Costs           2,486.9    5,e69.6  8,150.6
Physical Contingencies       229.7     42.44    650.1
Price Contingencies                   3,7157   5578L7
Total Proloct Cost         4,579.6    9.7S9.7  14,379.3



- 25 -
B. Prolject Financing
3.4      The proposed Bank loan of US$91.0 million will finance 100 percent of
the foreign exchange cost of the Project. The Government will finance the
balance of project costs (US$41.6 million) or 100 percent of local costs,
including duties and taxes estimated at US$15.1 million equivalent. At the
Government's request, retroactive financing of up to US$5.0 million will be
included to cover the cost of equipment, specialist services and training
necessary for early project start-up (sub-components 1.11 and 2.31).
Retroactive financing will be limited to expenditures incurred prior to loan
signing but after July 10, 1992. The financing plan and financing
requirements by year are shown in Tables 3.3 and 3.4 below.
Tae 3.3: FINUICING PLAN
--1US$ Million--
LocaL      Forea         Total
Xof         Iof          Sof
aMont Total Amont Total Amount Total
Governmnt of Sungar A  41.6  100l   0.0  O0   41.6  31S
World uank             0.0   ,OX   1.0  nu    M1A    15
Total Finsnin Reivremnts 41.6  100l   91.0  1001  132.6  1001
M/ tncludes financing of taxes and duties equivalent to US$15.1 millin.
Tmble 3  14 ANCIN REEQUIRUU  BY YEA
Bank Fiscal Year    1993 1994 1995 1996 1987 1998 1999 2000 Total
Local Funds      0.7  3.8  7.3  9.6  5.6  5.2  4.6  4.6  41.6
Foreign Funds     i       MLI      is l  .   ..La LA  _16
Total Financing    4.7  9.6 24.6 34.0 22.4 14.2 13.0  9.0  132.6
Iv 01 July 1092 - 30 June 1993.
C. ProJect Management and Iumlementation
3.5      Qvervniw.  The Project will be implemented over a seven-year period
and is expected to be completed by December 31, 1999. The project
implementation schedule is shown in detail in Annex 7. The Project will be
iplememnted by the MOW, public health institutions, local government health
services, medical universities, and the Central Statistical Office (CSO). The
coordinatLon of all project-related activities will be the responsibility of
the Project Management Unit (PMU) within the MOW. The project implementation
responsibilities are summarized in Chart 3.1 below, and described further in
Amex 8.



- 26 -
Chtll 3. 1: CHARST O PROJECT D4PLETITS1ON RESPoNsIBrLITIES
Subcomponent & Activity           Responsible Line              Implementing Agency
Department/Asency
Public Heslth                     Office of the CHO
Strengthening of NPHM                                    Public Health Program Unit
Chronic Diseases Primary Prevention                      Nat'l Inst. of Health Prom.
Chronic Diseases Secondary Prevention                    National Institute of Oneology
School Health                                            NI8P
Hungarian Health Survey                                  Central Statistical Office
Institutional Care                MOW Departments
responsible for health
policy and medical
Stroke Program                  technology               Stroke programs in MOW/HPD
6 Recipient Hospitals
Cardiovascular Disease                                   Hungarian Inst. Cardiology and
4 Recipient Institutes
Physical Rehabilitation                                  National Institute of Medical Rehab
Local Rehab. Centers
Public Health & ManaRement Trainint    MOW Department of
Education
School of Health Management                              Semelveis Medical Univ. and NPHC
School of Public Health                                  Seumelweis Medical University
Management Suv=ort System         MCW Information
Department            Health Information Center
MOW Computing Center                                     Szekszard
MIS Support for Hospitals                                Recipient Hospitals
Project Manaaement
Disbursements                                            Project Management Unit
Project Budget/Accounts                                  MW PMU
Coordination/Monitoring                                  NOW PHU
Reporting                                                PM/IUmplementing Agencies
Preinvestment Studies                                      Policy Department Unit of the HOW
L Includes management of the COGP.
3.6       Proiect Management and Coordination.  The PMJ, within the Ministry of
Welfare, will be responsible for coordinating the implementation of the
Project. The PMW will facilitate resource flows to the implementing units,
and to the extent appropriate, consolidate the procurement of goods and
services for greater efficiency and to achiene economies of scale. The PMU
will also serve as the clearing house for project issues requiring the
attention of top MOW management and external agencies including the Bank. The
PHU will not design or implement programs and activities supported by the
Project, as this will be the responsibility of existing MOW line departments
and associate institutions. The PMU will: (a) facilitate the tasks to be
undertaken by the various units/institutes preparing terms of reference
(TORs), short lists, etc. for technical assistance (TA), fellowships, and
training requirements for their employees, including higher level managers of
the MOW; and it will participate in the technical evaluation of TA proposals
received, negotiations and award of contracts; (b) facilitate the tasks to be
undertaken by the MOW's Health Policy Department (HPD) working with task
forces of clinical and equipment experts from MOW institutes/units in the
preparation of detailed lists, specifications and bidding documents for



- 27 -
medical and oth,er equipment, as well as participate in the technical
evaluation of bids; and (c) collaborate with the National Bank of Hungary
(NBH) in processing disbursements and keeping track of project expenditures,
funds and costs. The full-time Project Manager and two full-time senior
coordinators have been appointed. The PNU's day to day operations will be
supported by full-time technical staff (at least three positions) and support
personnel (at least two positions) with skills in accounting, procurement,
contract administration, information processing, and records management. The
PMU'- responsibilities are described in further detail in Annex 8.
3.7      Given the Project's complexity and the need to support institutional
strengthening in the MOW, the Project will provide technical assistance
(111 staff-months) to the PMU and all implementing units in the areas of
project management, planning, procurement and contract administration.
Intensive support is planned (about 36 staff-months per year) during the first
three years of implementation. This TA support for project management is
expected to taper off during the latter half of the implementation period to
about 1 to 3 staff-months per year by which time the PMU and HPD will have
acquired sufficient expertise. During negotiations, the TORs , as well as the
procedures for contracting the Project Management assistance to the PMU, were
reviewed by the Bank and the MOW.
3.8      Project Iolementation Arrangements.  In view of the limited
implementation capability in some areas of project intervention, NOW will hire
additional professional staff to manage selected programs. The implementation
of each project subcomponent will be the responsibility of the appropriate MOW
department or associate institution concerned, as shown in Chart 3.1 and Annex
2. Each MOW department or associate institution will liaise closely with the
PMU to ensure the timely flow of resources adequate for implementing its
programs, and coordinate with other involved institutions. Procedures for the
implementation of each subcomponent are described in Annex 8. A Project
Operational Manual (POM) is under preparation, describing for each component:
(a) project action matrices; (b) detailed TORs for the necessary technical
assistance; (c) sample progress reporting and monitoring formats; and
(d) technical background, as appropriate.
3.9      Bank Supervision.  Although implementation responsibilities have been
defined in detail and TA will be provided in critical areas of management and
implementation, the Project will require, on average, about 25 staff-weeks of
Bank supervision per year during the first two years of implementation, when
several policy-oriented components, tightly linked to the PAHIP (to be
presented to the Board at the same time as this project), will be implemented.
These include payment of primary care providers, both private and public, as
well as the introduction of management support systems in hospitals and new
payment modalities for hospitals. Wherever possible, Bank staff will cover
preparation and multiple supervision tasks in the same missions for other
social sector projects considered for Bank financing, including the PAHIP. In
addition to Bank inputs, it is expected that supplementary resources financed
by other international donors will also be involved to supervise ongoing
parallel reforms that will strengthen social and community services, primary
care and the private health care sector. The project's supervision plan is
shown in Annex-10.



- 28 -
D. Project Procurement Arrangements
3.10         The procurement arrangements are summarized below:
Table 3.5: PRGCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS A/
(US$ Million)
Hot Bank
Category of Expediture                  ICB          LCB         OTHiE       Financed   TOTAL      I 1BRD
Civil works                           --          6.0          --            --       6.0
(0.0)                              (0.0)         oX
Purniture                             --          --           2.2           --       2.2
--         (1.6)kf                   (1.6)       753
Equipnent/Computer Systems           37.4         --           3.5 k         --      40.8
(34.5)                    (3.3)                 (37.9)       931
Software/Books/Copyrights             --          --           3.6 I/       --        3.6
(3.4)                  (3.4)       931
lellowhips/Study Tours                --          --           5.5 l         --       5.5
(5.5)                  (5.5)      1001
Specialists                                                   11.8 af       --       11.8
(11.8)                 (11.8)      0OO1
Training                              --          --           1.5 9/        --       1.5
(1.5)                  (1.5)      1001
Studies/Program Development           --          --          29.4 j/        --      29.4
(29.4)                 (29.4)      lO0
Incremental Salaries                  --          --           --          4.6 V      4.6
(0.0)       O0
Dulding/Cemputer/Equip O&             --          --           --         10.8 V/   10.8
(0.0)        OX
Computer Software Maintence           --          --           --           1.4 V     1.4
(0.0)       0O
Non-salary Operational Costs          --          --                       15.0 V    15.0
(0.0)       0O
- - -- -    - -  -- - -- ---    -- - --    - -- ---   - -- -
Total Financing Requirements         37.4         6.0         57.4        31.9      132.6
(34.5)       (0.0)       (56.4)                 (91.0)        69X
NIO: Numbers may not add up due to rounding.
I/ Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the Bank Loan.
bf International shopping (aggregate-US$3.9 million), packages estimated at less than US$300,000 each
contract; prudent local shopping/off-the-shelf purehases (aggregate-US$1.0 million) less than
VS$50.000 each contract.
g Intellectual property purchased directly/negotiated with publishers and/or copyright owners
(Ahgregate-US3 .4 million).
IV Procurement according to Bank Guidelines for Use of Consultants.
p/   Srvooes of consultants for preparation of studies engaged in accordance with Bank Guidelines for
Use of Consultants. Amount includes funds for Close the Gap Program (US$14.0 million base cost)
a*uinistered following criteria approved by the Bank.
V    Hiring of local staff and procurement of' non-salary items of recurrent expenditure financed by
Government and ptocured in accordance with local procedures.
3.11         To the extent practicable, items to be procured will be grouped into
major packages to encourage competitive bidding and permit bulk procurement.
Procurement will be undertaken in the following manner:



v 29 -
(a)  Procurement of Goods.  Invitations to bid on equipment will be
grouped by the PMU into major packages of goods, the contents of
which could be typically supplied by one supplier. Equipment
contracts which are estimated to cost more than US$300,000 equivalent
per contract will be procured following international competitive
bidding (ICB) procedures in accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines
for Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" (May 1992). Medical
equipment (about three major packages) will be packaged according to
related specialized fields. Computer hardware and peripherals (about
eig ht major packages) will be procured with careful consideration of
hardware compatibility and local availability of maintenance
services. Equipment procured through ICB will account for about 80
percent of the total value of equipment requirements. The remaining
20 percent of the equipment value will be in packages suitable for
procurement other than ICB. In the comparison of bids for equipment
to be procured through ICB, domestic manufacturers will be allowed a
preferential margin of 15 percent, or the existing customs duty,
whichever is lower, over the cost, insurance and freight (CIF) prices
of competing imports.
(b) The exceptions to ICB procurement will be:
(i)   Local Competitive Bidding (LCB).  The LCB procedures agreed
with NBH for procurement under the Product Market Development
Project (Loan 3509-HUW) will also apply for LCB procurement
under this project. A standard LCB bidding document for civil
works has been approved by the Bank for use under the Product
Market Development Project. The refurbishing/remodelling of
buildings (US$6.0 million equivalent) which will be entirely
financed by the Government will be procured on the basis of
local competitive bidding procedures acceptable to the Bank.
(it) International Sho=invf (IS). IS procedures will be used for
small amounts of equipment where the cost of ICB will clearly
outweigh possible price advantages. Contracts for equipment
estimated to cost less than US$300,000 per contract, not to
exceed an aggregate amount of US$3.9 million equivalent, will
be awarded under international shopping procedures, based on
comparing price quotations obtained from at least three
suppliers from two countries eligible under the Guidelines in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
(iii) Local Shogping (LS). Minor sundry items not exceeding
US$50,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount of
US$1.0 million equivalent, could be purchased on the basis of
prudent local shopping by comparing price quotations obtained
from at least three local suppliers, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Bank.
(iv)  Direct Prourement.  Goods and technical licenses which the
Bank agrees: (a) are of proprietary nature; (b) the timely
supply thereof is critical for efficient project execution; or



- 30 -
(c) need to be compatible with other installed equipment, may
be procured through direct negotiations with
property/copyright owners, on terms and conditions acceptable
to the Bank. Such items include contracts for intellectual
property such as books, technical journals, training
materials, audio-visual materials, computer applications
software, including annual upgrading and licensing
arrangements, copyrights, translation and reprinting rights
for training materials, estimated to cost about US$3.4 million
in the aggregate.
(v)   Technical Assistance.  Qualified firms will be invited to
submit proposals for comprehensive packages of consultant
services and management of fellowships and training in
accordance with the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing
Agency" (August 1981). To keep the evaluation process
manageable, no more than six (but at least three) proposals
will be invited following a short listing acceptable to the
Bank. As needed, the services of individual specialists
(mainly to develop computer applications software) will also
be contracted on the basis of short-lists of eligible
candidates. All technical assistance services will be
procured in keeping with the terms of reference for such
services described in the PO and in keeping with the TA
packages and schedule set out in Annex 11. Implementing units
will be provided with adequate technical support to manage the
selection process (para 3.7).
(vi)  Studies/Close the Gap Pr tram (CGP).  The Project will provide
funds (US$14.0 million base cost) under the CGP for the
piloting/implementation of innovative health promotion
programs proposed by communities and schools/institutions.
These programs will be selected on a competitive basis
following criteria described in Annex 2. The Project will
also fund (US$15.4 million aggregate) the preparation of
selected studies/research/surveys related to the development
of the health sector in Hungary. Awards of contracts to
institutions/specialists for these studies will be in keeping
with the provisions of the Bank Guidelines for the Selection
of Consultants.
(vii) Incremental Recurrent Costs. Building and equipment
maintenance services, annual maintenance costs of computer
software, staff salaries and other non-salary operational
costs (US$31.8 million equivalent) will be financed entirely
by the Government. These items will be procured in accordance
with standard Government procedures which are acceptable to
the Bank.
3.12     Contract Review.  All equipment listed in sub-components 1.11 and
2.31 in Annex 6, with an aggregate amount of US$5 million to be financed



- 31 -
retroactively, will be procured following ICB procedures in accordance with
Bank Guidelines. TA contracts, including training and fellowships in
subcomponents 1.11 and 2.31, to be financed retroactively, are required for
loan effectiveness (paras 2.19 and 5.3), and will be awarded in accordance
with Bank Guidelines for the Use of Consultants. Model bidding documents for
ICB and TA procurement have been prepared for Hungary with Bank assistance,
and are available at the NBH. However, the World Bank will continue to review
master lists of equipment, packaging of bids and updated cost estimates. With
respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of
US$500,000 or more, provided, that with respect to the first contracts under
each subcomponent estimated to cost the equivalent of US$300,000 or more and
all the contracts under the CGP (Part l,a(ii) of the Project) estimated to
cost US$300,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of
Appendix 1 of the Guidelines shall apply. It is estimated that this prior
review will cnver about 80 percent of the value of all contracts combined for
equipment and technical assistance. The remaining 20 percent of contracts
will be subject to selective post award reviews by the Bank. The Bank will
review only TORs and short lists for consultant contracts under US$100,000
equivalent; above this threshold standard, World Bank review procedures will
apply.
3.13     Disbursements.  The proposed project is expected to be disbursed over
a period of about seven and one-half years, or about one and one-half years
shorter than the average disbursement profile (eight and one-half to nine
years) for health sector projects financed by the Bank. The closing date will
be June 30, 2000. The disbursement period is expected to be met as the major
project expenditures for medical equipment and computer hardware are scheduled
to be incurred and completed during years two through four of the
implementation period. The detailed disbursement schedule is shown in Annex
. The financing plan by disbursement category is shown in Table 3.6 below.
Table 3.6: FINANCING PLAN BY DISBURSEMENT CATEGORY
(US$ Million)
Government of    Total
W"orld Bank    uSUGARY       Financing
Category of Expenditure  Amount  I    Amount  S    Amount 2 of Total
TDCAL  U                     48.1  1002     0.0   0     e       36X
Local Training              1.5 1OOX     0.0  O0    1.5        1S
Peflowahips                 5.5 1OOX     0.0  OX    5.5        41
Specialists                11.8  1002    0.0  0   11.8        9X
Studies/Program Development q/    29.4 1002  0.0  02   29.4   222
MWUJIIM   POURUITORK and S".IIAU   4  937               46.7     35X
Equipment/Computer Systems  37.9  931    2.9  71   40.8       311
Software/Books/Instructnl Matls    3.4  932  0.3  72    3,6    32
Furniture                   1.6  752     0.5  252    2.2       22
CIVIL lowX                    0 0   OX      6   100 lOO 80       5S
Construction/Upgrading      0.0  ox      6.0  100l    6.0      52
nYErX30fa  BECURRgN COST      0A 0   1 OX  1   100X   31.9      24X
Local Staff Salaries        0.0  OX      4.6  1002    4.6      32
Building/Equip/Computer 0M  0.0  OX    10.8  1002   10.8      8X
Computer Software Maintenance  0.0  OX   1.4  1002    1.4      1X
Son-salary Operational Coats  _0A 0 j _O 5l 0 lOO    15,0     llX
TOTAL FIAEfIAB    91.0  69X    41.6  312   132.6    1002
NOTE: Numbers may not add up due to rounding.
f/ Includes funds (US$14.0 million base cost) for the Close the Gap Program.



- 32 -
3.14     Disbursements will be made as follows:
(a)  100 percent of foreign expenditures for goods, including equipment,
furniture, books, training materials, software, supplies and
materials; 100 percent of ex-factory cost of locally manufactured
items; and 75 percent of the cost of goods procured locally;
(b)  100 percent of expenditures for technical assistance, fellowships,
training and preparation of studies/research; and
(c)  Close the Gap Program:
(i)   100 percent of foreign expenditures for goods, 100 percent of
local expenditures (ex-factory cost) and 75 percent of local
expenditures for other items provided locally; and
(ii)  100 percent for consultants services, training and
fellowships.
3.15     All disbursements will be fully documented except for contracts
costing less than US$300,000 equivalent. For expenditures below that level,
disbursements could be made on the basis of Statements of Expenditure (SOB)
certified by the PMU Project Manager. Records maintained separately by the
PHPU and PMU for the CGP will be supported by contracts between MOW and the
implementing body, describing the scope of the programs/activities and the
schedule of fund releases linked to monitorable performance indicators. The
required supporting documentation will be retained by the PMU for at least one
year after receipt by the Bank of the audit report for the year in which the
last disbursement was made. This documentation will be made available for
review by the auditors and by visiting Bank staff upon request.
3.16     Sgecial Account.  To facilitate timely project implementation, the
Government will establish, maintain and operate, under terms and conditions
acceptable to the Bank, a Special Account denominated in US Dollars in the
National Bank of Hungary, into which the World Bank will deposit an initial
amount of US$4.0 million, which is judged adequate to cover about four months
of foreign expenditures under the Project. The Special Account will be
replenished as appropriate when the undisbursed balance of the Account falls
below an amount equal to 50 percent or less of the amount of the Special
Account. Documentation requirements for replenishment applications will
follow the same procedure as described in paragraph 3.15. In addition,
monthly bank statements of the Special wecount which have been reconciled by
the Borrower will accompany all replen. went requests. A Project Account in
Forints will be established prior to Loan Effectiveness which will be used by
the PMU for expenditures to be covered by local counterpart financing.
3.17     Project Accounts and Audits.  Separate project accounts (including
one for the CGP), will be maintained by the PMU for the Project. Project
accounts (including CGP accounts) and the Special Account, will be audited in
accordance with the Bank "Guidelines for Financial Reporting and Auditing of
Projects Financed by the World Bank* (March 1982). The Borrower would provide
the Bank (within six months of the end of each fiscal year), an audit report



- 33 -
of such scope and detail as the Bank may reasonably request, including a
separate opinion by an independent auditor acceptable to the Bank, on
distursements against certified SOEs. The separate opinion should mention
whether the SOEs submitted during the fiscal year, together with the
procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied
upon to support the related withdrawal applications.
E. Proiect Regorting and Evaluation
3.18     Reporting and Annual Reviews.  The PMU will prepare semi-annual
descriptive and financial reports on each project component, objective and
activity (beginning from the date of Loan Effectiveness). The reports will
describe: (a) current status; (b) deviations, if any, from the implementation
plan set forth in Annex 7; and (c) the reasons for deviations and corrective
actions being taken. Sample progress-reporting documents are included in the
POX. Reporting and Bank supervision will focus on in-depth reviews of the
policy framework for sectoral improvements, the consistency of activities for
each component and subcomponent with agreements reached at negotiations,
performance of the implementing groups and institutions, assessment of
emerging needs for adjustments to project parameters, and possible follow-up
operations which could be supported by the Bank. Bank supervision will be
based on the semi-annual progress reports and the annual evaluation of project
activities by the MOW. This will be supplemented by a review of project
expenditures and availability of financial resources, in addition to
substantive discussions with technical assistance groups implementing and/or
assisting in the implementation of various components, and discussions with
responsible authorities. The POM, agreed upon with the Government during
negotiations, will also be used to assist supervision and reporting. During
negotiations, assurances were obtained that, not later than March 31 of each
year during the execution of the Project, the Borrower shall furnish to the
Bank a technical and financial report, of such coverage, detail, and format as
the Bank may reasonably request, on the status of Project implementation (as
of December 31 of each year) and review, thereafter with the Bank issues
related to the execution of the Project.
F. Status of Preparation
3.19     Proiect PreDaration.  The status of preparatory activities at the
time of Negotiations in January 1993 was as follows:
(a)  Designation of Project Coordination and ImpleMentation
Responsibilities. Implementation and coordination responsibilities
of the PKU and MOW institutional units have been defined. The
principal officers of the PMU are in place and the support staff will
be recruited. The Coordinator of the PHPU has been appointed. Team
leaders who had participated in project preparation have been



- 34 -
retained for the implementation of the Project component/subcomponent
each has prepared.
(b) EguFpint L:ists/Bidding _gocumentA. There are existing standard draft
bidding documents for works, equipment and services prepared by the
NBH with Bank assistance for use in Bank-financed projects in
Hungary. These standard bidding documents will be modified by the
PMU/HPD to suit the specific requirements of the Project. Equipment
master lists have been prepared but technical specifications need to
be further detailed. An equipment specialist will be contracted
shortly to help finalize this documentation.
(c) Project Management Assistance. The Borrower has prepared a short
list of firms to provide project management assistance. TORs for
this TA have been prepared and are included in the POM.



- 35 -
IV. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
4.1      The Project's ultimate benefit will be improved health achieved
within an environment of tight constraints on public expenditures. Mortality
and morbidity will be reduced over the long term following the implementation
of a national strategy to decrease smoking, alcohol consumption and unhealthy
diets, and following the improvement of a clinical response capability to
related diseases. The quality and cost effectiveness of health care will be
enhanced through the switch in focus from curative hospital care to preventive
medicine and primary care. A new and more effective balance in the
public/private mix will allow the public sector to focus on specific areas of
clear-cut market failure. Further gains in efficiency and more effective care
will result from the improved professional training and better health services
management techniques introduced through the Project. These measures will
contribute to expenditure control in the health sector and have important
cross-benefits for the companion PAHIP.
B. Risks
4.2      The Project's major risks include:  (a) the weak institutional
capacity of the MOW to implement major reforms; (b) the need to create new
administrative structures such as the planned new School of Public Health and
School of Health Services Management; and (c) the loss of expenditure control
due to the introduction of performance-related reimbursements for health care
providers which could jeopardize the financial viability of the HIF. Specific
Project interventions have been designed to contain these risks. The Schools
of Public Health and Health Services Management will address the weak
institutional capacity of the health sector by providing training and
fellowships in policy-making, management and evaluation. Extensive twinning
arrangements with similar institutions in western countries and technical
assistance will reduce the risk of establishing new administrative structures.
Management consultants will be hired to strengthen project management and to
enhance project implementation. Finally, policies will be introduced to
contain health care expenditure and prevent a cost explosion. The Bank will
conduct a mid-term review of these policies to ensure that they will have been
effective and that they will not have had adverse spill-over effects on the
state budget.



- 36 -
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
5.1      The following actions are required to assure successful
implementation of the Project and attainment of the broader project
objectives.
5.2      During negotiations, assurances were obtained that:
(a) for the purposes of cost-containment and to protect the financial
viability of the HIF, the Borrower shall take all necessary measures
through budget caps and other expenditure controls, to ensure that
the aggregate of all expenditures on health services financed through
HIF for a given year, including performance-related reimbursements
for doctors, hospitals and other health care providers, would not
exceed the health services budget of HIP for that year (total HIF
budget net of cash benefits financed through health insurance) (para.
2.3);
(b) not later than June 1, 1993, a new Public Health Program Unit (PHPU)
shall be established in the Office of the Chief Medical Officer (CMO)
and shall be maintained to manage the Public Health subcomponent of
the Project. The PHPU shall be staffed with a full-time director and
project manager, whose experience and qualifications shall be
acceptable to the Bank and who shall be assisted by competent staff
in adequate numbers. The PHPU shall liaise with the PMU and
collaborate with other implementing agencies (para. 2.5);
(c) the Borrower shall apply the criteria, guidelines and procedures for
awards of grants under the CGP agreed upon with the Bank, and future
changes to, or introduction of, new criteria, guidelines and
procedures shall be subject to Bank approval prior to their
introduction and implementation (para. 2.8);
(d) during execution of the Project the Borrower shall maintain within
the MOW the Project Management Unit (PHU) to be headed by a full-time
project manager, whose experience and qualifications shall be
acceptable to the Bank, and who shall be assisted by competent staff
in adequate numbers (para. 2.19); and
(e) not later than March 31 of each year during the execution of the
Project, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a technical and
financial report, of such coverage, detail, and format as the Bank
may reasonably request, on the status of Project implementation (as
of December 31 of each year) and review, thereafter with the Bank
issues related to the execution of the Project (para. 3.18).
5.3      Condition of Loan Effectiveness.  For loan effectiveness, the Bank
will require that the MOW has signed a contract to employ a management
consultant firm to strengthen the PMU's project management capacity (para.
2.19).



- 37 -
5.4      Condition of MiaburseMents.  No withdrawal shall be made in respect
of payments made for expenditures under Category (3) (Schedule 1 of the Loan
Agreement) unless Hungarian and international members for the Close the Gap
Committee for the CGP have been selected on the basis of criteria satisfactory
to the Bank, and the first committoe meeting has been hold (para. 2.8).
RLecommendati
5.5      Subject to the above, the proposed operation provides a suitable
basis for a loan of US$9l.O million to the Government of Hungary.



- 39 -                     AEX 1
REPUBLIC  OFHUNGARY
WALTH SUERVICES AND NANAGEMENT PROJECT
PUBLIC HEALTH AMD DISESSE PREVENTION SUMCOMPONENT
A.  E  ISSUES
Life Exoectancy
1.       The health status of Hungary is the worst of any country in Europe.
It has declined relative to Western Europe since the 1950s, and in some
respects, has declined in absolute terms over the past two or three decades.
This is, perhaps, surprising in view of the fact that certain other Eastern
and Central European countries are poorer, and national wealth or GDP per
capita is generally recognized as one of the key determinants of health
status.
2.       Hungary is typical among Central and Eastern European countries with
respect to the evolution of its health status since World War II. In the late
1940s it had a health status very similar to Austria and other Western
European countries. Since then, communicable diseases, infant mortality,
maternal mortality and occupational diseases have been reduced very
substantially, but not to the same extent as in its western neighbors. Both
non-communicable diseases of adults, and injuries, have increased recently.
They are now the major cause of the large disparity with western countries in
adult mortality and overall life expectancy.
3.       Infant mortality rates have fallen from 86 per 1,000 live births in
1950 to 15 in 1990, but still remain around double the Western European
average. Despite improved infant mortality, life expectancy at birth for
males and females was only 65.1 years and 73.7 years, respectively, in 1990.
For comparison, life expectancy at birth in Western Europe is around 71 years
for males and 77 years for females. Over the past two decades life expectancy
at birth for males has fallen by 0.9 years and life expectancy at age 30 for
males has fallen by 4.2 years. Life expectancy for Hungarian females has been
unchanged over the same period, while Western European countries have
witnessed substantial increases in life expectancy for women.
4.       The major causes of poor life expectancy and the "mortality gap"
between Hungary and Western Europe is mortality rates from certain non-
communicable diseases in adulthood, especially: cardiovascular diseases,
cancers and injuries. Age-standardized death rates for men aged 30-69 years
rose between 1970 and 1985 by over 30 percent for all causes and by about 30
percent for cardiovascular causes. The equivalent figures for women were
rises of about nine and five percent, respectively. The major causes, in
descending order of importance, of mortality and years of healthy years of



- 40 -                     ANMX 
life lost in males aged 15-64 years are cardiovascular disease (of which acute
myocardial infOarction is the largest cause), cancers (of which lung cancer Is
the largest cause), and injuries (of which suicide is the largest cause).
Other causes for which mortality rates In adults in Hungary are strikingly
higher than in other European countries include chronic respiratory disease,
tuberculosis, appendicitis and liver cirrhoses. This disparity in adult
health between Hungary and Westera Europe is illustrated in Table 1 by
comparison with recent mortality rates in Austria, and in Table 2 by
comparison with 20-year time trends in England and West Germany.
5.       Risk factors for chronic diseases are consistent with these patterns
of high mortality risks. About 50 percent of Hungarian adults smoke, obesity
is common, hypertension is poorly controlled, over 40 percent of dietary
intake in calories comes from fat, and sedentary lifestyle is common. There
are currently no effective public health programs to address these chronic
disease risk factors, and there are not any national policies to address the
needs for tobacco control and improved nutrition.
Table 1.
Risk of death (X) between 15 and 60 years
of age for males and females
in Hungary and Austria
meles                     Females
Cause of  -----------------------------------
death
Hungary     Austria       Hungary     Austria
Communicable
and reproductive 0.5         0.3            0.2        0.1
Noncommunicable 21.2        11.8           10.8         6.3
of which:
cancers          6.6         4.2            4.3        3.3
cardiovascular   9.4         4.7            3.9        1.7
Injuries         6.3         4.7            1.8        1.2
of which:
suicide          3.1         1.9            1.0        0.6
All causes      28.1        16.8           12.8         7.6
Source:  Feachem et al.  (1992).  IEa Hh4lth of AdUlts in the Developing
World.  New York: Oxford University Press.



- 41-                      ANNEX 1
Table 2..
Percent change in Mortality (1970-1987)*
Total Mortality
(1987)   Total   IHD* Stroke      Cervical
Cancer
England            876     -18      -15    -41         -18
W.Germany          849      -25     -13    -40         -50
Hungary           1262      +3     +42    +37          +12
Source: Boys, R.J., Forster, D.P., and J6zan, P. (1991). Mortality from
causes amendable and non-amendable to medical care: The experience of
Eastern Europe. British Medical Journal, 303:879-883.
*IHD - Ischemic Heart Disease.
Public Health Service
6.       On March 20, 1991, the Hungarian Parliament passed Law No XI on the
"State Public Health and Medical Officer Service." The details of the
organization and operation of the new public health service were laid down in
Decree No 7/1991 of the Ministry of Welfare (MOW). Law XI of 1991 and Decree
7/1991 reorganized the preexisting network of public health institutions into
a hierarchical system under the control of the MOW, substantially increasing
the competencies and responsibilities of these institutions.
7.       The new public health service is headed by a Chief Medical Officer
(CMO), who is also Director of a new National Public Health Center (NPHC).
The CMO is supported by 20 county Medical Officers (MOs), who are Directors of
the county Institutes of Public Health (IPH), and 146 local Mos, who are
Directors of the local IPH. The 166 new MOs were appointed in late 1991.
8.       The new public health system has three levels:  the NPHC, consisting
of seven pre-existing national institutes; an intermediate level, consisting
of 20 county level institutes (including one large institute for Budapest);
and 146 municipal (town, city or, in Budapest only, district) level
institutes. The mean population served by a municipal IPH is 73,000, although
the distribution is heavily skewed with many serving much smaller populations.
Typically, a municipal institute will have 10-15 staff including one or two
public health doctors. County-level institutes (with the exception of
Budapest) serve a mean population of 460,000 people and have a total staff of
150 to 180.
9.       The new IPHs are similar to the Sanitary and Epidemic Prevention
Systems (SANEPID) found in other Central and Eastern European countries. They
are essentially a reorganization of the SANEPID Public Health Systems that
were created after World War II based on the Soviet model of public health
services. The former system was administered by local councils ('elected'



- 42 -                      ANNEX I
from candidates appointed by the communist party) and their roles were related
mainly to environmental health, and included monitoring infectious diseases,
food hygiene, and air and water quality. In addition, they provided
microbiology laboratories for the hospital service and a limited health
education service.
10.      The seven pre-existing institutes that are now incorporated into the
NPHC are:
National Institute of Hygiene (NIH);
National Institute of Occupational Health and Medicine (NIOHM);
National Institution of Radiation Biology and Health (NIRBH);
National Institute of Nutrition (NIN);
National Institute of Health Promotion (NIHP);
National Institute of Dermatology and Venereal Disease (NIDVD); and
National Institute of Pharmacy (NIP).
Table 3:  STAFFING OF THE NATIONAL PUBLIC HEALTH CENTER, 1991
Institution   Doctors  Graduates   Specialists  Te1hnical/  Manual    Total
*dmin
Institute
of Hygiene       85         98         235          122        228        768
Institute of
Occupational
Health          120         49         178           42         47        436
Institute of
Radiation        22         52          92           33          72       271
Institute of
Nutrition        15         34          60           15          18       142
Inst of Health
Promotion         6         20          28           24          9         87
Institute of
Pharmacy          2         87          33           28         17        167
Office of
the CMO          17          3           3           12          2         37
20 county & 146
local IPH       908        358        3502          860        912       6540
TOTAL          1175        701        4131         1136       1305       8448



- 43 -                      ANNEX
11.      Table 3 above shows the staffing pattern of the NPHC and Table 4
below shows expenditures for 1991. The NPHC is provided with a global budget
by the NOW. The CMO allocates this budget amou-tg dte seven national
institutes, the CMO's Office and the 166 IPHs. In 1992, a budget increase of
ten percent was provided for salaries and a five percent increase for other
costs. With inflation anticipated at around 25 percent for 1992, this
translates into a significant real expenditure cut on public health services
for this year. In the near future, "task financing" may be introduced for the
NPHC under which individual institutions will receive a budget based on an
agreement to carry out specific functions or activities.
Table 4: EXPENDITURE OF THE NATIONAL PUBLIC HEALTH CENTER, 1991
(Ft million)
Institution      Salaries  Social Security    Non-Salaries        Total
Institute of
Hygiene             201           77                331             609
Institute of
Occupational
Health              110           43                 32             185
Institute of
Radiation            68           26                 76             170
Institute of
Nutrition           48            19                 31              98
Institute of
Health
Promotion            34           13                 61              108
Institute of
Pharmacy             38           15                 35             88
Office of
the CMO             23            10                 18            51
20 County and
146 local Inst of
Public Health     1909           743                968          3620
TOTAL             2431           946               1552          4929



- 44 -                     ANNEX 1
12.      Previous and current activities of the seven national institutes and
the 166 sanitary and epldemiology stations have not been fundamentally
questioned or reviewed since establishment of the NPHC. The seven national
institutes carry out activities, including service and research, in the area
of responsibility suggested by their name. Some are engaged in activities
that no longer serve a mandated purpose while others are engaged in activities
that would be better conducted elsewhere. Many of their senior staff also
have academic appointments at the Postgraduate Medical University (in
Budapest) and conduct postgraduate teaching.
13.      Activities which serve no discernible purpose include much of the
environmental monitoring that is carried out. For example, air quality is
monitored at 20 sites in Hajdd-Bihar County and the data are compiled locally
and sent to the National Institute of Hygiene to form part of the national
record. Although large volumes of data are collected in this way, there is no
apparent link between this data collection and any policy or action to improve
air quality. There also appears to be no strategic thinking concerning
exactly what types of air pollution should be reduced nor how that should be
accomplished. The meteorological services and the Ministry of Environment
also, quite separately, collect air quality data.
14.      Current activities of the IPHs that would be better done elsewhere
include much of their clinical laboratory work. IPHs at county levels carry
out most of the clinical bacteriology (including all the enteric
bacteriology), all the clinical virology and mycology, and most of the
clinical immunology for local hospitals. Even the major teaching hospitals do
not carry out these diagnostic tests themselves. It would be preferable to
strengthen hospital laboratories to conduct these tests and remove
responsibility for routine clinical microbiology and immunology from IPH.
This would eventually improve patient care while freeing up capacity in the
IPHs. Reference laboratories could be provided at the NPHC or at major
hospitals.
15.      The new NPHC is currently not optimally organized to carry out its
mandate. Restructuring and reorganization of the NPHC is urgently needed,
starting with a redefinition of its mission and main functions. Under Law No
XI of 1991, the new tasks and responsibilities which the NPHC must address
include the following:
*        public health and public health policy throughout Hungary except for
the armed forces;
*        monitoring and evaluating the health status of the population and all
factors influencing the health status;
*        health education and public awareness;
*        setting standards, monitoring and enforcing public health and
environmental standards, including standards for the air, water,
waste, soil, food, the workplace, and toxic substances;
*        nutrition and nutrition policy;
*        public health standards in schools, hospitals and other institutions;
*        infectious disease control;



- 45-                      ANNEX 
*        vaccination programs;
*        supervision of primary care services, family health services,
maternal and child services, school health services, mental health
services, occupational health services, sports health services;
*        advice on any matters affecting the health services;
*        supervision of pharmaceutical supplies;
*        approval of technical specifications for buildings, and town and
regional plans; and
*        authorization of production, storage, transport and use, and any new
materials or articles for direct use by the general public.
16.      Recent changes in the mandate of the public health service can be
illustrated by describing recent changes in the organizational structure of
two county health agencies. The Institute of Public Health for Haidu-Bihar
county, within which Debrecen is located, is one example. The former
divisions and branches which were designed to address environmental and
infectious disease public hygiene problems have now been reorganized to
include responsibility for health problems that will be addressed by the new
mission of the public health service. A Health Protection Branch has been
added to the agency. There is a department for health education which
includes mental hygiene, prevention, as well as curative and preventive
services. There is also a department for supervising family, maternal and
child, youth, and occupational health services. Similarly, in Baranya county
within which Pdcs is located, the Institute of Public Health was recently
reorganized. That reorganization included creation of a new unit for health
education and health promotion which will be responsible for improving health
education of children as well as general health education of the adult
population and chronic disease prevention.
17.      As another example, the National Institute of Hygiene was created in
1927 with the support of the Rockefeller Foundation. The CNO plans to split
this institution into an Institute for Epidemiology, modeled on the Center for
Disease Control (CDC, Atlanta, USA), and an Institute for Environmental
Hygiene. This would allow for the development of more concerted objectives in
chronic disease prevention within the Institute for Epidemiology.
Information on Health Status
18.      Large amounts of data on public health were collected over the past
forty years, yet there has been little critical analysis and few connections
have been made with public health policy. Data have long existed that show
the growing gap in health status between Hungary and Western Europe. This
information was not made readily available to the public, and the Government
took no explicit action to address the problem.
19.      Splintering of data sources and poor communication links is an
important part of the problem. The National Statistics Office (NSO) has a
Department of Population and Health Statistics which is responsible for the
collection and analysis of data on births, deaths, abortions, and statistics
relating to the activities of the health services. Census data are the



- 46 -                      ANNEX I
responsibility of a separate census bureau which provides its data to the NSO.
Death records go back over 100 years but the reliability of the information in
these records is suspect. Death certificates are completed by pathologists or
clinicians, while separate death data sheets are completed by civil
registries. Although the latter data sheet contains information on the age,
sex, address, marital status, education, fertility, employment and occupation
of the deceased, postal codes are not recorded. A district within a city is,
therefore, the smallest geographical area for which death rates can be
computed, the numerator data being the limiting factor.
20.      There is a weak link between the data collection and analysis
conducted by the NSO and clinical activities of the MOW and local governments.
Hungary lacks an adequate national cancer registry system, and there is a need
for improved data management and communications within the NPHC as well as
between the NPHC and other sectors. Three cancer registries exist, one
national and two regional. The national cancer register is located at the
Institute of Oncology in Budapest. It collects data of limited accuracy and
completeness for the whole country. More complete and accurate data for the
county of Vas is collected at the registry at Szombathely and for the county
of Szaboles-SzatmAr-Bereg at the registry at Nyiregyhaza.
21.      The capacity to conduct applied research and evaluation research on
public health problems and programs is limited. This should be strengthened
in the future to develop action-oriented public health programs.
22.      Even when data is collected on a regular basis, passive reporting
leads to considerable under-reporting and low-quality of information. For
example, the IPHs collect a variety of data on communicable diseases,
vaccinations, health service activities, environmental risk factors,
occupational diseases and food poisonings. They report this data to the
appropriate national institute, but regular timely reporting back to the field
is rare. With no feedback, the IPHs are not motivated to improve their
reporting.
23.      Finally, there is currently no system for conducting surveillance on
risk factors for chronic disease. There is a ,'articular need for this type of
survey given the high rates of chronic diseases which could be prevented by
changes in health-related behavior in the population. The high prevalence of
smoking and poor diet have been estimated by spot surveys in recent years, but
these surveys were often based on poor sampling methods and/or had little
quality control in the data collection and analysis phases.
Health Promotion and Disease Prevention ProgramLs
24.      The high, and increasing rates of cerebro/cardiovascular disease can
be viewed as an indication of ineffective clinical management of hypertension.
General practitioners have not been well trained, or adequately reimbursed for
providing basic clinical preventive services, including the management of
hypertension. One of the first priorities of primary care medicine is the
immediate improvement in the detection and in the management of hypertension



- 47 .                      ANNEX I
so as to reverse the increasing rates of stroke and ischemic heart disease.
25.      Another telltale marker of inadequate clinical preventive services is
the increasing rate of cervical cancer mortality. This increasing mortality
is occurring at the same time that the number of Pap smears, an effective
screening procedure for early cervical cancer detection, is decreasing. Good
cytological laboratories already exist so another high priority for retraining
in primary care medicine is, therefore, in gynecologic exams and in performing
Pap smears.
26.      There is also a need for a public policy on tobacco to help to reduce
the current high rates of tobacco consumption. Presently, there are virtually
no organized activities for smoking cessation, despite the fact that over 50
percent of Hungarian adults smoke and over 50 percent of doctors are smokers
themselves.
27.      A closer working relationship in the future between the Public Health
Service and primary care doctors will be essential to improving control of
hypertension, smoking, and cancer.
Research Grants
28.      There is an urgent need to stimulate innovative applied research in
public health and epidemiology so as to control cardiovascular disease, cancer
and injuries. This might be done through the training of a new generation of
researchers and the establishment of a more substantial and incentive driven
financing mechanism for research in these areas. Establishing such a
mechanism within the NPHC would strengthen research in public health and
facilitate the needed reorganization of public health institutions in a
constructive way.
29.      Presently there are no foreign reviewers or advisors to bring an
international perspective to research financing. Medical research is the
responsibility of national institutes under the MOW, Medical Universities,
individual hospitals, and the Institute of Experimental Medical Science of the
Hungarian Academy of Science. Most research is financed through the regular
recurrent budget of these organizations, rather than through a competitive
process with peer-review for limited funding.
30.      The creation of a Medical Research Council (MRC) by the MOW was a
small step forward. The MRC is controlled by a Board comprised of independent
scientists. The Secretary, a biochemist, works part time at the Ministry on
secondment from his substantive post at the Semmelweis Medical University.
Twelve committees disburse funds for particular programs and projects. The
chairman of each of these committees also sits on the MRC Board. The
committees relevant to public health are those on Environmental Health,
Epidemiology, and Social Medicine. In addition, the central government
administers a Scientific Research Fund of which about Ft 120 million per year
(approximately US$1.6 million) is spent on medical research. The emphasis for



- 48 -                     ANNEX X
this Fund in on basic research of international quality using international
referees.
31.      Unfortunately, the NRC is presently distributing limited financial
resources in such a way as to keep alive most or all research groups across
the whole system in the hope that increased resources will become available in
the near future. This has led to underfinancing of institutions that have the
capacity to conduct good research and waste resources on institutions that no
longer serve a useful function. The MRC is allocated an annual budget by the
MOW. In 1991 the budget was Ft 90 million (approximately US$1.2 million).
The 1992 budget fell by approximately 20 percent in real terms. Approximately
70 percent of the budget is allocated to research at the Medical Universities,
20 percent to national institutes and 10 percent to individual hospitals.
Funds allocated by the MRC cannot be spent on salaries, which is the
responsibility of the concerned institutions. Grants have a maximum cap of Ft
800,000 per year for three years (approximately US$10,500).
32.      No longitudinal studies have ever been conducted in Hungary to
demonstrate the relationship between hypertension, obesity, smoking, and high
cholesterol as related to chronic disease risk. Experience from western
countries indicates that it is useful for an individual country to demonstrate
the importance of its own chronic disease risk factors. The type of research
that is acutely needed is high quality applied/evaluation research in chronic
disease prevention. This could include survey research on chronic disease
risk factors and on the performance of programs designed to reduce chronic
disease risk through either primary or secondary prevention efforts.
Excellent candidates for research in this area would be an evaluation of
programs designed to reduce tobacco use, improve diet, improve hypertension
control, and decrease sedentary life style in well-defined populations or
communities. This type of research is crucial to the success of chronic
disease prevention programs, as it can discern which approaches are successful
and which are not, and thereby help to improve the efficiency of the scarce
human and financial resources.
B. STRATEGIES FOR REFORM
Objectives
33.      Significant reform of the Hungarian public health service is a
critical prerequisite to improving the bleak health status of the population
and to begin *closing the health and mortality gap" between Hungary and its
western neighbors.



- 49 -                     ANNEX 1
34.      The specific objectives of the Project in this respect are four-fold:
(a) To strengthen the NPHC by creating a high-level policy and leadership
unit to support a new public health agenda in the country. Although
the unit may make use of some existing institutions and programs when
deemed appropriate, a special effort would be made to maintain the
unit's independence so as not to reinforce ineffective parts of the
old system.
(b) To strengthen information available to public health policy makers
and to the public at large on health status and risk factors. The
information base for public health decision making would be enhanced
through applied research, surveys, routine data collection and
improved communication systems.
(c) To launch priority public health programs immediately. This includes
activities in the fields of primary prevention, secondary prevention
and school health. An element of trial and demonstration would be
built into many of these activities to allow lessons to be learned
and experience to be gained prior to scaling up to the national
level.
(d) To make provision for future public health initiatives which cannot
be launched immediately. Some public health initiatives which may be
desirable in the future cannot be launched immediately because of
uncertainty about the preferred approaches and the lack of the
necessary social/political consensus. An example would be measures
to reduce the high rate of alcoholism, suicide and non-intentional
injuries or strong measures against tobacco abuse (including massive
tax increases and a complete ban on advertising).
C. DETAILED SUBCOMPONENT DESCRIPTION
Strengthening Public Health Policy and Action
35.      SRecific Background.  The highest priority of the health sector is to
begin to close the gap in health status between Hungary and Western Europe.
In designing the reforms of the Hungarian health care system, this ultimate
objective must be kept constantly in view. If not, pressures to invest in
high technology curative services which carry little benefit to health status
will dominate and investment in effective disease prevention and health
promotion will be eroded.
36.      Accordingly, the Public Health and Disease Prevention subcomponent is
the centerpiece of the Health Services and Management Project. It would
provide for a generation of new information and policies, and for the
implementation of specific, cost-effective measures. The information and



- 50 -                      AM    I
policies would guide the overall health sector reforms and enable the goal of
closing the gap to be kept constantly at the forefront of national and local
debates about health and health services. The specific measures that would be
implemented would demonstrate the relationship, in a Hungarian context,
between modifiable risk factors and disease, and would help to dispel the
prevailing mood of pessimism about health promotion and disease prevention.
37.      Beginning to close the gap in health status between Hungary and
Western Europe also depends on policies and actions unconnected to the health
sector. It is important, therefore, that the public health policy making
capacity developed under the Public Health and Disease Prevention subcomponent
address multi-sectoral issues.
38.      The National Public Health Center (NPHC), as a new organization, is
not yet optimally organized to meet the challenges of reducing mortality from
chronic and environmental diseases. The seven institutes that were joined in
the formation of the NPHC are still operating as seven separate organizations.
Over the next several years, major reorganization of the NPHC is desirable.
However, it is not possible to predict the exact nature and timing of this
reorganization. The Project would, therefore, strengthen the NPHC in ways
that allow the gap in health status between Hungary and Western Europe to be
addressed effectively and that would still allow for more fundamental
reorganization in the future.
39.      Program Description.  Specifically, the program would establish a new
Public Health Program Unit (PHPU) and a project development budget in the
Office of the GKO.
40.      The PHPU would be staffed as follows:
*    a Director (with public health and managerial experience);
*    a Project Manager;
*    two epidemiologists;
*    two health policy specialists;
*    an information specialist;
*    a communication specialist;
*    two data analysts;
*    two research assistants; and
*    five secretaries.
41.      The total staff complement (17) would be built up over the first
three years. A number of the individuals specified would not be readily
available in Hungary, especially the epidemiologists, health policy
specialists, and data analysts. Therefore, young graduates would be recruited
from suitable backgrounds and sent abroad for MSc level training before
returning to take up posts in the PHPU. The epidemiologists may be medical
graduates, the health policy specialists may be economics graduates, and the
data analysts may be mathematics graduates.



- 51 -                      AEX 1
42.      Some of the staff listed may hold joint appointment between the PHPU
and other posts. In particular, joint appointments with the new School of
Public Health and School of Health Services Management may be attractive.
This would assist recruitment and retention of staff. It would also provide
the PHPU with a supply of postgraduate students to conduct applied research
and analysis. It would provide the School of Public Health and School of
Health Services Management with access to teaching material on the latest
policy and information concerning public health and management in Hungary.
43.      Just as the Public Health and Disease Prevention subcomponent is the
centerpiece of the Health Services and Management Project, so the PHPU is the
centerpiece of the Public Health and Disease Prevention subcomponent. Through
a Close the Gap Program (CGP), the unit would have a major catalytic effect on
the next generation of innovative public health policies, programs and
projects.
44.      The PHPU would grow over time to occupy a central position in public
health and would advise the authorities at the highest level. This role would
take three or four years to develop. In the meantime, the PHPU would have the
important task of managing the Public Health and Disease Prevention
subcomponent of the Health Services artd Management Project and of running the
CGP.
45.      Six major functions of the PHPU are described in turn below:
(a)  Project management.  Overall project management is the responsibility
of the PMU in the MOW. A subsidiary project management capacity
would be developed for the Public Health and Disease Prevention
subcomponent which would have its own project manager and
secretariat. A technical assistance package has been designated to
assist the PHPU and this project manager.
(b)  Close the Gap Program (CGP).  US$2 million per year (in current
prices) would be made available to fund innovative research and
implementation aimed at closing the gap in health status. A total of
US$14 million (base cost) would be disbursed over the lifetime of the
Project for this purpose.
To implement the CGP, it would be necessary to develop administrative
procedures, peer review and other measures necessary to allocate
financial resources in a competitive manner that would maximize the
impact on closing the gap in health status. It is essential that
these procedures be as open and competitive as possible, and that
they be administered in an efficient and sound manner.
(c)  Information.  The PHPU would establish a monthly public health
newsletter to be widely distributed among relevant professionals.
This would not be a simple listing of reported disease, but would
contain analysis and articles of immediate interest. It would also



- 52 -                     ANN  1I
contain regular progress reports concerning closing the gap in
health. Information for this newsletter would be supplied not only
by the public health service, but also by other agencies - for
example, the NSO.
(d) Policy Development. Despite Hungary's poor health status, there are
no well-coordinated national policies on matters such as heart
disease, stroke, preventable cancers, injuries, smoking or alcohol.
In the newly reorganized public health service, responsibility for
such matters is divided and the CNO lacks the staff and analytic
capacity to generate a policy agenda. The PHPU would, therefore,
increasingly take on the role of supporting policy formulation and
advising the CMO on public health policy.
The PHPU would be assisted in this task by other parts of the public
health service, and by other agencies, such as the NSO. The policy
formulation role of the PHPU would be greatly assisted and
strengthened by the strategic use of the CGP. Funding decisions
would be influenced by policy agendas on which the PHPU is working
and the results of applied research and program evaluation supportED
by the CGP would feed into the policy work of the PHPU.
(e) Advising the CMO. The CNO presides over a large public health
service with wide ranging responsibilities for health. The CMO's
ability to influence and lead is, however, restricted by the lack of
staff and analytical capacity reporting directly to him. The PHPU
would, therefore, support and advise the CMO in his many functions
and responsibilities. By strengthening the CMO's role in this way,
the Project would deliberately avoid investment in one of the
existing institutions within the public health service and thereby
encourage, or at least not discourage, needed reforms.
(f) Interactions with the Schools. The new Schools of Public Health and
of Health Services Management would be established in parallel with
the establishment of the PHPU. The potential for productive
interaction between the PHPU and the schools would be substantial.
This interaction would be stimulated by joint appointments which
would be considered as the PHPU and the schools are being staffed.
46.      The global work program for the PHPU would be guided by an
international steering committee called the Closing the Gap Committee (CGC),
which would be directly responsible for funding decisions taken under the CGP.
The CGC would comprise six Hungarian members and four foreign senior public
health specialists from four different countries. The Hungarian members would
be able to contribute a multi-sectoral perspective on health policy priorities
in Hungary and the foreign members would be able to enhance the discussion
with an international perspective. The Hungarian members would be appointed
by the CMO with agreement of the Minister of Welfare, the Cabinet Committee on
Human Resources and the World Bank. The four foreign members would be



- 53 -                      NNEX 1
proposed by the consultants undertaking the technical assistance package and
agreed on by the Minister of Welfare, the Cabinet Committee on Human Resources
and the World Bank. Arrangements would be made for twice-yearly meetings of
the CGC, with 2 days in committee and 3 days of site visiting at each meeting.
Discretion to make minor awards could be granted to the PHPU by the CGC after
a year of operation.
47.      The terms of reference of the CGC would be to:
*    provide guidance to the CMO and the PHPU on measures to close the gap
in health status between Hungary and Western Europe;
*    monitor and make public statements about the progress towards closing
the gap in health status;
*    be responsible for the allocation of funds available to the CGP to
high priority activities in the field of public health intervention
and research;
*    undertake other activity, as it may decide, to improve public health
in agreement with the CO.
48.      The Project would refurbish and equip offices needed to house the new
unit within the Office of the CMO. The Project would also provide for
training, equipment and technical assistance, as indicated below.
49.      Phasing during Project Pregaration and Imglementation
92   93   94   95   96   97   98   99
1. Public Health Program Unit
plan                    x
recruit                 x
open unit               x    x
2. Close the Gap Program
establish fund          x
fund projects           x    x    x    x    x    x    x
evaluate                     x    x    x    x    x    x
3. Close the Gap Committee
select membership       x    x
meeting twice per year  x    x    x    x    x    x    x



-54 -ANNEX }
50.      IMplementation Arrangements.  The CMO, as the head of the NPHC, would
be the person directly responsible for all the activities in this
subcomponent. Day-to-day responsibility for the work of the PHPU would rest
with the Director of the PHPU.
51.      The following tasks would need to be completed as soon as possible:
(a) define, in detail, the structure, staffing and terms of reference of
the PHPU;
(b) identify the space which the PHPU would occupy to start the process
of arranging for its refurbishment;
(c) identify, in detail, the equipment specifications for the PHPU and
start the process of procurement;
(d)  appoint the Director of the PHPU, the Project Manager (who would head
the subsidiary PMU), and support staff;
(e) define, in detail, the terms of reference and the scientific and
administrative procedures for the CGP; and
(f) appoint the members of the CGC and prepare for its first meeting -
preferably in late 1992, but mid-1993 at the latest.
52.      To support this preparatory activity, and to support the
implementation of the entire Public Health and Disease Prevention
subcomponent, a substantial technical assistance package would be developed.
This technical assistance would provide support for all the preparatory tasks
listed above and for the ongoing work of the PHPU and the CGP. It would also
provide support for the other subcomponents of the Public Health and Disease
Prevention subcomponent.
Chronic Disease Primary Prevention
53.      Specific Background.  The main determinants of the poor life
expectancy at middle-age in Hungary are cardiovascular disease and cancer.
The standardized death rates up to age 65 are nearly twice the European
average for coronary heart disease and nearly 50 percent higher for
cerebrovascular disease. Death rates for lung cancer, breast cancer,
cardiovascular, and cerebrovascular causes are all high relative to comparable
countries, and also are increasing. In twenty years since 1969 the death
rates for lung cancer have increased by 87 percent for males and 66 percent
for females. For colon cancer similar figures are 116 percent and 87 percent
respectively, and for breast cancer the increase is 66 percent among women.
Each year, for men, there are 5,000 lung cancer deaths, 2,000 deaths from
colorectal cancer, and 900 deaths from cancers of the oral cavity. Among
females, there are 2,000 breast cancer deaths, 2,000 colorectal cancer deaths,
1,400 lung cancer deaths and 600 cervical cancer deaths.



- 55 -                     ANNEX
54.      The main causes of the high and increasing cardiovascular disease
rates are likely to be diet, smoking, physical inactivity, the personal and
family consequences of economic hardship, and inadequate medical care for
hypertension. While economic hardship and its consequences may have to await
other developments for improvement, progress is possible and urgent in other
areas. The Hungarian diet derives 40-43 percent of its energy from fat, is
low in fresh fruit and vegetables, is low in complex carbohydrates and is high
in salt. Obesity is highly prevalent, smoking rates are high, and levels of
physical activity are low. The dietary and smoking habits of the Hungarian
people are entirely commensurate with high mortality patterns. The intake of
animal fat is high and of fiber low, while the prevalence of cigarette smoking
is among the highest in Europe. The average consumption of cigarettes among
15-84 year olds is 3,154 per annum yielding an average tar consumption of
58.8 g. Apparently 50 percent of teachers and doctors smoke cigarettes, which
is a figure close to the national average for adults.
55.      The consequence of increasing mortality from heart disease and cancer
can be seen in the unenviable record of decreasing life expectancy in the last
forty years. In 1949, 40-year-old men were expected to live until age 71.7,
vhereas in 1990, 40-year-old men were expected to live only to age 68.8.
Increase in ischemic heart disease can explain about 80 percent of this
increase in total mortality in males. In recent years, unfavorable social and
economic circumstances have hampered political action to affect national-level
nutrition and smoking behavior. Because changes in smoking, serum cholesterol
level, blood pressure and physical activity are the major known requirements
for the prevention of cardiovascular diseases, action in these areas is an
urgent priority in the effort to reduce the gap in health between Hungary and
Western Europe.
56.      Program DescriDtion.  This subcomponent would support the creation of
a demonstration program in one district in the country to develop a Hungarian
model for disease prevention and risk factor reduction. This Community
Demonstration Nodel would provide evidence of the feasibility and
effectiveness of community-based prevention approaches to cardiovascular
disease. The main requirement to start a community-based program is to learn
methods by which health behavior and risk factors can be changed in the
Hungarian context and to develop national expertise in this field. The
intervention methods shown to be feasible and effective in the demonstration
area would then be used in other Hungarian communities with implications for
national policy development in cardiovascular and other non-communicable
disease prevention.
57.      The demonstration model would be conducted in a well-defined
geographical region of Hungary comprised of 20,000-60,000 residents. The
region should include at least one town of 10,000-30,000 inhabitants, and an
associated rural area containing a similar number of people.. The intervention
models would be built on those used in such places as North Karelia (Finland)
and Stanford (USA). The program would allow an opportunity to design,
implement, and evaluate intervention methods appropriate to the current
Hungarian situation. This would serve as a demonstration of the potential to



- 56 -                     ANNEX 1
reduce chronic disease risk factors in the population. In addition, a
national anti-smoking campaign would be developed using both printed and
electronic media.
58.      The demonstration community would be selected by the NIHP prior to
issuing a request for proposals from universities to contract and carry out
the intervention. The entire project would be overseen by a steering
committee to be appointed by the spring of 1993. The steering committee would
include (at a minimum) the Project Director, the Scientific Director of the
NIHP, a representative of the COP of the NPHC, and two members of the
intervention community.
59.      Much of the outcome evaluation would be done by the survey team
conducting the Hun-HANES (see Health Surveys program), but additional
evaluation of the process would be built into the contract for the
intervention. The Hun-HANES survey team would begin its national survey by an
intense sampling of the intervention district (about 1,500 people). It would
then return for a repeat survey at the mid-point and again at the completion
of the Project. A similar area not receiving the intervention would serve as
a control community, and comparisons would also be possible with the country
as a whole, since the Hun-HANES survey would be conducted during this same
time period as the demonstration trial.
60.      In addition to the demonstration model, there is also an urgent need
to develop a nationwide strategy for health, including the establishment of
policies on nutrition and tobacco control. Based on the experiences from
other countries like the US and Finland, the expertise developed in community
programs can make a major contribution to formulation of national policies.
The high prevalence of cigarette smoking demands a public health response at
the national level as soon as possible. The current anti-smoking program of
the NIHP would be substantially intensified through technical assistance and
with an investment in print and electronic media development to make the
Hungarian public aware of the hazards of tobacco. The campaign would be based
on public information and would also target physicians and teachers for
smoking cessation. Approaches that have been developed and tested in the
community demonstration area would be disseminated, especially through the
Healthy Cities network of the European Regional Office for WHO.
61.      Phasing during Project PreRaration and Implementation.  Planning of
the demonstration model would be in the first nine months of 1993. This would
be done by the NIHP under the leadership of a program Director. Baseline
measures of health status and risk factors would be made between September
1993 and January 1994 (see Health Surveys program). The community
intervention, conducted by a Hungarian university under contract with the
NIHP, would begin in January 1994. The anti-smoking activities would be
planned in the first six months of 1993, and developed and disseminated
thereafter.



- 57 -AE    1
92   93   94   95   96   97   98   99
1. Demonstration proj.
planning               xxxx
base.surv.                 xxxx
conduct                        iXICK)t xXX XXXX
evaluate                             xx          xxxxxx
2. Anti-smoking program
planning              xxx
develop materials        xxxxxx      xxx       xxx
conduct campaigns               xxxx     xxxxx   xxx
62.      Inglemen&at on rrangent.  The National Institute of Health
Promotion would be the responsible agency to carry out all the activities in
this program.
Secondary Prevention of Cancer
63.     Saecific Background.  Secondary prevention by means of screening is
of great importance in preventing unnecessary morbidity and mortality. Since
much chronic disease already exists (and some may be unavoidable), secondary
prevention remains an important element of health care. The opportunity for
an increasing role of secondary disease prevention is particularly opportune
because of proposed concomitant reforms in family medicine.
64.      Although cancer registration has been obligatory since 1952,
reporting levels have been low in most counties and national data on disease
incidence has not been used effectively. The current method uses a form that
is completed by the physician who diagnoses a cancer, but innovations in
regulations are needed to facilitate identification of cases from hospital
computer records and for the clerical addition of further information onto
these records. The existing quality of national data does not provide the
comprehensive picture of geographic variation needed to plan, monitor and
evaluate primary and secondary prevention programs.
65.      Cervical cancer screening is currently available and thought to reach
around 50 percent of the eligible population (20-65 year old females) every
three years. The worsening of PAP smear coverage is, however, thought to be
responsible for the observed increase in cervical cancer death rates and
reduction in the proportion of early stage diagnosis in recent years. In
1991, the number of smears decreased by 20 percent.
66.      Nammography for breast cancer mortality reduction through early
diagnosis has been well accepted in most western countries but is not readily
available to the general public in Hungary. The success of any mammographic



- 58 -                      ANNEX 1
service depends crucially on adequate and complete call and recall, and on the
accuracy and reliability of ancillary diagnostic services, both radiological
and pathological. This is lacking in Hungary.
67.      The efficacy of screening for colorectal cancer is not as
demonstrable, but limited evidence suggests that fecal occult blood testing
and endoscopy may reduce mortality. In 1981-83, only 27,000 out of a possible
74,000 samples were collected for analysis. A prospective study of efficacy,
in which doubts about lead time and length biases can be allayed, is therefore
clearly indicated before a major national program is launched.
68.      During the past, much hypertension screening took place in the
pulmonary clinics of the public health system. Although this led to the
frequent diagnosis of hypertension, clinical follow-up was weak and, in many
cases, non-existent. The high incidence and poor clinical management of
strokes and other morbidity related to hypertension is evidence of the failure
of this model of preventive and clinical intervention. Today, primary care
doctors have not yet assumed full responsibility for hypertension screening
and control making this a high priority for continuing education in the
future.
69.      Program Description.  This subcomponent would ensure that
comprehensive local data on cancer are available in formulating policy and in
planning to prevent and treat cancer related diseases and promote good health.
It would assist in design and implementation of screening programs of proven
effectiveness for secondary prevention. It would also facilitate the use of
case-control and other epidemiological studies to identify or highlight key
local risk factors. Strategies would be developed that emphasize concrete
secondary prevention to enable cost effective savings on advanced medical care
and facilitate cultural acceptance of needed public health policies.
70.      An improved cancer registration system would be developed, tested,
and implemented nationwide using linkages between hospitals, the cancer
registry, and vital records including deaths. A new system of records for
cancer registration needs to be linked in the near future to the medical
records that would be used by hospitals to claim performance-based
reimbursements from the Health Insurance Fund. This would ensure more
complete data gathering than has been possible in the past. The cancer
registry would use social insurance numbers or future health care ID numbers
for personal identification purposes. Activities would include publication of
registry findings and careful attention to data quality to insure accurate
assessment of cancer incidence and cancer treatment services.
71.      The program would attempt to increase significantly Pap smear
coverage through a call-recall system that would be developed by the cytology
laboratory system in cooperation with family doctors. The proposed program



- 59-                         A    1
would increase the extent and amount of appropriate Pap smear coverage to
1.7 million cervical cytologies per year with a reliable call and recall
system in medical practices by 1997. It would require data coordination among
the 72 cytology laboratories in the counties and the provision of equipment
and training for general practitioners. Women ages 18-64 would be invited to
have Pap smears done by their primary care doctor (or gynecologist if that is
where the previous smear was done). The registry would be maintained and
operated by the cytology laboratories, and supervised by the National
Institute of Oncology (NIO). Studies to assess screening efficacy (such as
small case-control studies) would then be conducted. The training of general
practitioners in the technique of performing a Pap smear would be one of the
immediate goals of the training program implemented through the primary care
reform.
72.      The introduction of routine mammography in a single county would be
used to examine the feasibility of this method of secondary prevention. The
trial program, established during the first year of the Project, would be
evaluated during the second year. Three additional screening mammography
centers would be established and evaluated if the first unit proves to be
successful. The performance of all four units would be evaluated by
case-control studies. The women eligible for the service would be aged 50 and
older.
73.      The subcomponent would initiate a research program for colorectal
cancer screening which would investigate the efficacy of the following
screening modalities: fecal occult blood tests (FOBT) and endoscopic
examinations. A single FOBT screening program would be developed and
implemented in a selected county. Pilot studies in three additional
demonstration centers would subsequently provide information on acceptability
and test sensitivity. Follow-up would include a four-year evaluation of
colorectal cancer screening, including an endoscopic examination component.



- 60 -                     ANNEX 1
74.      Phasing for groject Prgearation and Imglementation
92   93   94   95   96   97   98   99
1.  Pap smears planning xxx
call system                 xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
cytology training           xxxaxxxxxxxxx
evaluation                       xxx          xxx       xxx
2. Mammography
planning                  xxxxxxx
first unit                       xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
evaluation                              xxxxx
next three units                               xxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
evaluation                                               xxxxx
3. FOBT planning           xxx
implement screening            xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
evaluation                               xx              xxxxx
4. Cancer registry
development                xxxxxxxx
testing                           xxxxx
implementation                         xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
evaluation                                     xxx   xxx   xxx
75.      Imniementation Arrangements.  The National Institute of Oncology
would be the responsible agency for all oncological activities in this
Program. The program would be implemented through: (a) training and equipment
purchases to improve information processing for cancer registration;
(b) training primary care doctors in Pap smear techniques and hypertension
management; (c) training and equipment to develop and evaluate demonstration
projects of mammography; (d) training and equipment to develop and evaluate
demonstration projects of FOBT; and (e) training to develop and evaluate
demonstration projects of hypertension detection and control.
School Health
76.      Sgecific Background.  Much of the difference in levels of morbidity
and life expectancy between Hungary und Western Europe can be traced to
unhealthy behaviors and lifestyles, many of which start in childhood. In
particular, there are high levels of smoking among children and young adults,
and obesity, hypertension, and unplanned pregnancies are common. These
problems are made worse by ignorance of the relationship of lifestyles to
health, and by pessimism about the possibility of affecting changes in
unhealthy behaviors. There is currently a need for a system to develop and
evaluate school h3alth education curricula, to support the Health Promoting
Schools Project (HPSP), to improve school health services, and to establish a
system of regular surveillance of health risk behaviors in school children.



- 61 -                     AN    1
77.      Program Activities.  This subcomponent aims to strengthen
school-based health promotion interventions. It would develop and evaluate
health promotion activities in schools. In particular, the focus would be on
improving dietary habits, preventing the onset of smoking, increasing physical
activity, avoiding substance abuse, and preventing sexually transmitted
diseases. These would be accomplished by a combination of health education
and creating a healthier school environment, with initiatives on improving the
school lunch program and preventing injuries.
78.      The program would improve school-based preventive health services
through training of teachers, health visitors and primary care doctors working
in schools. Training would be for the purpose of improving their skills in
health education. The current school health care manual would be revised for
school physicians and health visitors to support the aims of the program.
These activities would be conducted in collaboration with the National
Institute of Pediatrics. Special emphasis would be placed on identifying and
training one teacher in each school who would act as the coordinator of health
education activities. The program would conduct a controlled educational
trial. Ten schools would receive a structured health education curriculum,
and ten would serve as controls, receiving only the usual (minimal) health
education. Five of the schools (or more) would be in the Community
Demonstration Model region and five would be in Budapest. Control schools
would be matched on community characteristics.
79.      The program would develop and evaluate health education curricula in
grades five through eight. The program would be started in the 5th grade in
fall 1993. This would allow a half-year planning period and time to develop
the 5th grade curriculum. In each year, the curriculum for the next
consecutive grade would be developed. Based on the experiences in the program
schools, the curriculum would be revised and disseminated to other schools in
the country. The experiences of other successful school programs (especially
the positive results in smoking prevention from resistance and skill training
programs tested in the 1980's) would be used in the curriculum development in
smoking, alcohol abuse and drug use prevention. Similarly, the experiences
from nutrition education programs in other countries would be used in the
development of the program. The nutritional program would aim to achieve
balanced diets and reduced intake of saturated and total fats.
80.      All the students in the 5th through the 8th grades in both the ten
intervention schools and in the ten control schools would complete a self-
administered questionnaire. The questionnaire would include questions on
health related behavior, attitudes, beliefs regarding health, norms and
skills. Saliva samples would be collected for cotinine measurement on a sub-
sample of children to validate smoking prevalence rates. Students would be
surveyed annually in grades five through eight. The program would also
include surveys of the teachers' and parents' attitudes and behaviors. In
addition to this outcome evaluation, process evaluation of all planned
activities would be done. A twenty-four hour dietary diary would be collected
on the children to obtain basic information on eating habits. The nutritional
content of the school lunch would be calculated and, based on the results,
needed changes would be introduced, accompanied by training of the school
cafeteria personnel.



- 62 -                      ANNE_  1
81.      The program would also support and expand the Health Promoting
Schools Project (HPSP), developed by WHO/EC, currently established in ten
Hungarian primary schools. The program would also create a research and
development program under the control of the Steering Group for the HPSP to
support innovative school health promotion activities. Awards would be small
(maximum US$1,000), and provided on a competitive basis with 20 awards per
year.
82.      Finally, the program would develop a national health behavior survey,
in collaboration with the National Institute of Pediatrics, to provide
information for more effective planning of school-based public health
interventions. A nationaliy representative sample of students from 5th to 8th
grade would be conducted in the first and last year of the school program.
This would allow for analysis of differences, if any, between trends in
changes in knowledge, attitudes, and practices among students in the program
schools and broader trends nationwide.
83.      An annual school health conference would be held, beginning in 1993,
which all school health education coordinators and program staff would attend.
84.      Phasing during Project Preparation and ImDlementation
Year                       93   94   95   96   97   98   99
Grade                            5    6    7    8
Project Preparation         x
Appointment of cooperation
Group                       x
Appointment of
Project Leader              x
Complete written plan       x
Curriculum development
5th grade                     x
6th grade                           x
7th grade                                x
8th grade                                    x
Conduct the program
5th grade                           x    x   x    x    x
6th grade                                x   x    x    x
7th grade                                    x    x    x
8th grade                                          x    x
Surveys (program)               x     x    x   x    x    x
National School Health
Behavior survey                 x          x              x
Teacher training
curriculum                      x
Curriculum for visitors
and doctors                     x
Training and Courses
For teachers, doctors, visitors
health education (1 week)       x     x    x   x    x    x



- 63 -                      ANNEX I
85.      Prolect PreDaration and Implementation Arrangements.  The program
would be located in the National Institute for Health Promotion, and would
have a full-time Director, twe program staff and a secretary. Part-time
assistance from a media specialist, an economist, and other inputs would be
provided on a consulting basis.
Hungarian Health and Nutrition Examination Survey
86.      SRecific Background.  Although it is well known that the health of
the Hungarian population is among the worst in Europe and has declined over
the past two-and-a-half decades or so, little is known about the distribution
of risk factors in the general population and among the specific high-risk
groups, such as the poorly educated, and people living in small villages.
87.      Traditionally, mortality data are voluminous, mostly reliable and
fairly accurate. Morbidity data, especially on non-communicable chronic
diseases, are practically non-existent. In fact, nothing is known on the
frequency and distribution of the most common impairments and disabilities.
Detailed data on risk factors such as smoking, poor diet, excessive alcohol
intake, high blood pressure and physical inactivity are also poorly
documented. Previous surveys of risk factors are of limited value due to
weakness in design, sampling and quality control.
88.      There is an urgent need for a high quality health and nutrition
survey to provide information on the frequency and distribution of selected
chronic diseases, impairments, disabilities and risk factors. Such a survey
would need to measure social factors related to health and knowledge,
attitudes and behaviors that affect health. It would need to be designed to
provide the data necessary for policy makers to formulate public health
policies and to plan intervention programs.
89.      In 1992 the NSO would conduct a Health Interview Survey (HIS) of
approximately 17,000 households. A sampling frame has been developed and
contract interviewers identified. After a pilot survey, the HIS would be
conducted in the last quarter of 1992. A HIS is, however, of limited value
because the data obtained is based exclusively on replies to an interview. It
is not capable of providing information on the frequency and distribution of
pathophysiological indices, much less on hidden morbidity. A Health
Examination and Nutrition Survey (HANES) is much more detailed, being designed
to supply data on pathophysiological indices, risk factors, some
non-communicable diseases and most common impairments and disabilities.
Together, the HANES and HIS would provide reliable and fairly accurate
information on the health of the population.
90.      Broad Goals.  The major goal of the examination survey is to provide
detailed and current information on a national level on the frequency and
distribution of selected chronic diseases, health risk factors. In addition,
data would be gathered on the most common impairments/disabilities and
relevant knowledge, attitudes, and behaviors among the general population and
maybe among specific subgroups at high risk.



-64 -                      ANNEX 1
91.     Obiectives
(a) To provide general population-based information in the Hungarian
context on the link between the major causes of preventable death and
disability. Among others, these causes are coronary heart disease
and stroke. Some of the diseases of the musculoskeletal system, like
rheumatoid arthritis and the dental condition of the population would
also be examined. The frequency of selected risk factors, such as
smoking, poor diet, high blood pressure, physical inactivity and
excessive alcohol consumption would be examined.l/
(b) To provide this information for specific high risk groups, including:
i) people with low educational attainment; and
ii) persons living in villages with less than 10,000 population.
(c) To develop the capacity to conduct such surveys, including technical
expertise and equipment, that could be used subsequently to support
ongoing risk factor surveillance and to support the design, conduct,
and evaluation of community-based intervention programs.
92.      Program Description.  This subcomponent would conduct a national
health examination survey using careful methods of sample selection and
measurement. This survey would be conducted using mobile field
examination/interview teams and standard methods for population sampling. The
survey would be compatible with the Health Interview Survey, and would be
converted into an ongoing surveillance system for chronic disease risk
factors. The detailed interview would include demographic, socioeconomic,
dietary, and health-related questions. The examination component would
consist of medical and dental examinations, physiological measurements, and
laboratory tests administered by highly trained medical personnel in mobile
examination centers.
93.     The Project would undertake a Hungarian National Health and Nutrition
Examination Survey (Hun-HANES). An examination and interview of approximately
12,000 to 15,000 Hungarians would be conducted so that findings on the health
status and risk factor prevalence could be generalized to the entire Hungarian
population. The data would be used to estimate the prevalence of major
diseases, nutritional disorders, and potential risk factors. The data would
also form the basis for national standards for such measurements as height,
weight, and blood pressure. Data would be used in epidemiological and health
sciences research to direct and design health programs and services. Sampling
would allow for rural-urban comparisons of all parameters. The survey would
v/ infomation obtained tbrough the survey would provide decision makers with a more accurate baseline of
infomation for evaluating the effeotiveness of health promotion and disease prevention activities.



- 65 -                     A_  I
be conducted by three mobile examination teams over a period of 2.5 years.
The initial survey activity would track about 1,500 people in the
demonstration region (see chronic disease primary prevention program), which
would be revisited after the intervention period for evaluation purposes.
After the 2.5 year survey, one of the three teams would continue to collect
more limited data in an ongoing surveillance mode. Every effort would be made
to construct the survey, at least in part, on the sample of the HIS survey so
as to improve efficiency and comparability.
94.      Several additional activities would be timely and desirable in
respect to improving information on health status by:
(a) strengthening the Department of Population and Health Statistics at
the NSO by the provision of equipment and training;
(b) establishing close links between that Department and the new public
health service so the needs of the public health service for analysis
and evaluation are met without duplication of effort;
95.      OutRut Indicators
- Heart disease
- Asthma, chronic bronchitis, emphysema
- Kidney disease and some other urologic disorders
- Osteoporosis
- Arthritis, and some other diseases of the musculoskeletal system-
Infectious disease
- Dental caries and periodontal disease
-  Allergies
-   Some minor psychiatric disorders
- Hearing loss
-  Certain nutritional conditions
-  Obesity
96.      Phasing During Proiect PreRaration and Imlementation
92   93   94   95   96   97   98   99
Hun-HANES
planning            xxxxx
data collection
community int.         xxxx                      xxxx
main survey                 xxxxxxxxxxxxx
surveillance                            xxxxxxxxxx
analysis                      xx          xxxxxxxxxx
97.      Project Preparation and Implementation Arranjements.  The NSO in
close cooperation and communication with CMO and NPHC would be responsible for
carrying out the Hun-HANES. It would be done in close collaboration with the
National Institute of Food Hygiene and Nutrition (NIFHN) and with the NIHP.



- 67  -                      ANNEX 2
REPUBLIC 0? MUNMA=
NEALTH SERVICES A1D NANAGEMENT PROJECT
CLOSE THE GAP PROGRAM:
Detailed Program DescriRtion
Background
1.       The Close the Gap Program (CGP) will be established under the Public
Health and Disease Prevention component of the Project. It will be led by a
Close the Gap Committee (CGC), which will recommend final awards. The CCC
will be supported by the Public Health Program Unit (PHPU), which will be
responsible to the Chief Medical Officer (CMO). The PHPU will administer the
CGP, and will be provided with an adequate infrastructure to implement this
task.
2.       The Ministry of Welfare (MOW) has already had limited prior
experience with competitive funding in Medical Universities and National
Institutes through the activities of the recently established Medical Research
Council (MRC). The principal lesson learned from the MOW experience is that
the temptation to distribute research funds equally among institutions must be
resisted.  This lesson--that not all institutions are able to get an equal
share of limited resources--has been fully taken into account in the design of
the proposed funding criteria, guidelines and award procedures for the Close
the Gap Program.
Obiective of the CGP
3.       The purpose of the CGP is to provide incentives to institutions of
higher education, primary and secondary schools, hospitals, health
departments, communities, and Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs) to launch
new initiatives in health promotion and disease prevention, improve inter- and
cross-institutional collaboration, and integration of teaching and action-
oriented intervention programs to begin to close the gap in health status
between Hungary and Western Europe.
4.       The main objectives to be achieved by the CGP, to be financed by the
loan, are:
(a) to stimulate innovative action-oriented and cost effective
intervention programs in health promotion and disease prevention to
control diseases that account for one of the top ten causes of death
(e.g. cardiovascular disease, cancer and injuries) or, when and if
the information becomes available, one of top 5 catses of disability;



- 68  -                      ANNEX 2
(b) to establish a more substantial and incentive-driven financing
mechanism for action-oriented intervention programs and research in
public health;
(c) to foster high quality action-oriented intervention programs in
chronic disease prevention, which could include: (i) longitudinal
studies to demonstrate the relationship between hypertension,
obesity, smoking and high cholesterol as related to chronic disease
risk; (ii) survey research on chronic disease risk factors and on
performance of programs designed to reduce chronic disease risk
through either primary or secondary prevention efforts; and
(iii) evaluation programs designed to reduce tobacco use, improve
diet, improve hypertension control, and decrease sedentary life style
in well-defined populations or communities;
(d) to make provision for future public health initiatives which cannot
be anticipated or launched immediately i; order: (i) to reduce the
high rate of alcoholism, suicide, non-intentional injuries, tobacco
abuse, etc.; and (ii) to encourage coordination and cooperation
between groups such as health departments, universities, colleges.
hospitals, primary and secondary schools, community organizations,
NGOs, etc; and
(e) to ultimately overcome the pervasive pessimism with respect to
improving healthy life-styles in Hungary, among the population and
medical profession alike, and create a new confidence that effective
action in health promotion and disease prevention could begin closing
the gap in health status between Hungary and Western Europe.
Criteria for Selection of Committee Members
5.       The Close the Gap Committee (CGC) will comprise six Hungarian and
four foreign members. They will be nominated by the CMO with the Bank's
agreement, and appointed by the Minister of Welfare. CGC appointments will be
for a three year period, with the possibility of renewal. All committee
members should have recognized international stature in their area of
expertise. Due consideration should be given to working compatibility among
members.
6.       Members should represent a mix of health advocacy interests (at least
one with expertise in cardiovascular health, cancer, lifestyle (tobacco,
alcohol control, diet) and school health education. Also, members should
represent a mix of disciplines (with professional qualifications in one or
more of the following areas - public health (community medicine),
epidemiology, behavioral science, public health training and health
economics).



- 69  -                     ANNEX-2
National Composition
Representing at least four different regions of the country
At least two with previous grant awarding experience
At least two with non-medical background
At least one representative from the HOW
International Composition
Representing two or more countries
At least one with previous grant awarding experience
At least one with non-medical background
7.       The national and international members of the CGC will be selected by
March 31, 1993. The CCC will hold its first meeting during September 1993, at
which time the ten members and the CHO will select a Chairperson from among
the ten members. The Chairperson's term will be for three years. During
strategy meetings, the CGC will: (a) decide on the major theme for the year,
as well as no more than three sub-themes, (i.e. smoking, or nutrition, or
lifestyles); (b) decide on the global amount to be allocated during that year,
maximum number of possible awards, and distribution by size of awards; (c)
select independent peer reviewers to evaluate and rank proposals according to
pre-defined criteria; and (d) confirm the timetable for request for proposals,
submission deadline, selection deadline, and award of contracts. Upon
confirmation by the Minister of Welfare of CGC's award recommendations, the
office of the CMO through PHPU, will sign contracts with the winners of the
contest. The contracts will include procedures and regulations concerning the
utilization of resources, as determined by the World Bank, and other
conditions set by the CGC.
Number of CGC meetings per year
8.       There will be only two CCC meetings per year.  The first one will be
a strategy meeting where most items listed in paragraph 6 above will need to
be decided. The second CGC meeting will be an evaluation meeting, where
recommendations on awards will be determined, and provided to the Minister of
Welfare for final confirmation of selection.
Periodicity of ProDosals
9.       There will be one contest per year only.  The timing for invitation,
submission and selection deadlines will be established by the CCC with due
consideration of minimum elapsed time requirements for the various stages of
the process. It is estimated that, as a minimum, two months should elapse
between advertisement in professional journals and issuance of the
announcement; three months should elapse between issuance of the announcement
and closing date for submission of proposals; three months should elapse
between closing date for submission of proposals and completion of evaluation
process; and one month will elapse between selection of winning proposals,



. 70  -                      ANNEX 2
ratification by the Minister of Welfare, and signature of contracts with the
winners.
Criteria for Selecting ADplicAtions
10.      The following selection criteria have been jointly prepared by the
Hungarian working teams developing the Public Health and Disease Prevention
component and with teams of consultants providing technical assistance under
this subcomponent:
(a) Applications can be submitted by groups such as: health departments,
colleges and universities, hospitals, primary and secondary schools,
community organizations, and NGOs, or jointly by any combination of
the above.
(b) Applicants will be encouraged, where appropriate, to submit
collaborative proposals: (i) when groups and institutions of the
same region formulate common goals; and (ii) in order to create the
conditions for, and to implement target-oriented programs supported
by, additional foreign sources (e.g., TEMPUS).
(c) All proposals should be predominately community based and not
individual clinical proposals. The applications have to consider the
implementation of at least one or more of the following objectives:
(i) generate innovative action-oriented and cost effective
intervention programs in health promotion and disease prevention to
control diseases that account for one of the top ten causes of death
(e.g. cardiovascular disease, cancer and injuries) or, when and if
the information becomes available, one of top 5 causes of disability;
(ii) develop action-oriented intervention programs in public health
to reduce the high rate of alcoholism, suicide, non-intentional
injuries, tobacco abuse, etc.
(iii) where appropriate, to meet the goal of the proposal, encourage
the regional coordination and cooperation between non-profit groups
such as universities, colleges, hospitals, health departments,
primary and secondary schools, community organizations, and NGOs, in
health promotion and disease prevention.
11.      Proposals which meet the above objectives, within the context of the
particular contest, will include the following information in order to
participate in the competition: objective, scope, activities, budget, output,
timing, evaluation and monitoring criteria.
Financing and Procurement Guidelines
12.      Successful proposals will receive financial resources (in convertible
currency and forints) for the acquisition of, among others: (a) machines,



-  71  -                     ANNEX 2
instruments, equipment; (b) furniture, installations, devices; (c) 'goods and
related services"; (d) consultants and other intellectual services (including
invitation of guest lecturers); (e) intellectual property; and (f)
scholarships, research fellowships, and training.
13.      Bank procurement guidelines will apply in the selection and
implementation of winning CGP proposals in the following manner:
(a) Announcements requesting proposals (including TORs and Letters of
Invitation) for each particular CGP contest should at the outset
specify whether the proposals to be submitted to CGP are to be
predominantly technical assistance/services in content, or
predominantly equipment/goods/facilities in content. Applicants will
be required to include in their proposals, a detailed budget for
implementing the proposal, indicating separately the costs allocated
to technical assistance/services and to goods/facilities net of
overhead costs.
(b)  Program proposals which are predominantly technical assistance/
services in content will be awarded under CGP on the basis of
procedures described in the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency"
(August 1981).
(c)  Program proposals which are Dredominantl_ ecuiDment/goods/facilities
in content will be awarded on the basis of procedures described in
the Bank's "Guidelines for Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits" (May 1992), and Section 1 of Schedule 4 of the Loan
Agreement.
14.      In order to ensure international competition, there will be a small
advertisement placed in three internationally well known journals, stating the
date on which the announcement requesting proposals will be issued, as well as
the closing date for submission of applications. The announcement requesting
proposals will be made widely available in Hungary, as well as to foreign
institutions that request it. The announcement will be published and
prominently displayed throughout Hungarian universities, hospitals, community
organizations, and other public places to assure maximum response. The
announcement will be construed so as to serve both for the purposes of the
Terms of Reference and Letter of Invitation mentioned in the Consultant
Guidelines. Accordingly the announcement will be subject to the Bank's prior
review.
15.      Proposals which are predominantly technical assistance/services in
content will be financed by direct transfer of resources to the successful
applicants in accordance with the terms and conditions agreed to in the
respective contract. Proposals which are predominantly equipment/goods
facilities in content will have payments issued to suppliers on a
reimbursement basis, either through the Special Account, or directly via the
Bank's standard disbursement procedures, as specified in the purchase order.



-  72  -                    AMEX 2
Compliance with the Bank's Procurement Guidelines, will be a condition for
post-review approval of such expenditures.
16.      Operational expenses arising from the implementation of the
successful proposals, should be primarily financed by the applicant's own
resources. Short-term operational expenses critical to the implementation of
demonstration projects could be financed by the CGP.
17.      Applicants who have been notified of an award shcould not undertake
any obligations, sign preliminary contracts or order goods and services in
advance, until they have signed a contract on the approved application with
the PHPU.
Monitoring and Evaluation of the Program
18.      PHPU and the Bank will agree on reasonable monitoring criteria to
allow for ongoing review and analysis of the CGP. The evaluation of the CGP
will be carried out at the end of the project implementation period, based on
criteria to be agreed upon prior to the award of the first round of contracts.
SAMPLE --Progosed Deadline for SubmpittLng Avlications: September 31
19.      Six copies of the applications should be submitted to
_________________  of the COP, three in English, and three in Hungarian
(Address: ___).
20.      The CGC will inform the applicants by December 15, whether their
applications had been approved or rejected. The CGC will respond to every
applicant to: (a) communicate the names and addresses of successful
applicants, encouraging them to correspond, and (b) return rejected
applications with a critique that will be designed to be constructive to aid
unsuccessful applicants in resubmission for subsequent requests for proposals.
21.      Representatives of the groups/institutions, whose applications had
been approved, will participate in a seminar in December 1993. During the
seminar the World Bank guidelines for procurement of goods and services will
be extensively discussed.
22.      Prospective applicants should address their questions to:
Name, address, phone, fax, etc.



-73-                        ANNEX3
REPUBLIC OF RUMMAY
HEALTH SERVICES AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
PUBLIC HEALTH AND HEALTH MANAGEMENT TRAINING SUBCOMPONENT
SCHOOL OF PUBLIC HEALTH
A. KEY ISSUES
1.    A major reform is currently taking place within the public health
service in Hungary to strengthen its institutional capacity to meet the
demands placed on it by the poor health of the population.j/ This requires
new skills in areas such as non-communicable disease epidemiology, policy
development and management. Existing training programs are unable to meet
these needs; in fact, a fundamental reorientation is needed in public health
training. Poscgraduate training in public health is currently narrowly based
and inadequate to support the challenges of the future. The monopoly
currently held by the postgraduate medical university will be removed and
future postgraduate training will be developed in the four (currently
undergraduate) medical universities, consistent with similar reforms in other
segments of higher education.
2.    Recommendations for a new system of public health training have been
designed following detailed examination of five key problem areas:
(a) training content (skills and competencies required);
(b) training needs (numbers and grades of staff required by the public
health service);
(c) financing;
(d) international acceptability; and
(e) integration of research and teaching.
Training Content
3.    The traditional content of public health training in Hungary is
recognized to be inappropriate for the needs of the new service. Development
of policies to control non-communicable diseases would require skills in
epidemiological methods, biostatistics, health information systems,
environmental health, health promotion, medical sociology, anthropology and
health economics. Supervision of services demands skills in: (a) health care
evaluation (to determine whether the services are effective, efficient,
equitable and humane); and (b) health service management (to ensure that they
become and remain effective, efficient, equitable and humane). Advice on
1/   Xealth status of the HNgarian population is among the worst in Europe and has declined in recent
years. See Amex I for a detailed discussion.



-  74  -ANNEX 3
organization of health services would also require skills in health care
evaluation. The traditional activities of the service, such as environmental
health and communicable disease epidemiology, would require social and
political science skills if the detection of problems were to be translated
into policies that would then to be implemented.
4.    Development of appropriate skills, including an understanding of the
process of local policy development, would require supervised experience
within the public health service. However, the trainee also would require a
sound theoretical base that could be applied to the problems being faced.
Consequently, a combination of academic and in-service training would be seen
as the optimal solution which is presently not available.
Training Needs
5.    Determining the number of public health doctors needed, and their skill
mix, is inevitably a somewhat speculative exercise. Attempting to define
exactly the future training needs would be to repeat the earlier mistakes of
central planning. Nonetheless, it is necessary to estimate the order of
magnitude involved to estimate the scale of training resources that would be
required in the future.
6.    The first step in assessing training needs is, therefore, art estimation
of the number of doctors that would be required to fulfill the new roles of
the public health service. In the long-term there would inevitably be a
reduction in the numbers of doctors working in the public health service, as
cohorts of non-medically qualified environmental health officers were trained
and recruited, and as bacteriology and other laboratory services moved into
hospitals. Primary care would assume responsibility for many other clinical
activities now undertaken by the public health service.
7.    In the foreseeable future, however, the existing over-supply of doctors
means that the public health service would almost certainly continue to use
doctors for many tasks that could be done by other graduates. A consequence
of this would be the need to accept that there would be public health doctors
with differing levels of training. Some would require specialist training in
all aspects of modern public health but it would neither be appropriate or
affordable to seek to train all staff to this level. While all public health
doctors would require skills in epidemiology, biostatistics, health
information systems, health promotion, and environmental health, a smaller
number of specialists would require more intensive training in those subjects
as well as in health care evaluation, health service management, medical
sociology and health economics. Specialists would provide leadership and a
high level of expertise; public health doctors with intermediate
qualifications would fill posts that do not require the high level of skills
associated with the full specialist training program.
8.    Against a background of experience in Western European countries,
examination of the roles identified for the new Hungarian public health
service suggests that a typical county-level Institute of Public Health (IPH)



-  75  -                     ANNEX 3
would require no more than five public health doctors who had undergone
advanced specialist training. In addition, there might be five or six other
graduates in epidemiology, health economics, medical sociology or other social
sciences, and additional staff qualified in health promotion. Additional
medical support would be provided by public health doctors with intermediate
level qualifications. Budapest, with a population of 2 million, would require
a larger establishment.
9.    Staffing levels of individual municipal-size institutes should reflect
the population that they serve. Those in large cities might have one or two
specialists with additional intermediate-level doctors. Those in towns and
villages would typically be staffed by doctors with intermediate-level
qualifications only, but with support from county institutes. Such a
configuration implies a total of about 150 specialists and 200 intermediate-
level doctors at county and municipal assignments.
10.   Up to 50 additional specialists would be required to work in academic
departments, central government, and national institutes, making a total of
200 specialists nationally. Assuming a mean working life of 25 years
(allowing for wastage due to premature deaths, temporary or permanent
cessation of employment for family or other reasons) and a uniform
distribution of existing staff in different age bands, the annual long-term
training requirement would be for eight specialists and eight intermediate-
level doctors per year. The training requirement for non-medical graduates
would likely be similar.
11.   The number of scientific and environmental health staff required could
only be determined after a review of the tasks undertaken. Experience in
western countries suggests a possible requirement of about 1,500 environmental
health officers nationally. About 60 new environmental health officers would
be required each year. The scale of training required for local health
promotion officers is uncertain, and would have to take into account the needs
of local government, i.zdustry, and voluntary organizations as well as the
public health service.
12.   A program to train health service managers has been designed under a
separate subcomponent of the Project and a TEMPUS program. It overlaps with
many areas of public health training. Those responsible for these programs
have estimated that there is an annual requirement for 15 new health service
managers per year.
13.   The purpose of conducting these calculations is not to determine an
exact requirement. Rather, it is to determine the order of magnitude. With a
total requirement for medical and non-medical specialists of under 25 per
year, it is difficult to justify the development of specialist academic
training in more than one location. Furthermore, there is a strong case,
simply on the basis of economies of scale, in addition to the likely
educational advantages, of linking training of those working in public health
with that of health service managers. In contrast, it may be appropriate to
decentralize training of environmental health and health promotion officers.



- 76  -
Financing
14.   Past experience of insecure funding has engendered concern among those
involved in designing the new public health training program. Traditionally.
financial resources intended for public health were diverted to other uses.
Consequently those involved in decision making consider it imperative that a
training program should have funding that is guaranteed and cannot be
transferred to other uses. In particular, there is concern that funding given
on an open basis to universities might be "hijacked" by clinical departments.
International A¢ceRtability
15.   Currently, there are no training programs of an internationally
recognized standard for public health specialists in Hungary. There is a
strong desire to ensure that any new system introduced in the future should
meet such standards. The Hungarian government has expressed a desire to join
the European Community (EC), and is likely to do so by the end of the century.
Exchanges between public health doctors in Hungary and the rest of Europe will
depend on compliance with EC regulations for the free movement of physicians.
Mutual recognition of qualifications in public health medicine is poorly
developed within the EC, with only France, Ireland and the United Kingdom
providing internationally recognized specialist qualifications, although this
is expected to change. The criteria that must be met are set out in a 1975
directive on medical training. For a training program to meet these criteria
it must consist of theoretical and practical components, be supervised by a
designated body, be located in an approved institution (university or health
authority), and have a minimum four year duration. A Hungarian program that
would meet these criteria might have the following composition: one year
supervised hospital practice; one year at a school of public health; and two
years in supervised training posts in public health medicine. Although there
are no specific international regulations on the training required by
non-medical graduates working in public health, there is a strong case for
organizing such a corresponding program.
Integration of Research and Teaching
16.   Training is only one component of the work for those involved in
postgraduate education. The maintenance of high quality teaching at this
level is dependent on the continuing involvement of academic staff in
research.  The existing Academy of Science has had guaranteed funding, with
the result that there has been little incentive to develop appropriate and
high quality research proposals. Staff have been free to pursue their own
interests, regardless of the relevance and value of the work. While some
money would be required for the basic research infrastructure, there is a
strong case for arguing that most research funding should be competitive.



- 77  -                     ANNEX 3
B. STRATEGIES FOR REFORN
ObjectivogL
17.   The objective of the reform would be to create programs for postgraduate
training in public health (including epidemiology, health economics, health
policy, health services, and health promotion) which would build on existing
initiatives at several institutions and which would provide the human
resources and the capacity to conduct research that would allow the gap in
health status between Hungary and Western Europe to be closed.
Policy Qptions
18.   There is general agreement that the new training program should be
broadly based, should combine academic and service components, and should meet
international standards. The main issues to be resolved concern the structure
and location of academic training.
19.   Two options have been proposed: (a) developing postgraduate training in
existing institutions (universities); and (b) establishing a new, independent
school of public health. Both options must be considered against the
relatively low training requirements identified above.
20.   Regarding the first option, existing universities have rell-established
teams with experience in teaching and research and, in some cases, links with
local public health institutes. Additional staff would, however, be required.
A link with a university would provide a guarantee of quality in terms of
appointments of academic staff and qualifications. Development of
postgraduate training programs would be consistent with the ex'sting TENPUS
program. Staff would have access to existing computers and libraries.
21.   There are, however, two major disadvantages with this option.  First,
there would be substantial overcapacity if postgraduate training was to be
offered in all five medical universities. The figures indicated above suggest
that Hungary could only support one training program for medical and social
science graduates. Second, resources provided by the university could be
subject to competing priorities of university rectors. They may be diverted
from public health to other areas, providing uncertainty about planned
training programs.
22.   The second option is to create a new School of Public Health which would
be financially independent of the universities. This would protect its budget
against attempts from other disciplines to corner its resources. Without
involvement of a university, however, there would be no guarantee of quality
of appointments and qualifications, making it difficult to gain international
recognition for Hungarian public health training. Also, major capital
investment for buildings, computing and communications equipment, and library
facilities would be necessary. These fixed costs would be very high in terms



- 78  -                      ANNEX 3
of the number of students being trained. The last of these would duplicate
facilities already available in the medical universities. New staff would
have to be recruited, and it is unlikely that high quality academic staff
could be recruited from within the country without leading to a serious
depletion of staff in the existing medical universities.
23.   The MOW has already initiated major changes in public health training
which currently include the following:
(a)   amalgamation of departments of hygiene and social medicine in some
medical universities;
(b)   redesigning of the undergraduate curriculum;
(c)   development of new methods of training, moving away from didactic
teaching; and
(d)   development of postgraduate training at the present undergraduate
medical universities.
24.   The early process of change is being supported by a grant of US$500,000
from the EC TEMPUS program. The principal components of the TENPUS program
include:
(a)   visits by Hungarian academics to academic public health
departments in Western Europe and exchange of teaching material;
(b)   teacher training;
(c)   infrastructure support (supply of computers, books, teaching
equipment).
25.   The TEMPUS program cannot provide all of the resources that will be
required by the proposed reform. The activities to be financed by the
proceeds of a World Bank loan would, therefore, be complementary to the TEMPUS
program.
C. DETAILED PROJECT DESCRIPTION
26.   The subcomponent would support seven major program activities:
(a) the establishment of a School of Public Health in cooperation with
the medical universities;
(b) the development of a Masters degree program in public health for
medical and non-medical graduates;
(c) the development of two-year supervised placements to achieve
accreditation in public health medicine;
(d) the establishment of a retraining program for doctors in the public
health service;
(e) the establishment of a Field Epidemiology Training Program (FETP);
(f) fellowships to pursue Masters and PhD degrees abroad; and
(g) the establishment of nourses for environmental health officers and
health promotion and other specialists in the medical universities.



-  79  -                     ANNEX 3
Proposed Action Plan
27.   The MOW has chosen to create a School of Public Health which combines
the advantages of both options described earlier. It would ensure financial
independence to provide stability for public health training, and would
provide links with universities to ensure standards of quality, and access to
facilities such as large computers and libraries. This is a novel situation
for the Hungarian higher education system but it is one faced in several
western countries that have a history of pluralist funding of universities. A
solution adopted elsewhere is to establish an independent school within a
university. The school would have complete financial autonomy but staff
appointments and examinations would be conducted ikccording to university
standards.  Central services, such as libraries a', large computers, would be
provided by the university and the school would cintribute to their cost.
Analogous situations are beginning to develop in Hungary with the creation of
intermediate-level institutions such as those used to train social workers.
These are under the administrative control of the university but have
earmarked funding.
28.   Location.  The School of Public Health would be situated in Budapest on
the site of the National Public Health Center. It would be independent but
professional standards would be accredited by Semmelweis Medical University in
Budapest.
29.   Management.  An independent management board consisting of
representatives of the medical universities, Ministries of Education and
Welfare, National Institutes, County Public Health Institutes, and other
relevant organizations would be established. The board would also include two
senior academics from major schools of public health in other countries.
Operational management would be performed by a Director appointed by the
Management Board.
30.   Funding.  Core funding for the School would come initially from the MOW
through the National Public Health Center (NPHC). While this approach would
prevent funds going to other areas of medical training, reliance on a single
source of funding would lead to long-term vulnerability. The training
program would only be secure as long as the total budget for the NPHC was
adequate. More diverse funding would provide a degree of protection. Thus,
in future, funds would also be sought from other bodies with an interest in
supporting public health training. Guaranteed funding could also lead to
complacency, especially since the School would be in a monopoly position. It
is essential to devise a formula that would provide appropriate incentives to
provide high quality training. For these reasons there should be a gradual
shift away from reliance on core funding and towards tuition fees provided by
various public and private bodies and by the students themselves. The exact
nature of future developments would depend on other changes in the system for
funding postgraduate medical education. Incentives for high quality teaching
must exist. Initial funding could be zequired to develop a research capacity
but thereafter research funds should be sought in open competition with other
institutions.



- 80  -                     ANNEX 3
31.   While most of the funding required for postgraduate education would be
used to support institutional developments, it would also be necessary to
develop mechanisms to support those being trained. If high quality public
health doctors were to be attracted, they would have to receive adequate
financial remuneration. Adequate funds would have to be made available to pay
salaries to trainees that were at least roughly comparable with those received
by other doctors in training. This could require a supplement to compensate
for loss of out-of-hours payments, as is the case in the United Kingdom and
other western countries.
32.   Staffing.  Staffing would be a major problem in the short-term.  Some
staff could wish to transfer from other universities and the National
Institutes. They would need to meet university requirements for academic
appointments. There would be an urgent need for high quality training of
staff in public health medicine and in specific disciplines, including
epidemiology, medical statistics, health promotion, environmental health,
health services management, health economics, medical sociology and
anthropology, and nutrition.
33.   A possible list of the staff required, and their skills, is shown below:
Professional                           Notes for
Shared Posts
Public health medicine               2 (a)
Epidemiology                         2 (b)
Medical statistics                    1 (c)
Health promotion                     1 (d)
Health services management/financing 1 (e)
Health economics                      1 (f)
Medical sociology                    1 (g)
Nutrition and food hygiene           1 (h)
Environmental health                 1
Occupational medicine                1
Radiation hygiene                    1
Total individuals                   13
Total whole-time equivalents
(assuming linked posts split 50:50) 8
Clerical and technical
Administrator                         1
Secretaries                          3
Computer officer                     1



-  81  -                     ANNEX 3
Notes for possible shared posts:
(a) one joint appointment with a county Public Health Institute;
(b) one with an interest in chronic diseases, one with an interest in
communicable diseases. Research and teaching links with specialists
in the National Public Health Center (NPHC) (or its successor
bodies) should be considered;
(c) joint appointment with a medical university;
(d) joint appointment with the National Institute for Health Promotion
(part of NPHC);
(e) joint appointment with the Social Insurance Administration,
hospital, or School of Health Management;
(f) joint appointments with a non-medical university;
(g) joint appointments with the National Institute of Nutrition;
(h) joint appointments with National Public Health Center.
34.   Relationships with Other Organizations.  It is recognized that high
quality work requires a critical mass that would be difficult to produce with
the structure described. It is most important that staff develop strong links
with individuals with similar skills in other organizations. This could be
facilitated by joint appointments, although the disadvantage of this would be
that the other work could encroach on the work of the School. The director of
the School would, therefore, need to agree to work programs and time
commitments to ensure that this did not happen.
35.   The School would have especially close links with the proposed School of
Health Services Management. Teaching staff from each school would participate
in the work of the other. Certain modules would be taught together. Exact
details would be determined in due course, but would probably include health
care evaluation, organizational theory, management, health economics, and
medical sociology. Additional links could be obtained through honorary
appointments of staff of universities, national and county institutes, and the
Social Insurance Administration. In return, these staff would provide
occasional teaching. As with permanent appointments, it is important to
ensure that honorary appointments meet university standards.
36.   Timing.  The long-term training program described above cannot be
started at once. A possible starting date, contingent on the availability of
external funds, would be autumn 1994.
Training Programs
37.   With the capacity created by the new School of Public Health, and with
additional resources of the NPHC, it is proposed to establish an array of
training opportunities in which the School would provide the main academic
components.
38.   The School would offer training leading to a degree equivalent to an MSc
or MPH. The exact titles of the formal qualification would depend upon
developments in the reform of the higher education system in Hungary. The



- 82  -                      ANNEX 3
School would also offer diploma courses run in association with the four
medical universities. These would normally be taken part-time, and might be
spread over a year.
39.   All programs at the School would be modular and would be open to medical
and non-medical graduates, Diploma courses would count as credits towards
masters courses. Subjects taught would include epidemiology (with an emphasis
on epidemiological methods and chronic diseases), health information systems,
communicable disease control, medical biometrics, health care evaluation (to
give skills for needs assessment and planning), health economics,
environmental health, and health promotion. Some of these subjects would be
taught in collaboration with the new School of Health Services Management.
40.   Doctors currently working in the public health service who would wish to
move towards specialist accreditation could take the Diploma in Public Health
(DPH) to exempt them from part of the accreditation program. Specialist
accreditation would, however, be more usually pursued via higher-level
training. This would be of three-years duration and entry would be contingent
on having completed at least one year in clinical medicine after basic medical
training. One year of specialist training would be spent in a formal academic
course in a school of public health (in Hungary or abroad), with the remaining
two years being spent in designated training posts that would be supervised,
meet certain requirements with regard to access to libraries and computers,
and provide continuing in-service training. A modification of this scheme may
also be appropriate for non-medical graduates embarking on careers in
epidemiology, public health or health policy.
41.   Intermediate-level medical staff would require short courses consisting
largely of epidemiology, biostatistics, health information systems,
environmental health, health promotion and some health administration.
Initial training courses would be of twelve weeks (six modules of two-weeks
each) over the course of a year. Completion of the twelve weeks would allow
entry into an exam for a DPH.
42.   A monopoly in postgraduate public health training should not be accorded
to the new School. Several of the medical universities would also begin
giving postgraduate training in public health. Although the numbers involved
effectively preclude offering MPH-equivalent degrees at more than one location
in Hungary, the universities should develop a role in continuing education,
offering certain components of the diploma courses, and they should be
involved, through the management board, and through joint and honorary
appointments, with the training undertaken at the School of Public Health.
They might also develop short courses of three to six months leading to
diplomas in environmental health and health promotion. The medical
universities are undertaking increasingly high quality research, and they
would be suitable locations for research training and for PhD programs.
43.   Overseas MSc Training. The most immediate requirement is for training of
academic staff for the School of Public Health itself. This should take the
form of MSc courses outside Hungary in Public Health Medicine and in specific



-  83  -                     ANNEX
disciplines, including epidemiology, medical statistics, health promotion,
health services management, health economics, medical sociology and
anthropology, environmental epidemiology, and nutrition. The first
individuals should commence studies in 1993. It would be impossible to ensure
that those being trained overseas remain in the Hungarian public health
service; some are likely to emigrate or seek employment elsewhere in the
country, in either academic or public health posts. Consequently a wastage
rate of 50 percent has been assumed.
44.   The TEMPUS Program. This program would cover living expenses and travel
for five MSc courses in 1993-4 in the U.K. for staff of the medical
universities. Bilaterals could make available some additional funds but these
would be inadequate to cover the full tuition fees. Consequently the Project
would include tuition fees for the MSc courses planned under the TEMPUS
scheme. In total, the Project would finance 27 complete MSc courses to
provide staff for the School of Public Health and tuition fees only for an
additional five MSc (TEMPUS) courses to further strengthen the capacity of the
medical universities. These MSc students would commence as follows: eight in
1993, ten in 1994, five each in 1995 and 1996, and four in 1997.
45.   Overseas PhD Training.  The need to create rapidly a cadre of young
Hungarians conducting public health research of international standard,
requires that a few promising scholars receive doctoral level research
training abroad. The Project would cover the costs of four doctoral students,
two starting in 1993 and two in 1994.
46.   Overseas Field Epidemiology Training Program (FETPL.  In order to
provide exposure to best practice in field epidemiology, three Hungarians
would attend the two-year FETP at overseas training centers. This would have
the added advantage of training a nucleus of staff able to take over and run
specialist training in field epidemiology. One would commence in each of
1993, 1994 and 1995.
47.   Training of Other Health Care Professionals.  Training programs in
environmental health and health promotion would be established. These should
build on existing expertise. Programs in environmental health might be
established at the Postgraduate Medical University, the Medical University of
Szeged and the Medical University of Debrecen. Health promotion training
might be established at the Postgraduate Medical University and the Medical
University of Pecs.
48.   Short Course Training.  Existing public health doctors would require
retraining. In line with the long-term training requirements identified
above, the retraining needs of intermediate-level and specialist medical staff
level differ. The approach is to run a modular course, with intermediate-
level doctors taking core modules only. Those taking the Diploma in Public
Health (DPH) would take six modules, and could join the Field Epidemiology
Training Program. Each module would last two weeks.



- 84  -                     ANNEX 3
49.   Seven suggested modules are listed below (* indicates core modules):
(a) control of communicable disease; *
(b) control of non-communicable disease; *
(c) promoting better health; *
(d) evaluating health service interventions;
(e) health priorities and priority-setting;
(f) managing health services and health administration; and
(g) environmental and occupational health.
* core modules
S0.   Public health doctors are older, on average, than other occupational
groups; 50 percent are over 50 years old. Consequently, as there would likely
be a high rate of retirement in the next few years, it would not be
appropriate to offer retraining to everyone. It is suggested that it should
be made available at intermediate-level to approximately 60 doctors and, at
diploma level, to 180 doctors. Allowing for class sizes of 20, the core
course would be run four times per year for three years and the non-core
course would be run three times per year for three years. The expected mix of
staff responsible for developing and teaching each module is as follows:
Control of communicable disease
Public health doctor and epidemiologist
Control of non-communicable disease
Public health doctor, epidemiologist, and
environmental health specialist
Promoting better health
Health promotion expert, and
epidemiologist
Evaluating health service interventions
Public health doctor and social scientist
Health priorities and priority setting
Public health doctor and health economist
Managing health services and health administration
Social scientist and health service
management expert
Environmental and occupational health
Epidemiologist and social scientist
51.   Staff could be drawn from existing Hungarian academic institutions.
Development of the modules would be undertaken in a partnership between a
western academic center and the Hungarian teaching staff. An appropriate



- 85  -                     ANNEX 3
model would be for two Hungarian teaching staff to attend an academic center
in a western country where a similar module is being taught. They would then
adapt the material so that it was relevant to Hungary and then would translate
it. The estimated development costs, including travel, tuition fees, living
expenses, consultancy fees, and teaching material production costs would be
US$20,000 per module. Some of the modules would also be used by the School of
Health Services Management.
52.   Establishment of a Field Egidemiology TrainLng Program (FETP).  A FETP,
with elements run by CDC, Atlanta, would be established at the NPHC with close
links to the School of Public Health. The FETP will be within the MPHC, in
the Office of the CHO for the first two years, with affiliation shifting to
the School of Public Health once it is fully established. For its first two
years a foreign consultant would closely supervise the program. This
consultant would be replaced by a Hungarian who had followed an FETP or an MSc
abroad. Public health doctors seeking specialist expertise in field
epidemiology would spend six months or a year in the program as part of thelr
supervised training after completion of the MPH.
53.   In-Service Training.  The second and third years of the public health
accreditation program would take place in county and national public health
institutes. Some posts at the National Public Health Center would provide
specialist training in field epidemiology and would be supervised by staff
who, initially, had undergone training on the Field Epidemiology Training
Program outside Hungary. A designated individual would be responsible for
training in a particular post. A national supervisory body would be
established, consisting of staff from the School of Public Health, the medical
universities, and the county and national institutes of public health.
Members of this body would inspect in-service training locations annually.
Certification of the training in-service location would be conditional on
meeting an adequate standard. This would involve ensuring that certain
facilities were available, such as libraries and computers, and that the
content of training was appropriate. A mechanism in use in some western
countries is for the visiting inspection team to interview the trainee and
trainer separately and then to discuss issues raised with them together.
54. The goal of a better trained public health service would be achieved by
the Project through the following: (a) the provision of facilities, books and
equipment for the School of Public Health; (b) technical assistance for
curriculum development, the setting of standards, and the establishment of
supervised placements; (c) development of course modules for retraining of
existing doctors in the public health service; (d) technical assistance and
long-term consultancy for the establishment of a FETP; (e) direct training of
trainers and leading specialists abroad; and (f) the establishment of courses
for environmental health officers and others in the medical universities.



- 86  -                     ARM  3
Phasing During Project PrenarAtion and Inlementation
55.   The actions described below are listed under separate headings to
distinguish those covered by the TEMPUS project and those to be covered by the
World Bank relating to retraining and long term training.
1992
Project Preparation
Initiate establishment of legal framework. Appoint
project steering group comprising a representative of
each medical university and the public health service.
Identify buildings and equipment needs for the School.
Agree to management structure of the School with medical
universities. Agree to formal link between the School
and one or more medical universities. Agree on access
to libraries and other relevant facilities. Identify
first candidates for training abroad. Identify
facilities required for training environmental health
and health promotion staff.
TEMPUS
Western/Hungarian joint review of changes in
undergraduate public health training within
medical universities introduced during 1991/92.
Provision of communications, teaching equipment,
and computers for postgraduate training in medical
universities. Provision of books and journals for
postgraduate training in medical universities.
Retraining of staff of medical universities
through short courses given in Hungary and abroad.
Study tours to UK. Four MSc courses abroad for
students from medical universities.
1993
Project Implementation
Develop seven modules in specified aspects of public
health. Complete establishment of legal
framework. Commence refurbishment and equipping
of School of Public Health. Appoint advisory
board for School of Public Health. Appoint
supervisory board for in-service training.
Make initial appointments to School of Public
Health. Obtain university approval for courses
and examinations. Plan PETP. Three MSc courses
commence abroad. Tuition fees are provided for only



- 87  -                        _M  3
5 MSc courses abroad (other costs covered by TEMPUS).
Two PhD training programs commence abroad.
One EIS trainee commences study abroad.
TEMPUS
Western/Hungarian joint review of introduction of
postgraduate public health training within medical
universities introduced during 1991/92. Provision
of communications, teaching equipment, and
computers for postgraduate training in medical
universities. Provision of additional books and
journals for postgraduate training in medical
universities. Retraining of staff of medical
universities through short courses in Hungary and
abroad. Study tours to UK. 5 MSc courses abroad
for students from medical universities.
1994
Project Implementation
Conduct 21 two-week modules.
Open the School of Public Health.
Commence diploma and MPH courses.
Appoint acting director and commence FETP.
10 MSc courses abroad.
2 PhD training programs commence abroad.
2 PhD training programs continue abroad.
1 EIS trainee commences study abroad.
1 EIS trainee continues study abroad.
Commence training in health promotion and
enviromental health at medical universities.
TEMPUS
Final review of program.
1995
Project Implementation
Conduct 21 two-week modules
5 MSc courses abroad
4 PhD training programs continue abroad
1 EIS trainee commences study abroad.
1 EIS trainee continues study abroad.



- 88  -                      QENE  3
1996
Project Implementation
21 two-week modules.
5 MSc courses abroad.
2 PhD training programs continue study abroad.
1 EIS trainee continues study abroad.
1997
Project Implementation
4 MSc courses abroad.
Implementation Arrangemts
56. A steering group to establish the School of Public Health would be set
up comprising the CMO and a representative of each medical university, and
nominated by each rector during the spring of 1993. This would subsequently
form the nucleus of the advisory board of the school.
57.   In addition, a major technical assistance contract would be let to
support all aspects of the component during the spring of 1993.



- 89 -                     ANEX 4
UREPEIMC OF HUNGAR
HEALTH SERVICES AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
SCHOOL O NEhALTH SERVICES NANAGEMENT
A. KEY ISSUES
1.    Reducing the gap in health status between Hungary and its neighbors will
require a coordinated effort across many sectors.1 Action is urgently needed
to reduce the prevalence of risk factors, such as inadequate diet, smoking,
sedentary lifestyle and lack of social support. The public health subcomponent
of the Project is designed to meet this need. In addition, health services are
needed to cope with problems that are not going to be addressed in the short-run
by improved promotion of healthy lifestyle, reduction in environmental risk
factors and prevention of diseases.
2.    At present, financial resources devoted to the health sector (5.6 percent
of GDP) are not used in an effective and efficient manner. There are imbalances
in the distribution of resources and services by type of care (primary care,
tertiary care and social services being the major neglected areas) and by region
(the smaller and more remote regions being under- serviced). Primary care is in
an embryonic stage of development and still poorly integrated into the global
provision of care;   hospital-based services are costly and ineffective in
treating many common problems.
3.    Instltutional Capacity.  The health sector's weak institutional capacity
in policy-making, planning, management and evaluation is at the root of many
problems. Decision-making is, at best, bureaucratic and arbitrary due to the
lack of clear policies. As a result, inefficiency is widespread, resources are
not used effectively, and the potential impact of good health care on health
status is lost. Current modalities in treatment may even have a negative impact
on health due to unnecessary or below-standard interventions, such as prolonged
hospitalization, dangerous radiology tests and surgery done with poor aseptic
techniques.
4.    Lack of managerial skills has become a key issue in the success of proposed
reforms for the health sector. The current managing "triumvirate" in hospitals
(medical director, nursing director and economic director) have, in most cases,
not received adequate training to prepare them for the challenges of the future.
New skills are needed in decision-making, planning, communications, negotiations,
to name but a few.   Hospital directors will have to manage, not simply
administer, their services.
1/    3.4th status of th lunsari population is in8  the worst in Europe and has declined in recent
yaza. 8ce Annex 1 for a detailed discusson.



- 90 -                      ANNEX 4
5.    Decentralization.  Decentralization has modified the respective roles of
the MOW and of local governments. At each level, policy-making has become a
central task that requires qualified personnel. Decentralization in planning,
decision-making and management requires much greater participation by health care
providers. Greater autonomy for hospitals requires greater responsibility and
accountability in setting priorities and objectives, allocating resources and
managing resources (human, physical and financial). A full-time commitment is
necessary and more sophisticated management skills are needed than were necessary
in the past.2
6.    Efficiency. The search for greater efficiency has also triggered a process
of rationing of resources. This requires improved productivity, upgrading and
redistribution of resources, introduction of systems to monitor delivery of
services, and improved quality of care. Currently, resource constraints are as
much due to imbalances as to actual shortages. The number of medical doctors per
population is higher than in many OECD countries but the number of nurses is
lower.  The number of hospital beds per 10,000 population is above the OECD
average but beds are unevenly distributed regionally and many institutions do not
provide acceptable standards of care.
7.    Many of the proposed financing reforms in the health sector and social
insurance system also seek improved efficiency. This will make management more
complex as reimbursement of health care institutions move to performance-based
systems. Such reimbursement schemes require greater monitoring of expenditure
and more accountability.   New computer systems will be implemented, making
policy-making and management increasingly dependent on reliable and innovative
use of information.
8.    Training Programs.  Although efforts have been made recently to provide
practicing managers with new knowledge and train them in new skills, there are
no systematic and organized postgraduate training programs in health services
management.3    There  are  few  teachers  trained  specifically  in  health
administration4 and there is a limited understanding of what would be required
to initiate such programs in the future. Efforts currently made rely almost
exclusively on foreign assistance of a temporary nature and are not well
2    At present, medical directors, although equal to their econciic and nursing counterparts in
principle, play the leading role as 'primem inter pares." Yet, they devote most of their time to
clinical and other professional aectivities, with management remaining a marginal activity.
S/   The nstitute for Postgraduate Studies in Economics, at Budapest University of Economics, offers
part-time short-term courses for heaLth services managers. The Postgraduate Medical University in
Budapest also offers limited training in manag8ent to medical doctors and nurses. The European
Health Management Association, wmder the sponsorship of the EC/PHARE Program, offered a ten-month
'Training of Trainers' program in 1991 to potential trainers. Also, an EC/PHARE grant has recently
bean awarded to a consortium of medical universities for short-term training in management in
Hungary as well as placements in Italy, the Netherlands and Britain.
g/   The Budapest University of Economics teaches basic business management courses and the medical
universities teach health related disciplines, but none has experience in teaching health services
management.



- 91 -                     ANNEX 4
coordinated.   A significant risk is that an uncoordinated introduction of
substandard short-term courses could retard the long-term professionals
development needed to respond adequately to future needs in the health sector.
9.    Management Needs. As Hungary engages in the process of decentralizing its
health services and of rationalizing the use of health care resources, it needs
a greater number of professionals qualified in policy-making and in management,
with the knowledge, skills and attitudes commensurate with the challenges of the
proposed reforms. Such personnel is not currently available and no institution
has the required capacity to train them.
10.   Hospitals of an average size of 500-600 beds will need, at minimum, six
top-managers (general-director, medical services, nursing, auxiliary services,
finance and personnel).   Requirements for middle-management personnel would be
in the range of 130-150 per institution, calculated conservatively on the basis
of 25 medical and other departments/services per average hospital. The total
number of personnel in this range requiring upgraded education would be up to
20,000 for the hospital sector alone. Other institutions, such as polyclinics,
primary care clinics and rehabilitation centers will also require trained
managers. In total, a conservative estimate would be upgrading of training needs
for up to 900-1,000 high-level managers and 20,000-25,000 mid-level managers.
B. STRATEGIES FOR REFORM
Objective&
11.   The broad goal of creating a School of Health Services Management would be
to strengthen the health sector's institutional capacity in policy-making,
planning, management and evaluation in support of the effort to close the gap in
health status between Hungary and Western Europe.
12.   The objective of the School would be:
(a)   To establish a two-year postgraduate (masters level) program in
health services management adapted to Hungary's needs, and meeting
international standards.   It would offer a variety of learning
experiences, including academic and professional cour3sa, field work
and a supervised residency.    This program would be open to
candidates from various disciplinary and professional backgrounds
and would be expected to become the entry level qualification for
health services management positions. Enrollment would initially be
fifteen students per year, chosen through a selective process; four
groups of students would have graduated by the end of the Project
(one would have completed one year in the program).
(b)   To develop a continuing education infrastructure to attend to the
needs of practicing managers. After assessing needs, the School
would develop training sessions on topics regarded as a priority by
managers and policy-makers. Format would vary according to topic



- 92 -                     ANNEX 4
and other factors, like managers' capacity to take leave from their
work in the services. Creation of a continuing education program
would provide health services managers with opportunities for
professional  improvement  throughout  their  careers.    Training
activities would reach the following target groups: managers of
health care institutions (public and private), government agencies,
NSIA, representatives of local governments, and other groups active
in the implementation of the reforms, such as general practitioners
who would manage their own private practice. These activities would
be organized on a regional basis (Debrecen, PScs, Szeged) with the
collaboration of local universities.
(c)   To create a research infrastructure (with a view to eventually
offering a PhD program) in health services management. In addition
to creating a basic physical and material research infrastructure,
this subcomponent would focus on bringing up to International
standards, the teaching staff's capacity to design research
protocols, to write applications for grants, to conduct research
work in health organizations, and to publish results.  Seminars
conducted by well established researchers would be conducted every
year. Participation in the international research network would be
stimulated. Training in research would develop a local capacity to
conduct applied research in health services evaluation and analysis.
P01Lie O2tiOns
13.   A range of policy options must be addressed in the following areas: (a) the
type of training that should be offered (academic, experiential, undergraduate,
postgraduate,);   (b) the institution(s) that would be responsible for such
training (universities, Ministry of Culture and Education, Ministry of Welfare,
others); (c) the activities and target populations (retraining of practicing
managers  and  policy-makers,   training  of  future  personnel,   research,
consultation).
14.   Training Models.   Since there is no tradition of policy-making and
management training in the health sector in Hungary, there is a need, indeed an
opportunity, to reflect on the type of training most likely to respond to the
country's future needs. Many alternatives are available: (a) European versus
North American; and (b) health administration training versus business
administration training. Focus can be on concepts and theories, or on methods
and techniques. Hungary is in a good position to become a leader in Central and
Eastern Europe in the training of health services management, because of its
resources and experience in tertiary education, the advanced stage of its health
care reforms and its extensive network of contacts with foreign institutions.
To achieve such a leadership position, it would be necessary to apply quickly the
principles that have been learned over the past 40 years in other countries and



. 93 -                     ANNEX
that have become internationally recognized standards.5 Also, as Hungary wishes
to integrate into the European Economic Community, it would need to consider the
advantages of harmonizing with European standards.
15.   Foreign experience has demonstrated that business oriented management
training by itself is not appropriate to the needs of the health sector,
particularly in countries where services are principally delivered through the
public sector. Health care institutions require, for their management, specific
knowledge and skills. This justifies managers receiving a specialized education
adapted to the health sector. Policy-makers, analysts and managers need to have
a clear understanding of what determines the health status of individuals and
populations, of the processes of effective and efficient production and
utilization of health services, and how to ensure equity and high quality in the
care provided. Their training, while including a strong component of general
management, hes to be adapted to the area of health. As such, it needs to be
much more multi-disciplinary than the training usually offered through pure
business oriented schools.
16. Another lesson of foreign experiences is that a proper balance between
academic and professional courses, and practical learning experiences is more
likely to produce effective policy-makers and managers than classroom teaching
alone. Health managers need both analytical skills and intervention skills. As
leaders of their organization, they are expected to have good diagnostic
capacities and, above all, the skills to design and to implement strategies of
change. They must be able to identify and understand existing problems as well
as anticipate future needs.   In developing a new School of Health Services
Management, Hungary can benefit from a critical assessment of foreign training
models, taking advantage of the lessons already learned by other countries.
17.   Institutional Arrangements. Building one more time on foreign experiences,
it can be argued that health services management and policy-making education
should be of postgraduate level. It should be open to candidates who already
possess an undergraduate degree and preferably have some professional or
management experience in the health sector. No discrimination should be made
between disciplines or professions. Management should be seen as requiring
skills of a general nature, especially a high capacity to adapt to varying
situations. It should not be seen as a mere application of set techniques or
normative standards, but as a continuous process of refining original responses
to complex and evolving problems. This needs a combination of good training,
personal maturity, and an aptitude to organize and to lead, and not merely an
academic capacity.
18. As to which type of institution should take charge of health services
management education, there are a variety of options as illustrated by the
situation in other countries. There are independent schools, and departments
An example would be the criteria s*t by the Accrediting Commission of Educatian in Ebolth 8erviees
Adinlistration (ACSESA); in North America, nearly 100 institutions offer accredited prosram and
have tormed the Association of University Programs in Health Administration (AWUSA).



- 94 -                            4
attached to other schools (business schools, schools of public health, faculties
of medicine, schools of public administration and, in some cases, programs only,
with no departmental status).
19.   Since health services management is a new field in Hungary, it would have
to establish its identity and credibility rapidly, if it is to have a significant
impact on the health sector. Consequently, it would be preferable to develop it
as an institution which has the independence and the autonomy to organize itself
along original lines and not depend, for its development, on the approbation of
authorities concerned with other priorities. Even as an independent institution,
it should, however, abide by high university standards, particularly in the case
of the qualifications of the teaching staff, and the quality of teaching and
learning activities.
20.   At present, a number of institutions could be candidates to take charge of
health services management education in Hungary.   In the field of medical
education, there is the Postgraduate Medical University, in Budapest, which
currently awards postgraduate degrees and diplomas in various fields related to
public health. Also interested in entering the field of management are the four
medical universities (Semmelweis, Debrecen, Pecs, Szeged), which at present do
not have the authority to grant postgraduate degrees. There are also non-medical
institutions, such as the University of Economic Sciences of Budapest, which has
some of its components already involved in management training (Irstitute for
Postgraduate Studies in Economics, Management Development Center), and is also
interested in expaniding its activities in the field of health services. No
institution, however, can mobilize the whole range of coursework needed in health
services management education, which makes its development in a single medical
or non-medical university difficult.   An alternative would be to develop a
collaborative venture between institutions with complementary resources.
21.   Other possible institutional arrangements are offered by the proposed
creation of a School of Public Health in Budapest which could have a joint
program in health services management. The School would be independent and
managed by a consortium of medical universities and public health institutions.
It could: a) offer programs only; b) create a department in health services
management; or c) become a School of Public Health and Health Services
Management.
22.   These options have already been discussed by interested parties, including
the MOW, and preference has been expressed for the creation of an independent
School of Health Services Management with close links to the proposed School of
Public Health.   Efforts would be made to avoid duplication of services, to
encourage sharing of resources such as teaching materials and library services.
It has also been decided that the School of Health Services Management would be
located in Budapest and attached to Semmelweis Medical University as an
administratively and financially autonomous school, like the School of Public
Health; it would be run by a Management Board where the other medical
universities and the University of Economic Sciences would be represented. This
arrangement would be consistent with the objectives of guaranteeing autonomy of
development and identity building, as well as building on available resources and



- 95 -                      ANNEX 4
avoiding waste.
23.   Target-PopDulations.  There are management training needs at all levels of
the health care delivery system. It would not be possible to attend to all the
identified needs at the same time; choices have to be made between concentrating
training efforts on a small minority of top leaders, at one end of the spectrum,
or trying to give a little training to every one, at the other end. Given the
lack of experience and resources, investments in a limited range and high quality
education, rather than in many simultaneous initiatives, lowers the risk of
dilution. Such an option would give priority to the training of r3neral managers
for top positions in health institutions, focussing on the development of skills
needed to be effective at the strategic decision-making level. It assumes that
leadership has a ripple effect on other managers. This option would also address
the needs of practicing managers, as well as those of future managers through on-
site training. In other countries, health institutions often have short-term
training programs for their own staff, using outside consultants.
C. DETAILED PROJECT DESCRIPTION
24.   The creation of a School of Health Services Management is proposed as a
means of responding to the evolving needs of the health sector. Raising the
quality of manager training would lead to more efficiency in the use of health
care resources and thereby increase the impact of health services on the health
status of the community. The School would undertake training activities at the
postgraduate level, and develop continuing education programs. It would have a
research program and eventually offer a PhD. While being an autonomous and
financially independent school attached to Semmelweis Medical University
(Budapest), and submitting to university standards, the School of Health Services
Management would be a joint and collaborative venture of an array of institutions
from Budapest and from the other major centers. Autonomy is required to develop
a strong identity and a new management culture to establish the credibility of
trained managers as quickly as possible. Collaboration would be particularly
close with the new School of Public Health with which it would be possible to
share resources of various kinds.
Phasing During Project Preparation (1992) and Implementation (1993-99)
25.   Project Pregaration 1992
Finalizing of plans according to the new legal environment.
Identify building and equipment needs for school of health services
management. (The Semmelweis Medical University would provide buildings
for the School adjacent to the main teaching facilities. The buildings
would need renovation).



- 96 -                     ANNEX 4
The participating universities must agree on:
(a) the management structure of the School and appointment of a
project steering committee comprising representatives of the
participating universities; and
(b) the formal link between the School and the Seumelweis Medical
University (procedures for official recognition, awarding of
degrees).
Define a selection procedure for teaching staff by public competition and
proceed to selection, including shared appointments.
Identify training needs of teaching staff (language preparation, academic
training, pedagogical development) in consultation with the School of
Public Health.
Plan training program for staff development.
26.   Project ImRlementation 1993 - Year one
Institutional Development
Creation of the School of Health Services Management (SHSM);
Refurbishment of school buildings and facilities;
Appointment of management board of the School by the participating
universities;
Set up advisory board;
Make initial teaching appointments:
- full-time;
- part-time;
- shared appointments;
Development of support infrastructure:
- administration;
- library services;
- computing services;
Buy support equipments;
Library development /books, journals, databases.
Postgraduate Nac Program
Development of curricula and teaching materials;
Training of teaching staff:
- 2 PhD programs' begin abroad;
PM program Iclude attendnce to one scientific conference pox yer



- 97 -                     AN=  4
- 3 short-term fellowships7 abroad;
- one-week seminar on teaching methods for full-time and part-
time staff;
Buy teaching e.quipment and basic equipments for teaching staff;
Select first cohort of 15 students.
Continuing Education
Identify needs and priorities by consultation.
Develop short-term programs for priority target groups;
Offer three continuing education sessions (duration to be
determined). Sessions would be offered on a regional basis.
Research Infrastructure
Books, computers, software, databases for teachers;
Two-week seminar on research project preparation.
27.   Project ImRlementation 1994 - Year two
Institutional D tvelopment
official opening of the SHSM;
Library davelopment /books, journals, databases.
Post-graduate MSc Program
Development of curricula and teaching materials;
Obtain university approval for courses and examinations;
Initiate MSc course: cohort of 15 students;
Training the teaching staff:
- 2 PhD programs begin abroad;
- 2 PhD programs continue abroad;
- 3 short-term fellowships abroad;
- one-week seminar on teaching methods for full-time and part-
time staff;
Development of a residency program: objectives, modalities,
evaluation;
Selection and training of practitioners to participate in the
supervision of residencies.
Continuing Education
Offer six continuing education sessions (duration to be determined).
Sessions would be offered on a regional basis.
2/   Each felloahip includes attendance to mne scientific conference per year.



- 98 -                      AMEX 4
Research Infrastructure
Books, computers, software, databases for teachers;
Two-week seminar on research in institutional development.
28. Project Implementation 1995 - Year three
Institutional Development
Library development /books, journals, databases.
Postgraduate NSc Program
Development of curricula and teaching materials;
First cohort continue, second cohort selected and begin program;
Training the teaching staff:
- 2 PhD programs begin abroad;
- 2 PhD programs continue abroad;
- 2 PhD programs continue in Hungary';
- 3 short-term fellowships abroad;
- one-week seminar on teaching methods for full-time and part-
time staff;
Training of practitioners who supervise residencies;
Continuing Education
Offer six continuing education sessions (duration to be determined).
Sessions would be offered on a regional basis.
Research Infrastructure
Books, computers, software, databases for teachers;
Two-wer..c seminar on research on managers' traini.ng needs assessment.
29.   Project Implementation 1996 - Year four
Institutional Development
Library development /books, journals, databases;
Evaluation of first three years of project.
Postgraduate MSc Program
Development of curricula and teaching materials;
First cohort graduate, second cohort continue and third cohort begin
program;
j(   Includes one month abroad to work with PhD supervisor and attend a scientific conference.



-99 -                       ANNEX 4
Training the teaching staff: 2 PhD programs begin abroad;
2 PhD programs continue abroad;
- 2 PhD programs continue in Hungary;
- 2 PhD programs finish;
- 3 short-term fellowships abroad;
- one-week seminar on teaching methods for full-time and part-
time staff;
Training of practitioners who supervise residencies;
Continuing Education, Reform Supporting Courses
Offer six continuing education sessions (duration to be determined).
Sessions would be offered on a regional basis.
Research Infrastructure
Books, computers, software, databases for teachers;
Two-week seminar on qualitative research methods in management.
Other
First national conference (two days) on health services management
in Hungary (to coincide with graduation of first cohort of Masters'
candidates).
30. Project Implementation 1997 - Year five
Institutional Development
Library development /books, journals, databases;
Second evaluation of project.
Postgraduate MSc Program
Development of curricula and teaching materials;
Second cohort graduate, third cohort continue and fourth cohort
begin program;
Training the teaching staff:
- 2 PhD programs continue abroad;
- 2 PhD programs continue in Hungary;
- 2 PhD programs finish;
- 3 short-term fellowships abroad;
- one-week seminar on teaching methods for full-time and
part-time staff;
Training of practitioners who supervise residencies;
Continuing Education, Reform Supporting Courses
Offer six continuing education sessions (duration to be determined).
Sessions would be offered on a regional basis.



- 100 -
Research Infrastructure
Books, computers, software, databases for teachers;
Two-week seminar on evaluation methods in management.
Other
Second national conference (two days) on health services management
in Hungary.
31.   Project Implementation 1998 - Year six
Institutional Development
Library development /books, journals, databases.
Postgraduate NMc Progrsa
Development of curricula and teaching materials;
Third cohort graduate, fourth cohort cont4nue and fifth cohort begin
program;
Training the teaching staff:
- 2 PhD programs continue abroad;
2 2 PhD programs continue in Hungary;
- 2 PhD programs finish;
- one-week seminar on teaching methods for full-time and part-
time staff;
Training of practitioners who supervise residencies.
Continuing Education
Offer six continuing education sessions (duration to be determined).
Sessions would be offered on a regional basis.
Research Infrastructure
Books, computers, software, databases for teachers.
Other
Third national conference (two days) on health services management
in Hungary.
32.   Project Imolementation 1999 - Year seven
Institutional development:
Library development /books, journals, databases;
Final evaluation of project (end of year).



- 101 -                    AM  4
Postgraduate NSc Program
Development of curriculum and teaching materials;
Fourth cohort graduate fifth cohort continue and sixth cohort begin
program;
Training the teaching staff:
- 2 PhD programs continue in Hungary;
- 2 PhD programs finish;
- one-week seminar on teaching methods for tull-time and part-
time staff;
Training of practitioners who supervise residencies.
Continuing Education, Reform Supporting Courses
Offer six continuing education sessions (duration to be determined).
Sessions would be offered on a regional basis.
Research Infrastructure
Books, computers, software, databases for teachers.
Other
Fourth national conference (two days) on health services management
in Hungary.
XluPmentti2n Arrangements
33.   The following steps have been or would be taken to secure a successful
implementation of the School of Health Services Management:
(a)   Proposed legislation on higher education which has been presented to
Parliament would grant universities:
- administrative autonomy;
- the right to establish schools and institutes;
- the right to award postgraduate diplomas and degrees;
(b)   Policy statement establishing a career pattern for health services
managers. Cooperation with the Health Services Higher Education
Professional Committee EFSZB, the Ministerial advisory body on
issues of higher education would be needed.
(c)   Measures will be taken to give administrative and financial autonomy
to the School.



- 102 -                     ABU  4
(d)   Formal agreement with the new School of Public health regarding the
shared use of resources to avoid wasteful duplication.
(e)   Alternative solutions to establish legal frameworks for the School
in case the legislation for higher education is delay-d.
Outputs
34.   School of Health Services Management created with staff of eight full-time
and twelve part-time teachers, the latter employed through joint appointment with
other institutions, with support staff, library and computer facilities in its
own buildings.
Eighit teachers trained at PhD level (six VhD completed, two with one year
to go).
Twelve teachers trained in a specialized area (short-term fellowships).
Network of residency supervisors established; seven training sessions
offered.
Masters program curriculum and teaching material corresponding to
international standards.
Four cohorts of fifteen Masters' level students graduated; one other
coh ,rt of fifteen would have done the first year of their program.
Continuing education program and teaching material developed.
Forty sessions of continuing education of up to two weeks duration; 800
persons reached.
Research infrastructure created; research reports and articles published.
Four two-day national conferences on health services management.



- 103 -                     ANNEX 5
REPUBLIC NP HUNGARY
HEALTH SERVICES ANp MANAGEMNTQ PROJECT
Statistical Annex
A. General Country Data
Year
Population (millions)                                     10.3      1992
Area (km in thousaads)                                    93.0      1992
Population Density (per kW2)                             111.1      1992
GDP Per Capita (US$)                                      2780      1990
B. Pouulation and Health
Annual Rate Of Population Growth (X)                     -0.02      1991
Urban Pcpulation (X of total)                             62.1      1992
Population Age Structure
0-14 Years (X)                                         19.4     1992
15-64 Years (X)                                         67.0     1992
65(+) Years (X)                                         13.6     1992
Crude Birth Rate (per 1,000 population)                   12.2      1991
Total Fertility Rate                                      1.84      1991
Babies Born With Low Birth Weight (X)                      9.2      1991
Crude Death Rate (per 1,000 population)                   14.1      1991
Life Expectancy At Birth:
- Feiwle                                                73.7     1990
- Male                                                  65.1     1990
Infant Mortality Rate Per 1,000 Live Births               15.1      1991
- National Average
Mortality per 10,000 from:
circulatory diseases                                     73.7      1990
cancer                                                   30.1      1990
Percent change in mortality 1970-87
England                                                   22X decrease
W. Germany                                                271 decrease
United States                                             261 decrease
Hungary                                                   17X increase
Percent change in heart disease mortality, 1970-87
England                                                   151 decrease
W. Germany                                                131 decrease
United States                                             491 decrease
Hungary                                                   421 incragse



-104 -                      muEL 5
C.  Health Sectgr Resgrce
Total Beds (000s)
Acute                                                       73.9      1990
Chronic                                                     28.1      1990
Beds per 10000 population
Acute                                                       71.4      1990
Chronic                                                     27.1      1990
Average Length-of-Stay (Days)
Acute                                                        9.9      1990
Chronic                                                     32.2      1990
Occupancy Rates (X)
Acute                                                      74.9Z      1990
Chronic                                                    84.6X      1990
Total days of hospitalization per 10,000 population        2,759.5      1990
Discharges per 10000 population                              217.9      1990
D.  ActL  Health Persgnnel
No. of active physicians (0008)                               29.3      1990
Percent who are specialists (X)                             76.3
No. of physicians in hospitals (0008)                       13.2
Primary care districts (000.)                                6.7
Industry Districts (000s)                                    0.9
Polyclinics & Other (000s)                                   8.5
No. of active physicians per 10,000 population                          1990
In hospitals                                                12.7
In primary care districts                                    6.5
Total                                                       28.3
No. of medical graduates (000)                                 0.9      1990
E.   MUhgr ehrsonnel
No. of dentists (000s)                                         3.6      1990
aTo. of nurses and midwives (000s)                            53.8      1990
No. of pharmacists (OOOs)                                      3.4      1990
No. of pharmacies (000s)                                       1.5      1990
Source: Ministry of Public Welfare, 1991



- 105 -                     ANNEX a
F.  OcCOUatiAl Distribution af Active Doctors
Hungary, December 1990
(No.)
Prima  Care
CPs                                 4466
Pediatricians                       1456
Maternal, child and adolescent
health                               619      6541
Industrial health services
Factories                           1244
Railways                             843      2087
Specialists (polyclinics)           5522      5522
lnstltutim
- Hospitals                        12828
- Welfare institutions               i90    13018
Other clinical serLvgs
- Ambulance Service                  136
- Blood Bank                         199
- Other                              153       488
Public health and epidemiology
864      864
zfEduction
- Universities                       589
- Other                              112       601
Research                             316       316
Administration                       153       153
Other                                 83        83
TOTAL                                        29773
,Sgurc Ministry of Welfare, 1991



- 106 -                     ANNEX S
0. Measures VC Service Use
Selected Countries 1987-1990
Doctor             Drug
Hospital    Admissions    Average   consultations &   expenditures as
Q1 CountrY           days per      per 100        stay     home visits per   2 total health
l_________________    person      population      (days)    person (annual)     expenditure
Eastern Europe
Hungary                 2.8          21.8         12.7            9.4               27.7
Poland                  2.1          16.5         12.6            7.7               20.0
CSFR                    2.3          17.3         13.2           14.7               21.5
Western Europe
Austria                 3.3          22.8         12.9            5.8               11.6
Germany                 3.5          21.5         16.6           11.5               20.7
Denmark                 1.8          20.9          8.6            5.2                9.3
France                  3.0          22.3         13.5            7.1               16.7
Other OECD
Australia               3.0          21.8         13.8            6.4                8.3
Canada                  2.0          14.5         13.2            6.6              11.6
UK                      2.0          15.9         15.0            4.5               11.3
USA                     1.3          13.8          9.3            5.3                8.3
OECD average            2.8          16.1         16.4            6.0               13.6
sources: Ministry of Welfare, 1991



H. International Comparisons
Selected Countries, 1987-19901/
Couny             Hosgital beds for        Practicing grofessionals ner 1000      All health     Health
1000 gopulation                                               workers as  exuenditure
X        ag asXGDP
________________  _____________ __________                         population
Acute  Total  %Acute  Doctor  Dentist  Pharmacist   Qualified
Nurses
Eastern Europe
Hungary          7.1    9.8      72      2.8      0.3        0.4          5.3         2.0          6.0
Poland           na     7.1      na      2.0      0.4        0.4          5.1         na           5.4
CSFR             na    12.2      na      3.7      0.5        0.4          6.8         2.1          5.8
Western Europe
Austria          6.4   l1.7      60      2.0      0.4        0.3          6.6         2.3          8.2
Germany          7.4   10.9      68      2.9      0.6        0.6          5.0         2.7          8.2
Denmark          4.8    6.1      94      2.7      0.5        0.3          6.0         na           6.3
France           5.4   10.2      53      2.6      0.7        0.9          na          2.7          8.7
Other OECD
Australia        5.2    9.8      53      2.1      0.4        0.6         10.2         2.9          7.7
Canada           4.3    6.7      64      2.2      0.5        0.8         12.7         na           8.7
UK               na     6.5      na      1.4      0.4        na           4.3         2.3          5.9
USA              3.7    4.9      76 _    2.3      0.6        0.7          6.5     _  3.1          11.8
OECD average     5.1    9.2      55      2.3      na         0.6          na          na           7.4
Sources:  Ministry of Welfare, 1991
x
1e/ Hun4azy 1.980, \u.t.ralia 1889-90,* moat. other coormtr1ea 1988. * 



- 108 -                     ANNEX 5
I. Health Care Financing
1. Total Health Exoenditures. 1990 I/
Current Expenditures                      Ft. Billion         ( lotall
Public
Outpatient primary care                      9.78               7.9
Outpatient specialist care                   9.19               7.4
In-patient care                            39.02               31.5
Ambulance services                           2.08                1.4
Public Health                               2.26                1.8
Other Health Services                        2.54               2.0
Pharmaceutical subsidies                   27.56               22.3
Subtotal Public                            97.54               79.2
Private
Out of pocket expenses                      19.00 /            15.4
Total Current ExDenditures                  116.20              93.8
Capital Expenditures                          7.62               6.1
Total Health Expenditures                   123.82             100.0
Source: Ministry of Welfare and mission estimates.
1/ Excludes railroad, policy and military health expenditures.
2/ Out-of-pocket cost of drugs, plus estimated value of gratuities.
Total expenditures as X of GDP         5.95 X
Total expenditures per person in:
- Forints   11,957
- US$          193



- 109 -                           Anx  6
REPMBLIC OF HUNGARY
HEAITH SERVICES AnD NAGENET PROJECT
Detailed Project Cost Estimtes
(US$ thousand)
Unit   Unit/                                                                 Physical
of   Total                                           Bass Costs           Contingencies    Escalated Cost  TOTAL
Input  Base       Deseription of Inputs        --------------------------- --------------- ----------------- PROJECT
Cost                                     Local  Foreign  Total   Local Foreign  Local  Foreign  COST
--------------------------------_-----------------_-------------__-----------__-_--------------_-----------------------
1.   BELT SEVICKS
1.1  PublicEblt
1. 11 Strenatheninu of the NPMC
m/month      8.0 ST Fellow(Z):Study tour               0      252      252       0      13        0      311      311
m/month      4.0 LT FellowtS)Mc program                0      288      288       0      14        0      336      336
m/month     15.0 LTcersBL                              0      540      540       0      27        0      629      629
r/month     18.0 SToonsUL                              0      450      450       0      23        0      551      551
m/month     12.0 SToonaML                              0      264      264       0      13        0      319      319
m/month      8.0 STconaLL                              0     1152     1152       0      58        0     1343      1343
annual  2000.0 Closing the Gap Progran                0    14000    14000       0     700        0    17430    17430
package      3.8 PC386 Hardware/Peripherala           11       27       38       1       3       13       32       45
annual      0.3 Compu O&M                             8        8       15       1       1       10       10       20
package      2.5 Database Msna8mgent Software          3        9       13       0       1        4       11       15
annual      0.2 software license/upgrade              1        4        5       0       0        2        5        7
package      1.3 LAN Software                          1        2        3       0       0        1        2        3
annual      0.1 Softwre license/upgrade               0        1        1       0       0        0        1        1
package     12.6 Office Equipeent                      4        9       13       0       1        4       11       1S
annual      0.6 Equip OM                              2        1        3       0       0        2        2        4
package     12.6 Furniture:                           12        1       13       1       0       14        1       15
S Spread   103.9 Refurbish PMPU office space          06        8      104      10       1      115        9      124
m/month      0.7 Increm Salary:Profess staff         393        0      393      20       0      508        0      508
rnmonth      0.3 Increm Salary:Support staff          94        0       94       5       0      121        0       121
annual   100.0 Nonsal Oper Costs                    557       23      580      56       2      735       30      765
1.12 Chronic Disease Primarv Prevention
m/month      6.0 ST Fell:cumunity intervtn prog       0       48       48       0       2        0       56       56
m/rnonth    18.0 STconsHLcommurity intervention        0       81       81       0       4        0       98       O8
M/month     15.0 LTconsBL:corourity intervention       0     1170     1170       0      59        0      1458     1458
S Spread  1650.0 Study:Community damonatration         0     1650     1650       0      83        0     2227    2227
S Spread   350 0 Anti-smoking program                  0      350      350       0      18        0      432      432
package      3.8 PC386 Hardware/Peripherals            2        5        8       0       1        3        6        9
annual      0.3 Compu OIM                             2        2        4       0       0        2        2        5
package      2.5 Database management Software          1        4        5       0       0        2         4       6
annual      0.2 PC Software licenae/upgrade           1        2        2       0       0        1        2        3
package     12.6 Office Bqpipment                      7       18       25       1       2        9       20        29
annual      0.6 Equip C&M                             4        3        6       0       0        6        4       10
m/month      0.3 Inrem Salary(10):Interv team        260        0      260      13       0       325        0      325
X Spread   100.0 Nonsal Oper Costs                    96        4      100      10       0      123        5      128
--------------------------------------------------------_--------------__-__-__-----------__-_------__-__--------------



- 110 -                          Annex
REPUBLIC OF HUlNAkY
NEALE SERVICES AnD NfAiNGENT PlOJECT
Detailed Project Cost Estimates
(US$ thousand)
Unit  Unit/                                                                 Physical
of   Total                                          Base Costs           Contingencies   Escalated Cost  TOTAL
Input  Base      Description of Inputs        --------------------------- --------------- ----------------- PROJECT
Cost                                    Local  Foreign  Total  Local Foreign  Local  Foreign  COST
---------------------------------------------------------__------------------------------------------------------------
1.13 Chronic Disease Secondary Prevention
m/month      6.0 ST Fell:Meamog/hyperten/oyto         0       39       39       0       2        0       44       44
annual    50.0 Training:cytology                   200        0      200      10       0      233        0      233
annual    50.0 Training:mammography                100        0      100       5       0      114        0      114
m/month    18.0 STconsHL:mammography                  0       63       63       0       3        0       78       78
m/month    18.0 STconsHL:analyst/cancer regist        0      648      648       0      32        0      755      755
m/month    12.0 STconsdL-evaluation 3 progras         0      432      432       0      22        0      543      543
package      3.8 PC386 Hardware/Peripherals          43      104      147       4      10       53      128      181
annual     0.3 Compu O&M                            25       25       51       3       3       35       34       69
package      1.3 PC Software                         13       36       49       1       4       16       45       60
annual     0.1 PC Software license/upgrade           4       13       17       0       1        6       17       23
package     10.7 Medical Equip:Endoscopea             6       47       54       1       5        8       57       64
annual     0.5 Equip O&M                             8        6       13       1       1       10        8       18
package     80.3 Medical Equip:Mammographic unit     38      284      321       4      28       48      360      407
annual     4.0 Equip O&H                            33       23       56       3       2       45       32       77
X Spread   100.0 Health education messages            0      100      100       0       5        0      117      117
r/month      1.0 Incrsm Salary:4 mammog unit mgr    264        0      264      13       0      334        0      334
m/month      0.3 Incren Salary:2RNs 8s 4 mamw uni   176        0      176       9       0      223        0      223
annual   200.0 Nonsal Operational costs            864       36      900      86       4     1167       48    1215
1.14 School Health
m/month      6.0 ST Fell:health education             0       60       60       0       3        0       72       72
m/month      5,0 LTconsLL:Pro8ram manaser             0      420      420       0      21        0      S19      519
annual    20.0 Competitive Health promo pros         0      140      140       0       7        0      173      173
package     50.0 Health education materials         279       21      300      28       2      367       28      395
annual    30.0 In-country train/teachers/MJD        30        0       30       2       0      259        0      259
package      3.8 PC386 Hardware/Peripherals           2        5        8       0       1        3        6        9
annual     0.3 Compu OM                              2        2        4       0       0        2        2        5
package     2.5 Database management software          1        4        5       0       0        2        4        6
annual     0.2 Software license/upgrade              1        2        2       0       0        1        2        3
m/month      1.0 Increm Salary:Health educator       84        0       84       4       0      104        0      104
m/month      0.3 Increm Salary:support staff         28        0       28       1       0       35        0       35
1.15 Huntarian Health Surveys
m/month      6.0 ST Fell:Survey planning              0        9        9       0       0        0       10       10
m/month     15.0 LTconsHL:heslth surveys              0      360      360       0      18        0      412      412
m/month     18.0 STconsHL:survey planning             0       18       18       0       1        0       20       20
package     3.8 PC386 EardwaretPeripherals            4       1t       15       0       1        5       12       17
annual     0.3 Compu O&M                             4        4        7       0       0        5        5       10
package     2.5 Database management software          3        7       10       0       1        3        9       12
annual     0.2 Software license/upgrade              1        4        5       0       0        2        5        6
X Spread 4155.0 Study:Health Surveys                  0    4155      4155       0    208         0     5043    5043
--------------------------------------------------------------_----___-_-----__----------------------------------------
subtotal:     3769   27451    31220    295    1411    5079   33938   39017
----------------------------------------------------------------__----------__----------------------------------------



- 111  -                          Annex
REPUBLIC OF HUNQARY
BEALTH SERVICES AND NANAGEMNT PROJECT
Detailed Project Cost Estimates
(US$ thousand)
Unit   Unit/                                                                   Physical
of    Total                                           Base Costs            Contingencies    Escalated Cost   TOTAL
Input   Base      Description of Inputs         --------------------------- --------------- ----------------- PROJECT
Cost                                      Local   Foreign   Total   Local  Foreign   Local   Foreign   COST
----------------------_-----------------------------------------__---------_-__----------------------------------------
1.2 Institutional Care
1.21 Stroke Program
max/outh    18.0 SToonsHL:equipment specialist           0       36       36        0       2        0        41       41
package    920.7 Modical Equip.CT scanners             647     4877     5524       65     488      775     5842      6616
annual     46.0 Eguip OM                            804       577     1381      80       58     1070      775      1853
S Spread   120.0 Refurbish 6 stroke facil              111        9      120       11       1      133        11      144
X Spread    18.0 Bldg engineeringS/onst superv          18        0       18       1        0       20        0        20
unit      75.0 Nonsal Oper Costs:CT scan suppl         0        0        0       0        0        0        0         0
1.22 Cardiovasoular Diseases
r/month     18.0 STconsHL:equipment specialist           0       36       36        0       2        0        41       41
X Spread   100.0 Refurbish 5 cardiovac centers         93         7      100       9        1      111        9       120
X Spread    15.0 Bldg engineering/const superv          15        0       1S       1        0       17        0        17
package   1685.2 Med Equip:Hungar Inst Cardiolos       197     1488     1685      20      149      236     1782      2018
annual     42.1 Equip 0&M                             123       88      211       12       9      165      118       283
package   1685.2 Med Equip:Semuelweis Med School       197     1488     1665      20      149      238     1782      2018
annual     42.1 Equip 0UM                            123        88      211      12        9      165      118       283
package   1665.2 Med Eqyip:B.P,Postgrad Med SchL       197     1488     168S      20      149      236     1782      2018
annual     42.1 Equip O&M                            123        88      211      12        9      165      118       283
package    346.9 Med Equip:Debrecen Medical Scho        41      306      347        4      31       49      367       415
annual      8.7 Equip O&M                             25        18       43       3        2       34       24        58
package   1685.2 Med Equip:Szoged Medical school       197     1488     1685      20      149      236      1782     2018
annuaL     42.1 Equip O&                            123        88      211      12        9      165      118       283
package    623.4 Med Equip:Szeged Medical school        73      550      623       7       55       87      659       747
annual     15.6 Equip O&M                             45        33       78       5        3       61       44       105
unit     623.4 lonal Oper Costs                    2993       124     3117     299       12     4016      167      4183
1.23 Physical Rehabilitation
r/month     18.0 STconsHL:equipnent specialist           0       36       36        0       2        0        41       41
X Spread  3246.8 Conatruction:                       3006       241     3247     301       24     3670      294      3964
Z Spread    64.9 Build O&M                            281        12      292      28        1      380       16       395
X Spread   194.8 Bldg design/oonstrctn superv         195         0      195      10        0      224        0       224
package    448.5 ICU equip:Natl Instit Med Rehab        52      394      447        S      39       65      490       555
annual     11.2 Eguip O&M                             26        19       45       3        2       36       26        61
package    291.2 Med equip:Natl Instit Med Rehab        34      257      291        3      26       42      320       362
annual      7.3 Equip O&M                             17        12       29       2        1       23       17        40
unit     756.4 Nonsal Oper Costs:NIMR ICU          1121      2292     3413     112      229     1516     3101      4617
package    193.8 Med equip:County locmaot rehab        23       171      194       2       17       28      213       241
annual      4.8 Equip O&M                             11         8       19       1        1       15       11        26
package    794.4 Med equip:Balatonfured State Ho       93       701      794       9       70      116      872       988
annual     19.9 Equip O"                             46        33       79       5        3       63       45       109
package   1848.8 Med equip:other cardi  rehab de     216      1631     1847      22      163      269     2028      2297
annual     46.2 Equip O&                            107        77      185      11        8      147      106      252
unit     280.0 Noap Rehab Ctrs:Med consumab/su    1344         56     1400     134        6     1804       75      1879
----------------------------------------------------,-------12717---18816---31535---1260--1876---1638----23233---39616-
8dbtabal:    127l7    18818    31535   11260    1876    16383    23233    39616



- 112  -                          Annex 6
RlPUlJLIC OF HUNGARY
HUL  SWIMCE AND NAGNA=T PROJECT
Detailed Project Cost Estimates
(US$ thousand)
Unit   unit/                                                                   Pbhsical
of    Total                                           Base Costs            Contingencies    Esoalated Cost   TOTAL
Input   Base      Description of Inputs         --------------------------- --------------- ---------------- PROJECT
Cost                                      Local   Foreign   Total   Local Foreign   Local   Foreign   COST
------__------------_---_---------------------------------------__-----------__----------------------------------------
2.   MMC MrL 5 JD MhU MR
2.1.  Ptb6i  WeaUlh  !nd  _Nsam     TrmI.
2.11 School of -Beat stervices HbnaRmeent
n/month      6.0 ST Fel:                                 0       72       72        0       4        0        84       84
r/month      4.0 LT FeU:8 PhD program                    0     1152     1152        0      58        0      1369     1369
S Spread   150.0 Curric/instrctnal matls dev             0      150      1S0       0        8        0      177       177
r/month     18.0 STconsVL:progran evaluation             0       90       90        0       5        0       115      115
2 Spread   100.0 In-country traininelpractitners      100         0      100       5        0      128        0       126
Vackage      3.8 10386 6rdwere/Peripberals              33       80      113       3        8       41       9S       140
anual.      0.3 CCmpuO &                              14        14       28       1        1       19       19        38
package     25.1 File Server:1 GB storage               15       35       50        1       4       18        44       63
annual      2.0 Capu OM                                6         6       12       1        1        8        8        16
package      2.5 Database management software           10       28       38        1       3       12       35        47
annual      0.2 Software license/upgrade               3         9       12       0        1        4       13        17
package      1.3 LN software                             1        2        3        0       0        1         2        3
annual      0.1 Software liense/upurade                0         1        1       0        0        0        1         1
I Spread  1087.0 Construction: eslth 4gmt School    1006         81     1087     101        8     1229       98      1327
I Spread    21.7 Build aM                              94         4       98       9        0      127        5       132
X Spread    65.2 Bldg design/oenst supervision         65         0       65       3        0       75        0        75
package     50.0 Training/AV equipment                  15       35       50        1       4       18       44        62
annual      2.5 Equip  6h4                             a         4       10       1        0        8        5        14
package     12.6 Office Equip  nt                        4        9       13        0       1        5        11       16
annual      0. 8  quip OM                               1        1        3       0        0        2        1         3
Z Spread   108.7 Sehool furniture                     100         9      109      10        1      124       11       135
package      0.7 Computer desk                         21         2       22       2        0       26        2        28
package    100.0 Books/Tech Journals                    93        7      100        9       1      107         8      115
annual     10.7 Subscription                          60         5       64       6        0       79        6        85
ux/month     1.0 Incren Salary:8 F/time profess        432        0      432      22        0      558         0      558
annual     60.0 Inurem Salazy:Part time faculty      300         0      300      15        0      383        0       383
m/month      0.3 lucrem Salaxy:15 residen superv       240        0      240       12       0      314         0      314
m/month      1.5 lunre Sal8azy:Director                117        0      11t        6       0      146         0      146
m/mcuth      0.3 Incram Salarrysupport/sec pool        136        0      136        7       0      175         0      175
annual    120.0 Nonsal Oper Costs                    576        24      600      58        2      770       32       802
-----------------------._---------------------------------_------------__-----__------------------_-------------------



- 113 -                         Annex 6
EPUBLIC OF NGARY
HEALTH SERVICES AND NANAOMT  PROJECT
Detailed Project Cost Kstimates
(US$ thousand)
Unit  Unit/                                                                Physical
of   Total                                         Base Costs           Contingencies   Escalated Cost  TOTAL
Input  Base      Description of Inputs        --------------------------- --------------- ----------------- PROJECT
Cost                                    Local  Foreign  Total  Local Foreign  Local  Foreign  COST
---------------------------------------_------------------------__---_-------__----------------------------------------
2.12 8chool of Public Health
m/month     6.0 8S Fell:study visits                  0      60       60       0       3        0      68       66
m/month     4.0 LT Fe11:25 M8c courses               0    1296    1296         0      65        0     1592    1592
m/month     4.0 LT Fell:PbD courses                  0      576      576       0      29        0     697      697
m/month     4.0 LT Fell:EI8 feLlowships              0      288      288       0      14        0     349      349
annual    20.0 LT Fell:TEMPUS supported Mc          0      100      100       0       5       0      114      114
r/month    15.0 LTconsBL:direct FETP                  0     285      285       0      14        0     329      329
n/month    18.0 SconsHL: school curr planning        0      234      234       0      12        0     275      275
I Spread  140.0 Develop teaching modules             0      140      140       0       7       0      164      164
X Spread  194.8 Refurbish school facilities        160       14      19S      18       1     216       17      233
3 Spread    3.9 Build O&M                           19        1       19       2       0      25        1       26
2 Spread   19.5 Bldg engineering/conat superv       19        0       19       1       0      22        0       22
X Spread     23 School furniture                    22        2       23       2       0      27        2       29
package    50.0 Training/AV/office equipment         15      35       50       1       4       18      44       62
annual     2.5 Euip O&M                             6        4       10       1       0       8        6       14
package   100.0 Library Books/software              93        7      100       9       1      111       8      120
annual    10.7 Annual subscriptions                50        4       54       S       0      67        5       72
package     3.8 PC386 Bsrdware/Peripherals          24       59       83       2       6       30      73      103
annual     0.3 Compu O&M                           13       13       27       1       1       18      16       36
package     2.5 Database management software        14       41       55       1       4       18      51       69
annual     0.2 Software license/upgrade             5       13       18       0       1       6       18       24
rnmonth     1.0 Increm Salary:6 F/time faculty     456        0      456      23       0      585       0      585
r/m0onth    1.5 Increm Salary:Director              117       0      117       6       0      146       0      146
r/month     0.3 Incrum Salary:4 admin staff         82        0       82       4       0      105       0      10S
annual   100.0 Nonsal Oper Costs                  461       19      480      46      2      619       26      645
---------------------------------------------------------------------__-----__------------------------------------_---
Subtotal:     5025    5010   10035    399    279    6396    6047   12443
-----------------------------------------------------------------__---------__----------------------------------------



- 114  -                          Annex  6
REPUBLIC OF HUNGARY
HUALMH SERVICES AND ANEMENT PROJECT
Detailed Project Cost Estimates
(US$ thousand)
Unit   Unit/                                                                   Pysical
of    Total                                           Base Costs            Contingencies    Escalated Cost   TOTAL
Input   Base      Description of Inputs         --------------------------- --------------- ----------------- PROJECT
Cost                                      Local  Foreign   Total  Local Foreign   Local  Foreign   COST
------------------------------------------------------------_-----------------------------------------------------------
2.2  tInagenet S=uort Svat
2.21 MOW Comnutina Center (Szekszard)
m/month     18.0 STcousUL:Applic system design           0      108      108       0        5        0       123      123
m/month     15.0 LTconsi! :File conversion               0      180      180       0        9        0      206       206
m/month     18.0 STconsBL:Computer programmer tr         0      108      108        0       5        0       123      123
m/month      6.0 ST FeUl:observation tour                0       15       1S        0       1        0        17       17
package    400.0 Minicomputers (2) dual               235       565      800      23       57      281      677       958
annual     32.0 Compu O0M                            161       159      320      16       16      216      214       429
package    800.0 Database management software          207      593      800      21       59      248      710       958
annual    64.0 Software license/upgrade               83       237      320       8      24       111      318       429
package    150.0 Operating systems/utilities sof       39       111      1S0       4       11       47      133       180
annual     12.0 Software license/upgrade              16        44       60       2        4       21       60        81
2.22 Management Information Sunnort Systems for hosvitals
Phase 1: Pilot Hospitals (5)
m/month     18.0 STconsBL:Strategic systems plan         0       36       36        0       2        0        40       40
m/month     18.0 STconsEL:Minimal data set               0       18       18       0        1        0       20        20
m/month     18.0 STconsBL:Reimburaement                  0       36       36        0       2        0        40       40
m/month     18.0 STconsBL:MIS market survey              0       18       18        0       1        0       20        20
m/month     18.0 STconsBL:Data for external inst         0       36       36       0        2        0       40        40
m/month     18.0 STcoasBL:System design                  0      108      108        0       5        0       119      119
rn/month    18.0 STaonsBL:FS selectn/modificatio         0       18       18        0       1        0       20        20
rn/month    18.0 STcons9L:Procurement/bid eval           0       18       18       0        1        0       20        20
Z Spread   267.0 TA counterparts:applic devel         267         0      267      13        0      301        0       301
rn/month     6.0 ST Fell:overseas training               0      288      288       0       14        0      333       333
S Spread    94.0 In-country training:users              0        94       94       0        S        0      107       107
unit      10.0 Refurbish pilot sites                 46         4       50       5        0       55        4        60
package      3.8 PC386 Hardware/Periph(25/hosp)        138      333      471      14       33      166      399       564
annual      0.3 Compu O&                             95        94      188       9        9      127      126      253
package      2.5 PC286 Rardware/Periph(25/hosp)        92       222      314       9       22      110      266       376
annual      0.2 Compu O(                              63        63      126       6        6       85       84       169
package     25.1 File servers/lGB storge(5/hoap)       185      444      628      18       44      221      531       752
annual      2.0 Compu O6M                            126       125      251      13       13      169      168       337
package     12.6 Optical disks (2/hosp)                 37       89      126       4        9       44      106       150
annual      1.0 Compu OSm                             25        25       50       3        3       34       34        67
package     50.3 NEXT workstation (1/hosp)              74      177      251       7       18       88      213       301
annual      4.0 Compu OW                              50        50      101       5        5       68       67       135
package      5.0 Palmtop terminal (4/hosp)              30       71      101        3       7       35       85       120
annual      0.4 Compu O&G                             20        20       40       2        2       27       27        54
package      2.5 Database mgment software(S/hosp        16       47       63       2        S       20       56        75
annual      0.2 Software license/upgrade                7       19       25        1       2        9       25        34
package      1.3 LAN software(5/hosp)                    8       23       31        1       2       10       28        38
annual      0.1 Software license/upgrade                3        9       13       0        1        4       13        17
unit      50.0 LAN cables                             15       35       S0        1       4       18       42        60
package     30.0 Computer equipment installation        18       12       30       2        1       22       14        36
unit       0.7 Computer furniture                    193       17      210      19        2      232       20       252
package     12.6 Office Equipment                       18       44       63       2        4       22       53        75
annual      0.6 Equip O&M                              9         7       16       1        1       12        9        21
m/month      1.0 Increm Salary:10 tech staff           480        0      480      24        0      570         0      570
annual    51.9 Comunic Software license/upgra          67      192      260       7       19       90      258       349
annual    51.9 llonsal Oper:comsunic charges         249        10      260      25        1      335       14       349



- 115  -                         Annex 6
REPUBLIC OF NGARY
HEATH SILRVICES AND NAME=T PROJECT
Detailed Project Cost Estimates
(US$ thousand)
unit   Unit/                                                                 Physical
of   Total                                           Base Costs           Contingencies    Escalated Cost  TOTAL
Input  Base       Description  of  Inputs      ---------------------------  ---------------  ----------------- P-jJECT
Cost                                     Local  Foreign   Total  Local Foreign   Local  Foreign  COST
Phase 2: Hospitals (20)
m/month      5.0 LtconsLL:Install supp/managst         0      240      240       0      12        0      302      302
=/month      5.0 LTconsLL:Install supp/data conv       0      120      120       0       6        0       145      145
r/month      5.0 LTconsLL:Install supp/documenta       0       60       60       0       3        0       74       74
z/month      8.0 STconsLL:Install supp/softwr cu       0      480      480       0      24        0      615      615
Z Spread    60.0 Tn-country trainins:users            60        0       60       3       0       71        0       71
package      3.8 PC386 Hardware/Periph(25/hosp)      554     1331     1885      55     133      688     1656     2344
annual      0.3 Compu O&                           303      300      603      30      30      414      410      824
package      2.5 PC286 Hardware/Periph(25/hosp)      369      887     1257      37      89      459     1104     1563
annual      0.2 Campu OWM                           202      200      402      20      20      276      274      549
package     25.1 File servers/lOB storge(5/hosp)     738     1775    2513       74     177      918    2208      3126
annual     2.0 Compu O0M                            404      400      804      40      40      552      547     1099
package     12.6 Optical disks (2/hosp)              185      444      628      18      44      229      552      781
annual      1.0 Compu O&M                           101      100      201      10      10      138      137      275
package      2.5 Database mgient software(5/hosp      82      233      315       8      23      102      290      392
annual      0.2 Software license/upgrade             26       75      101       3       7       36      102      138
package      1.3 LAN software(5/hosp)                 41      117      157       4      12       51      145      196
annual      0.1 Software license/upgrade             13       37       50       1       4       18       51       69
package    100.0 Computer equipment installation      62       38      100       6       4       77       48      124
unit       0.7 Computer furniture                  709       61      770      71       6      882       76      958
Phase 3: Hospitals (135)
3 Spread   202.5 In-country training:users           203        0      203      10       0      240        0      240
package      3.8 PC386 Hardware/Periph(5/hosp)       747     1797     2544      75     180      965    2320      3285
annual      0.3 Compu OM                           307      304      611      31      30      427      423      850
package     25.1 File servers/lGB storge(I/hosp)     996    2396      3393     100     240     1286     3094     4380
annual     2.0 Compu O&M                            409      405      814      41      41      569      564     1133
package      2.5 Database n8ment software(1/hosp      88      252      340       9      25      114      325      439
annual      0.2 Software license/upgrade             21       60       82       2       6       29       84      114
package      1.3 Finan Managmt applic saftware(l      44      126      170       4      13       57      163      219
annual      0.1 Software license/upgrade             11       30       41       1       3       15       42       57
package     67.5 Computer equipment installation      42       26       68       4       3       54       34       87
unit       0.7 Computer furniture                  522       45      567      52       5      674       58      732
package      3.8 PC386 Hardwars/Perip(45 inst)        50      120      170       5      12       60      144      203
annual      0.3 Compu O&M                            34       34       68       3       3       46       45       91
package      2.5 Database management software         29       84      113       3       8       35      101      136
annual      0.2 Software license/upgrade             12       34       45       1       3       16       45       61
unit       0.7 Computer furniture                   29        3       32       3       3       35        3       38
_________________________________________--- 10__64__17537___28001___996__1655___              13330___ 22157___ 35486_
8ubbo"4:      10464    1753t    28001     996    1655    13330    22157    35486
-------------------------------_____--__-_-----_-------_____---_-__-----_----__----------------_-----------------------



- 116  -                         Annex 6
RKPUBLIC OF NUNGARY
1ATH URVICESD 61DDSltNT PkOJACT
Detailed Project Cost Estimates
(US$ tbousand)
Unit  Uriit/                                                                 Physical
of   Total                                           Bsee Costs           Contingencies    Escalated Coat  TOTAL
Input  Base       Description of Snputa        --------------------------- --------------- ----------------- PROJECT
Cost                                     Looal  Foreign   Totel  Local Foreign   Local  Foreign   COST
2.3  Pro1e$ t           t blt
2.31 ProjeSt IlanagMent Unit
m/month    15.0 LTcusSL:ProJect Man4aent               0     1665     1665       0      83        0     1957     1957
mn/month     6.0 8S FellOCbsermtion tour               0       36       36       0       2        0       40       40
package      3.8 PC386 Hardwar./Peripherals            2        5        8       0       1        S        6        9
annual      0.3 CcWpu OH                              2        2        4       0       0        2        2        5
package      2.5 Database  anagesment Software         1        4        S       0       0        2        4        6
annual      0.2 PC Software licease/upgrade           1        2        2       0       0        1        2        3
package     12.6 Office Equipment                      4        9       13       0       1        4       10       14
annual     0. 8qu±p OM                                2        2        4       0       0        3        2        5
annual    50.0 Fonsal Oper Costs                    312       13      325      31       1      407       17      424
-----------------------------------------------------------------_----__-----__----------------------------------------
Subtotal:       324     1737    2061       32      89      422     2042     2463
2.4   Uiy          -WA
2.41 Prenaration of Preivertment Studies
X Spread  2500.0 Prinvestment Study                    0    2500      2500       0     125        0    2980      2980
Z Spread   500.0 Feasib study for qualty contro        0      500      500       0      25        0      621      821
Subtetal.:        0    3000      3000       0     1S0        0     3601     3601
2UZAL  RJE  GQS:        32298    73554   105852    2983    5458   41609    91018   132627



- 117 -                             Am  7
R .ILIC °P HU RY
HEALTH SIRVICES AV, NAN&9N=E  PROJECT
Project Implementation Schedule
------Distribution of Quantitles ------   Total
Type       Unit                                       -- ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- Quantity
of         of        Description                    Yrl   Yr2   Yr3   Yr4   YrS   Yr6   Yr7       of
Component        Input     Input                              Fiscal 1993  1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999  Inputs
1. BKU sms D
1. 1  Z Mlc h
1. 11 StrangthenSna of the SPEC
Fellowship  m/month  ST Fellow(2):Study tour              6      6     6     6      6     6     6       42
Fellowship  m)onth  LT Fellow(6)MSc program               12    24    24    12                          72
Consultant  mu/month  LTconsBL                             6    12    12     6                          36
Cosultant m/month  STconsHL                               4      4     4     4      3     3     3       25
Consultant  m/month  STconsaL                              4     4     4     4      2     2     2       22
Consultant m/month  SToonsLL                             24    48    48    24                          144
Development  annual Closing the Gap Program             0.5      1     1   1.5      1     1     1        7
Computer   packase  PC386 Bardware/Peripherals                 10                                      10
Maintenance  annual  Computer O&M                                0    10    10    10    10    10
Software   package  Database Management Software                5                                       5
License    annual Software licese/upgrade                      0     5     5      5     5     5
Software   package  LAW Software                                2                                       2
License    annual  Software license/upgrade                    0     2     2      2     2     2
Equipment  package  Office Equipment                            1                                       1
Maintenanoe  annual  Equipment O&M                               0     1     1      1     1     1
Furniture  package  Furniture for PHPU office                   1                                       1
Buildings  X Spread Refurbish PEPU office space               100l                                    1002
Salary    m/month  Inorm Salary:Profess staff                 24    60    72   144   144   144       588
Salary    mo/month  lacram Balary:Support staff               18    36    48    60    60    60      282
Recurrent    annual  Nonsalary Operational Costs        0.3   0.5      1      1     1     1     1        6
1.12 Chronic Disease Primary Prevention
Fellowahip  u/month  ST Fell oammonity intervtn prog    2        2     2     1      1                    8
Consultant m/month  STcavsHL: *oawnity intervention    1         1   0.5   0.5   0.5   0.5   0.5         5
Consultant  u/month  LTconeHL:community intervention    6    12    12    12    12    12    12           78
Development Z Spread Study:cosmcnity demonstration         8S   172   172   171   172   172   172    108X
Development X Spread Anti-mocking prograr                141   141   142   142   142   142   142    1002
Computer   package  PC386 Hardware/Peripherals           2                                              2
Maintenance  annual  Computer 08K                                2     2     2      2     2     2
Software   package  Database management Software         2                                              2
License    annual  PC Software license/upgrade                 2     2     2      2     2     2
Equipment  package  Office Equipmet                      2                                              2
Maintenance  annual Equipment O&H                                2     2     2      2     2     2
Salary    /mmonth  Inorem Salary(10) :Interv team      60   120   120   120   120   120   120       780
Recurrent   Z Spread Nonsalary Operational Costs          10   202   202   202   102   101   102    1002



- 118  -                           Annex  7
BUBLIC oP 
HUMATH EVICERS An NANAGE    PROJEC?
Project Implementation Schedule
_-----Distribution of Quantities------   Total
Type       Unit                                             --- ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- Quantity
of         of       Description                     Yrl   Yr2   Yr3   Yr4   YrS   Yr6   Yr7       of
Component       Input      Input                              Fiscal 18993  1994  1985  1996  1997  19o8  1999  Inputs
1.13 Chronic Disease Secondarvy Prvention
Fellowship  m/month  ST Fell Fbmmog/hyperten/cyto       3.5            3                                 7
Traininrg    anual  Training: cytology                   1      1     1     1                           4
Training    annual Training _aogrepthy                   1            1                                 2
Consultant m/month  STconsL:masmcography                0.5   0.5   0.5   0.5   0.5   0.5   0.5          4
Consultant  m/month  STConsHL:analyst/cancer resist       6    12    12      6                          36
Consultant  m/month  STconsM:Levaluatior  3 progres              6     6     6      6     6     6       36
Computer   package  7C388 Hardware/Peripberala           2    10    25      2                          39
Maintenance  annual Computer OM                                 2    12    37    39    39    39
Software   package  PC Software                          2    10    25      2                          39
License    annual  PC Software licnse/upgrade                  2    12    37    39    39    39
Equipment package  Medical Equip:Endoscopes                     S                                       5
Maintenance  annual Equipment OWM                                0     S     5      5     5     5
Equipant  package  Medical Equip:Mammographic units             1           3                           4
Maintenance  annual  Equipment O&M                               0     1      1     4     4     4
Development X Spread Health education messages                  501   501                              1001
Salary    a/month  Increm Salary:4  emog Unit m8r   12    12    48    48    48    48    48          264
Salary    m/month  Incram Salary:2RNs 6 4 maw uni   24    24    96    96    96    96    96          528
Recurrent    annual  Nonsalary Operational Costs              0,25  0.25     1      1     1     1
1.14 School Baalth
Fellowship  a/month  ST Fell:health education             2      2     2     1      1     1     1       10
Consultant  a/month  LTconsLL:Prograns manager           12    12    12    12    12    12    12         84
Development  annual Competitive Health promo prog         1      1     1     1      1     1     1        7
Software   package  Health education materials                  1     1     1      1     1     1        6
Training    annual  ln-country train/teachers/eJD        1      1     1     1      1     1     1
Computer   package  PC386 Hardware/Peripherals           2                                              2
Maintenance  annual Computer O&M                                 2     2     2      2     2     2
Software   package Database manae8ment software          2                                             2
License    annual  Software license/upgrade                   2      2     2     2      2     2
Salary    a/month  lncrom Salary:Health educator       12    12    12    12    12    12    12        84
Salary    a/mnth  Increm salary:support Staff          12    12    12    12    12    12    12        84
1.15 Hunsaeian 8ealth Survenn
Fellowship  m/month  ST Fell:Surver planning              1   0.5                                        2
Consultant  a/month  LTcons8L:health surveys              6    12      6                                24
Consultant  a/month  SToonsfL:survey planaing             1                                              1
Computer   package  PC386 Hardware/Peripherals           4                                              4
Maintenance  annual Computer O0M                                 4     4     4      4     4     4
Software   package  Database management safttowe         4                                              4
Lioense     nnual  Software Ulense/upreAde                     4     4     4     4      4     4
Development X Spread Study:-ealth Surveys                 5S   30X   22S   181    8X    8S    8S    1001



- 119  -                           Annex  7
REPUBLIC °F HUGAY
MEATH SE            S AD NANSEE  PROJECT
Project Implementatlon Schedule
------Distribution of Quantities------   Total
Type       Unit                                    ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- Quantity
of         of        Description                    YrI   Yr2   Yr3   Yr4   Yr5   Yr6   Yr7       of
Component       Input      Input                              Fiscal 1993  1994  1995  1995  1997  1998  1999  Inputs
1.2 Ipstltutlonal Care
1.21 Stroke Proram
Consultant  m/month  STconsHL: equipmant specialist        1   0.5   0.5                                 2
Equipment  package  Medical Equip:CT sceanners                  6                                       6
Maintenance  annual  Equipment O&M                               0     6     6      6     6     6
Buildings  Z Spread Refurbish 6 stroke facilities             1002                                    1002
Consultant  I Spread Bldg engineering/const superv       501   502                                     100l
Recurrent     unit   Nonsal Oper Costs:CT scan supplies                                                  0
1.22 Cardiovascular Diseases
Consultant m/month  STcon:sBNequipment specialist          1   0.5   0.5                                 2
Buildings  X Spread Refurbish 5 cardiovase centers            1002                                    1001
Consultant  2 Spread Bldg engineering/const superv       SO5   502                                     100l
Equipment  package Med Equip:Bungar Inst Cardiology             1                                       1
Maintenance  annual  Equtipment 0ON                              0     1      1     1     1      1
Equipment  package  Med Equip:Sesumlweia Med School             1                                       1
Maintenance  annual  Equipment O&                               0     1      1     1     1      1
Equipment  package  Med Equip.B.P.Posttrad Med Schl             1                                       1
Maintenance  annual  Equipment 06M                               0     1      I     1     1      1
Equipment  package  Med Equip:Debrecen Medical School           1                                       1
Maintenance  annual  Equipment 0&4                               0     1      1     1     1      1
Equipment  package  Med Equip:Sso.gd Medicel sce.,ol            1                                       1
Maintenance  annual  Equipment 0Cfi                              0     1      1     1     1      1
Equipment  package  Med Equip:Sseged Medical school             1                                       1
Maintenance  annual  Equipment O01                               0     1      1     1     1      1
Recurrent     unit   Nonsalary Operational Costa                       1      1     1     1      1       5
Nonsalary Operational Costs
1.23 Physical Rebabilitation
Consultant  n/month  STeons8L:equipment specialist         1   0.5   0.5                                 2
Buildings  X Spread Construction:                              SO5   501                              100l
Maintenance I Spread Building 0&M                               O0   SO5  100l   1OO2  1OOX  1002
Consultant  Z Spread Bldg design/ccnstrctn superv        202   502   302                               1002
Equipment  package  ICU equip:Natl Instit Med Rbhab                   1                                 1
Maintenance  annual  Egquipment O0M                              0     0      1     1     1      1
Equipment  package Med equip:Ratl Inatit Med Rebab                    1                                 1
Maintenance  annual  Equipment O&                               0     0      1     1     1      1
Recurrent     unilt   Nonsal Oper Costs :DMR ICU                     0.5      1     1     1      1       5
Equipment  package Ned *qy1p:CCunty locomot rebab depts               1                                 1
Maintenance  annual  Equipent O0M                                0     0      1     1     1      1
Equipment  package Med equip:Balatonfured State  oasp                 1                                 1
Maintenanee  annual  Equipment O04                               0     0      1     1     1      1
Equipment  package  Med equip:other cardio rehab depts                1                                 1
Maintenance  annual  Equipment O&M                               0     0      1     1     1     1
Recurrent     unit   Hosp Rabab Ctrs:Msd censumab/supplies             1      1     1     1      1       5



- 120  -                           Annex 7
REPBIIC  OF IRGhRY
EAT HIRVICES AND ANALOMT EROJECT
Project Implementation Schedule
------Distribution of Quantities- --   Total
Type       Unit                                    ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- Quantity
of         of       Deacription                     Yrl   Yr2   Yr3   Yr4   Yr5   Yr6   Yrt       of
Component       input      Input                             Fiscal 1993  1994  1995  1996  1997  1S98  1999  Inputa
2.    OL1CY FA8IRS AL) F_EHBhT
2.1 Public Health anid Mnaaamnt ?ain1
2.11 Schgol of Health Services Management
Fellowship  m/month  ST Fell:                             3      3     3     3                          12
Fellowship  m/month  LT Fell:8 PhD programs              24    72    96    72    24                    280
Development I Spread Curric/instretnal matla dev         102   302   80o   301                         1002
Consultant  mn/month  STconsHL:program evaluation                            2      2           1        5
Training   X Spread ln-eoumtry training/pratitntrs             17    172I1 172   17X   17X   172    1002
Computer   package  YC38U Hardware/Peripherals           2           28                                30
Maintenance  annual Computer C&H                                 2     2    30    30    30
Computer   package  File Server: 1 GB storage                         2                                 2
Maintenance  annual  Computer O&M                                0     0     2      2     2
Software   package  Database maeag _et software          1           14                                15
License    annual  Software license/upgrade                    1     1    15    15    15    15
Software   package  LAN softwre                                       2                                 2
License    annual  Software license/upgrade                    0     0     2     2      2     2
Buildings  2 Spread Construction:Health Mgmt School            50X   502                              1002
Maintenance 2 Spread Building 0&M                                0X   50X  1002  1002  1002  1002
Consultant  2 Spread Bldg design/const supervision       202   502   302                               1002
Equipment  package  Training/AV equipment                             1                                 1
Maintenance  annual  Equipment 004                               0     0     1      1     1     1
Equipment  package  Office Equipment                                  1                                 1
Maintenane  annual  Equipment 04                                0     0      1     1     1     1
Furniture  2 Spread School futniture                                1002                              1002
Furniture  package  Computer desks                       2           30                                32
Software   package  Books/Tecb journals                   1                                             1
Software    annual Subscriptions                                1     1     1      1     1     1        6
Salary    r/month  Increm Salary:8 F/thee profess                   48    S6    96    96    96       432
Salary     annual  Increm Salary:Part time faculty           0.5   0.5     1      1     1     1        5
salary    m/month  Increm Salary:1s residen superv                       160   180   180   180      720
Salary    r/month  Inorem Salary:Director               6    12    12    12    12    12    12         78
Salary    m/month  Incren Salary: support/sec pool           24    48    84    84    84    84        408
Recurrent    annual Nonsalary Operational Costs                0.5   0.5     1      1     1     1        5



- 121  -                          Annex  7
REPUILIC OF HUNGARY
HUEAIS SERVICES AMN WANAAGEKT PROJECT
Project Implementation Schedule
--Distribution of Quantites ------   Total
Type       unit                                      -- ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- Quantity
of         of       Description                    Yrl  Yr2   Yr3   Yr4   Yr5   Yr:   Yr7        of
Component       Input      input                             Fiscal 1993  1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999  Inputs
2.12 School of Public Health
Fellowship  rn/month  ST Foll:atudy visits                4     8                                     10
Fellowship  r/onth  LT Fell:25 NSc courses                     36   120    so    6o    48            324
Fellowship  n/month  LT Fell:PbD courses                       24    48    48    24                  144
Fellowship  n/month  LT Fell:E15S fellowships                  12    24    24    12                   72
Fellowship   anmal LT FeUl:TNPUS supported N8c                  5                                      5
Consultant u/month  L!consVL:direat FM                    1    12     6                               19
Consultant   /amonth  STooaHL:sctool cur: planing         2     4     4     2      1                  13
Development X Spread Develop teaching modules            10l   301   401   20S                        0OO1
Buldings  S Spread Returbish *chool faclities                1001                                   100l
Maintenance X Spread Building 0M01                              OX  1OO   1001  lOOX  1001  lOO1
Consultant  X Spread Bldg englneering/const superv       401   601                                   1OOS
Furniture  X Spread School furniture                               1OO1                             1001
Equipment  package  Training/AV/office equipment                     1                                1
Maintenance  annual Equipment CUE                               0     0     1      1     1     1
Software   package  Library Books/software                     1                                      1
software    annual Annual subscriptions                              1     1     1      1     1       5
Computer   package  PC386 Hardware/Peripberals                      22                               22
Maintenance  annual Computer O&M                                0     0    22    22    22    22
Software   package  Database managment software                     22                               22
License    annual  Software lioanse/upgrade                   0     0    22    22    22    22
Salary    a/onth  ncrem Salary:8 F/time faculty             24    48    96    96    96    96      456
Salary    m/month  Inecr. Salary:Director              6    12    12    12    12    12    12        78
Salary    m/month  lnre3 Salary: 4 adsdn staff          6    24    24    48    48    48    48      246
Recurrent    annual  Nonsalary Operational Costs              0.3   0.5     1      1     1     1       5
2.2 .2t            art
2.21 )(3W CemutinrA Canter (Szckstard)
Consultant u/month  STcomsBL:Applio sytem design                6                                      6
Consultant r/month  LTcnsHL:File conversion                    12                                     12
Consultant w/month  STcendsL:Computer progrmer trg              8                                      6
Fllowship  r/month  ST Fell:observation tour            2.5                                            3
Computer   package  tMniacoputers (2) dual                     2                                      2
Maintenance  annual Computer 064                                0     2     2      2     2     2
Software   package Database maemet software                    1                                      1
License    SAnu   S0ftwSre licese/upgrade                     0     1     1     1      1     1
Software   package Operating sytem/utilities soft              1                                      1
Liense    annual Software license/upgrade                     0     1     1     1      1     1



- 122  -                           Annex  Z
EPUBLIC OF HUNGARY
HEALTH SERVICES AND NANAGMENT PROJECT
Project Implementation Schedule
------Distribution of Quantities------   Total
Type       Unit                                    -----  ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- Quantity
of         of        Description                    Yri   Yr2   Yr3   Yr4   Yr5   Yr6   Yr7       of
Component       input      Input                             Fiscal 1993  1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999  Inputs
2.22 Manaxement Information Sunoort Systems for Hosnitala
Pbase It Pilat NBEpitals (S)
Consultant  nm/month  STconsHL:Strategic syatems plan    2                                               2
Consultant m/month  STconaHL:Mnirmal data set              1                                             1
Consultant  n/month  STcoensELiRaebursement               2                                              2
Consultant  nM/month  STconsHL:M1S market survey           1                                             1
Consultant  r/month  STconsHL:Data for external inst    2                                                2
Consultant  rn/month  STccna8L:System design              6                                              6
Consultant m/month  STconsHL:FS selectu/modificatio    1                                                 1
Consultant  u/month  SToonsHL:Procurement/bid eval         1                                             1
Training   Z Spread TA counterparts:applic devel        40S   60X                                     100l
Fellowship  u/month  ST Fell:overseas training           18      4    22     4                          48
Training   2 Spread In-country training:users           36X   472   171                               100l
Buildings    unit   Refurbish pilot sites                       5                                       5
Computer   paokage  PC386 Bardware/Periph(25/hosp)            125                                     125
Maintenance  annual Computer OWM                                 0   125   125   125   125   125
Computer   package  PC28S Bardware/Periph(25/hosp)            125                                     125
Maintenance  annuaL  Computer O&M                                0   125   125   125   125   125
Computer   paokage  File servers/lOB storge(5/hosp)            25                                      25
Maintenance  annual  Computer O&M                                0    25    25    25    25    25
Computer   package  Optical disks (2/hosp)                     10                                      10
Maintenance  annual Computer OUM                                 0    10    10    10    10    10
Computer   package  NEXT workstation (1/hosp)                   5                                       5
Maintenance  annual Computer OM                                  0     5      5     5     5     5
Computer   package  Palmtop terminal (4/hosp)                  20                                      20
Maintenance  annual Computer OW                                 0    20    20    20    20    20
Software   package  Database msment softwere(5/hosp)           25                                     25
License    annual Software license/upgrade                     0    25    25    25    25    25
Software   package  LAN software(5/hosp)                       25                                      25
License    annual  Software license/upgrade                    0    25    25    25    25    25
Materials     unit   LAN cables                                  1                                       1
Equipment  package  Computer equipoent instaUlation           1002                                      1
Furniture    unit   Computer furniture                        300                                     300
Equipment  package  Office Equipment                            5                                       5
Maintenance  annual Equipment OM                                 0     5      5     5     5     5
Salary    m/month  Increm Salary: 10 tech staff        60   120   120   120    80                   680
License    annual Comunic Software license/upgrade                   1     1      1     1     1
Recurrent    annual Nonsal Oper:comiunications charges                 1      1     1     1      1       5



- 123  -                           Anex  7
REPUBLIC OF HUNGARY
HEALTH SERVICES AID NAGNtEMT PROJECT
Project Implementation Schedule
------Distribution of Quantities------   Total
Type       Unit                                    ----  ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- Quantity
of         of        Description                    Yrl   Yr2   Yr3   Yr4   YrS   Yr6   Yr7       of
Component       Input      Input                              Fiscal 1993  1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999  Inputs
Pbase 2: Ebapital (20)
Consultant  n/month  LSconaLL: Install supp/msnagmt                   12    12    12    12              48
Consultant m/month  LTconaLL: Install supp/data conver                12    12                          24
Consultant m/month  LTconaLL: InstaU  supp/documentation                     12                         12
Consultant m/month  STconsLL Install supp/softwr customis             12    12    12    12    12        60
Training   X Spread In-country training:users                       100X                              100S
Computer   package  PC386 Hardwaze/Periph(25/hosp)                  500                               500
Maintenance  annual Computer O&H                                 0     0   S00   Soo   500   soo
Computer   package  PC286 Hardware/Periph(25/hosp)                  500                               500
Maintenance  annual Computer OH                                 0     0   500   500   500   500
Computer   package  File servers/lOB storge(5/hosp)                 100                               100
Maintenance  annual Computer O&M                                 0     0   100   100   100   100
Computer   package  Optical disks (2/hosp)                           50                                50
Maintenance  annual Computer 0&4                                 0     0    50    50    50    So
Software   package  Database maent software(5/hoap)                 125                               125
License    annual  Software licene/upgrade                     0     0   125   125   125   125
Software   package  LAN softwareC5/hosp)                            125                               125
License    annual Software license/upgrade                     0     0   125   125   125   125
Equipment  package  Computer equSipment installation                1OOX                                1
Furniture    unit   Computer furniture                             1100                             1,100
Phase 3: Hospitals (135)
Training   X Spread In-country training:users                       100l                              100l
Computer   package  PC386 Hardware/Periph(5/hosp)                         675                         675
Maintenance  annual Computer O&M                                 0     0     0   675   675   675
Computer   package  File servers/lOU  storge(l/hosp)                      135                         135
Maintenance  annual Computer O&                                 0     0      0   135   135   135
Software   package  Database ugment software(1/hosp)                      135                         135
License    annual Softwore license/upgrade                     0     0     0   135   135   135
Software   package  Finan Managmt applic software(l/hosp)                 135                         135
License    annual  Software license/upgrade                    0     0     0   135   135   135
Equipment  packsge  Computer equipment installation                       1OOS                          1
Furniture    unit   Computer furniture                                    810                         610
Computer   package  PC386 Hardware/Perip(45 inat)              45                                      45
Maintenance  annual  Computer O&                                0    45    45    45    45    45
Software   package  Database management software               45                                      45
License    annual  Software license/upgrade                    0    45    45    45    45    45
Furniture    unit   Computer furniture                         45                                      45



- 124  -                            Annex  7
REPUBLIC OF HUNGARY
HEALTH SERVICES AND NANAGEMENT PROJECT
Project Implementation Schedule
------Distribution of Quantities------   Total
Type       Unit                                     ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- Quantity
of         of        Description                     Yrl   Yr2   Yr3   Yr4   Yr5   Yr6   Yr7        of
Component        Input      Input                              Fiscal 1993  1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999  lnputs
2.3 Ekotect ranmeme_t Unit
2.31 Prosect Menaaement Unit
Consultant  n/month  LTconsHL:ProJeCt Management          16    36    36    12       3     3      3     111
Fellowship  m/month  ST Fell:Observation tour              3      3                                       6
Computer   package  PC386 Hardware/Peripherals            2                                              2
Maintemance  annual  Computer O&M                                 2     2      2     2     2      2
Software   package  Database management Software          2                                              2
License    annual  PC Software license/upgrade                  2     2     2      2     2      2
Equipment  package  Office Equipment                      1                                              1
Maintenance  annual  Equipment O&M                                1     1      1     1      1     1
Recurrent    annual  Nonsalary Operational Costs         0.5      1     1      1     1      1     1       7
2.4  PtnesNat Studie
2.41 PregDr  ion of Preirvestment Studies
Development X Spread Preinvestment Study                         20S   501   301                        1OOl
Development S Spread Feasibility study for quality control             201   401   401                  1001



- 125 -                       Annex
REPUBLIC OF HUNGARY
HEALTH SERVICES AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Proigct Management and Implementation Arrangements
1.       Overvie.  The Project will be implemented over a seven-year period
,and is expected to be completed by December 31, 1999. It will be implgmented
by the Ministry of Welfare (MOW), public health institutions, local government
health services, medical universities and the Central Statistical Office
(CSO). The coordination of all project-related activities will be the
responsibility of the Project Management Unit (PMU), within the Ministry of
Welfare. The Project implementation arrangements are as follows:
2.       Project Management and Coordination.  Overall responsibility for
coordination during implementation will rest with the PMU. The PMU will
facilitate resource flows to the implementing units, and channel major project
issues that may arise to the immediate attention of MOW management and
external agencies including the Bank, for resolution. The PMU will not design
or implement programs and activities supported by the Project, as this will be
the responsibility of existing MOW line departments and the institutions
described below. The PMU is headed by a full-time Project Manager assisted by
two full-time senior coordinators, and supported in its day to day operations
by technical staff (at least three positions) and support personnel (at least
two positions) with skills in accounting, contract monitoring, information
processing, and records management. Specifically, the PMU will:
(a)  be responsible for ensuring that financial resources required under
the Project are made available to the implementing agencies in a
timely manner. The PHU will monitor the movement of documents and
contracts through the bureaucratic approval processes and undertake
measures to expedite their release;
(b)  liaise with the Bank and other involved agencies for project
administration and supervision purposes;
(c)  monitor the availability of Government counterpart funds by
consolidating estimates of budgetary needs (investment and recurrent)
of the Project (prepared by the implementing agencies) for the
immediately following financial year, sufficiently ahead of time in
order to obtain the comments and concurrence of the interested
agencies, including the Bank, prior to submission for
Government/Parliamentary approval;
(d)  monitor project expenditures and costs (local and foreign), process
loan disbursement applications in collaboration with the National
Bank of Hungary and keep track of disbursements of the Bank loan and
Government counterpart funds;



- 126 -                        Annex 8
(e) monitor compliance with the Bank Procurement Guidelines in the
acquisition of equipment and software packages, administration of
suppliers' and technical assistance contracts, as well as fellowship
and training plans for all MOW departments/institutions, including
higher levels of management, involved in project implementation;
(f) monitor the placement and performance of staff receiving training in
Hungary and abroad, and of the consultants hired under the Project;
(g) prepare and distribute consolidated periodic reports to the relevant
government and other participating institutions, including the Bank,
reflecting: (i) the status of implementation progress, problems
encountered and corrective actions needed; and (ii) current costs of
each project component and estimated costs of completion;
(h) ensure the timely preparation and submission to relevant government
institutions and the Bank of annual audit reports of project
expenditure (including SOEs) and accounts; and
(i) be responsible for preparing the Project Completion Report (PCR) at
the end of project implementation.
3.       Project ImDlementation Arrangements.   The implementation of each
project sub-component (Chart 3.1) will be the responsibility of the
appropriate MOW department or other agency described below. The Project
Operational Manual (POM) describes for each component: (a) project action
matrices; (b) detailed terms of reference (TORs) for the necessary technical
assistance; (c) sample progress reporting and monitoring formats; and (d) a
technical background as appropriate. In view of limited implementation
capability in some areas of project intervention, the MOW will hire additional
professional staff to manage selected programs.
4.       Each agency or unit identified should liaise with the PMU to ensure
the timely flow of resources for implementing its programs. Typically, each
implementing agency will be responsible for the following activities:
(a) finalizing TORs for TA, fellowships and training requirements,
preparation of short-lists, and technical evaluation of TA proposals
received;
(b) collaborating with the PMU, implementing agencies, and specialists in
preparing equipment lists, detailed specifications and procurement
documents, reviewing bid packages and evaluating offers received;
(c) preparing detailed procedures and implementation schedules for its
program(s) and identifying and tapping local expertise needed to
implement these programs;
(d) defining physical targets and preparing estimates of financial
resources needed to support future actions; and



- 127 -                        Annex 8
(e) collecting, collating and disseminating information and preparing
reports about the progress of implementation of its activities.
5.       The specific implementation responsibilities of each institutional
unit are as follows:
COMPONENT 1 - HEALTH SERVICES DEVELOPMENT.
(a)  Pblig Health.  Overall responsibility for this component will rest
with the MOW Chief Medical Officer (CMO).  The Public Health Program
Unit  fPHPU) attached to the Office of the CMO will coordinate/manage
the operations in the five project sub-components of the public
health program, and be responsible for the actions described in para
4 (a)-(e) above.  The PHPU will be staffed as follows: a Director
(with public health and managerial experience), a Project Manager,
two epidemiologists, two health policy specialists, an information
specialist, a communication specialist, two data analysts, two
research assistants, and five secretaries. The PHPU wiil liaise with
the PMU to ensure the timely flow of adequate resources for the
public health activities, and collaborate with other institutions,
such as, with the Semmelweis Medical University in implementing the
School of Public Health sub-component. The specific implementation
responsibilities for the sub-components of the public health program
are as follows:
Mi)    Strengthening of the NPHC and management of the Close the Gan
Program will be the responsibility of PHPU. Specialists will
be contracted as needed to assist PHPU develop a strategic
plan for the public health sector.
(ii) Chronic Disease Primary Prevention will be the responsibility
of the National Institute of Health Promotion (NIHP). The
community intervention programs will be contracted to a
Hungarian University or NGO for implementation, under the
oversight of the NIHP.
(iii)  Chrgnic Diseases Secondary Prevention and implementation of
all the oncological activities in this sub-component will be
the responsibility of the National Institute of Oncology.
(iv)   School Health will be the responsibility of the NIHP.  The
training of teachers and primary doctors working in schools
for the improvement of school-based public health
interventions, as well as the development of a national health
behavior survey will be undertaken in collaboration with the
National Institute of Pediatrics.
(v)    Hungarian Health Surveys will be the responsibility of the
Central Statistical Office (CSO). The surveys will be
contracted out to a qualified research institute/agency
selected in accordance with the Bank's guidelines for
consulting services.



- 128 -                        Annex 8
(b) Institutional Care. Implementation of this sub-component will be the
responsibility of the MOW dependents in charge of health policy and
medical technology. With the assistance of specialists contracted
under the Project, the HPD will prepare detailed technical
specifications of all equipment, bidding documents, conduct the pre-
qualification (where needed) and tendering processes (from inviting
bids through contract award) in accordance with Bank procurement
guidelines, and oversee the delivery, installation and final
acceptance of equipment. The HPD will coordinate with the PMU to
facilitate resource/fund flows and communication with external
agencies such as the National Bank and the World Bank.
(i)    Stroke Program.  In implementing this sub-component, the
Health Policy Department (HPD) will collaborate with a task
force of clinical and equipment experts from the Stroke
Programs within HPD (a joint undertaking of the stroke
departments of the Neurological and Psychiatric Clinics of the
Semmelweis Medical University), as well as the Directors of
the six recipient hospitals (Uzsoki Street Hospital-Budapest;
Kerepestarsca Hospital-Pest County; Esztergom Hospital-Komaron
County; Salgotarjan Hospital-Nograd County; Szeged Hospital-
Csongrad County; and Senmelweis Medical University-Budapest).
(ii)   Cardiovascular Diseases.  In implementing this sub-component,
the HPD will collaborate with a task force of clinical and
equipment experts from the National Institute of Cardiology
(NIC), as well as the Directors of the five recipient
institutes (HIC; Szeged Medical University; Semmelweis Medical
University; Debrecen Medical University; B.P.Post-graduate
Medical University).
(iii) physical Rehabilitation. In implementing this sub-component,
the HPD will collaborate with a task force composed of
clinical and equipment experts from the National Institute of
Medical Rehabilitation (NIMR), the NIC, and representatives of
the Balatonfured State Hospital and regional health
authorities where the sub-component will be implemented.
COMPONENT 2 - POLICY-MAKING AND MANAGEMENT
(a)  Public Health and Management Training.  The CMO will have overall
responsibility for this sub-component. Implementation of the program
and organization of the schools will be undertaken by the Semmelweis
University in collaboration with the PHPU, and in coordination with
the PMU for ensuring timely resource flows to the sub-component and
liaison with external agencies including the Bank.
(i)    School of Health Services Management sub-component will be
implemented by the Semmelweis Medical University.



- 129 -                        Annex-8
(ii)   School of Public Health sub-component will be implemented by
the Semmelweis Medical University in collaboration with the
PHPU and CMO.
(b) Management Support System. Overall responsibility for implementing
this sub-component will rest with the MOW Information Department.
Procurement of all computer equipment and software will be undertaken
by the HPD in collaboration with the Health Information Center
(Hinfoc) and individual implementing hospitals with assistance from
specialists contracted under the Project.
(i)    MOW Computing Center.  This sub-component will be implemented
by the Hinfoc in collaboration with HPD.
(ii) Management Information Support System. This sub-component
will be implemented by the Hinfoc in collaboration with the
HPD and the management of the recipient hospitals. Initially,
the information support system will be piloted in five
hospitals, and after satisfactory testing is completed,
expanded to 20 additional hospitals. The rest of the
Hungarian hospitals will receive the final version of the two
main Feeder System (FS) modules only.
(c)  Project Management Unit.  The PMJ's day-to-day operations will be
supported by full-time technical/support staff with skills in
accounting, contract monitoring, information processing, and records
management. Given the Project complexity and to support
institutional strengthening in the MOW, the Project will provide
technical assistance (110 staff months) to PMU and all units in
charge of implementing the project, in the areas of project
management, planning, procurement and contract administration.
Intensive TA support is planned (about 36 staff months per year)
during the first three years of implementation. This TA support is
expected to taper off during the latter half of the implementation
period to about 1-3 staff months per year once the PMU and the HPD
have acquired sufficient expertise. At appraisal, the TORs as well
as the procedures for contracting the Project management assistance
to the PMU were reviewed by the mission and the MOW.
(d)  Preinvestment Studies.  Implementation of this sub-component will be
the responsibility of the Policy Development Unit of the Ministry of
Welfare.



Fiaure 9. 1: IMPLMENTING ANCIES OF THS HUNGARIAN M
mow~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
dnistegr
Legal8NDcretary                                         Health           gement
Cn                 dgof                                Inform.        Informatlon
Rtate             Center         Support iysten
I                    I                          1   _         l,,~~I 
ISconlmc                    Policy    |C 10                          SocLal
DepPrtmetnt                 Depament |                   Public      Departt
Health            llUnertled  realtb
honancial        da toary                                     4c          lery
Managemetnt    Depatmn         Ccar        Tetchnical     Health       Carl k
_  _              Actl~~~-on  Deparetnt    ACV=Lo         Action
-Budgett
-Accountinq                                    ..r,-
-Legal             IAccount                     M  D                    |Cardiovasc.|
-Coordination      |Butdgett                    N  ursing               |Program 
-Monitoring        IDRGII                                                             I
-Reporti ng                                                III
|Publi>c R.                                         Occupat.              Me ldical    ||:
school    s--      emaetlw.                    T   herapy   ||Rethab.                |
H ealth M.             University             |Allied                   |Program
School                                         0     . Worker|



PLgue  9.2  ORg aN?OEL  CHRT OP Tun HUNGARIAN Km
NATION AINISgR
SOCIAL INS.                               OF WRLAI                         .
(Independent)              -I                                        GOVEP_T
Supervisd by      CABINEST,MSSONg
the MLaLster                                                                       I _   NT611A
. . _. . .     Cablnet _Spolew       -                              lc:0ZlS8S0W
Offlos                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sec. Crlsl
8poklan'Q                  llgmt. Offc
t              ~~~~Office
I   PolLtLcal                 permanenR n t             PHealth    Social   National
I   State Beer.               Statc seat.                               Research  Policy   Health
Board     Board    Promotion
I sea 8 ct.                s l   18tate seat.1                          fe.1  -ect.        nd
OtfLco~~~I 
J | , X I d 0ff1¢ f-  l  4  80ct.  8c.    -,ffri 
l      _                l~~       ~    ~~l Helt  Plic                          oLlPl
1~ ~~~Bertra                            Secretariat |   |c|reta. |It
I~~~~ VI                                   II                                      TX .,. 
Department               Deptment                I                                      I Deputy t
II~~~~~ XIV  g.                                                  ll     
~I H
Educatonse           xx AuFltnanla              v  f He  1healthc                    li  lr 8¢awL rPCLIc
Department   |             e^tt|{1Departwnt:                                              yot  Policy;b n
IVa  --l --l ,        XO |Vr|                                                            IV-               -'
Legislation    HudgtLng                            catastrophe                       ZvI
epartment        Diepartgnt                      |     s n                                t       PolLcy
I                                                                                         I I
International      H                          Ill xHI
Relations    1oom$I Pharma¢eutL                                    H                      Public Pollcy
Department               Direotorate             |OP"bat                                  D rtment
XVIr                                                                                                                  '   V,--  -     
Informatlcal                                       medial mm.
Department                                          epu   nt
NationalInt 
of 8PA-S  



- 133 -                            ANNEX 1Q
REPBLIC OF HUNGARY
HEALTH SERVIgES AN   ANAGEMENT PROJECT
Supervision Pla
Timing        Staff Wee              Staffing
CY1993          30 weeks             Bank resources (30 weeks) of which:
- Task manager (12 weeks)
- Implementation/Operations specialist
(10 weeks)
- Information systems (3 weeks)
- Other - not yet specified (5 weeks)
[Supplementary technical inputs will be
requested through bilateral/multilateral
cooperation in the following areas: public
health specialist, health economics,
health planner, management development,
public health education and health
information systems specialist.]
CY1994          20 weeks             Bank resources (20 weeks) of which:
- Task manager (12 weeks)
- Implementation/Operations specialist
(8 weeks)
[Supplementary technical inputs will be
requested through bilateral/multilateral
cooperation in the following areas: public
health specialist, health economics,
health planner, management development,
public health education and health
informatiosu systems specialist.]
CY1995          20 weeks             Bank resources (20 weeks) of which:
- Task manager (12 weeks)
- Implementation/Operations specialist
(8 weeks)
[Supplementary technical inputs will be
requested through bilateral/multilateral
cooperation in the following areas: public
health specialist, health economics,
health planner, management development,
public health education and health
information systems specialist.]



- 134 -                            ANNEX-10
CY1996          18 weeks             Bank resources (18 weeks) of which:
- Task manager (10 weeks)
- Implementation/Operations specialist
(8 weeks)
[Supplementary technical inputs will be
requested through bilateral/multilateral
cooperation in the following areas: public
health specialist, health economics,
health planner, management development,
public health education and health
information systems specialist.]
CY1997          15 weeks             Bank resources (15 weeks) of which:
- Task manager (8 weeks)
- Implementation/Operations specialist
(7 weeks)
(Supplementary technical inputs will be
requested through bilateral/multilateral
cooperation in the following areas: public
health specialist, health economics,
health planner, management development,
public health education and health
information systems specialist.]
cY1998          15 weeks             Bank resources (15 weeks) of which:
- Task manager (8 weeks)
- Implementation/Operations specialist
(7 weeks)
[Supplementary technical inputs will be
requested through bilateral/multilateral
cooperation in the following areas. public
health specialist, health economics,
health planner, management development,
public health education and health
information systems specialist.]
CY1999          15 weeks             Bank resources (15 weeks) of which:
- Task manager (8 weeks)
- Implementation/Operations specialist
(7 weeks)
[Supplementary technical inputs will be
requested through bilateral/multilateral
cooperation in the following areas: public
health specialist, health economics,
health planner, management development,
public health education and health
information systems specialist.]



- 135  -                    A = 1
REPUBIJC 01 HMWARY
HEALTH SERVICES AMD NANAGEMN PROJCT
Technical Assistance Schedule
SUMMARY55 OF P    R TI AL LSTAMUOR                 ITi    if     i  i fr        if    if IT     1-  TOTI.   Packuasl
I  UUTWZ AM AREA OF 81PCIMJzAnI                    1 66   1964  1Ms  186  1no  186   186  IauiII            No.
-- -- -- --  -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --  -- -- -- -
F OLICT    Ipregaration of studies:                I                Iaueto  a--:                I 
I SUPEWT   I?re-investumet, study                   j         201   501   501 
I   PODET   ISuecislist Services for:                                                            I       I         I
I PBZPARATICEIPUBLIC HEATH1I                                                                             I 
I   AND      IChronio Disease Primary Prevention I             13  12.5  12.5  12.5  12.5  12.5       8 3 I 2 
DhIMLEM- IChronio Disease Secondary Prevention    6.5  18.5  18. 5  12.5   8.5   6.5   6.5           76      3 
I  TAUZOP   ISchool Health                              12    12    12    12    12    12    121    841    4 
I        ~~~IHungarian Heal.~h Surveys           I 7    12        6                                251    5 
I         I ~~INSTITUTIONAL CAREI                                                                     I        I
I        ~~~IStroke Program                      I 1   0.5   0.5                                    2      6 I
I        ~~~iCardiovasouLar Diseases             I I1  0.5   0.5                                      
I         I~~~Physical Rehabilitation            I   1   0.5   0.5                            1     2      a 
I        ~~~I                                    I
I         ~~~PUBLIC HEALTH & t4AR0DMU  THAIN IE                                                       I        I
I        ~~~IScbool of Health Services Mansagemet I2                           2             i      sI    S 
1Scbool of Public Health                    3    16    10     I      1              I 321   10o
IMANAGDMENT SUPPORT SYSTEMSI                                                                         I
I        ~~~IPOW Computing Center (Szeksuard)    I         24                                 1 24 I11   I
iPhase 2: Hospital.s (20)                              56    48    24    24    12       1441   12 
I        ~~~IPRJCT              1M U1853653612   3 3 3                                              I  13
I         I~~~Prenaration of studies:            I Cowleti&n .zs&a:                                   I        I
I        ~~~Ifeasibility studly for quality controll            201   402   401                       I
-- -- - -- -I-- - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - -I-- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -I-- -- -I--- ---I
I ISTIIU-  Isrecialist Services for:                 I                                           I       I         I
I  TIOPAL   IPUELIC HEALTH                                                 I                         I I 
I DVlLOftWInStrensthenina of the NPM                    38    66    68O   SS     5      5     SI   227114         I
lKwmIAamN SUPPORT SYSTU                                                                      
JMptL. Informn. Support for Hospitals  j16                                                     is6    1 
Ipreparstion of st.udies:                                                           I       I        I
IPUDLIC HELTH                         CI   ItinI tI
Iclosins the Gap Prosras                   72  1.41   141   212   141   141   141  
IChronic Disease Primary Prevention                                                 I       I        I
I  Stuidy: Conunity Demonstration          s 8    171   171   172   1,1   171    exI         
I  Anti-waokinA yrogarm                 1141   141   141   141   141   141   141            I
IChronic Disease Secondary Prevention I         501   501ol
I School Health                        I141   141   142   14X   142   141   141 %
Iflunsarian Health Surveys                 St   502   22    181    sI    81    811 
I 
ISCHOOL OF HEALTH SERVCES MANAGEMENTII                                                      I        I
ICurricUlun/instructioama material    I11    0 202   3301                          j        IO      9 I
ISCImOFL0  PUBLIC HEATH s                                                                    
ID-1elp teaching~ modules              I101   301   401   201                                   to 1
I                                                                                                    I
IfeIlowethips/Loost Trainina for;                                                            
I PUBLIC HEALTHI 
IStrangthening of thelNM                 is 1    30    30    1s      6     6           1141   14 I
IChronic Disease Primary Prevention      I        a     2      1     1                   a       2 I
lChronic Disease Secondary Prevention    5.5      1     5     1                     I    3       3  
ISchoolHsealth                         I   5            3     2      2     2     21      lot    4
jHungarian Health Sur7eys                   1 0.5                                        2 I     S 
ISOHOO OF HEALTH SERVCErS HMANAEHT         27    75    98    75    24                  3 00 I     
IsciCO  OF PUBLIC HALTH                     4    85   192   122    06    46         I   55      to0 
IKAN  O MSUPPRMT SYSTEM                                                             I       I        I
IW Computing Center (Ssekssard)        I2.5                                              3      1 It
ItIgat. inform. Support for Hsupitals  I   16     4    22      4                    I 481   15 
II                                        I                      I                                   I
IIROJETZ4AAGUTUNMT                     I          3                                 I      I 1 IS
IV.                                                                I      I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- -------



- 136 -                     ANM5 112
REPUBLrC OPNNG
la=H SERVICRS AND NANAOMWT PROJRCT
Technical Assistance Schedule
I       CONSULTANT SERVICES (staff months)        F n    T nTY   FTY  nT   FY   
|       CEMPONENT/AREA OF SPECIALIZATION        I  1903  1904  1095  1996  1907  l00e  1999 iTotal I
I1   Ue  sm:s a                                 I                                          I      I
I  1.1  PubIlic ll&lt                           I                                          I      I
1.1 Strenathenina of the NPHC                                                             I
I       Lteonsbl: Institutional development    |   6    12    12       6                       35 |
|       STconsEL  lnstitutional development    |   4    4       4      4     3     3     3 |  2S |
I       STconsML: Institutional development         4    4      4      4     2     2     2 |  22 |
I       STconsLL: Institutional development    |  24    48    48   24                      | 144 |
I  1.12 Chronic Disease Primary Prevention      I
|       STconsEL:coamunity intervention           I 1    1  0.5   0.5  0.5   0.5   0.5 |   5
LTconsBL cocmunity intervention        I   6    12   12   12   12    12    12 I  78
1  1.13 Chronic Disease Secondary Prevention   I                                           I      I
|       STconsHL:mammography                    | 0.5   0.5   0.5   0.5   0.5   0.5   0.5 |   4 |
|       STconsHL:nelyst/canoer registration   |   6    12    12    6                           3 S6 |
STconsML:evaluation 3 pro8ran                     6     6     8     6     6     6 I  36
I  114 School ealth
I       LTconsLL:Program manasger               |  12   12   12   12    12   12    12 |  84 |
1.15 Hunnarian Health Surveys
I       LTconsBL:health surveys                 |   6    12      6                         1  24 |
STconsL: survey planning                    I                                          I
-----------------------------------------------I -1- I
Subtotal:    70.5 123.5  117   75    36    36    36    494
--------------                                                              ---- -I
1.2  Instltutild  Cara n                                                               |      I
1.21 Stroke Proaran                         I
STconsHL:eqpipment specialist                       1  0.5   0.5                        |   21
|       Bldg engineering/construotion superv   j  50S   50X  tlump  nm contract)
I  1.22 Cardiovascular Diseases                 I                                          f
|       STeonsEL:equipment specialist             I 1  0.5  0.5                            |   2 |
|       Bldg engineering/construction superv   |  502  501  (lump san contract)            I      |
1.23 Physical Rehabilitation
STconsBL:equipment specialist             I 1  0.5   0.5                          |   2
Bldg design/construction supervision       202   502   30X  (lump sam contract)   |
I                                  Eobtotal:         3   1. 5   1.5                        I   6j
--------------------------------------------   ------------------------------------------ I



- 137  -                    ANNE  11
,RKPUBLIC OF RUNG=
VIES AND NA&VQON  PROJECT
Technical Assistance Schedule
i                                                I-- I---I
|       CONSULTANT SERVICES (staf months)       | FY    FY    PY TF         FY    FY    FY  |      I
|       cCOPONtINVAREA OF SPECIALIZATION        | 1993  1094  1995  1996  1997  198  18999 ITotaL I
-------------------------I--------------------b--I-                                       I
I                                  ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~I                              I 
2. POLICY FAEIRBW Aon  u                        |I
I                                  ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~I                              I 
12.21 public Health and mt4naaemet Trainim   I                                              I|
I  2.11 Sehool of Bealtb Services Manaseent
STconsSL:program evaluation                    I                      2     2           1 I   5I 
|       Bldg design/construction supervision   I  20X   5O0   30S  (lump sum contract)   I          I
I                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~II
I  2.12 School of Public Health                  I
I                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I 
|       LTconsBL:direct FM                       I   1    12      6                         I  19 I
|       STconsBL:school curriculum planning    |   2       4      4     2     1             1  13 1
Bldg design/construction supervision   |  40X   601  (lump sun contract)            |
--------------------------I------------- -                                   ----------
I                                      8Subtata  I   3    16    10      4     3           1 1  37 1
-----------------------------------------------   ----------   -  ------------------------------  _ 
2.2  Itla    tIunIort  Itt
I  2.21 MOW Computing Center (Sxeksazrd)         I
|       STMonsHL:Application sstems design    |            6                                |   6|
|       LeTonsBL:File conversion                |         12                                |  12 |
STconsHL:Computer progrmr training                                                      6 
2.22 Mnamement Info=mation Sunnort S,Ystms f-oL hossitals
I          uPhse 1: Plt  0spita  (5)             I                                          I 
I       STconsIL:Strategic systms plan           |   2                                      |   2|
I       STconsHL:Minimal data set                 I                       1                   I
|       STeonsEL:Reimbursement                       2                                           2 |
I       8TcensHL:I8 market survey                  I 1                                      I
STcensBL:Data for azternal lnstitutionsI   2                                        I   21
|       STconsIL:System design                       6                                         |   6
|       STconsBL:FS selection/modification            1                                    |   1|
|       STconsBL:Ptocurement/bid evluation    |   1                                         |   1|
I    EPhas 2: Hospitals (20)
I       LSTcnsLL:Iastallations support/managmt                   12    12    12    12           48
LTcenLL: Install supp/data conversion                   12    12                    I  24 |
LTconsLL:Install supp/documentation    |                     12                    |12|
I       STconsLL:Install supp/software customizl                 12    12    12    12   122    60|
--------------------------- -------------------------- --
I                                   Subtotal:   1  16   24    36    48    24    24    121  1841
----------------------------------------------------
12.3  Project   _I                                                                          I       Iit  
2.31 ProAset Manasmm nt Unit                 I                                           I      I
LTeonsBL:ProJsct Managem8nt                 18    38    35    12     3     3     3       ill
-----------------------------------------------------i-
Su*ttal:      s18    36    36    12      3     3      311111
----------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------ -    I
| U 81SII  |       TOMhLiiEMMS:                    111   201  201   139    66    63    521  8321
-----------------------------------------------I---------------------------- -  -------------



- 138 -                     ANN   11
REPUBLIC OF HUNGARY
HEALTH SERVICES AND NMAGE T PROJECT
Technical Assistance Schedule
|       PREPARATION OF STUDIES/PROGRAMS             FY   FTY   FY    FY   Pn    FY        Y  |       I
I   ~ COMPONES/VAREA OF SPECIALSZAION            | 1993  1994  1995  1998  1997  1998  1999 |        |
----------------------------------------------- ----------------         ___-----------------------
I                                                I              (Completion rates)            I      I
I  1.1  Public Health                            |                                            |      |
1. 11 Strengthening of the EPIC                 I                                            I      I
|       Closing the Gap Program                  |   7X   141   141   211   141   14X   14Z1
I  1.12 Chronic Disease Primary Prevention                                                    I
| Study:Ccmunity demonstration                |       8S   17X   172   172   17X   17X    ZIX
|       Anti-smoking program                     |  141   142   14X   142   141   142   14Z1         I
|  1.13 Chronic Disease Secondary Prevention   |                                              I      |
|       Health education messages                          s 5O0   50S o l
1.14 School Health                           I                                            I      I
I       Competitive Health promo pros            1   141   14X   141   14Z   141   141   1421        I
I  1.15 Hungarian Health Surveys                                                              I
I       Study:H.alth Surveys                          52   302   222   182    82    81    el1 1
12.  POLICY MAKZIN  AID MASAGEHET                I                                                   I
I  2.1  Public Health and Management Training  I                                              I
|  2.11 School of Bealth Services ManAgement   I                                              I      I
I       Curriculuu/instructLinal materials dwvel IO1   301   301   301                        I
|  2.12 School of Public Health
I       Develop tsaching modules                 !   10   302   40X   20S                    I      I
2.4  Preinveetment Studies                   I                                            |      |
I  2.41 Preparation of Preirnvostment Studles   |
|        Prelnvestment Study                     |         202   502   302                    1
|       Feasibility study for quality control  I                 201   40X   402              |      |
----------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------



- 139  -                    ANNE    11
REPUBLIC OF HUNGARY
HEALTH SERVICES AM  NANAGE)GNT PROJEC
Technical Assistance Schedule
--------- ----------------   --------------------- -- )
PELLOWSHIC AL  TRAIRIlG (staff/mos) I FY    FY    FY    FY    JY    FY    FY  | 
I       CIT/POUUTAREZA OF SPECIALIZATION         1 1993  1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999 |Total I
ji. uax.rnsmxc. ---------------------
__ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ I__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _      I       I
1.E1ER1                D                  
1.1  publl¢ 8ealth                            I                                            I      I
1.11 Stresthenina of the NPNC
|        ST Fellow(2):Study tour                 |   6      6      6     6     6     6     6|  42|
LT Fellov(6)5 c program                 |  12    24    24    12                      1  72 1
|   1.12 Chronic Disease Primary Prevention      I                                            I      I
I        ST Fell:Commnity intervention pro-reuisl    2      2      2     1     1              I   8
1. 13 Chronic Disease Secondarr Prevention
I        ST FeU:Mamography/hypertension/cytoloI 3.5                3                          I    7 |
I        Training:cytology                       I   1      1      1     1                    1   4 |
Training:mammography                    I   1             1                          |   2 |
1.14 Schol Health
|       ST Fell:health education                 |   2      2      2     1     1     1      11   10|
|        In-country train/teachers/MDa           I   1      1      1     1     1     1      1 |
I   1.15 Himaarian Health Surveys                I                                            I
I        ST Fell:Survey planning                 I   1   0.5                                  |   21
--------------------------------------------------- I-I
&Subtotl:                                                                                    1 1471
-----------------------------------------------   ------------------------------------------     _ 
12. }LIC   t          AjND MIA=
12.1  Public Health and Kanasunst  tralu
I  2.11 School of Health Services Manexemnt   I                                               I      I
I       S Fell:                                 1   3      3      3     3                    I  12
| LT PeLl:8 PhD programs                |  24    72    96    72    24                1 288
In-country training/practitioners       I         171   171 171   17X   171   1711          I
|  2.12 School of Public Health                  |                                            |      I
ST Fell:study visits                    |   4      6                                 |  10
|        LT Fll:25 MSc courses                  |         36   120    60    60    48         | 324
LT Fell:PbD courses                     |         24    48    48    24               | 144
I        LT Fell:EIS fellowships                 |         12    24    24    12                   72
LT Fell:TE4PUS supported MSc courses   |S                                            I   s
----------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------- -I--I 
SubtA.l:                                                1 955 I
-----------------------------------------------I-------------------------------------- - - - - I 1-



- 140  -                    ANNEX 11
REPUBLIC OF HUNGARY
HEALTH SERVICES AMD ANAGEMENT PROJECT
Technical Assistance Schedule
|IIS/LOCAL TRAINING (staff/mos)    F            FY   FY   FTY   PY    FY   FY  |
|       CfAPCOMM T/A}EA OF SPUCIaIZATION        | 1993  1994   1995        1997  1998  1999 ITotal |
I  2.2                                          I                                          I      I&mH dt
2.21 MOW Comutina Center (Szekszard)        I                                          I      I
|       ST Fell:obaervation tour                | 2.5                                      |   3I
I  2.22 Menaesment Information Sumwort Systems for  oswitals                                      |
I                      1:P ()I                                                             I      I
I    Aba. 1: Pilot Hospitals CS)II                                                            I
|       Training TA counterparts:applic devel  I  402   602
|       ST Fell:overseas training                 i 18     4   22      4                   |  48
I       In-countrY trainiU3-u9ers               |  36X   47t   17                                I
Phase 2: Doppitals (20)
I       In-country training:users                              1001S
I       Than. 3: Hospitals (135)                I                                          I      I
i       In-country training:users                               o 1OO0                     I      I
------------------------------------------ - - -------
I                                       8btotwa:                                               511
I  2 3  lD eet  sm  a        idt U n                                                              }
1  2.31 ProAect Hanaxement Unit
ST PellCbservatn tour/project menagemtl   3      3                               I   6 1
----------------------------------------- -                                 --------- I
I                                   &Subtotal:  I                                          I   el
I  1TAL 1i:1 l                                                          11.159 I
a/ TotaL excludes local training pro8rms.



- 141  -                                   Annex  12
REPUBLIC OF HUNGARY
HEALTH SERVICES AND MANAGEMNT PROJECT
Schedule of Disbursements Al
(US$ million)
Percentage
Loan Disbursement (US$ mln)                      Difference
--------  ----------------  Sector Disbursement Project
Calendar       Fiscal                         Cumulat        Profile          Over
Project  -------------- --------------             Cumula- as 2 of  ------------------ Regional
Year     Year Semester  Year Semester Periodic    tive    Total   Regional Bankwide   Profile
1992    2nd    1993    lot        0.0        0.0      -           -        -         -
Yearl    1993    lot             2nd       4.0 kv      4.0      42         32        32        22 -
2nd    1994    lst       0.0         4.0      42          6X       6X       -1X +
Year2    1994    Ist             2nd       6.0       10.0      112        102       102        12 +
2nd    1995    let        7.3       17.3     19X         14X      142       5  +
Year3    1995    Ist             2nd      10.0       27.3      302        222       162        8X +
2nd    1996    1st       14.4       41.7     462         302      26X       162 +
Year4    1996    Ist             2nd      10.0        51.7     572        382      342        192 +
2nd    1997    lit       9.5        61.2     672         462      462       212 +
YearS    1997    1st             2nd       7.3        68.5     752        582       542       172 +
2nd    1998    1st        5.0       73.5     812         662      622       152 +
Year6    1998    1st             2nd       4.0        77.5     852        742      742        112 +
2nd    1999    lst       4.0        81.5     89S         822      822        72 +
Year?    1999   lit              2nd       4.2       85.7      942        862      90X         42 +
2nd    2000    1st       4.0        89.7     982         942      942        22+
year8    2000    1st             2nd       1.3 S)    91.0    1002         98X      1OO2
2nd    2001    lst                                      1002
Total      91.0
------------------------------------------------------------------__---------__----_-.------------
Source: IhRD Central Operations Department
Note :
IV Project assumes a sit month disbursement lag.
b/ Initial deposit into Special Account
I/ Closing Date: June 30, 2000



- 143 -
REPUBLIC OF HUNGARY
HEALTH SERVICES AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
GLOSSARY OF TERMS
Average Occupancy Rate      - Number of hospital days/(number of beds x 365)
Average Length of Stay      - Number of hospital days/ number of admissions
Crude Birth Rate            - Number of live births per year per 1,000 people.
Crude Death Rate            - Number of deaths per year per 1,000 people.
Infant Mortality Rate       - Annual deaths of infants younger than 1 year old
per 1,000 live births during the same year.
Life Expectancy at Birth   - The number of years a newborn child would live
if subject to the age-specific mortality rates
prevailing at time of birth.
Low Birth Weight (LBW)      - Infants whose weight at birth is less than 2,500
grams.
Maternal Mortality Rate    - Number of maternal deaths per 100,000 live
births in a given year attributable to
pregnancy, childbirth, or post-partum.
Rate of Natural Increase   - The rate at which a population is increasing (or
decreasing) in a given year due to surplus (or
deficit) of births over deaths expressed as a
percentage of the base population.
Rate of Population Growth  - The rate at which a population is increasing (or
decreasing) in a given year due to natural
increase and net migration, expressed as a
percentage of the base population.
Total Fertility Rate        - The average number of children a woman will have
if she experiences a given set of age specific
fertility rates throughout her lifetime. Serves
as an estimate of the number of children per
family.



- 145 -
REPUBLIC OF HUNGARY
HEALTH SERVICES AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
BIBLIOGRAPHY OF MATERIALS IN THE PROJECT EILE
Comissioned Papers
Bleich, Howard L., Jerome Jackson and Edna Moody, "Information Support Systems
Subcomponent," April 1992
Centers for Disease Control (Atlanta, USA) and London School of Hygiene and
Tropical Medicine, "Public Health Subcomponent," July 1992 (Jeffrey Koplan,
Richard Feachem, Tim Byers, Stephen Blount, Ward Cates, Klim McPherson,
Michael Marmot, Peter Goldblatt, George Rubin Erkki Vartiainen, Martin McKee
and Charles Normand).
Centers for Disease Control (Atlanta, USA) and London School of Hygiene and
Tropical Medicine, "School of Public Health Subcomponent," July 1992 (Martin
McKee, Charles Normand, Jeffrey Koplan, Richard Feachem, Tim Byers, Stephen
Blount, Ward Cates, Klim McPherson, Michael Marmot, Peter Goldblatt, George
Rubin and Erkki Vartiainen, Martin McKee and Charles Normand).
Danish Health Group, "Institutional Care Subcomponent," July 1992 (Bjarne
Rasmussen, Ole Nielsen, Astrid de Debuchy and John Roberts).
Danish National Board of Health, "Primary Health Care Development
Subcomponent," July 1992 (Gunnar Schioeler, Niels Bentzen, Jan van Es, Inge
Nielsen, N. van Lin, Ulla Runge and Frank Ebson).
Deeble, John, "Health Insurance and the Structure of Health Services," May
1992.
Dussault, Gilles, Richard Southby and George Johnson, "Review of Health
Services Management Education in Hungary," July 1992.
Dussault, Gilles, Richard Southby and George Johnson, "School of Public Health
Subcomponent,' July 1992.
Healthcare Enterprise International Inc., "Private Sector Development
Subcomponent," July 1992 (Richard Eskow).
Kalina, Mathias, "Prehospital Emergency Services," July 1992.
Saltman, Deborah, "The Health Workforce in Hungary," May 1992.
Reports and Working Papers
Nicholas Barr, "The Hungarian Cash Benefit System," IBRD, EC1/2HR, 1992.



- 146 -
Refergnce
American International Health Care (1989), Reform within the Health Sector of
Hune   , Report to the Reform Task Force, June 1989.
Deeble J S, (1991), Medical Services through Medicare, Department of Health,
Housing and Community Services, Australia, National Health Survey, Background
Paper No. 2.
Forgics I, (1988) "Hungary" in The International Handbook of Health Care
Svstems, Saltman RB (Ed), Greenwood Press, New York.
International Monetary Fund (1990), Social Security Reform in Hungary, Fiscal
Affairs Department, October 1990.
Ministry of Welfare, Hungary (1991), Yearbook 1990, Budapest 1991.
OECD (1991), "Health Data File," 1990-91, Paris.
Sandier S, (1989), "Health Service Utilisation and Physician Income Trends",
Health Care Financing Review, 1989 Supplement, pp 21-32.
Schieber G J, Poullier J-P and Greenwald L M, (1991), "Health Care Systems in
Twenty-four Countries", Health Affairs, Fall 1991,   pp 22-38.
World Bank (1990), Hunary: Health Services: Issues and Options for Reform,
Working Paper, September 1990.
World Bank (1991a), Hungary: Reform and Decentralisation of the Public Sector,
Draft report No. 100661-HUN, November 1991.



H  U  N  G  A  R Y                          SLOVAK REPUBLIC
To Koeice
URBAN ARMA          ROADS 
* SELECTEITOWNS  - RAILROADS               ToKoo                            
mEG E -rALs        MEGYE BOUNDARIES ff                                  UKAbINE
i9NATIONAL CAITAL  - INTERAIONAL BOUNDAIS    +       
TO L ,w.1 
AUSTRI                                        ES                                    Mm
ERSZEG                                                                      ROMNIA 
T~~'   f O ZW 
-N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r ArS v M_  ao
g~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~so=w M 0. 4 ,6. 
s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T _sp ,,          .h A.Zz".



