Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 21430
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CPL-35970; SCL-3597A; SCPM-3597S)
ONA
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$91.0 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF HUNGARY
FOR HEALTH SERVICES AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
JANUARY 16, 2001
Human Development Sector Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonnance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.
FILE COPY



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective 12/31/1999)
Currency Unit = Hungarian Foring (HUF)
HUF 1 = US$ 0.0039
US$ 1 = HUF 252.46
FISCAL YEAR
January 1  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ANTSZ         National Public Health and Medical Officer's Service (NPHMOS)
CAS                  Country Assistance Strategy
CGC                  Close the Gap Committee
CVD                  Cardio-vascular Diseases
DEM                  Deutsche Mark
DO                   Development Objective
DRG                  Diagnostic Related Groups or HBCS
ECA                  Europe and Central Asia region
ECG                  Expert Consultative Group
EFKI                 Health Development Research Institute
EU                   European Union
HIF                  Health Insurance Fund
HSDM                 Health Services Delivery Modernization or Regional Development Component
HSMP                 Health Services and Management Project
HSMTC                Health Services Management Training Center
ICR                  Implementation Completion Report
MISS                 Management Information Support System
MOW                  Ministry of Welfare (until 1998)
MOH                  Ministry of Health (from 1998)
MTR                  Mid-term Review
NEVI                 National Institute for Health Protection (until 1998)
NEFI                 National Institute for Health Promotion (from 1998)
NHIFA                National Health Insurance Fund Administration
NPHMOS               ANTSZ
PMU                  Project Management Unit
SAR                  Staff Appraisal Report
SPH                  School of Public Health
US$                  US Dollar
Vice President:  Johannes Linn
Country Manager/Director:   Roger W. Grawe
Sector Manager/Director:  Armin H. Fidler
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Inre Holl6



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF HUNGARY
HEALTH SERVICE AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                             17
6. Sustainability                                                                 19
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                  20
8. Lessons Learned                                                                23
9. Partner Comments                                                               26
10. Additional Information                                                        27
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                              38
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                              40
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                              42
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                              43
Annex S. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components              46
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                 47
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                             48
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P008484                                      Project Name: HEALTH SERVICES AND
MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Team Leader: Imre Hollo                                  TL Unit: ECSHD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                       Report Date: January 17, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: HEALTH SERVICES AND MANAGEMENT                L/C/TFNumber: CPL-35970;
PROJECT                                                      SCL-3597A;
SCPM-3597S
Country/Department: HUNGARY                                             Region: Europe and Central
Asia Region
Sector/subsector: HC - Primary Health, Including Reproductive
Health, Chi; MY - Non-Sector Specific
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD: 09/26/91                                 Effective: 10/22/93
Appraisal:  11/13/92                                 MTR: 11/20/96
Approval: 04/20/93                                 Closing: 06/30/2000
Borrower/lImplementingAgency: GOVERNMENT OF HUNGARY/MINISTRY OF WELFARE
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                  At Appraisal
Vice President:      Johawmes Linn                            Wilfried Thalwitz
Country Manager:     Roger W. Grawe                           Andrew Rogerson
Sector Manager:      Annin H. Fidler                           Ralph W. Harbison
Team Leader at ICR:  hnre Hollo                               Alexander S. Preker
ICR Primary Author:  Toornas Palu; Thomas Novotny;
Craig Neal
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: U
Sustainability: UN
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: S
BorrowerPerformance: U
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                        U
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes
Proj-ec pe'pbrrntance was rated unsaitJfbctosy by t1he Bank/-br thr-ee const:culive times since mid- .995. This
applied to both the project¶s development objective and implemzentation progress. Project reached and maintained
satisfactory ratings aJler two restructuring efforts.



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
Country Background: Hungary has been a front-runner in the political and economic transition towards
democracy and market economy in Central and Eastem Europe since its election of a democratic
Government in 1990. At the time of writing this report, accession to the European Union has become a
formal goal of the transition process. While the country has been remarkably successful in transforming its
economy, the health care sector has been ignored and remains largely unreformed. Hungary has the worst
health indicators among the OECD countries and is one of the worst among the countries of Central and
Eastem Europe. The main causes for this health status gap have been highly prevalent non-communicable
diseases, with the root causes in unhealthy life-styles and low standards of living.
Issues in Health: At the time of inception of this project, the Hungarian health system was remarkably
ineffective in promoting good health and preventing disease because of its skewed allocation of resources
between preventive and curative care. Expensive but poorly targeted investments in 1970's had led to a
massive build-up of acute hospital capacity and training specialists at the expense of adequate, primary
health care, basic diagnostic and rehabilitation equipment, long term care and rehabilitation services.
Human resources for public health, health services management, general practices and community nursing
were grossly inadequate. The main issues identified in the Staff Appraisal Report of 1993 remain today and
in some instances have worsened. In addition to the already existing inefficiencies of the system, during the
10 years of transition, the health sector was severely hit by fiscal constraints. Between 1990 and 1997 in
real terms, funds spent on curative-preventive care by the General Health Insurance Fund decreased by 25
percent calculated on the basis of CPI and nearly by 40 percent calculated on the basis of health sector
inflation. Inefficiencies coupled with under financing made health care services financially unsustainable,
with financial sources falling short of meeting the basic operating costs.
Project Scope: The Health Services Management project had three main objectives: (i) to contribute to
improving the health status of the Hungarian population by supporting public health programs aimed at
reducing risk factors contributing to the high prevalence of non-communicable diseases; (ii) to support the
Government's program of health sector restructuring with the aimn of improving internal efficiency; (iii) to
provide more efficient and higher quality care by strengthening the institutional capacity of the health sector
in policy-making, management and evaluation. Although, comprehensive health reform per se was not
among the goals, the basic rationale and objectives remain as valid at the time of project completion as they
were at the inception of the project. Experience from Hungary, as well as other countries in the ECA
region, suggests that expected outcomes were overly optimistic and ambitious. The political process of
introducing major changes into the health system is far more complex than originally estimated at inception.
CAS Alignment: The Bank country assistance strategy in Hungary at the time of project preparation was
to support structural adjustment of the economy aimed at stimulating economic growth through efficient
private markets, liberalizing trade and reducing the size of the public sector. The health sector strategy
was linked to it in three ways: (i) expenditures on health services and income transfers had to be contained
to maintain fiscal balance underpinning economic growth; (ii) the cost of the health care system was to be
financed through an estimated 16.3% levy on payroll (part of an overall 37.5% payroll tax threatening the
intemational competitiveness of the Hungarian economy; and, (iii) the excessive burden of illness limited
opportunities for individuals to participate in employment that would lead to vicious spiral of poverty and
unhealthy circumstances, further diminishing opportunities for gainful social participation. The project
objectives were in line with the Bank country assistance strategy in Hungary.
- 2 -



Risks to achieve PDOs: The weak institutional capacity of the Ministry of Welfare (later Ministry of
Health) to implement major reforms was identified as a major risk for the project Although the project
included activities to strengthen this capacity, the time-lag between starting training activities and
developing a critical mass of newly trained staff for change did not mitigate this risk by project completion.
The frequent changes in the leadership of the MOW/MOH further exacerbated the situation. Another
major risk concerning the administrative complexity of establishing new institutions (e.g. Schools of Public
Health and Health Care Management) was effectively overcome in the project.  The third major risk
identified in the SAR concerned the loss of expenditure control which threatened the viability of health
financing systems. At the time of project completion, the financial viability of the health system continues
to be a risk identified now also by the EU. The fact that the Health Services Management Project was the
first health project and one of the very first investment projects in human development overall for Hungary
had increased the implementation risk.
3.2 Revised Objective:
in spite of the substantial downscaling of the project (from US$132.6 million to US$53.5 million), the
overall development objectives were not revised, as they were general and therefore still valid. However, at
the time of the second amendment of the Loan Agreement, the performance indicators (that were
established at the time of the MTR) were revised to reflect the substantially downsized project. The
evaluation of implementation performance below is linked to these performance indicators rather than to the
general development objectives.
3.3 Original Components:
The Project included two components and a number of subcomponents.   The Health Services
Develonment Comnonent included the following subcomponents: (i) public health and disease prevention;
(ii) institutional care. The Policy Makini and Mana!ement ComDonent included the following
subcomponents: (i) public health and management training; (ii) management support systems; (iii) project
management and (iv) preinvestmnent studies. Under these components and subcomponents, the original
project design envisaged altogether 27 distinctly identifiable activity clusters that in the end resulted in an
overly complex project to implement and supervise.
Component A.    Health Services Development ComDonent (planned: US$62.7M) was designed to
support restructuring the health sector towards more effective interventions through strategic investments
into public health and selected institutional services.
(i) Public Health and Disease Prevention Subcomponent planned: US$31.2M) attempted to improve
health status through a series of targeted investments in health promotion and disease prevention activities.
It included a number of activities, including strengthening of the Public Health Program Unit in the MOW;
strengthening of the National Public Health Center (through reorganization of its institutions, training and
developing communications systems); chronic disease primary prevention (through a pilot community
project in Kalocsa designed after acclaimed North-Karelia project); chronic disease secondary prevention;
school health; and, Hungarian health surveys. This subcomponent also supported a "Close the Gap"
program to fund new public health initiatives on a competitive basis. To oversee the program and support
the Government, a Close the Gap Committee was established that enlisted a number of eminent
international public health scholars.
(iU) Institutional Care Subcomponent (planned: US$31.5M) was to support a balanced short-term remedial
approach to addressing the primary and secondary effects of cardio-vascular diseases by upgrading the
equipment and buildings of selected health sector infrastructure objects.
-3 -



Component B. Poiliv Makine and Manaaement ComDonent (planned: US$43.iM) was designed to
strengthen institutional capacity of the health sector through strategic investments into (i) establishment of
Schools of Public Health and Health Services Management; (ii) strengthening the Ministry of Welfare
(MOW) computing center and introducing management support systems in selected health institutions; (iii)
project management; and, (iv) a preinvestment study for restructuring the hospital sector and strengthening
specialist services .
(I) Public Health and Management Training (planned: US$10.OM) was to support the Government
initiative to establish two schools. A School of Public Health to offer post-graduate masters level training
programs in public health, in particular for the country's public health service and for applied research in
this area. School of Health Services Management that would offer a two year masters level post-graduate
training program for health service managers as well as a continuing education training programs in health
services management. This sub-component also included fellowships and consultant services to develop
faculty and curriculum for the two schools.
(ii) Management Information Support Systems (planned: US$28.OM) was to strengthen the management
capacity and informed decision making in the health sector by providing policy-makers and managers with
modem management information systems (MISS). The goal of the subcomponent was to provide 25
selected hospitals with pilot tested management and clinical information systems, and all hospitals in
Hungary with a basic financial management MIS module.
(ii) Project management (planned: US$2.1M) was to strengthen MOW capacity in coordinating projects
in the health sector, as well as to implement the current project
(iv) Preinvestment study (planned: US$3.OM) was to prepare for an eventual second phase investment in
hospitals and specialist services to be supported by an expected follow-up WB loan. Proposed activities
were to address MOW capacity for policy making, planning, evaluation, consultation and negotiation, as
well as analysis of health sector physical infrastructure and human resources for developing medium and
long term strategies.
3.4 Revised Components:
The project was restructured two times: (i) at mid-term review in November 1996; and, (ii) in 1998 when
a new Government assumed office in Hungary and reviewed the project.
(i) Restructuring at Mid-term Review in 1996: Restructuring was initiated by the Bank due to
unsatisfactory implementation progress. It resulted in the cancellation of several activities and introduction
new components from freed up resources, but there was no cancellation of any loan amount Some activity
clusters were canceled because either they had not started, or there was no expectation of completion and
satisfactory contribution toward development objectives.  Canceled activities in the Public Health and
Disease Prevention Sub-component were: (i) strengthening the National Public Health Center (due to lack
of co-ordination among institutions and lack of involvement and interest from the National Public Health
Service); (ii) the Close the Gap Program (CGC supported activities were not coordinated with other public
health programs and outputs were not used in policy-making); (iii) Hun-Hanes health survey (never
started). In the Institutional Care Sub-component the rehabilitation services development was canceled.
Resources freed from these canceled activities were re-allocated to the following new activity clusters: (i)
establishment of an Expert Consultative Group (replacing the Close the Gap Committee); (ii) a National
Tobacco Control Program (aimed at developing a national strategy with an integrated approach, including
legislative measures, price policy and public information and education activities) as well as
Cardio-Vascular Disease Control Programs; (iii) Epidemiological Studies (on disease specific issues,
-4 -



all-cause controlled household survey, medical practice patterns and medication use, repetition of health
behavior survey, burden of disease study) (all Public Health and Disease Prevention Sub-component); and,
(iv) a new component to support Health Services Delivery Modernization (aimed at supporting strategic
planning and implementation of restructuring efforts in a selected region) (new component). Subsequently
a QAG review rated the SPN efforts and restructuring results as Highly Satisfactory/Best Practice.
(ii) Restructuring and downsizing in 1998: The new Government reviewed the project and signaled that
no request for an extension beyond the original closing date of 06/1999 would be made. An extension
would have been justified in principle due to almost 2 years of implementation delay accumulated at the
beginning of the project - a fact that reduced the effective implementation period from 6 to 4 years.
Furthermore the new Government requested the cancellation of US$50 million (out of the US$91 million
loan). The cancellation stemmed from dropping the Health Services Delivery Modernization component,
(which as added at the mid-term review but did not have political support from new authorities), and from
canceling the second phase and national roll-out of the MISS component. Beyond these two substantial
changes, the GOH proposed to finance some components from the MOH's internal budget and from EU
grant funding (PHARE), but wished to keep those components in the project and under Bank supervision.
The Bank team carefully reviewed the GOHs proposal and with CU and SU management support finally
concurred with the request. The choice was to either close the project and cancel the undisbursed loan
balance or to restructure and focus during the last implementation year on sustainability, evaluation as well
as a parallel policy dialogue and TA. The decision to restructure has to be seen in the larger context of a
sharply decreasing Bank portfolio, a change in fiscal policy that removed Bank loans from being additional
to sector budgets and no new lending. Subsequently a QAG review rated the SPN efforts and restructuring
results as Satisfactory.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at Entry is rated unsatisfactory for the following reasons: (i) incomplete sector analysis was
conducted and stakeholder ownership of the project was lacking; (ii) the project lacked performance
indicators and monitoring instruments; (iii) the design was too complex and the country's absorptive and
implementation capacity was overestimated.
Incomplete sector analysis and inadequate stakeholder ownership. The mid-term review acknowledged
that the project was prepared at an accelerated pace and under high expectations for quick progress. The
knowledge gap from the limited initial sector analysis was to be covered by a massive influx of external
technical assistance during the preparation period. Although the external consultants were of very high
quality, many of them leading experts in their field, not enough emphasis was given to align global best
practice within the particular country context, to achieve understanding and ownership by local
counterparts, and to decide about appropriate timing for introducing technically sound policy interventions
in a complex political and socio-economic environment. Conceptually and technically sound solutions to
Hungary's health sector problems could not be implemented due to lack of stakeholder ownership, further
exacerbated by frequent Government changes.
Lacking project performance indicators and monitoring instruments. Although the project objectives were
clear and relevant, they were not backed up with defined expected outcomes. This diverted the focus of
project implementation and supervisors from achieving outcomes, and instead the focus was on producing
outputs. Similarly, the Client was not required to produce progress reports diluting focus from what was
expected to be achieved. Project performance indicators were only designed after the mid-term review.
Having said that, it is important to note that at the time of the inception of the HSMP, explicit performance
indicators were not standard requirements of project preparation.
- 5 -



Complex design, project cost estimates and absorptive capacity. As a result of two restructuring
exercises about 55% of loan was canceled. Some activity clusters were canceled completely, some activity
clusters had their scale and scope revised. Besides already cited lacking ownership issues, the evaluation
team considers that implementation and absorptive capacity of implementing agencies was not adequate for
simultaneous implementation of 29 activity clusters thus leading to non-initiation of some activities and
changes of scope, scale and time schedules of others.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Evaluation of the level of achievement of project objectives is highly judgmental since the original project
design did not include monitoring indicators and mechanisms to measure the project's performance. In
addition, the three development objectives are too general to acurately assess the project's contribution. The
ICR team's evaluation and rationale is the following:
Objective 1. To contribute to improving the health status of the Hungarian population by supporting
public health programs aimed at reducing risk factors contributing to the high prevalence of
non-communicable diseases. This is a highly general objective. It is extremely difficult to establish a
causal link between the project's inputs and the improving health status. Although there are modest
improvements in the aggregate indicators of general health status of the Hungarian population, there is no
measurable evidence for the project's contribution. Further complicating evaluation is the time lag between
public health interventions and improvements in health status, as weil as a number of confounding factors
influencing health status and health behavior. Numerous process-oriented outputs were achieved, including
a number of studies, experiments, pilot programs, large number of students took courses on healthy
lifestyles in elementary schools, different organizations were established for anti-tobacco advocacy.
However, none of those are integrated into a national framework or into a national policy as of today.
Hence, there is a chance that these activities will remain isolated and may not be sustainable. On the other
hand there is a potential that future project outputs will be used and will contribute to improved health
status. In terms of measuring attitude and health behavior change (which could be a better success
indicator) a national health survey instrument has been designed and is under implementation. Results will
be available in May 2001. In summary, at the time of writing this Implementation Completion Report, the
rating for achievement of this DO is Unsatisfactory (U).
Objective 2. To support the Government's program of health sector restructuring with the aim of
improving internal efficiency. All activities related to this objective were canceled from the project during
the second restructuring exercise. Therefore, the achievement for this DO cannot be rated (N/R).
However, it is important to note that several important outputs have been produced (e.g. health regions
have been formed, high quality strategic proposals for regional restructuring have been submitted) that can
serve as a good basis for any future Government wanting to improve the internal efficiency of the
Hungarian health sector.
Obiective 3. To provide more efficient and higher quality care by strengthening the institutional capacity
of the health sector in policy-making, management and evaluation. Project investments in support of the
Health Services Management Training Center, The School of Public Health and The Management
information Support Systems for selected hospitals are highly likely to have medium and long term impact
on health sector institutional capacity. The rating for this DO is Satisfactory (S).
- 6 -



The overall project performance rating for achieving Developmental Objectives is Unsatisfactory (U) at
the time of this evaluation, because most of the project outputs have not been institutionalized and, with the
exception of few subcomponents, sustainability cannot be guaranteed. However, many of the outputs
produced under the project have the future potential to contribute significantly to the achievement of these
objectives, if there is a conscious effort from a govemment to do so.
Limitations of the Evaluation: It is difficult to rate the overall outcome of the project, in that there is a
disconnect between project the achievement of rather lofty objectives (rated unsatisfactory) and concrete
project activities that after restructuring and cancellations are rated satisfactory from the point of view of
implementation. Looking at the DOs ex post, it is the opinion of the evaluation team that some of these are
overambitious, unattainable and inappropriate. If one interprets the overall project rating as the summnary
of the ratings of the individual subcomponents (based on implementation progress), the picture and the
overall evaluation could be different. (see summary table at end of section).  Since the diverse
subcomponents had vastly diverse implementation performance and since many of the originally planned
subcomponents were canceled at an early stage (hence not rated), the overall implementation performance
of the project is satisfactory.
This also shows the limitations of this type of project evaluation which is only partially suitable for
evaluating a Human Development project where outcomes (health status) hinge on multiple factors beyond
project control and reach beyond the time scope of project evaluation.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Comoonent A. Health Services Development (Actual Cost: US$ 30.41M) Overall Implementation
Rating. Marginally Satisfactory: This component was to support proven action oriented approaches to
public health, as well as creation of the Close the Gap Committee (CGC) aimed at launching new initiatives
in health promotion and disease prevention. It was also to strengthen certain institutional services targeted
for special attention because of their impact on Hungary's pressing health problems. It had two
sub-components: (i) Public Health and Disease Prevention; and, (ii) Institutional Care.
Sub-component A.1.: Public Health and Disease Prevention. (Actual cost: US$15.06M)
Implementation Rating: Unsatisfactory
Activity (i): Stren2thenine National Public Health and Medical Officer's Service
(ANTSZ). Implementation Rating: Unsatisfactory
This activity cluster was included in the original plan for the HSMP with the general objective to revise the
practice, definition, and direction of the Public Health and Medical Officers' Service and the
sanitary-epidemiological structure of the Ministry of Health. The Chief Medical Officer at that time was
not committed to the project and this caused delays in the launch of this subcomponent. Prior to the
mid-term restructuring of the project, funds were used from the loan to support a planning process which
was guided by consultants to the MOH/PMU under the general direction of the Chief Medical Officer. The
activities during the first years of the project focused on examination of the legal basis of public health, the
definition of the roles and responsibilities under the current system, and a survey of Medical Officers'
opinions and reported activities in their current work. With the restructuring, all funding for this
sub-component from the loan was discontinued, but the activities of the sub-component were still included
and supported with funding from PHARE and from MOH is own resources. This arrangement was
generally intended to assist ANTSZ in developing confonnity with EU standards for surveillance,
environmental health, disease control, and other functions in preparation for eventual accession to the EU.
- 7 -



The output of the subcomponent is a Working Paper on Public Health Strategy. The ECG review of this
paper is positive, but it appears to be unclear as to how the ANTSZ will assume more leadership in public
health practice beyond the infectious disease, environmental health, and other traditional roles. In
particular, it is unclear as to how surveillance data will be reported and utilized for decision making, what
direction might be provided in revitalizing the public health work force in the future, and how
non-conmmunicable diseases involving behavioral risk factors and mental health might be addressed by
ANTSZ. These issues are to be directed from EFKI and NEFI, which are separate institutions dealing with
health data and policy and mental health and health promotion. Integration of these issues into county-level
public health practice ideally would be a goal of a revitalized ANTSZ. In addition, leadership in
data-based policy development and linkage to the clinical medical services does not appear to be included in
future activities of the ANTSZ. The design of this sub-component was somewhat inappropriate to
accomplish the goals described above. lt was consultant-driven, and the outcomes were never really
directed by the MOH leadership; more senior level involvement from the MOH to insure integration of the
ANTSZ with other public health programs (such as primary prevention, secondary prevention, tobacco and
alcohol policy, school health, and surveillance) was needed. In addition, more substantive communication
between the educational components of the project (HSMTC and SPH) might have assured a market for the
students graduating from these programs within ANTSZ. Input from the revitalization process might have
also been incorporated into the teaching objectives of the schools. Lately, some linkage has been
accomplished with SPH. The performance indicators for this component were never really clarified.
Revitalization exercises without specific public health practice improvement objectives will result in
descriptive reports only, and it appears that the strategic goals for the revitalization of ANTSZ are still
vague. Conformity with EU standards is an important outcome, but it is not clear if the legal, policy,
human resource, institutional, and public health practice issues have been sufficiently operationalized to
accomplish this goal. A major factor in this rating is the lack of engagement by senior MOH leadership in
directing the outcomes of the subcomponent The significant expenditures in the first part of the project
were probably inefficiently applied. Sustainability, will be contingent on provision of additional strategic
direction by the MOH. However, it is unlikely that ANTSZ will emerge from this project with a clear,
effective, and revitalized public health mandate. This activity is rated as unsatisfactory.
Activity (ii): Primary Prevention Activity Cluster.
Implementation Rating. Unsatisfactory
(a) Tobacco and alcohol policy development.. This component was originally two separate components,
and that were consolidated after the restructuring. The budget was reduced from $550,000 to $180,000.
The current objectives were to develop policy and to activate ministerial support for effective tobacco
control and alcohol policies through creating an institutional framework. However, little ministerial
commitment to any specific policy activities has been evident. An inter-sectoral board was to have been
established by the government, a focal point in the MOH was to have been appointed, and a budget was to
have been assigned to tobacco control. Some legislation has been introduced in Parliament regarding
advertising, environmental tobacco smoke, and taxation, but there has been little substantive outcome of
these efforts. Hungary is clearly lagging behind in commitment compared to other CEE countries such as
Poland, Czech Republic, and Slovakia. Some policy papers have been produced by local experts, an
international conference on youth smoking prevention was held in Budapest in November 2000, an
organization of NGOs has been established, and a monthly newsletter has been developed on tobacco
control issues. A Parliamentary group is reported to exist. The National Institute of Health Promotion
(NEFI) is home to the tobacco and alcohol sub-component, but the budget continues to be reduced each
year. Little to no priority work has been done related to alcohol policy. Little to no sustainable activity is
evident, and ministerial support for these critical public health efforts is lacking. The original design of the
project called for media advocacy activities, but these were never realized prior to the restructuring. The
- 8 -



policy activities of the project were never sufficiently linked to the MOH, having been subsumed in the
NEFI, with changes in leadership, reductions in budget, and inefficient disbursement of loan funds evident.
This activity is rated as unsatisfactory.
(b) Cardiovascular disease prevention policy development. This activity was canceled and is not rated.
The National Institute of Cardiology has reportedly developed a programn plan, but this was not available to
the ICR team. The Monitoring sub-component will assess national data on cardiovascular risk factors, and
this may be useful to MOH planning or policy making on cardiovascular disease. It would be prudent for
the EFKI/MOH to link the data developed by the National Health Interview Survey to whatever program
plan is developed by the National Institute of Cardiology.
(c) Chronic disease primary prevention demonstration. This project was originally designed to emulate a
community-based intervention against cardio-vascular diseases similar to the highly successful project in
North Karelia, Finland. As a recent project report points out, however, the project in Hungary was saddled
with an unstable political situation, a struggling economy, and a low level of public awareness on health.
The target areas of Kalocsa and a neighboring village of Homokmegy were laboratories where trial
activities focused on nutritional improvement, tobacco use prevention, physical exercise encouragement,
clinical preventive services, and community development Activities included a demonstration kitchen,
kindergarten-based health education, development of primary care-based prevention activities, healthy
corners in grocery stores, nutritional education for mass catering operations, demonstration farms
(discontinued at mid-term review), a bicycle path, and other community activities. A baseline survey was
done, but only after the project had been implemented, to ascertain health knowledge and behavior as well
as cholesterol, BMI, blood pressure, and other physical parameters. The project originally considered
comparing results to a control community, but settled for comparison to national survey data that was to be
collected as part of a Hungary Health and Nutritional Examination Survey (HUNHANES). This survey
was never implemented. The Kalocsa project completed a folow up survey an a SWOT analysis at the end
of project implementation. It is difficult to ascertain the outputs or outcomes of this sub-component.
Certainly there is community awareness of the effort, beginning with mayoral and local official recognition
at the beginning of the project. There appears to be sustained involvement in the local schools, but there
was never any substantive linkage to the school health education project described below. There were
several other surveys on sociologic considerations, stakeholder analyses, etc. but these do not appear to
have contributed to expected outcomes. The baseline and final survey were hampered by low response
rates, but did show favorable percentage changes for some key indicators of cardio-vascular disease (CVD)
risk. However, because of the low response rates and small percentage changes, these improvements are
not considered statistically significant or meaningful. It is true, as the investigators point out, that five
years is a short period of time for outcomes to appear in such a project. However, it has been clear
throughout the project that significant funds have been expended on low output interventions and that the
ongoing evaluation and data-based decision-making have been lacking. The project has functioned in
virtual isolation from the other components of the HSMP and from the MOH leadership. US$2.3 milion
has been disbursed, representing a considerable reduction from the original budget. The project team
reports that the non-technical intemational management firm who administered the project with very low
quality under the direction of the National Institute of Health Promotion utilized one-half of these funds.
As for sustainability, it appears that the bike path will remain, that some activities will remain in the
schools, and that there may be some national dissemination of interventions through additional Soros
Foundation funding. The investment in the primary care practitioners appears to have negligible impact.
There will be no further monitoring and evaluation, and there will be no further direct MOH investment in
this demonstration project. Contractors and consultants consumed large sums of money, and the output of
these contracts is minimal. Most importantly, it is very unlikely that the Kalocsa component will be
replicated in other municipalities of the country. This is partly due to the fact that there is no strategy for
-9-



health promotion and prevention currently in Hungary. Without this framework, it is almost impossible to
create a sustainable project at the national level. This activity cluster is rated as unsatisfactory for the
reasons dted.
(d) Heart Healthy Nutrition. This small activity cluster was to establish a heart healthy logo for food
labeling, secure the involvement of local manufacturers and retail outlets in disseminating and utilizing
these labels, and measure the effect of the labeling intervention. This activity was completed, and the logo
was developed. A national media campaign was also conducted, with continuos measurements of its effect.
According to these, around 10% of the Hungarian adult population perceived that a Heart Healthy
Nutrition campaign was going on in the country and 58% of the entire sample found it useful. However,
only 30 products have been labeled. This is clearly not enough to generate sufficient income for the
subcomponent to be financially self-sustainable. According to the estimates of the team, around a 100
products need to be registered at a minimum to cover the high PR costs (TV ads, etc.) and to raise public
awareness. In addition the subcomponent failed to demonstrate the link between its activities and health
behavior changes. This is partly due to the small number of certified products. Involvement of the MOH is
again sketchy. It seems that the subcomponent will not be further supported by the MOH. In this case, the
number of registered products will not reach a critical mass and the heart healthy nutrition logo will not be
sustainable in Hungary. Therefore this activity is rated unsatisfactory.
(e) School Health. This activity cluster grew out of a linkage to the EU Health Promoting Schools Project
begun in 1991. Curriculum for upper and lower grades was developed, a health care manual for school
medical services was developed and monitoring and evaluation of the curriculum application was to be
conducted. Considerable research on materials and a needs assessment was completed. Teachers attitudes
and knowledge were assessed through a formative evaluation, and 69 teachers were trained under project
auspices. Knowledge, attitudes, and behavior of a sample of 7,000 students in 10 pilot schools was done.
In addition, a health behavioral survey of school children was conducted by the WHO in Budapest The
school health program has now been offered to school administrations throughout Hungary. A significant
barrier has been the lack of communication between MOW and The Ministry of Education (MOE). Now,
MOE is more committed to the program, and the MOH is disinterested. A Network of Health Promoting
Schools has been established with some government and grant money is a sign of sustainability. An
ongoing involvement of the project leader in curriculum development and longitudinal studies supported by
the UK Health Education Authority. A lesson leamed from this project is that a better understanding of
the cultural environment is needed to implement school-based health education. As to the Bank
involvement, changes in bank staff slowed implementation, and new managers in the PMU created
problems in management as well. It has been difficult to find a balance between the government, the PMU,
the Bank, and the project. The Bank needed a more effective dialogue at the ministerial level.
Sustainability seems to be assured with the NGO work, MOE commitment, and ongoing involvement by
European agencies. This acdvity is rated as satisfactory.
(1) National Health Interview Survey. This was originally planned as a health and nutritional examination
survey, but it was never implemented, partly due to lack of involvement of the MOH and commitment by
the Central Statistical Office to implement the survey. Subsequent to the mid-terrn review, the US Center
for Disease Control and Prevention became involved and a project plan was drawn up. After loan
restructuring, it was decided that loan funds were not to be used for this survey and government funds
would support the work through the EFKI unit, which is responsible for data analysis and policy
development for the MOH. An excellent team has been formed and considerable progress has been
reached. The survey is being carried out during the writing of this ICR. Results will be available spring
2001. The Hungarian side has taken full responsibility for completing the project using MOH funds.
-10-



Sustainability is likely, given the MOH commitment of funds to a national health survey project, with
surveys to be performed every 3-5 years. This activity is rated satisfactory.
Activity (iii): Secondary Prevention Cluster.
Implementation Rating: Satisfactory
This activity cluster was to support strengthening of secondary prevention of selected cancers through: (a)
an improved cancer register and, demonstration screening programs for (b) cervical cancer; (c) breast
cancer and, (d) colo-rectal cancer.
(a) Cancer register. The project equipped a National Cancer Register and 20 regional offices, trained staff
and developed software, standard procedures and user guidelines. Regulations for the cancer register were
established by an executive order of the Minister of Health in 1999 and within 5 months 70% improvement
in compliance with reporting requirements was shown. The register is an affiliated member of the
European Network of Cancer Registries.
(b) Cervical cancer screening program. The project helped to develop strategies for re-organization and
updating of existing services for cervical screening in order to move away from "opportunistic" screening
practices to a rational targeted population based screening program. The results have not been integrated
into practice though because of the lack of an effective system of personal identification and a consensus
among the gynecology community about appropriate frequency and a target group for screening.
(c) Breast cancer screening program. The project helped to establish a breast cancer registration system
and a consensus protocol for a call-and-recall system aimed at organized screening for target groups in
cooperation with primary health care teams.   The results of the pilot involving ten pilot
mammography-screening units were variable, but provided an important lesson for future steps in
implementation of the program.
(d) Colo-rectal screening program. This program was somewhat controversial because of the lack of an
evidence base about effectiveness of standard screening programs. The Hungary National Institute of
Oncology has developed an alternative immuno-chemical screening test that has shown promising results in
a pilot operation in two selected areas. However, an evidence base for nation wide implementation need to
be further developed and recognized by the international expert community.
Hungary has established the first elements of a regulatory and financing framework for the screening
programs. The Health Care Act (1997) establishes screening as a distinct public health measure and
Health Insurance Act (1997) includes screening in its basic benefits package. This forms a good basis for
further development and implementation of evidence based and cost-effective screening programs in
Hungary.
Sub-component A.2: Institutional Care. (Actual cost: US$15.35 million).
Implementation Rating: Satisfactory.
The Institutional Care Component of the HSMP was designed to support a balanced short term remedial
approach to addressing the primary and secondary effects of cardio -, cerebro-vascular diseases which are
the leading cause of death and morbidity in Hungary. The component provided diagnostic and therapeutic
equipment as well as established databases for: (i) cardiovascular centers; (ii) cerebro-vascular centers and
(iii) rehabilitation service.



(i) Cardio-Vascular Centers. Diagnostic and therapeutic equipment were provided for one national and
four regional centers. Five recipient institutes (non-invasive and limited invasive coronary care services)
were equipped, and operators were trained.
(ii) Cerebro-Vascular Centers. Five selected stroke centers were equipped with early stroke detection
equipment (one MRI and four CT scanners in total). Operators were trained and are able to carry out
appropriate early diagnosis with the aim of treating cerebro-vascular incidents at an early stage to increase
the survival of the disease. The project also supported establishment of a stroke register that is operational.
(iiil Rehabilitation services. The activity cluster was to improve rehabilitation support services at the
National Institute of Medical Rehabilitation (NIMR), The State Hospital of Balatonflred and various
county locomotion rehabilitation departments and cardiovascular rehabilitation centers. The NIMR and the
State Hospital of Balatonfured were responsible for the operation. The project reports procurement of
many small and medium sized items of equipment required for the rehabilitation services, e.g. respirators,
blood gas analyzers, infusion pumps etc. The evaluation team could not verify to what extent rehabilitation
services benefited from the equipment since from their description they are for intensive care services.
There were no indicators to assess the efficacy of new equipment for secondary prevention of mortality
from cardio-vascular diseases. The equipment was effectively procured and is being utilized. As a result
of the training provided together with the equipment and the evidence of contracts with the National Health
Insurance Fund, the subcomponent seems to be sustainable, although replenishment of old equipment is not
solved. The implementation rating for this activity cluster is satisfactory. This component was discontinued
after the MTR.
Sub-component A3: Health Services Delivery Modernization (11SDM)
(Actual Cost: USS1.07M) Implementation Ra*ng: Not Rated
This component was added at mid-term review to consist of a demonstration project in one region, which
was to be selected by competition from all regional applications. The original goal was that through joint
thinking and coordination, the major stakeholders (local govemments, universities, county health insurance
funds, representatives of the medical chamber, etc.) in a large geographic area would work out a plan to
restructure and optimize the delivery of health services in their respective area. Negotiations were started
with the HIF to create a regional budget so that the winning region could retain the savings it achieves from
the operation of the restructured delivery system. The highly innovative and progressive process had begun
and the first phase was completed; regions had been formed and submitted their restructuring proposals.
However, the government changed shortly after and the new administration did not agree with the regional
approach. As a result, the subcomponent was canceled at this early stage (-US$19.5M was cancelled from
the loan). The evaluation team could not rate this subcomponent.
At the time of implementation evaluation, there is some prospect that regional development plans that were
developed are being used by regions.
An interesting lesson learned from this subcomponent is the use of competition as a means of awarding a
substantial amount of development funding. Technically speaking, it was completely justified, as breaking
down the US$29.4 million (together with counterpart funding) would have created only small incentives
nationwide. However, the "winner takes all" approach was politically controversial and created significant
opposition against the project and its leadership even before the change of government.
- 12 -



ComDonent B. Policy Making and Management (Actual Cost: US$23.10M) Overall Implementation
Rating: Highly Satisfactory. This component was to strengthen the institutional capacity of the health
sector by: (i) supporting establishment of Schools of Public Health and Health Services Management; (ii)
strengthening the MOW  computing center and introducing management information support systems
(MISS) in selected hospitals; (iii) developing the management capacity of the MOW staff; and, (iv)
supporting preparation of pre-investment studies for restructuring hospitals and strengthening specialist
services.
Sub-component Bi: Public Healtb and Management (Actual Cost: US$7.28M)
Implementation Rating: Highly Satisfactory
(i! School of Public Health. This activity established accredited masters programs in the school of public
health in Debrecen, and one class of graduates has been produced. The school was successful in
establishing its place on the Hungarian public health scene, even if its research agenda has not been fully
implemented, and linkages with other schools of public health are yet pending. Nevertheless, the main
development objectives for this sub-component have been accomplished. A barrier to sustainability is the
lack of a market for graduates, and this should be remedied by further linkage with the ANTSZ
revitalization. Independently from ANTSZ, the school has managed to raise some funding through
applications to EU PHARE projects and participates in the preparation of local governments to EU
accession from a public hygiene point of view. The school should try to further strengthen these avenues.
Another potential problem is the possibility of competition between the school and the Health Services
Management Training Center. These two programs should be encouraged to collaborate on meeting the
needs of the management and public health infrastructure reforms in Hungary. The sustainability of the
school may be improved by English language courses for foreign participants. The ANTSZ shall play a
key role in assuring sustainability of the school, because its employees are the most natural market for the
institution. The sub-component is rated highly satisfactory, with strong likelihood of sustainability due to
the MOH's strong commitment to support it and due to the growing potential for self-revenue generation.
(ii! Health Services Management Training Center. This activity was designed to develop a training
program, along with research activities and continuing education for providers and managers, within the
Semmelweis University. Intemational programs in management have been established. Mid and top level
managers have been trained, exceeding in number the objectives of the initial project, and there is some
evidence to show improvement in hospital function as a result of this training. Networks of managers have
been developed, and the legitimacy of the school and profession has been recognized. A new building has
been provided for the school by the GOH. Accreditation of the master's program has been completed.
Applicants exceed available spaces by 2:1, yet there still appears to be a lack of a market for newly trained
individuals. Currently the HSMTC generates about 50 per cent of its budget independendy from the MOH,
mostly through short courses and tuition. Lessons leamed include the need to stay independent of other
faculties at the university, the need for a Director to be one of the project team (having received training
through loan resources), and the need to establish some professional credit process for managers in hospital
systems that would sustain a study body for the school. In addition to these achievements, the Center has
become the regional center for the World Bank Institute and it has organized 2 international and several
domestic flagship courses in this capacity. As a result, the school is on its way to becoming a center of
excellence in health management in the region. This is also reinforced by the developing bilateral
cooperation with other neighboring countries. Sustainability of the school is assured by the government.
However, the Center should raise its already existing income generation capacity through other means as
well (research projects, consulting, etc.) in order to achieve growing independence from political changes.
In light of the above, this sub-component is rated as Highly Satisfactory, with long-term sustainability
assured.
- 13 -



Sub-componnt B2. Management Support Systems (Actual Cost: US$ 11.03M)
Inxpkmentadion rating: Highly Sat&sfactory
(i) MOW    Computing Center.   The Medical Information and Computing Center, Szekszard
(GYOGYINFOK) is one of the national institutes under MOW. The objective of this sub-component was
to develop hardware and software so that GYOGYINFOK could continue to serve MOW and various other
institutions in the health sector. This sub-component was completed on time. GYOGYINFOK received
under the sub-component two powerful minicomputers and other associated software used by the institute.
(ii) Manaaement Information Support Systems (MISS). After a particularly unproductive period prior to
the Midterm Review, the MISS activity achieved the establishment of hospital information systems in 21 of
the approximately 160 hospitals in Hungary. Together these 21 hospitals represent approximately 14,900
hospital beds, or about 16%/e of all beds in the country. As a group, the hospitals are fairly diverse. They
include small city hospitals, medium-sized county hospitals, large teaching hospitals of medical faculties,
and specialized national institutes under the MOW. They also represent a diverse and distributed
geographical distribution of investment activities. The realized coverage, however, fell short of the 1996
target of approximately 60 hospitals. The shortfall reflects the non-extension of the overall Health Services
and Management Project activities. The 21 hospitals that were implemented were among the "Phase I"
group. The balance of the target of sixty hospitals were planned for "Phase 2" of the implementation work
that, unfortunately, was not carried out.
Notwithstanding a fair degree of variation among the hospitals, the following specific observations have
been reported:
*      hospital managers have begun to develop information on the cost of specific health care services,
using the data that areflowing through the newly-integrated and expanded information systems and on the
basis of the "service point" models that underlay the MISS technical design and implementations.
*      these cost data'- however imperfect -- are inforning resource allocation decisions within the
hospitals, as well as discussions between hospital management and the sector-level management entities,
such as the MOH, the Health Insurance Agency, the Hospital Association, etc.
*      the MISS itself prompted the formation of three county-wide hospital groups, and, in the case of
the Vas County hospital group, the administrative and operational consolidation of 2 of the 6 hospitals in
the group.
*      at the national / sub-sector level, the MISS planning and analytic methods have propagated well
beyond the specific beneficiary hospitals, through - the continued use of the information systems plans that
120 of the 160 Hungarian hospitals developed as part of the competition to be included in the group of
MISS beneficiaries. (In fact, 70 percent of the 120 hospitals responded to an independent survey by the
Hospital Association that they continued to use these plans.)
*      the use of the methods to support a number of hospital information system procurements outside
the Bank-financed project.
the MISS has had an impact on the Hungarian health informatics profession, through, among other
things, the:
- 14 -



- translation and formal adoption of European health information standards by the Hungarian National
Standards Institution.
- training of over a hundred local professionals in HISA-related matters.
- demonstration of the methods and power of rigorous health information systems planning and
management.
The MISS has even benefited the hospital systems market, since the participating suppliers have updated
their products to support the open, multi-vendor HISA model, which should foster the growth of the overall
market. The implementation of the MISS activity cluster, re-designed and reduced in scope during
restructuring of the project, is rated Highly Satisfactory, with strong likelihood of sustainability.
Sub-component B3: Project Management Unit (Actual Cost: US$4.59 million)
Implementation Rating: Satisfactory
There were three marked periods, characterizing the functioning of the Project Management Unit (PMU).
1993 -1996 (MTR)
At this early stage, the HSMP was managed by 2 PMUs. The "main" PMU was established at the MOW,
the other with responsibility to implement the public health related components at the ANTSZ. The
continuos rivalry between the two units resulted in delayed implementation. After about two years of
ineffective work, the public health PMU was abolished and the tasks were transferred to the PMU in the
MOW. During this period the overall performance of the Project Management Unit at the Ministry of
Welfare was extremely low, primarily because of inadequate staffing in terms of numbers and profile. An
external consultant company was in charge of training the staff for project management. However, instead
of phasing out from the project, the consultant firm gradually took full control over the PMU. This
over-reliance of consulting services led to confusions as to the roles of consultants and PMU staff as well
as uncoordinated and at times counterproductive management decisions and actions across different
components. The very complex structure of the project aggravated the problem. The lack of definition of
tangible outcome measures (monitoring indicators) and the lack of requirements for project monitoring
reports (including financial management and procurement) contributed to the lack of focus at the
implementing agency level.
1996 (MTR) - 1998 June (second chanae in 2overnment)
The mid-term review, together with new personnel and PMU management brought about significant
changes: project performance gradually picked up; procurement procedures became smoother; more
competent experts were hired; and reporting requirements and performance monitoring tools were
established. This was probably also due to the fact that people around the HSMP acquired generally more
knowledge about Bank procedures and project management principles. The reliance on external consultants
was decreased, but was still significant. During this period the PMU was under very tight supervision from
the MOW.
1998 June - 2000 June
Project management was smooth and highly professional during this period. However, the new government'
s decision to downscale the project left very little room to maneuver for the PMU. In spite of that, the
relative independence of the PMU increased compared to the previous period.
- 15 -



Sub-component BA: Preinvestment Studies (Actual Cost: US$ 0.20 million)
Implementation Rating: Not Rated
This sub-component was to assist in preparation of pre-investment studies for a second phase investment in
hospitals and in specialist services by clarifying the roles of major partners in the health care system and
other sectors relevant to health; strengthening the MOW capacity for policy making, planning, evaluation,
consultation and negotiation; establishing policy making units at national, regional, and local levels; and
providing technical assistance in formulating and implementing policies and legislation.  This
sub-component was canceled during the second restructuning of the project, as it became clear that the
Government of Hungary did not wish to continue its cooperation with the Bank in the field of health care.
Summary by Components:
e  S   i                _, A.'R                                  ., >, '-<>
jSub-component AJ. Public Health and Disease Prevention                            U
(i) Strengthening of the National Public Health and Medical Officer's Service (ANTSZ)  U
(ii) Primary Preention Activity Cluster                                         U
(iii) Secondary Prevention Acivity Cluster                                      S
Sub-component A2. Insdtutionl Care                                                 S
.Sub-cmpoent A3 Health Services Delivery Modernizadon (tHSDM                      N/R
iSub-component BI. Pubilc Heaith and Management                                    B1S
i  (i) School of Public Health                                                     HS
(ii) Health Services Management Training Center.                                HS
.Sub-cemponent B.2. Management Support Systems                                     HS
(I) MOW Computing Center                                                         S
(ii) Management Information Support Systems (MISS)                               RS
iSub-component BH  Project Management Unit                                          S
Sub-component f.4 Pre  aesiment Studies                                           NIR
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
N/A
4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The tangible, impact of the project on institutions is at the time of this observation is generally low.
However, several activities launched under the HSMP could have great future potential for facilitating
change. Public health in the modem sense did not exist in Hungary at the time of the inception of the
project. During these past seven years, modern terminology and ways of thinking have evolved in the
country. This is true, even if it is not yet everywhere noticeable. Unfortunately, the Public Health Service
- 16 -



that would have been the key institution in catalyzing this change remained untouched and only performs
narrow public hygiene funtions.
in other areas, however, the project achieved some tangible results. The HSMP was successful in helping to
establish and strengthen the capacity of the School of Health Services Management and the School of
Public Health.  The investments in these schools are likely to have sustained effect on the quality of
managerial and public health staff in the Hungarian health sector. The Project was also successful in
establishing Management Information Support Systems in selected hospitals that form the basis for better
managerial decision making and have a strong demonstration impact. The MISS sub-component was also
successful in terms of developing capacity to manage complex MIS design and procurement processes.
The project's impact on strengthening generic project management and strategic capacity in the MOH level
is uneven since the key Project Coordination Unit staff had high turnover leaving little consolidated
strategic and project management capacity for the Ministry of Health. Intended institutional strengthening
of several key MOH units and MOH institutes was not achieved because of lack of high level commitment
and several changes of the target units and institutions. There are, however, a number of staff in the health
sector who have professionally gained from the project and could act as agents for change and
development.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Frequent changes of task managers (5 TTLs over the life of the project) in the World Bank may have
contributed to some delays, the nature of the relationship between the Bank and the Government, and some
changes in project design.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Democratic changes of the govermnent was the major extemal factor having impact on project
implementation. Changes affected by the political cycle led to changes in policy, PCU staffing, changes in
target institutions and revisions of project design. In addition, government commitment to the project was
lacking almost from the very beginning and led to activity co-ordination problems and non-integration of
project outputs into policy decisions. There were three governments in power between 1993 and 2000 and
all of them treated the project as something outside of their core activities. Until 1997 there was budgetary
additionality, funds were treated rather laxly and the outcome/impact of activities financed from the loan
was not closely monitored. After 1998 when intemal and extemal revenues were consolidated. The World
Bank loan became less attractive revenue source from the perspective of the Ministry of Health. After this
budgetary change, the project was regarded as a drain on MOH funds, and disbursement was reduced to a
necessary minimum level to meet the international obligations.
The reasons behind this lack of ownership may be several fold: (i) the last two governments regarded the
World Bank project as the "pet project" of the previous government; (ii) in the project preparation period
the key design features originated from external consultants and (iii) key project advisory mechanisms
(Close the Gap Committee and Expert Consultative Group) were staffed with external experts that further
distanced the government from supervising and coordinating the project. There was a general perception
that the project was consultant driven.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The overall performance of the Project Management Unit at the Ministry of Health was low primarily
because of inadequate staffing in terms of numbers and profile. This lead to over-reliance on consulting
services that in turn led to confusions as to the roles of consultants and PMU staff. The very complex
- 17 -



structure of the project aggravated the problem. Hiring an expensive foreign management consulting firm
to manage some subcomponents turned out to be counter-productive in terms of making feasible
management decisions in the local context and building management capacity. The lack of definition of
outcome measures (monitoring indicators) and requirements for project monitoring reports (including
financial management and procurement) contributed to the lack of focus at the implementing agency level.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The total project costs were US$51.9 million compared to the appraisal estimate of US$132.6 million.
US$50 million out of the original US$91 million loan amount was canceled after the second restructuring
exercise initiated by the Government in March 1999. From the remaining US$41 million, only US$35
million was disbursed. Even after cancellation, USS6 million of the loan remained unspent and will be
cancelled.
The canceled loan amount came from canceled loan activities as well as from substantially reduced budgets
for the active subcomponents. Reduced allocations for active subcomponents were related to changes in
scale (MISS subcomponent), scope (cancellation of certain activities in the public health and disease
prevention subcomponent), change of financing source (health interview survey, renewal of ANTSZ) as
well as from apparent overestimation of costs and absorptive capacity of the beneficiaries at the time of
appraisal. Also, consolidation of the MOH budget as described in 5.2, contributed to decreased utilization
of loan resources. Some activities were also financed from external donor resources (such as EU-PHARE).
In detail, amounts actually spent reasons were the following:
A. HEALTH SERVICES DEVELOPMENT
A.1 Public Health (US$15.06 million) -- 48% of the original estimate due to cancellation of
several activities, reduction in scope and external grant resources (EU-PHARE).
A.2 Institutional Care (US$15.35 million) -- 49%/o of the original estimate due to cancellation of
activities.
B. POLICY MAKING AND MANAGEMENT
B.1 Public Health and Manaeement Trainine (US$7.28 million) - 73% of the original estimate
due to delayed implementation and too generous budget allocation.
13.2 Management Support Systems (US$11.3 million) -- 39% of the original estimate due to
reduction in scale of project and fall of IT hardware prices compared to appraisal estimates,
B.3 Project Manazement Unit (US$4.59 million) -- 218% overrun. This category was often used
as a cushion to finance ad hoc consulting activities and other smaller expenditure items.
B.4 Pre-investment Studies (US$0.2 million) -- 7% of the original estimate because of cancellation
of the subcomponent.
The appraisal cost estimate included a US$41.6 million government contribution to finance duties and
taxes. The final project cost included US$ 17.7 million in government finance that, in addition to taxes and
duties, financed civil works (the two schools), consultants and entire subcomponents (ANTSZ). This is due
to the fact that with the introduction of the Treasury system, there was no difference from the MOH's point
of view between WB loan and local funds.
-18 -



6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Overall sustainability of the project is rated unlikely, as none of the activities started under the project are
viable today without significant govemmental support.
Although it is true that most public health activities by nature are government supported in most countries,
according to the original plan, some activities (e.g. Heart Healthy Nutrition, MISS) were designed to be at
least partially financialy sustainable, independent from the government. The two year delay the project
suffered at the initial phase made it more difficult for these subcomponents to meet this goal by project
closure.
As none of the subcomponents (with the exception of the MISS) are completely sustainable without MOH
support, most probably only those activities will be continued (listed below) that enjoy the support of the
ministry. This arrangement, however, is not always a guarantee for the long term, as governments and their
priorities change.
To sum up, overall sustainability of the project activities is rated as unlikely for the following reasons:
*  the majority of project activities were fragmented and outputs were not integrated into health
policy;
*  the project steering mechanisms (Close the Gap Committee; Expert Consultative Group) were
external to the government and were disbanded upon the completion of the project;
*  the lack of government commitment makes it unlikely that project activities will be continued
to be funded (with the exception of the two schools, secondary prevention and health interview
survey)
It needs also to be recognized that several studies undertaken under the project have potential value to be
used in policy making. However, the probability of this happening could not be estimated at the time of
ICR review.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
This section pertains to the project activities that are likely to be sustainable. Treasury based (unified)
budget execution consolidated all sources of financing since 1998, ending the "additionality" of the loan
funds. Therefore since 1998 from the MOH's point of view there is no difference between loan funds and
own budgetary resources. While this budgetary technique greatly hampered implementation and contributed
to the cancellation of substantial funds, it adds assurances that successful activities will continue to be
supported from the budget.
Health Services Management Training Center
The main target groups of the Health Services Management Training Center are the higher and middle level
hospital managers and relevant people in the national and county health authorities. The Center is also a
satellite site for the WBI Health Reform Flagship course that has been successful in attracting international
interest and participation. The school collects fees from students, organizes short courses on relevant
topics (e.g. DRG financing) and carries out consulting activities in hospitals and applies for research
grants. As a result, it can already cover about 50% of its expenditures from non State revenues. The center
has a quasi-independent status, although it is strongly affiliated with major universities. For medium term
viability, its status should remain the same to allow it to grow into an established and mature organization
-19 -



that could merge with others on more equal terms. Based on these, the sustainability of the center is highly
likely, coupled with a strong commitment of the MOH. In the future, the school should strive for more
independence from MOH support.
School of Public Health
Sustainability of the SPH is more problematic, as currently there is no real market for public health
specialists in the country. ANTSZ could play and should play a leading role in this process. However, it is
yet to assume it. Nevertheless, the school attempts to find additional sources of financing by tapping into
the regular medical education resources in Hungary, by applying to different EU projects, and by
establishing international partnerships with other schools of public health in Europe and in the USA. Until
now, these attempts have resulted in only modest funding, but the commitment of the MOH in the case of
the SPH seems to be reassuring.
Management lnformation Support Systems. The 21 hospitals that participated in the MISS development
exercise and received their tailor made MISS systems were selected on a transparent competitive basis.
This helped ensure that hospitals with clearer vision and commitment were selected. In addition, formal
contractual agreements between the hospitals and the Ministry of Health stipulated that the hospitals would
provide the necessary local resources (financial, human and physical) to sustain the investments for a
minimum of two years after implementation. Furthermore, the principle that determined what specific
investments were made was that these investments furthered the hospitals' capacities to create an integrated
patient record and illuminate the actual cost of the various lines of hospital services rendered. To the extent
that the MISS investments succeed in highlighting the actual costs of services, they promote greater
efficiencies in hospital management. In turn, this should free up hospital resources for sustaining and
extending these information systems (among other investment and operational activities).  On a
technological level, the MISS investments advanced the hospitals' capacity to sustain, expand and extend
the systems by allowing the hospitals to shift towards a more open system / vendor-neutral technology
platforrn, based on EU health information standards (specifically the CEN Technical Committee 251
Health Information Standard Architecture model).
Secondary Prevention
Cost-effectiveness studies have been prepared to demonstrate the savings that can be achieved at a national
level from secondary screening, based on the experience of the pilot sites. Although these studies have not
always been completely convincing (especially colorectal screening), the government bas decided to opt for
a gradual three year implementation.
National Health Interview Survey
The financing of this activity has been completely covered from MOH resources since the second loan
amendment, although the Bank financed from its own resources the involvement of CDC. The MOH (and
EFKI) assumed full ownership in the process. As a result of international reporting requirements arising
from OECD membership and the coming EU membership, the sustainability of the sub-component is
guaranteed.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The project was prepared in 1991-1992. These years corresponded to the initial phase of socio-economic
transition from planned socialist to market economy. Expectations and ambitions were high for quickly
addressing problems inherited from the past. This project was also the first operation for the Bank in the
-20 -



Hungarian health sector. In retrospect, the project design was too complex and project objectives too
ambitious. In hindsight, there was a misjudgment of the country's ability to reform a deep rooted and
politically very complex sector. This criticism about complex project design and high ambitions is typical
for most of the early ECA health projects. On the other hand it is important to note that this project was
spearheading health sector investmnents in ECA and, like all pioneers in unchartered territory, was
understandably susceptible to mistakes.
At the time of project preparation, there was very little credible sector analysis available. The Bank
attempted to replace the lack of analytical knowledge with a very high level of international expertise to
help to prepare the project. This certainly raised the level of policy dialogue, but lacked country and
context sensitivity that resulted in lack of ownership among the policy makers. Frequent changes of
external experts and the knowledge gap between local and external experts contributed to lack of ownership
and hindered knowledge transfer. Whereas the project objectives were (and still are) clearly in line with
the main issues in the health sector and public health priorities, the lack of monitoring indicators of the
project turned the objectives into mere rhetoric and made it very difficult to demonstrate progress.
There was no formal assessment of the Borrower's procurement and financial management capacity. Since
the project was one of the first World Bank projects in Hungary and the first in the health sector,
familiarity with the Bank project management procedures was low. The planned remedies to this situation
at the time of appraisal were a loan condition to hire an international management firm to assist the Project
Coordination Unit and significant World Bank staff inputs for supervision.
The Bank team had adequately assessed several risks affecting the project outcome. Measures to cope with
risks did not fully prevent the risks from materializing. For example, it was expected that the graduates of
the proposed Schools of Public Health and Health Services Management would improve management
capacity, but in reality the impact of the measure has a serious time lag and requires a certain critical mass
to be created. This measure was further weakened by a delayed establishment of the schools. There were
some risks that were not identified but in retrospect had impact on project outcomes, e.g. political
instability of the Government, frequent changes in health sector leadership, and the complex and politically
charged character of health system reform itself. More than half of the loan funds were canceled during the
two restructuring exercises. Whereas part of the canceled funds came from canceled or down scaled
activities, in retrospect it could be said that some of the costs were over-estimated in terms of unit cost as
well as in terms of absorptive capacity of the country. Bank performance during preparation of the
project is rated Unsatisfactory. The unsatisfactory performance evaluation of the project preparation
period in hindsight is mitigated by the fact that: (i) the project was one of the very first health operations in
the ECA region and no experience had been accumulated before; (ii) high expectations in general for the
speed of socio-economic transition and institutional capacity in the formerly socialist countries.
7.2 Supervision:
During the implementation period, the project was supervised by five consecutive task managers, three of them
posted in the field. The learning curve of new task managers, compounded by counterpart changes contributed to a
lack of continuity of project management. The Bank conducted regular supervision missions, there were adequate
financial SPN resources available, resulting in additional TA services for the client beyond just project supervision.
Mission composition included sector specialists (public health and health economics), procurement specialists,
MIS specialists among others. Those task managers residing in the Bank Office in Budapest benefited from close
proximity with the client. All task managers were also health sector specialists and were effective counterparts for
the Government on substantial technical issues and policy dialogue. The Bank ratings on project performance
were adequate, and unsatisfactory project performance ratings led to restructuring of the project. The Procurement
Accredited Staff (PAS) of the project was also a based at the Resident Mission and his presence in the field
facilitated the procurement procedures. A general issue that contributed negatively to the supervision impact was
-21 -



the fact that the Bank accepted until 1998 the auditing services of the National Bank of Hungary (for the entire
Bank poitfolio in Hungary). The auditing did never comply with internationally acceptable auditing and
accounting standards and was therefor only of limited benefit for the supervision team.
The Bank's performance has been scrutinized twice by the Bank's own internal Quality Assessment Group
(QAG). In 1997 the team was singled out by the QAG for its exemplary supervision work and rated Highly
Satisfactory/Best Practice, mostly based on the achievements at the MTR. In 1999 the team was evaluated
again, this time based on the second restructuring of the project that resulted in the loan cancellation of
US$50 million. The Bank team's supervision performance was rated Satisfactory. Bank overall
performance during supervision is rated as Satisfactory.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
The overall Bank peiformance Is rated (marginally) Satisfactory. The evaluation team had difficulties
to arrive at a sound consolidated rating for Bank performance (unsatisfactory preparation and satisfactory
supervision) as the scale does not allow an average rating. After carefully weighing all the evidence the
decision tipped in favor of an overall (marginally) satisfactory rating. The principal reasons were: (a) The
Bank's limited responsibility for preparation and implementation (while the Bank provides technical
assistance, the Borrower is leading preparation and implementation) - the Bank provided more than
adequate resources for LEN and SPN, resulting in SPN from key staff in the field, borrower support with
cutting edge TA and international experts, as well as proactive approach in improving performance through
restructuring; (b) Positive evaluations of QAG at critical junctures of the project resulted in satisfactory
Bank performance ratings; (c) the Borrower's independent rating of Bank performance as satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The government performance during project identification and preparation was problematic and should be
rated unsatisfactory at face value. However, there were objective reasons for low performance, including
underestimation of implementation complexities because of inexperience with Bank projects and lack of
previous contacts with extemal consultants leading to misunderstandings and communication problems.
This led to the Bank and external consultants taking much of the initiative in the design of the project and
resulted in a lack of government commitment and ownership.  In conclusion, the government
performance is rated conditionally Satisfactory.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Evaluation of the government performance during implementation is difficult The key implementation
problem was lack of perspective about what the project intended to achieve. As noted above, the project
lacked agreed indicators that would have made the project Development Objectives tangible. As a result, a
number of outputs from project activities were not mainstreamed into government policies and activities.
There was a disconnect between the PMU as implementing agency and the policy makers in the government
and government institutions. The project did not have effective steering mechanisms at the government
level. The two Steering Groups - Close the Gap Committee and the External Advisory Group could not
effectively serve as bodies providing the implementing agencies policy guidance and ensuring proper
accountability mechanisms.  The root cause of poor performance is again the often cited lack of
Govenmment ownership of the project.
Another important reason behind lack of ownership is the three changes in governments. The incoming
governments always treated the HSMP as the project and the experts of the previous regime. This further
weakened govemment commitment to carry out the activities and to work together with the staff of the
PMU and with the leaders of the subcomponents. As a result, there were severe disruptions at times of
governmental changes and continuity was compromised.
-22 -



An additional issue regarding govemment's performance is auditing. Between 1993 and 1998 the project
was audited by a firm that did not comply with internationally accepted auditing standards. However, it is
also true that the Bank accepted this non-standard audit (for the entire Bank portfolio) until the very last
year of the project The government performance is rated unsatisfactory.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The Project Management Unit (PMU) was established by the Ministry of Welfare to implement the project.
The PMU was inadequately staffed and relied on consultants and inexperienced project coordinators in the
implementing agencies. A number of activities were successfully implemented and outputs produced under
the project. Project implementation on the implementing agency level also suffered from a lack of
perspective in terms of expected project impact and inadequate reporting and accountability arrangements
in place that prevented adequate operational assessment. The PMU implementing agency performance is
rated as Satisfactory under the circumstances.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall Borrower performance is rated unsatisfactory. Again - the team had difficulties to arrive at a
sound consolidated rating that truly reflects the complexity of the matter. The root cause for poor project
performance originates from a lack of Government ownership and leadership. Health care was not among
the priorities of post-commnunist Hungary, and it was rather seen as a distraction as the country focused
principally on market liberalization and EU accession. Public policy appeared to be captured by special
interests while the health status of the Hungarian population is still among the worst in Eastem Europe. It
appears that even in the near future this scenario will not substantially change. The Governments during the
implementation period failed to proactively adopt the project for their policy needs and did not establish
appropriate steering mechanisms to ensure policy relevance and accountability, despite continuous
guidance and advice from leading experts in the public health field (Expert Consultative Group - ECG). To
the contrary, all govemments seemed to view the HSMP as an outside or only collateral element triggering
few attempts to integrate and mainstream the project's implementation achievements. Other agencies, such
as the EU, OECD, CDC and WHO at different times arrived at similar critical reviews of the Hungarian
health sector performance.
8. Lessons Learned
*      Ownership. Govemment commitment to the project is essential for successful implementation of
the Project. The Bank may want to test the government commitment through well selected conditionalities.
The Bank should be ready to take immediate action if government commitment is shown to waiver with
regard to conditionalities. The government commitment should be supported also by a well analyzed
mapping of the commitment of main stakeholders and beneficiaries of the proposed project, as well as
inclusion of them in the project preparation and implementation process.
*      Politics matter. The extremely political nature of health reform should be recognized as a risk.
Ambitions and scope should be adjusted accordingly. In addition, projects should be designed in a more
flexible manner to accommodate changing priorities of changing governments without loosing the main
focus. In transition countries, changes in governments often mean complete changes of regimes. In this
context, it is crucial to depoliticize the staff and the activities of the PCU.
*      Government Strategy. One of the main reasons behind this project's failure was that there was
no government strategy to which the subcomponents of the HSMP could feed into. Therefore, part of the
preparatory exercise should be for the government to enact a long term strategy, where it envisages how it
- 23 -



wants to use the outputs of the project. It is another question, however to guarantee that if there is a change
in govemment, the new government would still accept the previous one's strategy.
*      Too many consultants. The HSMP was a consultant driven project, with marginal involvement of
the MOH's own staff. While this is a typical characteristic of World Bank projects, it entails the inherent
risk of being rejected by the government. The solution is to find a fine line between bringing in fresh, new
people and involving the administration.
*      Absorption Capacity. In retrospect it can be noted that the US$132 million was too much money
for the purposes envisaged. At the initial phase this lead to irresponsible behavior on the part of the
subcomponent leaders and to very high consulting fees. This gave a very bad image to the whole project
and alienated many people. This became apparent, when there was a change in the government and the in
oming staff already had a negative attitude toward the project, without really knowing it. The fact that
even local consultants working on the project earned several times more than the Minister did not help
either. As a result, high consulting fees were associated with the Bank. In turn people referred to the World
Bank project as very expensive. In reality, however, it was the government which set and paid these fees
(sometimes even contrary to the Bank's advice).
*      Transparency/Communication. The fact that the PCU director controls a large amount of
development funds is very sensitive. Therefore the Bank and the government should make sure that the
technical staff of the PCU conducts its business in a transparent way and that this is well communicated to
the outside world. Extensive documentation could be very important in this respect, including regular
reporting. A truly independent audit would also serve this goal.
*      Communication of the Bank. The Bank and its field office should be much more proactive in
communicating with the media and other stakeholders (including political parties in opposition as well),
explaining what we do, where we stand, how we work. This would greatly decrease the disruptions at times
of new government. Without this active communication, new governments have false ideas of what the
World Bank is and how it works. As a result, in Hungary new governments often acted based on their
initial impressions first, and by the time they understood how the Bank functions, and what the HSMP is
about, it was too late.
*      Complex design. A complex project design increases project risk considerably and can only be
justified in case there is strong project implementation capacity and very strong commitment from the
government.
*      Link between project and policy. There should be a strong linkage between the PCU and policy
makers. Policy makers should be involved in the activities at least in a strategic way. Design of an effective
project steering mechanism that involves people with decision making capacity and ability to provide policy
guidance is essential for proper policy supervision and accountability of project implementation. Over
reliance on steering groups and advisory bodies involving foreign experts may pose a risk for government
ownership. Such international advisors should only be included at the request by the government.
*      Performance Monitoring. Well designed Development Objective and implementation indicators
are absolutely essential for keeping the project focused and adequate evaluation of project progress.
- 24 -



*      Project Management. Assurances need to be obtained about project management capacity. PCU
staff should be trained already during the project preparation process in Bank procedures and general
project management. Steps need to be taken to retain qualified staff in the PCU.
Lessons Learned from the Management Information Support Systems Subcomponent:
Successful implementation of the MISS component after restructuring of the project provided valuable
lessons for implementation of MIS activities under Bank projects. There are few examples in the Bank that
could serve as best practice and the evaluation team suggests that this project could be one. The following
principles helped the MISS subcomponent "survive" substantial change in the project context, including
two governments, four ministers of health, and four Bank task managers (during 1996-2000 alone).
*  open competition and strict transparency in all selection processes.
*  separation of professional methodology from decision-taking.
*  roles and responsibilities of all partners explicitly stated and formalized into legal-binding
contracts.
*  unique and explicit chain of authority.
*  exploitation of internationally recognized standards and practices.
*  careful documentation and document management.
Also, a fundamental lesson of the MISS is that exploration and "learning-by-doing" are inescapable parts
of information systems projects. These must be designed into the project planning and implementation
arrangements (e.g., structured yet flexible contracts, phasing of work, quality assurance procedures, etc,).
In retrospect, the MISS highlights a number of fundamental issues for the design of projects in the health
sector that include strengthening information system tools as a central element. Very briefly, these fall into
two broad set of questions.
* what is the most appropriate structure of information systems to support heath care on a
national basis?
* what is the most appropriate package of institutional development and information system
investments?
Summary of Lessons Learned
Finally, and notwithstanding all the previous negative comments, we should remember above all that this
project was a pathbreaker in the health scene in ECA and was understandably susceptible to mistakes.
This should not diminish its value, both to the Bank as well as to other countries in the region. Through
this project, we learned how to do certain things, and how NOT to do others. Much of the value gained
from this project is embodied in the quality and performance of health projects in other countries in the
region that followed in Hungary's footsteps. Despite its complexity and lack of operational details, looking
back today one can see that the seeds planted in Hungary on hard and unwelcoming earth have borne
saplings and stronger trees in other parts of the region. Despite shortcomings in quality at entry, and
various disappointments, this project was an important milestone in the evolution of our health sector
involvement in the ECA region, and paved the way for bigger and better things that followed soon after.
-25 -



9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Comments from-the Ministrv of Finance:
The following short remarks are made in relation to the Implementation Completion Report.
1.     In our position, the Ministry of Health is responsible for the evaluation of the completion report. The
purposes of the project underpinned the health-policy objectives relevant at the time of the elaboration of the
project. During the phase of implementation the health policy priorities changed, therefore the project restructuring
became necessary including the elimination of certain program elements.
2.     The completion report found that one of the main causes of abolishing the loan was the fact that budget
treatment of World Bank loans changed in 1998, adversely affecting the ministries' attitude. In this context we
should note that fiscal planning of the projects implemented in co-operation with international development
institutions makes a technical task for the Ministry of Finance, therefore it could not encounter any difficulty to the
successful accomplishment.
Comments from the National Bank of Huneary:
REVIEW OF THE HEALTH SERVICES AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Achievements and Problems as Seen from the Perspective of the NBl
Background and Objectives
The objectives of the originally USD 91,0 M loan were (1) to improve the health status of Hungary by supporting
the Borrower's public health program and the Government's program of restructuring the health sector and (2) to
provide more efficient and higher quality care by strengthening the institutional capacity of the health sector.
Implementation
During the implementation of the project many changes occurred in the priorities of the policy reforms in health
care and finance and in the leadership of the M0W/MOH. These changes slowed down the implementation of the
project and affected adversely the utilisation of the loan proceeds:
Following the mid-term review in late 1996, after the third unsatisfactory rating of the project, the Hungarian
authorities and the World Bank team agreed upon - without the modification of the development objectives of the
project - a performance improvement and action program, as follows: the project activities, where implementation
had not started or had been ineffective were discontinued ( e.g. Close the Gap Program) and the unused resources,
originally allocated to these activities were reallocated to new activities ( e.g. Health Services Modernization
Component) and to well perforning ongoing activities.
After the elections the health policy priorities of the newly elected Government changed and the top management
of the Ministry of Health decided to maintain the project's original closing date of June 2000 (the previous
Government intended to extend it at least 18 months) and to cancel the Health Services Delivery Modernization
Component and the second phase of the Management Information Support System Component. Therefore the
Borrower requested the Bank to cancel DEM  85,3 million (app. USD 50,0 million) from the loan amount in May
1999.
-26-



Relationship with the Bank
The relationship and co-operation between the Bank and the Hungarian counterparts during the identification,
preparation, appraisal, implementation and restructuring of the project was very good. The flexible attitude of the
World Bank staff largely contributed to solve the problems emerging during the project implementation.
Assessment of Outcome, Lessons Learnt
In spite of the above mentioned problems the project had some successful subcomponents, such as the
establishment of the School of Public Health in Debrecen and the Health Services Management Training Center in
Budapest and the setting up of the Management Information Support System.
The main lessons learned through the implementation of Health Services and Management project are the
followings:
-   A too complex and over-ambitious project design, mainly in a politically sensitive sector and in a changing
environment is very dangerous and affects adversely the project implementation, while a smaller, more simple
and clear project design could be more successful,
-   During a long-term (7 years) project, which also has policy aspects, the priorities of the different
Governments can change, in conclusion the strong ownership of the program and the commitment of the
Goverunent could not be maintained during the project implementation.
Comments from the Ministry of Health:
In addition to an extensive Implementation Completion Report prepared by the Ministry of Health, the
MOH has also provided its comments in an analogous format as the Bank's report and is attached in
section 10.
(b) Cofinanciers:
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
10. Additional Information
Comments of the Ministry of Health
There is no principle difference between the Implementation Completion Reports of the World Bank and of the
Client but in some reasoning and rating. It could be agreed that the main objectives of the Health Services and
Management Project (HSMP) were not fully reached. In fact these objectives were long term goals and it was not
expected by any expert that they will be reached. See some explanations in the specific comments. The assessment
of the project including the reasoning and explanations of successes and failures are close to each other. The PMU
would like to raise some points to convince the World Bank to change their ratings in some instances and accept
ours. We tried to be as objective as possible using results; outcomes, outputs rather than impressions.
-27 -



General Comments
The Health Services and Management Project was the first comprehensive health project in Hungary using World
Bank loan and regulations. HSMP was one of the first human development health project of the World Bank in the
ECA region. These facts meant several difficulties in running the Project. It has well shown in the HSMP rating.
The ratings did not have well defined criteria at the beginning. As we have already stated in our ICR the
performance indicators were developed only after the Mid Term Review. In the industrial projects of the World
Bank disbursement rates were the most important indicators in the assessment because they show the
accomplishment of the investment During the course of HSMP it was realised that disbursement rate itself did not
satisfy the project assessment in the health field of human development. A World Bank document - Performance
monitoring indicators - was only published in 1996.
Taking into consideration the long time lag between the intervention and the effect in public health programmes is
making the assessment of the project even more difficult. In spite of the substantial downscaling of the project
(from US$91 million to US$41 million), the general development objectives were not revised, as they were defined
not as a target during the project but as a long term aim.
The HSMP had three main objctives:
*   to contribute to improving the health status of the Hungarian population by supporting public health
programs aimned at reducing risk factors contributing to the high prevalence of non-communicable
diseases;
* to support the Govermment's program of health sector restructuring with the aim of improving internal
efficiency;
*   to provide more efficient and higher quality care by strengthening the institutional capacity of the health
sector in policy-making, management and evaluation.
The basic rationale and the general objectives remain valid at the time of project completion as they were at the
inception of the project.
It means that these objectives were long term aims and the assessment should consider whether the HSMP
contributed to the improvement of health status and supported the strengthening of the institutional capacity and of
health sector restructuring.
The Project had two main components:
(1)    Health Services Development Component having two sub-components:
(i)    public health and disease prevention;
(ii)   institutional care, and
(2)    Policy Making and Management Component including the following sub-components:
(i)    public health and management training;
(ii)   management support systems.
Assessing the second component and its sub-components received highly satisfactory ratings, because the two
schools providing training in public health and health services management were established, curricula were
developed and accredited, students received their diplomas to mention only a few very important indicators. This
-28 -



was a big step forward on the road aiming at the development of future contemporary public health and health
service management which are indispensable in reaching the defined objective. The results attained by the MISS
getting also highly satisfactory rating can be assessed in the same way as the public health and management
training. This means that the second and third objectives were supported by strengthening institutional capacity
and in the long term health sector restructuning as well.
Two sub-components were closed:
*   Renewal of National Public Health and Medical Officer Services (NPHMOS), and
*   the Health Service Delivery Modernisation
which might have contributed further to health sector restructuring.
As regards the first component the assessment of institutional care receiving satisfactory rating contributed to the
development of health infrastructure which might contribute to the improvement in the health status of the
Hungarian population.
The most difficult evaluation is the component of Public Health and Disease Prevention. This component was very
comprehensive containing the most numerous individual projects showing that this area was the most neglected in
the field of health, particularly non communicable diseases and their determinants. The sub-component received
unsatisfactory rating from the reviewers of the World Bank. There were seven subprojects with the following
ratings:
Name of sub-component                                             Rating
Heart healthy nutrition in Hungary                             Unsatisfactory
National health interview survey                                Satisfactory
Primary prevention (Kalocsa)                                   Unsatisfactory
Renewal of National Public Health and Medical Officer          Unsatisfactory
Services (NPHMOS)
School health                                                   Satisfactory
Secondary prevention                                            Satsfactory
Tobacco and alcohol policy development                         Unsatisfactory
We agree that the Renewal of NPHMOS in spite of all our efforts did not attain any valuable results, therefore, this
programme can be regarded as unsatisfactory. The Heart Healthy Nutrition, the Primary Prevention, and the
Tobacco and Alcohol Policy Development subprojects even through they could not reach a breakthrough like the
other sub-components receiving satisfactory and highly satisfactory ratings their contribution to the future public
health and disease prevention has been substantial.
The already elaborated materials, communication and other health education programmes, the achieved results in
communities, and in the different population segments are the first and most difficult steps in health promotion
and disease prevention.
-29-



The involvement of communities for health actions, the inclusion of industry, trade, and other sectors to the
solution of health issues, the participation of opinion leaders and decision makers in these programmes were
important activities on the field and were effectively developed in these sub-components.
The trained expert and focus groups which are at present available for the continuation of programmes have an
utmnost importance. This was the basis which was created by HSMP and would sustain activities including fund
raising and developing and extend the programme in the future. The established non-governmental organisations
like the Association for a Healthy Hungary, the Getting Healthy Together Association, the Hungarian Alliance for
Tobacco Control are assuring the future operation of these programmes. As in our report I would suggest to change
the individual ratings and the overall ratings from unsatisfactory to satisfactory. At the chapter of special comment
we are giving the detailed answers to the individual sub-components.
Our suggestion to principal performance ratings are:
Outcome:                                              S
Sustainability.                                       L
Institutional development:                            M
Impact:                                               M
Bank performance                                      S
Borrower performance                                  U
Special comments
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry. We agree with the analysis of this
chapter.
4. Achievemnent of Objective and Outputs. In a handbook for task managers - Performance monitoring indicators -
(published by Operation Policy Department World Bank Washington D.C. 1996) it is clearly defined that there is a
hierarchy of objectives and the link to performance indicators. The logical frarnework of all components and
sub-components defned the two development objective categories: the impact and the outcome objectives. The
three objectives used in SAR and in ICR are at the highest hierarchy level showing impact objectives which are
long termn goals. It was not assumed that they will be reached by the end of HSMP.
Objective 1. To contribute to improving the health status of the Hungarian population by supporting public health
programs aimed at reducing riskfactors contributing to the high prevalence of non-communicable diseases.
The reasoning that the "modest improvement in the aggregate indicators of general health status of the Hungarian
population, there is no evidence that project contributed to this in a measurable way" is valid. In fact the project
was not designed to provide proofs for the success of health promotion activities in Hungary, even if the results of
HSMP would have been much stronger, evidence could not be gained. It would be almost impossible to get
evidence that the project contributed to the changes even if the time lag were longer.
-30 -



The other reasoning that the achievement of first objective received unsatisfactory grading was; - The general
impression of the evaluation team is that several processes oriented outputs have been carried out (a number of
studies: experiments, pilot programmes, large number of students took courses on healthy lifestyles in elementary
schools, different organisations have been established for anti-tobacco advocacy), however, none of those have been
integrated into a national framework or into a national policy. Hence there is a fair chance that these activities will
remain isolated and will not be sustainable. On the other hand there is a potential that at some point of the future
project outputs will be used and will contribute.
The outcome indicators (which are partly listed above in the brackets of the quote) were almost all fulfilled (see in
client's ICR pp.24-25). Referring to the above WB document output is not a development objective but a project
management one. The attained outcome indicators which are giving more direct information on the performance of
the Project should be evaluated as attained.
The line department in the Ministry of Health has developed the Hungarian Strategy and Programme of Health
Promotion with the priorities, containing all the issues dealt in HSMP. It would be difficult to avoid the use of
HSMP results. - Impression - is not a real evaluating tool, therefore, we may suggest that on the basis of already
achieved results of sustainability and institutionalisation together with the new programme and strategy of MOH
the project should be considered sustainable.
In the light of the above reasoning and evaluation we suggest to change the rating of objective 1. from
unsatisfactory to satisfactory.
Obiective 2. To support the Government's program of health sector restructuring with the aim of improving
internal efficiency.
Most activities related to this objective were cancelled from the project at the second restructuring exercise. We
agree with the rating of unsatisfactory but you may consider change in the rating because the Policy Making and
Management Component included: (i) public health and management training; (ii) management support systems
sub-components which provided an important contribution to this objective.
Objective 3. To provide more efficient and higher quality care by strengthening the institutional capacity of the
health sector in policy-making, management and evaluation.
We agree with the evaluation and reasoning. The overall project performance rating should also be changed from
unsatisfactory to satisfactory if our previous comments are accepted. "Government conscious effort" might be
assumed if the strategy and progranme of the MOH elaborated recently will be accepted by the government.
Comments by component outputs
Component: Health Services Development. Implementation rating: Marginally Satisfactory
Sub-component: Public Health and Disease Prevention
Implementation rating: Unsatisfactory
(i)    Strengthening of the National Public Health and Medical Officer's Service (ANTSZ);
implementation rating: unsatisfactory. We agree with the reasoning and rating.
(ii)   Primary prevention activity cluster
(a)    Tobacco and Alcohol Policy Development; implementation rating: unsatisfactory. We
understand that implementation rating became unsatisfactory because little ministerial
comrnitment to any specific policy activities has been evident. An inter-sector board was
- 31 -



to have been established by the government, a focal point in the MOH was to have been
appointed, and some budget was to have been assigned to tobacco control. These were
not developed. On the other hand legislation has been introduced in Parliament (Act of
advertising, and Act of non smoker protection; environmental tobacco smoke, and
taxation). Several good studies on alcohol and tobacco policy were developed, coalition
was establisbed: Alliance for Tobacco Control. Intemational meeting was organised and
held in Budapest CGC supported previous programme developed several elements of
tobacco control programmes as public education and training, cessation programmes,
etc. Several important outcomes and outputs of the programme are underlying the result
and usefulness of this sub-component. Several aspects were taken over by the
Cardiovascular Prevention programme called the Healthy Heart programme.
Co-ordination with the School Health subproject was established. Taking into
consideration all aspects in the assessment you may consider the sub-component
marginally satisfactory.
(b)    Cardiovascular Disease Prevention Policy Development: This sub-component was
cancelled. The programme plan was not requested by the ICR team earlier. It is
available if necessary. The programme is still going on and is co-operating in addition to
the tobaco policy programme with several institutions, implementation agencies,
non-governmental organisations involved in the HSMP as Heart Healthy Nutrition,
EFKI, NEFI, School of Public Health, Alliance for Tobacco Control, etc.
(c)    Chronic Disease Primary Prevention Demonstration: - This activity cluster is rated as
unsatisfactory for the reasons cited. It did not accomplish the original development
objectives, and it appears as though the cost-effectiveness of the interventions is quite
low. - The reasoning for the rating is not acceptable. In fact the outcome indicators have
shown that almost all were changed to the expected direction (see detailed ICR pp.
90-95 and Appendices of detailed ICR pp. 213-258) including tobacco smoking,
nutrition, physical activity, hypertension, serum cholesterol and other indicators of KAP.
It is true that a quasi experimental set up like in the North Karelia project was not
established and a Hungarian HANES was not carried out to assure a proper comparison
between the intervention and reference area as it was described in the SAR. The quasi
experimental set up with one reference area, HANES with country-wide information
would not give more statistical strength to the evaluation. It is stated in the reviewers
report that "A baseline survey was done but only after the project had been
imnplemented" as an explanation to jeopardise outcome. In fact the implementation was
slow and it would have never changed this outcomne. Assuming that the interventions
were already operating in the population the outcome should have been evaluated even
as a bigger success. It is true that the low response rate hampered the favourable
outcome. On the other hand it is a well known epidemiological fact that even small
changes in the risk factors of the population result in significant changes in morbidity
and mortality as it is shown by the multiple logistic function. The Kalocsa
demonstration project as a first generation community programme has also proven that
communities can be mobilised for health. The community health plan programmes have
been developed already in 150 communities. They pledge the sustainability of the
community programmes and the use of Kalocsa results and experiences. Based on the
favourable outcomes and the well spread know how to other communities which enables
the sustainability of programme, we suggest a satisfactory implementation rate to the
subcomponent.
(d)    Heart Healthy Nutrition is rated unsatisfactory. The evaluation was based only on the
logo and its use in the support of funding the programme in the future. In addition to
this the programme established an important coalition including several sectors;
industry, trade, agriculture, private and state institutions. The Association for Healthy
-32 -



Hungary is giving the frame and the future basis for further activities. The consumer
education programme was not as successful as expected. The messages did not reach
more than 11% of the total population mainly the high middle class people. The people
reached by the programme changed their attitude and behaviour according to the
expected direction. The programme could not attain a breakthrough to develop a proper
food and nutrition policy since this needs more time, but it has established the basis for
future activities which may create the conditions to develop a prudent policy for
changing the risky diet of the Hungarian population. Based on all the achieved results of
the programme we suggest satisfactoxy rating.
(e)    School Health is rated satisfactory. We fully agree with the reasoning and rating.
(f)    National Health Interview Survey is rated sasfactory. We fully agree with the reasoning
and rating. We would like to raise your attention to the important scientific support from
the National Centre for Health Statistics US.
(iii)  Secondary prevention cluster is rated satisfactory. We should mention that important changes
occurred in the subprojects. We shall explain them individual under their own headings.
(a)    Cancer register: our assessment was highly satisfactory based on the same reasoning for
this activity. The further three received satisfactory self rating.
(b)    Cervical screening programnme: The Health Insurance Fund Population Register became
available for the screening programme. Insurance number will be used for identification.
Systematic screening will be started from next year. Government Decree and MOH
regulations are prepared to support systematic screening programmes.
(c)    Breast screening programme: Systematic screening will be started from next year.
Government Decree and MOH regulations are prepared to support systematic screening
programmes.
(d)    Colo-rectal screening programme: Systematic screening will be started from next year.
Government Decree and MOH regulations are prepared to support systematic screening
programmes. The controversial status changed. Several studies brought convincing
evidence on the effectiveness of colo-rectal screeningl. Based on these studies the
international expert community recognised systematic colo-rectal screening as an
evidence based activity.
Sub-component: Institutional Care. Implementation rating: We fully agree with the reasoning and rating.
Sub-component: Health Services Delivery Modernisation. Implementation rating not rated. We fully agree with
the reasoning and not rating.
Component: Policy Making and Management: Implementation rating:satisfactory. We fully agree with the
reasoning and rating.
Sub-component: Public Health and Management Training. Implementation rating:highly satisfactory. We fully
agree with the reasoning and rating. We announce that the second class was already graduated.
Sub-component: Management lnformation Support System. Implementation rating:highly satisfactory. We fully
agree with the reasoning and rating. We have two small comments:
>      The correct name for the applied European health informatics pre-standard is: Healthcare
Information System Architecture (HISA) and not Standard Architecture.
- 33 -



>      In the Vas County group of beneficiary hospitals the reorganisation of one big and four small
hospitals into three hospitals was not the result of, only influenced by the MIS developmnent
process.
Sub-component: Project Management Unit: Implementation rating: satisfactory. We fully agree with the reasoning
and rating.
Sub-component: Pre-investnent Studies. Implementation rating not rated. We fully agree with the reasoning and
rating.
- 34 -



Summary rating by components
Based on the reasoning above we are suggesting the following ratings:
Component A. Health Services Development                             S
A.1. Public health and disease prevention                             S
Strengthening NPHMOS                                                 U
Primary Prevention Activity Cluster                                  S
Secondary Prevention Activity Cluster                                S
A.2. Institutional Care                                               S
A.3. Health Services Delivery Modernisation                          NR
Component B. Policy Making and Management                            S
B.J.Public Health and Management Training                            HS
School of Public Health                                              HS
Health Services Management Taining Centre                            HS
B.2. Management Support System                                       HS
MOW Computing Centre                                                  S
Management Information Support System                                HS
B.3. Project Management Unit                                          S
B.4. Pre-investment Studies                                          NR
We agree with the assessment of institutional development impact. The earlier mentioned MOH strategy and
programme of health promotion gives higher priority for health promotion and disease prevention to new public
health. Several experts were involved in the committee preparing the above document who were taking part in the
HSMP fellowship programmne and were active participants in its programme components. Part of the PMU project
management capacity is now used for PHARE and bilateral health projects.
5. Major factors affecting implementation and outcome: We agree with the assessment.
6. Sustdaiabilit
Overall sustainability of the project was rated unlikely by the World Bank reviewers because they assume that
without significant governmental support the activities started under the project are not viable. Government
commitment is a necessary but not sufficient condition to sustain the activities. On the other hand all components
and sub-components established the basis of their future activities. Non governmental organisations have taken
over leadership and trying to find government support with more or less success.
-35-



They are making efforts to find other sources and sponsors, and are making an important contribution to the
development of the NGO sector, which is in great need and slowly progressing in Hungary. All programmes have
their own governmental or non governmental leadership. The likelihood would be certainly higher with
governmental support as a priority programme but rating unlikely is underestimating the strength of civic
organisations in Hungary. -
it would have been easier to integrate the project as a whole into health policy but it was unlikely from the
beginning. Some efforts were initiated (Public Health Programme Unit- NPHMOS co-operation) but failed. The
external steering mechanism was not regarded to be continued, their role was catalysing and helping programme
development and after to withdraw. Accepting the importance of the government role it has also its disadvantages
as changes in government or even ministers are changing priorities.
On the other hand devoted non governmental organisations will keep their priorities and they will be dedicated to
their affairs. The ownership of non-governmental organisations in all public health programmes assures the
sustainability of programmes without having no government support at present
Our suggestion for overall sustainability of project is rated likely.
We agree with the section describing the activities most likely to be sustained (HSMTC, SPH, MISS,SP, NHIS).
7. Bank and borrower performance
We agree with the reasoning and overall Bank perfornance rating: Satisfactory.
We agree with the reasoning of the Government performance and also with the rating: conditionally satisfactory.
Government implementation perfonnance is rated unsatisfactory. The reasoning is correct in our opinion and based
on this we accept rating.
PMU the implementing agency received satisfactory under the circumstances. The reasoning and rating are
acceptable.
Overall Borrower Performance is rated unsatisfactory. The reasoning is correct.
8. Lessons learned
Congratulation for the excellent summnary of lessons learned.
Annex 1. Key performance indicators
In the annex 1. of the Client's ICR are the most recent results.
Annex 5. Ratings for achievement We agree with the rating.
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower performance. I personally agree with the rating.
9. Partners comment
(a)    Borrower implementing agency
>      The objectives of the project were well defned and helping the developmnent of health reform
particularly the Public Health and Managernent Training, the Management Infonnation Support
System, and some sub-components of the Public Health components.
-36 -



>        The use of international consultants was overemphasised, particularly at the sub-component
level.
>        HSMP would have needed more policy support from WB at the government level.
(b)      Implementing Agency
        Ownership was not sufficiently developed at the level of implementation agency, the
sub-components were regarded in most cases as consultants or interested scientists led activities.
        Frequent administrative changes at the implementation agency level have brought priority
changes and damaged further ownership feeling.
(c)      Other partners (NGOs/private sector)
>        NGOs became real partners in the sub-components of the project and some of them have
important responsibility in the sustainability of programnnes.
>        The programme has given a well defined technical substance and increased the identity of the
organisation
>        It has increased the respect of the NGOs without giving them political authority, further political
commitrnent is necessary on behalf of the government
>        The programmes are important steps in the sustainability of NGOs
>        Proper co-operation did not develop with private sector.
Acknowledgement
We would like to thank the World Bank for their detailed assessment and their effort to assist in the future
development of Hungarian Health reform. The reform process has been slower hian we expected years ago, but the
World Bank Project has played an important role in providing input in the form of studies, experiments, training,
methodology and an increasing number of local experts both in the governmental and the non-governmental
sectors.
IMandeL JS., et aL: Reducing mortality from colorecal cancer by screening for fecal occult blood test. New England loumal of Medicine, 328:
1365-1371, 1993.
Kronborg O. et al: Randomised study of screenming for colorectal cancer with faecal occult blood test. Lancet, 348: 1467-1471, 1996.
Hardcsde, J.D., et al: Randomised control trial of faccal occult blood screening for colorectal cancer. Lancet, 348: 1472-1477, 1996.
MandeL J.S., et al.: Colorectal cancer mortality: Effectiveness of biennial screening for faccal occult blood test. J. National Cancer Inst., 91: 434-437,
1999.
- 37 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indc fctors:
Two nationwide programs are to be launched
by 1999 hI the are of nutrition and
smoking.
A sustaiable Tobacco Contol Network - an                                  Oanaon has been fonned.
umbrlla-ouganisation lor the most relvant
Hungarian NGOs and GOs - wil be
estabished by 1999 which wil plan,
co-ordinate and npbment tobacoo control
programmes and wil Influence the process
of tobacco contrd plcy making.
By 2000 the number of Heart Heithy"W
rertified food products wil be at last 100
and the recogniion of the Heart Hasty bigo
will be at east 15% among the adult
population by 2000.
In the piot area of the Primary Preventin
component the proportion of people with a
positive atfitde towards physical activity will
increase by 15% by 2000 and the proporbon
of people with a positive atitude towards
healthier nutrition wit increase by 15%.
Regional strategic proposals wiN be prepa3rd                              Consorta were formed but the project
by the Consortia on restructuring health                                  component designed to support their
services in the respective regions by 1998.                               restructuring proposals was canceled.
85% of graduates who obtained pubic health                                85% rtum of the students obtained degrees
related degrees aborad are empoy sd h the                                 in the framework of the "M.Sc. and Ph.D.
Hungarian pubic heaith care sector.                                      training abroad was not fulfilbed, actual
outcome Is X%
Accreditation for the M.Sc. courses In both
sdoots wil be obtained form the Hungarlan
Accreditation Committee by 2000.
In hosptabs equipped with management
Information systems cost per treatment event
and average length of stay wif decrease by
5% after a fd year of implementation.
-38 -



Output Indicators:
-4:'  -   VUa1sb wrud hi hel -IN i jAetuaMst Ea-idnasb
A national health interview survey is  To be completed by end 1999.         At the time of ICR mission was not
completed by 2000 and distributed to heaTth                                implemented. Expected to be completed by
policy makers, poitrcians, pimary care                                      end 2000.
physicans.
2500 students take courses on healthy                                       Approximately 8,000 children have taken
lifestyles in elemnentary schools by 2000.                                  courses on healthy lifestyles in elementary
school.
500,000 wonmen screened for cervical cancer 100,000 women expected to be screened for
by 2000 and 180,000 women scrsened for  breast cancer because of Towsr than
breast cancer by 2000.                expected oomplance rates.
Regbnal Consortia wil be fmrned with the                                   Consorlia were formed but the project
participation of key stake holders to Initiate                              component designed to support their
regional cooperation in health care by 1998.                               restructuring proposals was canceled.
At least 50 students obtain Masters degree                                  By June 2000, 10 people have submitted
in the newly estabtished School of Pubic                                    their thesis and 68 are currently studying in
Heaflth by 2000.                                                            the SPH.
At least 50 students obtain Masters degree                                  By June 2000, 26 students have obtained
in the School of Health Services and                                        their M.Sc. diploma in health servkies
Management.                                                                 management and another 26 are currently
studying in the HSMTC. 177 partIcipants
have taken part in short-term training
courses.
At least 30 students obtain public health and                               By June 2000,44 Hungarian students have
health care management related training                                     completed their postgraduate studies for
abroad.                                                                     M.Sc. in different subdisciplines of public
health abroad.
At least 15% of hospitals are equipped with                                21 hospitals (13% of hospitals) were
adequate management infofmation systems                                     equipped with basic Management
by 2000.                                                                    Information Support System
End of project
The original project design did not specify project monitoring indicators. A first set of indicators were
developed during the mid-term review mission. These indicators were, however, revised again after the
second restructuring of the project when a substantial part of loan was cancelled. Current evaluation is
based on monitoring indicators after the second restructuring of the project. It is not possible to evaluate
the project actual outcome with the originally expected outcomes since they were not specified.
- 39-



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Proect Cost by Compnent (in US$ million equivalent
Health Services Developmnent
1. Public Health                                  .31.20         15.06         49.27
2. Institutional Care                              31.50          15.35        48.73
Policy-maldng and Managenent
3. Public Health and Management Trainig            10.00          7.28          72.8
4. Management Support System                       28.00          11.03        39.39
5. Project Management Unit                          2.10          4.59        218.57
6. Preinvestment Studies                            3.00          0.20          6.67
Total Baseline Cost                               105.80          53.51
Physical Confingencies                             8.50
Pfice Conflngencbs                                18.30
Total Project Costs           132.60          53.51
Total Financing Required           132.60          53.51
The appraisal estimate of US$ 132.6 million included taxes and dutires estimated at US$41.6 million, which
were to be paid by the Hungarian Government
ProJect Costs by Procurement Arran ements A ppraisal Estimate US$ million e uivalent
1. Works                    0.00         6.00         0.00         0.00        6.00
(0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                    37.40         0.00        9.20         0.00        46.60
(34.50)      (0.00)       (8.30)       (0.00)      (42.80)
3. Services                 0.00          0.00        41.20        0.00        41.20
Technical Assistance and    (0.00)       (0.00)      (41.20)      (0.00)      (41.20)
Studies
4. Training                  0.00         0.00        1.50         0.00         1.50
(0.00)       (0.00)      (1.50)       (0.00)       (1.50)
5. Stipends & Travel        0.00          0.00        5.50         0.00        5.50
(0.00)       (0.00)      (5.50)       (0.00)       (5.50)
6. Incremental Operating    0.00          0.00        0.00         31.90       31.90
Costs                      (0.00)        (0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
Total                     37.40        6.00        57.40        31.90       132.70
(34.50)      (0.00)       (56.50)      (0.00)     (91.00)
-40 -



Project Costs by Procureme t Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equival nt)
.   .                 ~~~~~Proowne  MelWod'
NC13       .                N.B.F.     Total Cost
1. Works                        0.00          0.23          0.01          0.00          0.24
(0.00)         (0.00)       (0.01)         (0.00)        (0.01)
2. Goods                       10.87          0.29          8.71           0.00         19.87
_______  (9.79)      (0.05)        (7.16)        (0.00)        (17.00)
3. Services                     0.00          0.00          26.25          0.00         26.25
Technical Assistance and       (0.00)         (0.00)       (16.54)        (0.00)       (16.54)
Studies
4. Training                     0.00          0.00          0.77           0.00         0.77
(0.00)         (0.00)       (0.76)         (0.00)        (0.76)
5. Stipends & Travel            0.00          0.00           1.96          0.00          1.96
(0.00)         (0.00)       (1.50)         (0.00)        (1.50)
6. Incremental Operating        0.00          0.00          0.00           4.42         4.42
Costs                          (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                        10.87          0.52         37.70          4.42         53.51
(9.79)         (0.05)       (25.97)        (0.00)       (35.81)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in USS million equivalent)
Pementage of Appraisal
Cwmyont               Apprail Eadmate              AcOaV/Ltest Estisase
Bank      GvL       CoF.      Bak       Gev.      COF.    Bank   Govt.  CoF.
1. Health Services      46.30     16.60               22.16      8.25              47.9   49.7
Development
1.1 Public Health       27,50      3.80               10.10      4.96              36.7  130.5
1.2 Institutional Care   18.80    12.80               12.06      3.29              64.1   25.7
2. Policy-making        27.20      15.70              13.65      9.45              50.2   60.2
Management
2.1 Public Health &      5.00      5.00                3.52      3.76              70.4   31.2
Management Training
2.2 Management Support   17.50    10.40                7.79      3.24              44.5   31.2
System
2.3 Project Management   1.70      0.30                2.32      2.27              136.5  756.7
Unit
2.4 Preinvestment Studies  3.00                        0.02      0.18              0.7
Contingencies            17.50     9.30                                            0.0     0.0
- 41 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Beneflts
-42 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
( Missions:
Stage of Prcjea Cycle               No. of Peions and Specialty              Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)   Implementation     Development
MonthWYear     Count      Specialty                       Progress         Objective
identification/Preparation
05/91                         5   Health Economist, Sr.
Legal Counsel,
Implementation Specialist,
IT Spec., Operations Officer,
Appraisal/Negotiation
07/92                         6   Health Economist, Sr.
Implementation Specialist,
IT Spec., Operations Officer,
Health Financing and Cash
Benefit Spec., Counsel.
Supervision
05/93                             This is the initial summary         S                 S
08/93                         7   MLission Leader, Info Systems       S                 S
Spec., 2 Public Health Specs.,
Health Management Spec.,
Clinical Computing, Operations
Officer
06/94                         5   Mission Leader, Health              S                 S
Management Spec., Proj.
Management Spec., Info Systems
Spec., Implementation Spec.,
Public Health Spec.
12/94                         6   Mission Leader, Health              S                 S
Management Spec., Proj.
Management Spec., Info Systems
Spec., Implementation Spec.,
Public Health Spec.
02/96                         3   Sr. Health Specialist,              U                 U
Procurement Spec., Research
Assistant
06/96                         2   Sr. Health Economist,               U                 U
Procurement Specialist
-43 -



12/96                         7  Task Manager, 2 Public Health,      U                 U
Proj. Management Spec., Sr.
Info. Management Spec., Health
Management Spec., Procurement
Spec.
07/97                         3   Task Manager, Public Health        S                 S
Specialist, Research Assistant
12/97                         3  2 Task Managers, Economist          S                 S
05/98                         5   Task Manager, Health Specialist,   S                 S
Health Economist, Procurement
Specialist, MIS Specialist
10/98                         5  2 Health Specialists, Health        S                 U
Economist, MIS Specialist,
Procurement Specialist
03/99                         7   PTL, Public Health Spec.,          S                 U
Procurement Spec., Economist,
MIS Spec., Operations Officer,
Team Assistant
06/99                         7   PTL, Task Manager, Public          S                 S
Health Spec., Procurement Spec.,
MIS Spec., Operations Officer,
Team Assistant
12/99                         4  Task Manager, MIS Spec.,            S                 S
Procurement Spec., Team
Assistant
06/00                         4   2 Health Specialists, Economist,    S                S
Procurement Specialist
ICR
07/00                        4    2 Health Specialists,
Economist, Procurement
Specialist
-44 -



(7) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
__ _ _ __ _ _No. Staff weeks        US$ (l000)
Identification/Preparation               77.9                       158.4
Appraisal/Negotiation                    39.2                        89.6
Supervision                            250.32                       385.6
1CR                                      9.62                        20.4
Total                                  377.04                       654.0
-45-



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H--High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
Macro policies                      O H OSUOM * N O NA
Z Sector Policies                    OH OSUJOM      * N O NA
z Physical                           O H *SUOM O N O NA
N Financial                          O H O SU O M ON O NA
M Institutional Development          O H 0 SU * M 0 N 0 NA
F Environmental                      O H OSUOM ON * NA
Social
O Poverty Reduction            O H O SU O M O N * NA
O Gender                       O H OSUOM O N * NA
O Other (Please specify)       O H O SU O M O N * NA
Private sector development          O H OSU OM ON * NA
 Public sector management           O H OSUOM O N O NA
LI Other (Please specify)            O H O SU O M O N * NA
-46 -



MAP SECTION






RD 26084R
IS'                                                                                             20''1                                           222
HUNGARY                                                                       T._ 'K- (6_!
F - -          T,da,nemn i           )ToU[.oro  UKRAINE
MOTORWAYS        NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                          '      ..t ' I
. MAIN ROADS  ®  COUNTY IMEGYE) CAPITALS-    SL OVA K   R E P.    BOR5OD-ABAUJ \j,'-                 / I  1
'   RAILROADS  0  OTHER MAJOR CITIES                              ZEP,---N - i          . ,'
CANALS      __   COUNTY (MEGYE) BOUNDARIES                                          ... .
RIVERS   -*    -  INTERtNATIONAL BOUNDARIES    t KoKIne  j                        '    -  -
T .                                       '1 \-/ 
.                    / f  ,  'y  NOGRA:  _, j__  Ese2r X- ,.,  ESZABOLCS-
-                      N       :   ,:                                          'I  V.                    /  'K  1                                USf -Bi *!vvX ,-M_- oSOU
,~ L.--- ,)                                                                                        j                           S ZAdMvR/ JA A
/~ ~~ ~~~ "Nt        I=, ;--f<{ROMANIA
_,_,  ---,-,r_                      I           (:: e,   -w-   s ';!  9   - __ROMAN IA
'~  ~                                        ;         '                                                                                    - -  /  *  Y  ui. t idEKES   )
SLOVENIA                                                                                                                                                                    f I  <>2-2<  N  -O A  .'\  (
4a:~        ) <  :      -               '  t               '-S '  -A- ,d.-
' -                                                     \ A-Y               IS
Nsqc  ',            L          >  t-                                                          - '_'  "
CROATIA                                                       -' S,s'
b,hUANYA
U     t' 20 20405  0  O TLTROFED. REP, OF YUGOSLAVIA
O  1 0  20  310  40  50  610  706 ao-lOMTES  
10   20  KILO.ETRS                                        t(Serbia/Montenegro)              \ r                                          ;      -
0    lo   20   30   42   s0  MILES             Id-                                               20'
L                                                                                                                                                                           ..' 1997



