Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 7726-ME
STAFF APPRAISAL REPO?r
MEXICO
WATER, WOMEN AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MAY 24, 1989
Country Department II
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribuion and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authrkaIon.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                 r ?eso (Mex$)
US$1.00                  -    2382 Mex$ (as of 411/89)*
*The exchange rate against the US dollar is currently sliding at a rate of
Mex$1 per day.
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
UNITS OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric                        BritishlUS Equivalenit
1 meter (m)              -    3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)         -    0.62 mile (mi)
1 kilogram (kg)          -    2.20 pounds (lb)
1 metric ton (m ton)     -    2,250 pounds
1 liter CI)              -    0.26 gallons (gal)
1 cubic meter (m)        -    1,000 liters (1)
ABBREVIATIONS
BANOBRAS                     National Development Bank for Public
Works
CPP                      -   Average Cost of Loanable Funds
FI                       -   Financial Intermediaries
GIRA                      -  General Interest Rate Agreement
IDB                          Inter-American Development Bank
IH                           Impulsora Hidalguense
LRAC                         Long-run Average Cost
M&E                      -   Monitoring and Evaluation
NWC                      -   National Water Commission
OEF                      -   Overseas Education Fund
PAHO                     -   Panamerican Health Organization
PIDER                    -   Integrated Rural Development Program
PRONASOL                 =   National Program of Solidarity
SEDUE                    =   Secretariat of Urban Development and
Ecology
SPS                      =   State Planning Secretariat
SSA                      =   Secretariat of Health
SWA                      -   State Water Agency



MEXICO                      FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
WATER, WOMEN AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.        PROJECT SUMMARY                                                i-iii
II.   BACKGROUND ..................,                                        1
A. Socio Economic Sector                  . . .    1
B. Condition of Women                   ...    1
C. The Water Sector                    ...    2
D. Policy Framework                    ...    4
E. Past Bank Experience                   ...    5
III.      THE PROJECT... .....................................              5
A.  Project Origin .....................              .          5
B. Project Concept .                  .                          6
C. Project Objectives. . .                                       6
D. Project Description.                          ..              7
E.  Selection of Participating Counmities. .                     7
F.  Technological Alternatives and Service Standards             8
G. Project Area...                                               9
H. Implementation Arrangements and Distribution of
Responsibilities             .. .10
I. Project Cost and Financing    ...12
J. Procurement                ...14
K. Disbursement                ...16
L. Auditing                 ...17
M. Monitoring and Evaluation    ...17
IV.       PROJECT JUSTIFICATION, EVALUATION AND RISKS ..........   18
A.  Project Justification ...........................    18
B.  Economic Evaluation .............................    18
C.  Project Risks ...................................    19
V.        AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS             .    .       20
A.  During Negotiations.............................            20
B.  Effectiveness...................................            22
C.  Disbursement in Each State......................            22
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Mexico in Jantuary and March 1989. The mission was composed of Mesdames Lea
Donaldson, Task Manager, Mirtha Pokorny, Economist, and Ingrid Buxell and
Paquita Bath, Consultants. Mrs. Martha Leal (LA2IE) assisted in the
production of this report.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Page No.
TABLES
Table 2.1    Mexico - Water and Sewerage Services (1980)..         23
Table 3.1    Michoacan - Population and Characteristics in
Selected Municipalities ..........       25
Table 3.2    Michoacan - Economically Active Population
(EAP) by Sex and Economic Sectors
in Selected Municipalities .......       26
Table 3.3    Queretaro - Living Conditions - 1980 .........        27
Table 3.4    Queretaro - Economically Active Popu'Zatior. by
Sex per Municipality - 1980 ......       28
To.ble 3.5    Queretaro - Economically Active Population
(EAP) by Type of Activity - 1980.        29
Table 3.6    Hidalgo -   Comparison with National Standard
of Living Indicators - 1980 ......       30
Table 3.7    Deta'led Cost Table ..........................        31
Table 3.8    Procurement Schedule for Major Contracts .....        34
Table 3.9    Loan Disbursement Scheme          . ..        .       35
ANNEXES
Annex 1 -    Pre-selection Criteria for Participating
Communities and Eligibility Criteria for
Water and Income Generating Projects ........        36
Annex 2 -    Household Survey of Forty-Two Low-Income
Communities in the State of Queretaro .......        38
Annex 3 -    Project Monitoring and Evaluation ...........         40
Annex 4 -    Community Project Profile and Economic
Evaluation       .    ... ............. ...          45
Annex 5 -    Project Justification - Economic Analysis ...         57
Annex 6 -    Institutional Assessment ..............               59
Annex 7 -    Contents of Project File ................... .        60
MAP IBRD 21504



MEXICO
WATER, WOMEN AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrowers            National Development Bank for Public Vo:ks
(Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Publicos, S.N.C.
- BANOBRAS).
Guarantors           United Mexican States.
Beneficiaries:        State Water Companies and financial intermediaries in the
States of Michoacan, Queretaro and Hidalgo.
Amount:               US$20 million equivalent.
Terms:               Repayment in 17 years, including 5 years of grace at the
standard variable interest rate.
On-lending Terms:    BANOBRAS would on-lend US$17 million equivalent in Mexican
pesos of the loan funds to the State Water Companies (SWA)
for water and sanitation services and to the local
financial intermediaries (FI) which would provide credit
for investments in fixed assets and working capital for
productive activities to individuals or associations (i.e.
cooperatives) from low-income communities. BANOBRAS' on-
lending rate to SWAs and the FI's on-lending rate to their
borrowers would be not lower than the levels agreed under
GIRA.  The FI's would charge u? to 4.5 points for their
services. The subloans to the SWAs would have the same
grace and repayment periods as the Bank loan; the loans to
FIs and the subloans by the FIs would carry grace periods
of up to three years and repayment periods of up to 12
years. The Federal Government will bear the interest and
foreign exchange risks.
Proiect Obiectives
and Description:     The main objective of the proposed project is to improve
the living standard of low-income population groups by: (i)
providing water, sanitation and health education; and (ii)
developing income-generating activities, primarily for
women, and providing them with the necessary training and
credit to carry them out. To that end, the project would
include three major components related to: (a) water
supply and sanitation; (b) income-generating activities;
and (c) project preparation in other states.
Water and Sanitation Services (71.8Z of total cost) would
comprise a line of credit for: (i) installation of water
supply and sanitation cervices in about 200 low-income
communities in rural and peri-urban areas in the States of
Michoacan, Queretaro and Hidalgo; (ii) maintenance of water
systems (including the procurement of equipment); and (iii)



- ii -
technical assistance to strengthen the SWAs, to train staff
in community mobilization techniques, and to implement a
health education program.
Income-Generating Activities (l8.9S of total cost) would
include: (i) a line of credit through BANOBRAS to FIs in
the participating states to support the investment and
working capital needed by beneficiaries to st&rt productive
activities; and (ii) technical assistance to the agency in
each state in charge of project promotion at the community
level.
Proiect Preparation in Other States (9.MZ of total cost)
would operate as a project preparation facility. It would
finance technical assistance to other states for: (i)
identifying water-cum-productive activities projects; and
(ii) preparing subprojects that would be eligible for
future financing. It would also finance priority works in
other states.
Proiect Benefits:    The proposed project is justified on the basis of the
benefits accruing to low-income target groups in the form
of: improved water and sanitation services and the expected
increase in household income derived from the productive
activities supported by the project. In addition. the
strengthening of SWAs included under the water and
sanitation component of the project, is expected to result
in improved selection of water sector investments, adoption
of low-cost technologies and improvements in the
operational efficiency of the SWAs.  Also, the pilot nature
of the proje%.- should result in a learning experience that
will help to replicate in other communities a scheme based
on linking water and income-generating activities, and to
mobilize resources for the provision of services to the
lowest income groups. The direct benefits of the project
are expected to reach about 200,000 people through the
water supply component, while the households expected to
benefit from the income generating component have been
roughly estimated at 5,000.
Proiect Riskss       By its nature, the income-generating component of the
project faces risks related to the identification,
implementation and sustainability of viable productive
activities. To contain these risks, the project includes a
substantial element of technical assistance to develop
project evaluation capabilities and the ability of
promoters to mobilize the communities and ensure their
commitment to the successful implementation of the selected
activities. In addition, low subloan limits and prior
evaluationlapproval processes have been designed to reduce
these risks. An assessment of these risks confirms that
the project would remain economically viable even in the
case of 502 of the activities failing after two years of
their implementation.  Financial risks, related to the
creditworthiness of low-income beneficiaries and their
ability to pay for water services, will be addressed
through high frequency collection schemes. Another
uncertainty relates to the coordination of the agencies
involved in project implementation. This risk has been



addreused by involving and ensuring strong commitment of
the agencies' personnel since the early stages of project
preparation.
Estimated Proiect Costs 1
Local        Foreizn        Total
----------US$ million-
Water and Sanitation                       7.8            7.8          15.6
Income-Generating Activities               2.3            1.6           4.0
Monitoring and Evaluation                  0.3            0.2           0.5
Project Replication                        1.4            0.6           2.0
Base Cost (April 1989
prices)                                   11.9           10.2          22.1
Physical Contingencies                     1.2            1.0           2.2
Price Contingencies                        2.4            1.8           4.2
Total Project Cost                        15.5           13.0          28.5
Financing Plan:
Local       Foreign         Total
Bank                                       7.0           13.0          20.0
Federal-State Contribution                 6.5            -             6.5
Beneficiaries                              2.0            _             2.0
Total                                     15.5           13.0          28.5
Estimated Disbursementss
Bank Fiscal Year
1990 2    1991       1992      1993       1994       1995
------------------------USS million--------------------
Annual               1.8        2.6      3.8         4.3       4.4        3.1
Cumulative           1.8        4.4      8.2        12.5      16.9       20.0
Rate of Return:       Overall economic rate of return for the project has been
estimated at about 262. The rates of return for the
individual water subprojects in a sample of four
representative communities range from 92 to 15Z. Financial
returns for possible income-generating activities range
from 292 to 712.
11 Net of taxes (estimated at US$3.4 million).
21 Retroactive financing of US$1.5 c.illion to be provided for all project
expenditures incurred after January 15, 1989.



MEXICO
WATER, WOMEN AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
II. BACKGROUND
A.       Socio-Economic Setting
2.01     Even though during the 1960s and 1970s, Mexico made important
gains in the areas of social sector development and poverty alleviation,
by 1977, still around 362 of Mexican households were earning less than the
minimum wage and their share in total income was about 10x; significant
progress was achieved between 1977 and 1982, when households earning less
than the minimum wage declined to about 21Z of total households. Hence, as
a result of economic growth and the welfare programs, absolute poverty was
on the decline and social sector services were on the increase. Between
1960 and 1985, life expectancy at birth increased from 58 to 64 years and
infant mortality declined from 74 to around 50 deaths per 1000 live births.
The illiteracy rate fell from 44? in 1950 to 172 in 1980 due to
improvements in primary education which involved a three-fAld increase in
the number of schools, a five-fold increase in teachers and a seven-fold
increase in school enrollment.
2.02     The economic crisis that started in 1982 slowed down progress in
the areas of poverty alleviation and social sector development. During
1983-87, cumulative real output declined by 2Z, real per capita consumption
by 142 and real investment by 202 (40Z since 1980). These reductions
appear to have been unevenly distributed among the population, as indicated
by data on wages and income, employment, consumption of food, subsidies,
and social spending. Wage-earners, among which some of the urban poor and
the vast majority of middle-income people are included, have lost about 20?
of their share in GDP, though this has been partially offset by a shift
towards self-employment. Unskilled workers have suffered a larger drop in
employment than skilled workers. In rural areas, where income levels are
the lowest, there is evidence that substantial deterioration in absolute
terms occurred.
2.03     To alleviate the rising cost of adjustment and to help eradicate
poverty, the Administration that took office in December 1988 is committed
to redesign and expand ongoing social investments in the public sector.
Emphasis is placed on new delivery mechanisms to reach the truly needy, on
cost effectiveness and improved cost recovery to stretch the scarce
resources under the prevailing austerity conditions, and on institutional
streamlining where added benefits can be obtained from better organization,
technical training and improved skills.
B.       Condition of Women
2.04     In focussing its strategy on alleviating conditions of extreme
poverty and increasing the well-being and productivity of the poorest
segments of the population, the Mexican Government is showing a growing
awareness of the role of women in development. Several reasons exist for
this new emphasis on women. First, there is a greater world awareness of



-2-
the equity issues relating to the role of women. Second, there is
evidence that women make up a larger number of the poor. 1/ This is caused
primarily by a lack of employment opportunities which has been more
significant among women, forcing them off the labor market or into
activities with very low pay. Also, rapid population growth has prompted
increased interest in the relationship between birth rates and such inter-
related factors as women's education, contribution to family income, and
participation in the decision-making process at hcsme.
2.05     As a result of male emigration to more attractive employment areas
in Mexico City or the United States, an increasing number of households
within the lowest income groups are headed by women.  These women, limited
by their education and their household and maternal responsibilities. often
lack training, mobility and flexibility to compete with men for new jobs.
They tend to be concentrated in low productivity jobs that require
relatively little training. Low skills, low productivity, and low wages
reinforce each other to keep women at the bottom of the economic scale.
2.06     Many efforts to improve women's status have been hampered by a
failure to recognize that they place competing demands on women's time and
energy. In particular, these efforts disregard the reality that women must
continue to perform domestic tasks. Such is the case of programs designed
to generate female employment without considering the limited amount of
time and energy women can devote to the labor market after completing their
domestic chores, which in many areas of rural Mexico include a substantial
amount of time fetching water. A family's daily water supply is determined
by the distance, and the carrying capacity of the women and children who
are usually in charge of this task. In addition to the health implications
of inadequate water supplies, the depletion of women's energy and time
derived from carrying out water related household activities reduces their
capacity for other responsibilities. Thuas, increased level of services,
for instance through yard-taps, would not only improve well being but would
also set the stage for improving productivity.
C.       The Water Sector
2.07     Mexico has set ambitious goals for extending the coverage of water
supply and sanitation services to its inhatitants. Considerable progress
was made in the sixties and seventies. In 1980, about 702 of the
population had access to a piped system and 492 had access to a sewerage
system (Table 2.1). This ranks Mexico's water sector as the sixth most
developed in Latin America. However, the level of coverage has not
increased since 1980, and investment requirements to expand it must compete
with other infrastructure and social investment needs, at a time when
fiscal resources are scarce and availability of external financing is
limited.
2.08     One factor that will influence the future of the sector is
population growth. Population is expected to increase from about 80
million today to between 100 and 110 million by the year 2000. The trend
towards concentration in urban centers is expected to continue, while the
rural population will remain scattered in more than 100,000 communities.
1/ Of the total population of women, 7.6Z belongs to the lowest income
group as opposed to 6.9Z for men (Source: INEGI, Encuesta de Hogares,
1983).



- 3 -
This spatial distribution pattern in rural areas results in high unit costs
of basic water and sanitation services, endangering their affordability to
the rural poor. The need thus exists to concentrate on low-cost
technologies and staged approaches to the provision of water and sanitation
services in order to permit the implementation of affordable cost-recovery
schemes.
2.09     Water supply and sanitation investments have seldom been
complemented with health education programs to promote better sanitation
habits among the population. As a result, in spite of increases in water
and sewerage coverage during the last two decades, gastrointestinal
diseases continue to be one nf the main causes of morbidity in Mexico.
Health education programs would increase the acceptance, utilization and
continuous maintenance of new, perhaps unfamiliar, technologies by the
community. Collective behavioral changes is required to achieve measurable
impact on both individual and community health status.
2.10     On the institutional front, in January 1989 the Government created
the National Water Commission (NWC) to address the over-decentralization of
responsibilities in the sector. A 1984 constitutional amendment had
decentralized responsibility for the provision of water and sanitation
services, previously under the Secretariat of Urban Development and Ecology
(SEDUE), to the municipal level. It is now generally agreed that, as
implemented, this approach was not successful. The present scale of
operations is generally uneconomic and precludes the possibility of
establishing sound pricing policies. In addition, the municipalities lack
planning and operational capabilities, since SEDUE was unable to provide
technical assistance to local sector agencies as had at first been
expected.
2.11     In summary, the two most pressing issues affecting sector
development are:
a) Increasing population coverage, especially to low income
areas, which requires: (i) increasing sector investments,
funded by improved cost-recovery schemes and expanded resource
mobilization efforts (internal and external); and (ii)
reducing per capita investment costs by ernsuring efficient
operation and using low-cost technologies;
b) Fostering imDrovements in efficiency, which requires
strengthening water companies at the state level. This
implies: (i) encouraging small municipalities to delegate the
operation and maintenance of their systems to the state water
companies (SWAs); (ii) developing planning, design and
maintenance capabilities in the SWAs; and (iii) implementing
health education program in conjunction with water and
sanitation projects.
2.12     The new administration is considering far reaching institutional
changes which, if implemented, would go a long way towards addressing the
Bank's concerns in the sector. Particularly noteworthy are initiatives to
expand the role of the private sector in the provision of water and
sewerage services. In this respect, a pilot test is already under way in
the city of Aguas Calientes to operate the system by a private firm.



-4-
D.       Policy Framework
2.13     Government Stratemy.  To address the most pressing issues
affecting the well being of the poorest members of the society, the
Government launched the Programa Nacional de Solidaridad (PRONASOL).
PRONASOL, which is under the responsibility of a Committee headed by the
President and integrated by Secretaries dealing with poverty alleviation
issues, has the objective of ensuring that thoso projects effectively
targeted to the poor will have first priority in the allocation of
budgetary resources. For 1989, PRONASOLI's budget amounts to Mex$l.6
billion and this amount is expected to be tripled by 1990. In addition to
implementing projects and programs. PRONASOL coordinates and provides
guidelines to other agencies with poverty alleviation objectives. Priority
is given to community participation projects aiming at providing water and
sanitation as well as increasing income and improving health conditions.
In the water sector, more specifically, Government's efforts in expanding
water and sanitation services to the poor will be based on a policy that
would reduce reliance on budgetary appropriations by promoting an increase
in the se"I-9nancing of the SWAs. Subsidies would be progressively
reduced     Q. aiminated except for the very poor.
2.14     Rationale for Bank Involvement.  The thrust of the Bank's lending
strategy for Mexico is to assist the Government in stabilizing and
restructuring the economy to obtain sustained growth, and to alleviate the
cost posed by the adjustment process on the poorest segments of the
population.  To implement this strategy, the Bank would participate in two
new projects in the water sector during the next two years: (a) the
proposed project, and (b) a water and sanitation sector loan, which would
address the broader institutional and policy issues. The proposed project,
which would enhance women's productivity and well being by freeing them
from the chore of fetching water and creating income-generating activities,
will allow the Bank to target its benefits to groups that have hitherto not
been directly assisted by Bank lending, but which have high priority needs.
The project also provides an efficient instrument for strengthening the
capabilities of the SWAs involved to adequately operate and maintain the
systems. As a pilot scheme the project would provide a model which, if
successful, can be replicated in other areas of the country and make an
important contribution towards improving the living conditions of the low-
income population in Mexico. The Bank is the development institution best
equipped to provide the needed multisectoral approach essential for this
project and it can draw on the experience from working on four previous
water and several rural development loans, as well as several sector
studies since 1974. The main lessons learned from these projects point to
the importance of self-sufficient water agencies, community support,
adequate designs that reflect local needs and willingness to pay,
recognizing the value of infrastructure in relieving constraints to
productive activities and ensuring the early establishment of an effective
monitoring and evaluation system to focus project management on project
impact. These lessons have been incorporated in the design of the proposed
project.



Past Bank Experience
2.15     The Bank was involved in four water supply projects in Mexicos
Loans 909-ME (US$90 million; 1973), 1186-HE (US$40 million; 1975), 1913-ME
(US$125 million% 1980), and 2281-ME (US$100.3 million; 1983). While these
projects were successful in increasing service levels in medium-sized
cities, the establishment of an appropriate institutional set-up was not
accomplished. This was mainly due to weaknesses in SEDUE's technical
assistance to local institutions as vell as lack of adequate promotional
schemes needed to increase population acceptance of effective cost-
recovery. The problem of insufficient revenues was compounded by the high
investment costs resulting from inadequate norms and procedures. Projects
rejected under Bank-financed programs because they were not least-cost
solutions, were financed by other sources. The main lessons learned from
these projects point to the importance of self-sufficient water agencies,
community support and adequate designs that reflect local needs and
willingness to pay.
2.16     The most relevant past Bank experience in which project design
included, albeit marginally, some focus on technical training and
employment opportunities for women, has been through the Integrated Rural
Development Project - PIDER III (Loan 2043-ME; US$175.0 million; 1981).
PIDER III, the third of a series of projects supporting the Mexican
Investment Program for Rural Development, financed irrigation works, soil
and water conservation, crop and livestock development and rural road
investments. At the time of the appraisal, it was envisaged that 1? of the
project expenditures would be on studies, technical assistance and training
to support women's participation in productive activities. As it turned
out, implementation problems with the major project components coupled with
insufficient Government commitment, resulted in the women's component not
being undertaken.
2.17     Nevertheless, the PIDER experience provides some valuable lessons
which have been taken into consideration in the design of the proposed
project. These include: (a) ensuring beneficiary participation by
structuring sub-project technical and productive options to be the
prerogative and responsibility of the community; (b) recognizing the value
of infrastructure in relieving constraints to productive activities; and
(c) ensuring the early establishment of an effective monitoring and
evaluation system in order to focus project management on project impact as
well as to measure regular project progress.
III. THE PROJECT
A.       Proiect Origin
3.01     The idea for the proposed project was developed at the community
level as a result of informal grass-root meetings held by women to discuss
their water supply problems. This led to the request for assistance from
the State Government which in turn sought the support of the National
Government. The Government, in turn, recognizing the priority needs of
these commmnities, requested Bank assistance to prepare a pilot project to
raise the standard of living of low-income communities, focusing
particularly on bettering the condition of women, through the provision of



water and sewerage services. Following a first Bank mission to Mexico in
April, 1988, the Pan American Health Organization (PAHO) assisted the
Mexican Government in project preparation. The project was appraised in
January and March. 1989. Negotiations took take place in Washington from
May 15 through May 18, 1989. The Mexican delegation was led by Mr. German
Sandoval Faz, Deputy Director, BANOBRAS.
B.       Proiect Concept
3.02     The Water, Women and Development Project will be the Bank's first
operation that will combine funding for water supply and sanitation
facilities, and support for productive activities with special focus on
women. The link between the water and income-generating components is a
crucial element of the project, as it increases the possibility of success,
especially since the main beneficiaries are low-income women. A project
focusing only on income-generating activities would have limited impact
because the time and energy required by women to fetch water constrains
them from taking advantage of credit and training opportunities.
Likewise, a project focusing only on community water and sanitation needs
might not be affordable to many households because the beneficiaries would
be unable to pay for the services on a sustainable basis without a schem't
for increasing their income through productive activities.
3.03     Integrated in the conceptual design of the proposed project is the
recognition of the importance of community participation in defining and
addressing their needs, as well as the adherence to the principle that the
community itself is the primary decision maker, the primary organizer, and
the primary investor in the project. This approach, by encouraging self-
help and promting increased community responsibilities, supports the
Government strategy to change the generalized perception that improvements
in living standards will only be achieved through increased public sector
involvement.
3.04     In this context, the project envisages an important contribution
towards the implementation of cost-recovery policies. Until recently, the
Government's strategy had been to consider investments in the water sector
targeted to low-income groups as direct transfers. In the current policy
framework of subsidy reductions, it was agreed during negotiations that
100Z of the operating cof_B and 70Z of the investments costs would be
recovered through water rates (para. 3.23).
C.       Proiect Obiectives
3.05     The main objective of the proposed project is to improve the
living standard of low-income population groups, especially women, by:
(i) providing water and sanitation and improving the target
population's health and sanitation knowledge and habits;
(ii) promoting income-generating activities, primarily for women who
will be freed from the chore of fetching water by improved water
supply services and providing them with the necessary training and
credit to carry out such activities; and
(iii)  assisting the state Governments of Michoacan, Queretaro and
Hidalgo to strengthen the SWAs abilities to design, build, operate
and maintain water systems in low-income areas.



-7-
D.       Proiect Description
3.06     Tbe proposed project would include three major components related
tot (a) water supply and sanitation (71.8? of total cost); (b) income
generating activities (18.92 of total cost); and (c) project replication to
other states (9.3? of total cost).
a) Water and Sanitation Services would comprise: (i) a line of
credit of US$12.0 million through BANOBRAS to the SWAs to
finance the installation of water supply and sanitation
services in a total of about 200 low-income communities in
rural and peri-urban areas; (ii) maintenance of water systems
(including procurement of maintenance equipment); (iii)
technical assistance to strengthen the SWAs in the areas of
organizational and operating perfonmance, information systems,
and design and construction using low-cost technologies and to
train staff in community mobilization techniques; and (iv)
developing a health education program to improve health and
sanitation knowledge and habits (para. 3.17). Suggested Terms
of reference for these programs are available in Project File;
b) Income Generating Activities would include: (i) a line of
credit of US$5.0 million through BANOBRAS to financial
intermediaries to support the investment and working zapital
needed by beneficiaries to start productive activities. These
activities most likely will involve micro-enterprises under
some form of cooperative ownership; financing of tools and raw
materials to carry out piecemeal work for in-bond industries
will also be included (Annex 2 shows four examples of these
activities and financial analyses of other five activities are
available in Project File); and (ii) technical assistance to
the agency in charge of the promotion at the community level
for project implementation. This technical assistance would
consist of: (a) training of trainers within the promotion
agencies in participatory education techniques targeted mainly
to women and project evaluation; (b) developing the
beneficiaries' entrepreneurial skills and their ability to
make decisions, thereby gainirg the confidence and experience
needed to adjust to different economic environments; and (c)
training the participants in the skills to carry out the new
activities. Suggested terms of reference for this program are
available in Project File; and
c) Project Preparation in Other States would operate as a project
preparation facility and would include technical assistance to
other states for: (i) identifying water-cum-productive
activities projects; (ii) preparing subprojects in other
states that would be eligible for future financing. It would
also finance priority works in other states.
E.       Selection of Participating Communities
3.07     There would be two steps in the selection of communities to
participate in the project. The first would consist of a review of
secondary data sources to screen potential communities according to: (i)
estimated cost of bringing the water, based on characteristics of the wat-r



source, (ii) degree of community marginality; and (iii) known participatory
experiences of the community. The second step would involve the
application of selection criteria based on: (i) the estimated cost of the
respective water supply and sanitation subprojects (a maximum per-capita
investment cost of US$150 for both the water and sanitation systems has
been agreed); (ii) community commitment to the project; and (iii) the
potential for implementing income-generating activities. A methodology for
the selection of communities has been developed (Annex 1) and has been
tested by the Bank in the selection of 14 communities to be benefitted
during the first year of project implementation (Arcila, Tenaxda, Colonia
Reforma Agraria and El Rodeo in Queretaro State; El Alberto, Santa Cruz -
Las Alcantarillas, and Jiliapa in Hidalgo State; and Huetzanguio, San Juan
Tumbio - Santa Isabel Nocut - Zepo and La Rueda in Michoacan State). The
selection of the communities to be benefitted in subsequent years would be
carried out by the Secretary of Planning in each state following the
methodology outlined in Annex 1, in close collaboration with the respective
SWA and promotion agency, which would be responsible for the necessary
technical and socio-economic inputs. The selected communities will be
included in the annual State Water Plan to be presented to the Bank for
review by September 30 of each year (para. 5.01(b) vii(d)).
F.       Technological Alternatives and Service Standards
3.08     Under the proposed project, the water supply and sanitation
service standards and technologies will be tailored to the population's low
incomes. To select the level of service, the community itself will be the
primary decision-maker, with the support of SWA's staff 21 who will conduct
community workshops, with the assistance of the promotion agency, to
analyze the advantages and disadvantages (i.e. cost, convenience and
quality) of different technological options. The SWA would ensure that the
selected technology is the least cost solution given the level of service
chosen. In communities with very low ability to pay and little exposure to
urban standards, a progressive approach is required. During project
preparation, communities have shown interest in having water connections
through a single yard-tap for every household. The level of services in
these cases could involve open branches and above-ground pipes with lower
pressures than in conventional designs. The solutions being explored for
the sanitation systems are also non-conventional and are based on community
septic tanks or latrines. These technological alternatives would allow
progressive upgrading towards eventual in-house plumbing and conventional
and sewerage networks, as the community becomes able to afford them. The
technologies selected with the involvement of the communities to be
benefitted in the first year of project execution include open branches,
30cm underground pipes and community septic tanks. Detailed description of
these technologies is available in project files. To reinforce the
expected health benefits from the project, the SWA's will also assist in
constructing chimneys for house ventilation.
2/ Staff from SWA-Queretaro were trained by PAHO/North Carolina University
on these technologies during project preparation, and are supporting
SWAs in Hidalgo and Michoacan in the implementation of the
technologies.



-9-
G.       ProAect Area
3.09     The project is to be implemented in three statest Michoacan,
Queretaro and Bidalgo (Map IBRD 21504). These states were selected by the
Federal Government on the basis of their timely interest in the project and
the relatively poor status of their population. The Government is
considering three other states for future Bank assistance to implement
similar projects in their communities and a follow-up operation in the near
future seems likely.
3.10     Michoacan has a population of about 2,900,000, of which 102 live
in the capital cif,.  The state is divided into 113 municipalities.
Between 1970 and £980 Michoacan experienced a population growth rate of 2X,
substantially lower than the national rate of 3Z. The major reason for the
lower-than-average rate is that this state has one of the highest
emigration rates in the country (17 migrants, predominantly males, per 1000
inhabitants). The illiterate population over 15 years of age at the state
level is 252, of which 862 are women (at the national level 152 of the
population over 15 year of age is illiterate). The economically active
population over 12 years of age in 1980 was about 900,000, of which only
24X were women. This population is divided among agriculture (402)
manufacture (82), cozmerce (82), construction (52), services (132) and
other miscellaneous activities. Michoacan also is below national averages
in relation to its water and sewerage services, with 56Z and 382 of its
population served respectively, as compared to 70X for water and 492 for
sewerage at the national level (Tables !.l and 3.2).
3.11     Queretaro has a population of about 730,000 of which 402 live in
the capital city. The state is divided into 18 municipalities. MoLe than
252 of the population over 15 year of age are illiterate; 752 of these are
women. The fertility rate in Queretaro is among the highest in Mexico
despite a decline in the number of children per woman from 8.1 in 1970 to
6.3 in 1980. The economically active population over 12 years in 1980 was
about 220,000, of which only 22Z were women. This population is evenly
divided among agriculture (282), manufacture (262), services (252), and
other miscellaneous economic activities. Queretaro lags behind the Mexican
norm with regard to water and sewerage services. Only 592 of the
population of the state has access to piped water and 412 has sewerage
services. Tables 3.3 through 3.5 show service levels by municipality and
gives more detailed information on relevant socio-economic data in
Queretaro. Annex 2 provides additional information at the household level.
3.12     Hidalgo  has a population of 1,800,000,of which 102 live in the
capital city. The state is divided into 84 municipalities. Between 1970
and 1980 Hidalgo experienced a population growth rate of 2.22,
substantially lower than the national rate of 32. The major reason for the
lower-than-average rate is that this state has a positive emigration rate
and one of the highest mortality rates in the country (15 migrants,
predominantly males, per 1000 inhabitants and a mortality rate of 8.4 per
1000 versus 6.5 per 1000 at the national level over 1980-1985). The
illiterate population over 15 years old at the state level is 262, of which
862 are women. The main economic activity in Hidalgo Ls the manufacturing
industry which represents 332 of the state GNP, folLowed by agriculture
which represents 132 of its GNP. The economically active population over
12 years of age in 1980 was 522, of which only 242 were women. A total of
382 of the economically active population in Hidalgo earned less than the



- 10 -
minimum salary (at the national level only 25? of the population earned
less than the minimum salary).  Hidalgo also is below the national average
in relation to its water and sewerage services, with 57Z and 25Z of the
population having water and sewerage services respectively. Table 3.6
gives more detailed information on relevant socio-economic data in Hidalgo.
H.       Implementation Arrangements and Distribution of Responsibilities
3.13     The borrower and implementing agency for the proposed proj^ct
would be Banco Nacional de Obras Publicas, S.N.A. (BANOBRAS). BANOBRAS is
a development bank and a financial agent of the Federal Government with
substantial experience in working with Bank-financed projects. BANOBRAS
would be responsible for overall project execution by: (i) approving
subprojects through its state delegations; (ii) ensuring consistency
between the programs proposed in each state; (iii) monitoring compliance
with agreed technical, economic and social guidelines; (iv) evaluating
project results and proposing changes as needed; and (v) carrying out the
preparation of similar projects in other states.
3.14     BANOBRAS would enter into onlending agreements vith the SWA and
with the financial intermediary (PI) in each state. The State Governments
will be part of those agreements for the purpose of guaranteeing repayment
of all charges on the subloan- .nd compliance with other implementation
obligations.    Signature of subloan agreements with the institutions in
one of the three states. under terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank, would be a condition of loan effectiveness (para. 5.02). The Federal
Government would assume the foreign exchange and interest rate risk of the
proposed Loan.  The credit operations managed by the FIs would fund up to
100Z of the fixed assets and working capital needed for the income-
generating activities. Each credit would require prior BANOBRAS approval
when the subloan amount exceeds US$15,000 equivalent. Any subloan
amounting to US$50,000 or above would require prior Bank approval. In
order to protect the environment, at negotiations BANOBRAS through FIs
agreed to ensure that any proposed income-generating activity that is
extractive in nature will not result in any negative environmental impact.
3.15     The focal point of project implementation at state level would be
the State Planning Secretariat. Their main responsibilities would involve:
(i) managing counterpart funds, (ii) managing the community selection
process and obtaining approval from BANOBRAS, (iii) coordinating water,
health education and productive activities, (iv) monitoring and evaluating
project progress and reporting to BANOBRAS, and (v) managing corrective
actions as the need for them surfaces from the monitoring and evaluation
process (para. 3.33). Institutional assessment of the state institutions is
shown in Annex 6.
3.16     SWAs, which have all been beneficiaries of previous Bank loans,
would be responsible for the planning, design, construction, operation and
maintenance of the new water supply and sanitation systems. The SWA in
each state would prepare a State Water Plan for each year and submit it for
approval from the Secretariat of Planning in its state. At negotiations,
it was agreed that this plan should be sent to the Bank for comments no
later than September 30 of each year (para. 5.01 (b) (vii)). Participating
communities would constitute Water Committees from which a representative
(caretaker) would be selected to operate the system, request SWA
maintenance services as needed, and collect the water fees. The caretaker,



- 11 -
preferably a woman, would be employed and trained by the SWA (minimal
technical skills would be required) (para. 3.20) and would represent it
before the community. Terms of reference for the technical assistance to
SWAs have been agreed and the contract should be signed before declaring
the respective state eligible for disbursement (para. 5.03 (b)). The
technical assistance to the SWA in Queretaro would be provided by
international consultants, satisfactory to the Bank. To take advantage of
the relative high development of the SWA in Queretaro, this agency would be
the supplier of the technical assistance to the SWAs in the other two
participating states through twinning operations (para. 5.01(b) (viii)).
Water rates would be set, and periodically adjusted, so as to cover lOOZ of
the operating and maintenance costs, and the SWAs debt service to BANOBRAS.
At negotiations, it was agreed on these arrangements (para. 5.01(b) (viii).
3.17     The Delegation of the Secretariat of Health in each state will be
responsible for the implementation of the Health Education program under
the project. This program will be designed by the Health Education Office
within the Secretariat of Health (SSA) in Mexico City. At negctiations, it
was agreed that SSA will develop the program and will design the materials
to be sent to the three participating states by December 31, 1990 (para.
5.01(a) (ii);. These activities are expected to be financed under a
proposed Health Sector Loan. At negotiations, it was also agreed that if
the Health Sector Loan is not effective at the time needed for this
project, the Guarantor will finance these activities with its own resources
(para. 5.01(a) (ii).
3.18     The promotion and implementation of the income-generating
component in each state would be carried out through arrangements
determined to be the most suitable to the capabilities of local
institutions. Financial intermediation would be the responsibility of
local parastatal agencies with experience in handling credit lines for
microenterprises. These agencies, FOMICH in Michoacan, Impulsora
Hidalguense en Hidalgo, and FIMINSSE in Queretaro, are currently providing
intermediation services for credits to small and medium enterprises under
IDB loans and were selected to provide similar services under Loan 2858-ME.
The inclusion in their portfolio of the credit operations funded by the
proposed project would result in a positive integration of those services.
In particular, the proposed project would provide seed money for the start-
up of new microenterprises which, once firmly established, would be able to
satisfy their credit needs through existing lines. The promotion and
technical field work related to the implementation of the income-generating
activities, will be also carried out by FOMICH in Michoacan and by
Impulsora Hidalguense in Hidalgo. In the case of Queretaro, the outreach
and field work would be under the responsibility of IDEAS, a state
government agency responsible for carrying various social action programs
throughout the State. These agencies have had experience in organizing and
promoting community activities and have an adequate staff available for the
proposed promotion activities. At negotiations, agreement was reached
that each promotion agency will maintain the necessary level of extension
workers as agreed in the annual workplan (para. 5.01(b) (x)). Financial
statements of the SWAs and FIs are available in the Project File.
3.19     To strengthen the capabilities of the agencies involved in the
promotion of productive activities, the project would provide funds for
technical assistance. Negotiations are underway with the Overseas



- 12 -
educational Fund (OEF), an international NGO involved in the preparation of
the proposed project. with strong experience in community-based projects,
to provide this technical support. Contracts, satisfactory to the Bank,
for these technical assistance programs, between the promotion agencies and
the selected NGO, would be a condition for disbursement in each state
(para. 5.03 (b)).
3.20     The community would be responsible for: (i) assessing the
availability of its own financial and non-financial resources; (ii)
defining local preferences, abilities and willingness to commit its
resources; (iii) agreeing with the SWA on the level of service to be used
for their water and sanitation systems; and (iv) organizing the water
committees selecting the local water caretaker. The water caretaker
would: (i) carry out minor maintenance works; (ii) inform the SWAs on
major problems requiring their involvement; (iii) collect water tariffs
weekly (to take into account the low-saving capability of the
beneficiaries) and forward payments to the SWA; and (iv) promote community
meetings to evaluate the operation of the system and suggest future
extension and/or upgrading.
I.       Project Cost and Financina
3.21     The estimated project cost, at current prices, over the six-year
project period is US$28.5 million, of which about US$13.0 million, or 462,
represents the foreign component. The base cost, expressed in April 1989
prices, would be US$22.1 million, net of taxes (estimated at US$3.4
million). Construction costs are based on unit costs estimated by the
Queretaro SWA with the assistance of consultants from PAHO. Physical
contingencies include 10? for civil works and for supplies and equipment.
Price contingencies assume: (i) the exchange rate of the Mexican peso
versus the US dollar will be periodically adjusted for the difference in
internal and external inflation; (ii) a six-year project execution period;
and (iii) a projected international inflation of 5.3 X p.a. for 1988-1990,
and 4.12 p.a. thereafter. The following table shows project cost by
components. Table 3.7 provides detailed project costs. Unit cost
information is available in Project File.



- 13 -
TABLE I - PROJECT COST a/
PROJECT COMPONENTS  LOCAL   FOREIGN    TOTAL   X F.E. LOCAL   FOREIGN      TOTAL
(by State)      -- ----US2 thousands- - -             -- MEXS  TIll Ion-----
Queretaro
Water A Sanitation    2422    2422      4943    0.58      6768     5768      11864
Tech. Assist. SWA      118     340       468    0.76      270       809       1079
Income-4 n. Activit.    799    538      1882    8.40     1903      1269       8172
Monitor.& Evaluation    66      66       182    8.58      167       157        314
Subtotal              3400    8868      6768             8098      8803      1611
Hlidalgo
Water A Sanitation    2891    2391      4782    0.60     5696      5696      11891
Tech. Assist. SWA      2086     88       295    8.a8      491       210        701
Income-4 n. Activit.    685    443      1109    0.40     1654      1056       2640
Monitor.& Evaluation    99      99       198    0.60      236       236        472
Subtotal              8361    8022      6888              8007     7198      15206
Miehoacan
Water & Sanitation    2886    2886      47l    0.60      6088      5688      1186s
Tech. Assist. SWA      381     142       473    8.86      789       388       1127
Incomn-Gen. Activit.    889    598      1482    0.40     2117      1412       8529
Uonitor.& Evaluation    99      99       198    0.60      286       236        472
Subtotal              3786    8219      6924             8826      7668      16498
Project Replication    1485    615      2060    0.80     8418      1465       4888
Total Base Cost      11901   10216    22117    0.46    28a48    24884        52682
Physical Cc-tingen.    1190    1922    M22    0.46       2885      2483       6266
Price Contingeneies    2866    1786     4150    0.43     6865      4261       9886
Total Cost           16467   18022    28479    0.46    86818    81819        67886
g/ Exchange rate used: US$1.0 a 2,882 MEXI (4/1/89).
3.22      The recommended Loan amount (US$20.0 million) would finance the
estimated project foreign cost and about 45? of local costs. This local
cost financing is consistent with the Bank policy of supporting poverty
alleviation programs and investments in critical areas of the social
sectors. The remaining 55Z of local funds would be provided from the state
and federal budgets on a grant basis (US$6.5 million), and by the
communities as labour (US$2 million). State and federal commitments have
been c3nfirmed during appraisal, and budget allocations for the first year
of project implementation have been authorized for the three selected
states. Agreement was reached that timely provision of counterpart funds
will be available during project implementation (para. 5.01(a) (i)).



- 14 -
3.23     Onlending rates should be set, at least, at the levels agreed
under GIRA. It is expected that onlending rates will exceed the GIRA
requirements. Current practice is for BANOBRAS to onlend to the SWAs at
1002 of CPP (GIRA requires 802). FIs onlend to the ultimate beneficiaries
also at 1002 of CPP (GIRA requires 852) which includes a 4.5Z margin over
the rate at which they borrow from BANOBRAS to compensate for their
services. Since state and federal goveriments would also provide funds to
SWAs and FIs' borrowers on a grant basis, the ensuing funding mix results
in an average cost for total funds received equivalent to 652 of CPP and
952 of CPP for the water component and for the micro-enterprise component
respectively. It should be noted that in the rural water sector this
represents a major step forward relative to past practices under which
these investments were fully funded by Government grants. The subloans to
SWAs would have the same grace and repayment periods as the Bank loan; the
loans to the Fls and the subloans by the FIs would carry grace periods of
up to three years and repayment periods of up to 12 years. Each investment
subloan shall be made only after the state promotion agency certifies that
the training needs have been identified and adequate training plans have
been prepared for the borrowers; these subloans will be subject to a
maximum of US$1,000 equivalent in the case of individual borrowers, and to
a maximum of US$3,000 per member in the case of cooperatives.
J.       Procurement
3.24     The project would include a diversity of relatively small sub-
projects. As a consequence , the civil works and the goods contracts are
not expected to be large enough to attract foreign bidders and little
international competitive bidding (ICB) is anticipated. Goods, including
pipes and operation and maintenance equipment for the SWAs, would be
procured from local suppliers in small quantities, in accordance with
implementation requirements. These suppliers offer a wide range of
international brands, adequate services, and on-time provision of spare
parts. Where feasible, small contracts will be grouped into packages of at
least US$300,000 equivalent to make them more attractive to the
international market and be procured through ICB. Smaller contracts would
be procured through local competitive bidding (LCB) when above US$25,000,
or through local shopping with quotation from at least three suppliers when
US$25,000 or below. Because of the competitiveness of local suppliers and
the strong representation of international manufacturers through Mexican
firms, it is expected that most contracts would be awarded to Mexican
bidders.
3.25     Ci il works would be dispersed geographically over more than 200
communities, and individual contracts would not be large enough (averaging
about US$45,000 equivalent), and would be let at different time intervals,
to attract foreign bidders. Since they are unlikely to attract
international firms, their procurement would be carried out under LCB
procedures. Other civil works contracts estimated to cost US$25,000
equivalent or less would be awarded on the basis of price quotations
solicited from at least three qualified local contractors (amounting to
less than US$8 million in the aggregate). Force account (amounting to less
than US$3 million in the aggregate) would be used in some cases where
works are small and scattered or in remote locations where mobilization
cost for contractors would be unreasonably high.



- 15 -
3.26     The procurement of goods and civil works for the income-generating
component would be undertaken by the beneficiaries in accordance with
established commercial practices, acceptable to the Bank. No ICB
procurement is envisaged because the maximum contrazt value is expected to
be less than US$100,000.
3.27     To be acceptable to the Bank, LCB procedures would have to allow:
(1) no subdivision of contract works or equipment packages unless
justified; (ii) participation of foreign bidders and consultants without
requiring pre-registration or association with local firms; (iii) no
exceptions to the criteria of award to the lowest evaluated bidder; and
(iv) bracketing (i.e., rejection of bids outside a specified price range)
would not be allowed.
3.28     The selection and appointment of consultants for studies and
technical assistance would be consisternt with the August 1981 Bank
Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the
World Bank as ExecutinR Agencv.
3.29     Table 3.8 shows the procurement schedule for major contracts.
Standard bidding documents to be used in this project are satisfactory to
the Bank. The Bank would carry out a prior review of the procurement
documentation for all ICB contracts and for the first LCB contracts for
goods and works respectively in each state (para. 5.01(b) (vi)). The other
cases, a posteriori review will take place. All bidding documents would be
kept in the State Planning Secretariat.   Project cost breakdown by
procurement method is shown belows
Procurement Method s/
(US$ million)
Project Element          ICe       LCB       Other  Total
1. Civil works            -       4.6        2.6   10.0
-      (2.4)      (2.6)   (5.0)
2. Equipment/materials    4.4    8.0         1.6   12.0
(3.6)   (4.4)     (0.8)   (8.7)
S. Technical assistance,  -       -          2.6    2.6
training and consulting    -   -          (2.5)   (2.6)
service-
4. Lino of credit         -       -          4.0 i]  4.0
(3.8)   (3.8)
4.4   1O S       13.6   28.6
(8.5)  (6.8)      (9.7)  (20.0)
p/  Figures In parenthosls are the amount financed by the Bank.
ki  Contracts coting les than US$26,060, ts be procured through price
quotations from at least three suppllers or contractors.
cJ Force account to be used In some cases where works are small and scattered
or In rmote locations.
i/ Undertaken by tho beneficiaries In accordance with established commercial
practices.



- 16 -
K.       Disbursement
3.30     The proposed loan would be disbursed against the categories
presented below:
Disbursement CategorIes
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
(Expressed In       X of Expenditures
Caetor,            Dollars Equivalent      to be Financed
(1) Civil works to          9,B600,6           SO
instatl and maintain
water supply and sani-
tation systms; and
priority works In
Tlaxcls sttoe
(2) Line of credit          4,500,06           95 of amount
disbursed by
Financial
Intermediaries
for investment
eubloans
(3) Equipment and materials    2,00,600        lee o foreign
ixpenditures
and 4a of
l ocal
expondittur3
(4) Technical assistonce,   2,600,000          1
training and consultant
services.
(5) Unallocated             2,0,000
TOTAL             2_ 6._____
3.31     Disbursements would be against statements of expenditures prepared
and certified by BANOBRAS. Supporting documentation wouli be retained by
BANOBRAS and made available for examination by the Bank during supervision
missions. To expedite project execution, a Special Account would be opened
in the Central Bank, with a deposit of up to US$1.0 million. In view of
the urgent need to start up the project, authorization is sought for
advanced contracting of US$3 million and for retroactive financing of
US$1.5 million (7.5? of Loan funds) for project expenditures incurred after
January 15, 1989. Claims for retroactive financing would have to be made
no later than 90 days after the effectiveness of the respective subsidiary
loan agreements. Disbursements, estimated in line with the standard



- 17 -_
profile for water supply projects in the Region, are expected to be
completed by June 30, 1995 (Table 3.8). Consequently, the proposed closing
date would be December 31, 1995, six months after the expected date of
project completion.
L.       Auditing
3.32     Separate accounts by state and by component would be kept by
BANOBRAS. These accounts, and the Special Account, would be audited every
year by independent auditors satisfactory to the Bank. Each Fl would
maintain separate accounts by credit and the SWA would maintain separate
accounts for the implementation of the water and sanitation component of
the project by community. These accounts and the financial statements of
each SWA and kI would be audited every year by independent auditors
satisfactory to BANOBRAS. Audit reports would be sent to the Bank for
review within six months of the end of each calendar year. At
negotiations, these commitments were confirmed (paras. 5.01(b) (i), (viii)
and (is)).
M.       Monitoring and Evaluation
3.33     The proposed project requires a strong monitoring and evaluation
(M&E) system to help communities and local authorities to make decisions,
ensure accountability by all parties and ensure that the lessons learned
during project execution be appropriately taken into account in the design
of follow-up operations. The main goals and targets against which M&E
would take place are summarized in Annex 3. Community baseline surveys
would be conducted by the promotion agency to provide a 'before-the-
investment assessment of socio-economic condit¶ons, including existing
water, productive activities and health and sanitation practices.
Indicators and methodologies for data collection, monitoring and evaluation
are also outlined in Annex 3. For the health education component a three-
year pilot monitoring program would be designed by Secretariat of Health to
determine the effectiveness of the component in achieving behavioral
change. Each state promotion agency would establish data banks to monitor
and report on project progress.   Monitoring would involve measurement and
analysis of achievements and shortfalls against project goals as well as
annual workplans. If significant deviations in implementation occur,
BANOBRAS would undertake the identification of the causes of difficulties.
Technical assistance would be funded by the loan to: (i) design the M&E
component with the various executing agencies; (ii) assist in the
implementation of the initial community baseline and health practice
surveys; (iii) train local staff in M&E methodologies to be used in the
project; and (iv) assist in the design and implementation of the project
evaluations (para. 5.01(b) (vii)).
3.34     Reporting responsibilities and schedules are provided in the
project files. While state-level reporting requirements would be more
frequent (monthly), BANOBRAS would submit to the Bank: (i) semi-annual
progress reports, due by March 31 and September 30 of each year; and (ii) a
completion report no later than three months after the Closing Date of the
Bank loan. The progress reports would address: (i) achievements in
relation to general goals and annual targets; (ii) difficulties
encountered; and (iii) corrective actions taken. Two comprehensive formal
evaluations would be undertaken: an interim evaluation after three years



. 18 -
of oneration and a final evaluation. Adjustments in project design and
approaches would be made after the interim assessment, if they are required
(para. 5.01(b) tv)).
IV. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION EVALUATION AND RISKS
A.       Proiect Justification
4.01     The proposed project is justified on the basis of the benefits
accruing to low-income population in the form of: (i) improved water and
sanitation services and the derived increase in household incomes because
of the more productive use of women's time in income generating
activities; and (ii) enhanced overall health conditions due to health
education. In addition, the strengthening of SWAs, included under the
water and sanitation component of the project, is expected to result in
improved selection of water sector investments, adoption of low-cost
technologies and improvements in the operational efficiency of the SWAs.
Also, the pilot nature of the project should result in a learning
experience that will help to replicate in other communities a scheme based
on linking water and income-generating activities, and to mobilize
resources for the provision of services to the lowest income group.
4.02     The direct benefits of the project are expected to reach about
200,000 people through the water supply and sanitation compcnent, while the
households expected to benefit from the income generating component have
been roughly estimated at 3,000.  Indirectly, however, the impact of the
project will go substantially beyond the quantifiable beneficiaries. One
reason is that the water and sanitation projects are likely to result in
the reduction of transmittable diseases. Another reason is that the income
generating activities supported under the project will have a multiplier
effect in the community's economy.
B.       Economic Evaluation
4.03     Detailed cost-benefit analyses were carried out in one
representative low-income rural community in each participating state. In
addition, an economic evaluation was carried out in a peri-urban community
in Queretaro. These communities have expressed their willingness to pay
for their choice of water and sanitation services as well as their desire
to participate in specific economic activities. Two economic evaluations
were performed: (i) both the water and sanitation and the income generating
subprojects within a specific community were evaluated as one integrated
project to take into account investment complementarities; and (ii) the
viability of each subproject was confirmed through independent assessments.
In the case of the integrated analysis, to avoid double counting, only the
benefits in the form of incremental household income generated ftom
productive investments were considered for the population that would
participate in productive activities. Externalities, such as the reduced
cost to the Government of lower health assistance expenses, or benefits
from the learning experience, or multiplier effects, were not considered.
This analysis yielded rates of return ranging from 26Z to 44Z (Annex 4).



- 19 -
4.04     The economic viability of the proposed investments in vater and
sanitation services were confirmed through the traditional analysis which
uses water rates as a proxy for the consumers willingness to pay. These
rates were based on observed transaction prices and are above the long run
average cost (LRAC) of the camounities' selected survice level, adjusted to
include debt service. The evaluations resulted in economic rates of return
ranging from 9Z to iSZ. The higher rates of return were achieved in those
communities which had already made some investments in their systems
(which for the purpose of this analysis were considered as sunk-costs).
Finally, rates of return in which benefits include the estimated consumer
surplus were also calculated. The results range from 18Z to 24Z.
4.05     Nine of the productive activities for which the communities had
expressed their preferences, were subjected to full pre-feasibility
analyses. They showed financial rates of return between 29Z and 71x. Even
though these figures may be somewhat optimistic, in that they fail :o t'e
into account that lack of commercial and management skills may, at least in
the initial years, prevent from reaping fully the expected benefits, they
do serve to show that the opportunities are there.
4.06     On the basis of the average return calculated for the sampled
communities, the overall rate of return for the project has been estimated
at about 26Z. Annex 4 includes details of the cost-benefit analysis of the
proposed investments, as well as basic socio-economic data on the sampled
communities. Annex 5, provides an outline of the methodology and the main
parameters used in the economic evaluation. Sensitivity analysis is shown
in Annex 4 and Project Files.
C.        Proiect Risks
4.07     By its nature, the income-generating component of the project
faces risks related to the identification, implementation and
sustainability of viable productive activities. To limit these risks, the
project includes a substantial element of technical assistance to develop
project evaluation capabilities and train promoters to mobilize the
communities and ensure their commitment to the successful implementation of
the selected activities. In addition, low subloan limits and prior
evaluation/approval processes have been designed to reduce the risks (para.
3.14). An assessment of these risks confirms that the project would remain
economically viable even in the case of 50? of the activities failing after
two years of their implementation. Financial risks, related to the
creditworthiness of low-income beneficiaries and their ability to pay for
water services, will be addressed through a frequency of collection that
takes into consideration the cash-flow of poor households (para. 3.20). An
additional risk is the required coordination of the implementing agencies.
This risk has been addressed by obtaining firm commitments from those
agencies and by assigning a strong coordinating role to the State Planning
Secretariats.



- 20 -
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECO'MENDATIONS
A.       During Neaotiations
5.01     During negotiation assurances were obtained on the following:
(a)    From the Federal Government:
(i)   timely provision of counterpart funds to execute the project
(para. 3.22); and
(ii)   to assign an appropriate budget for CY1990 for the Secretariat
of Health, which shall complete design and prepare didactic
materials by December 31, 1990 for implementing the Health
Education component of the proposed project in each
participating state (para. 3.17), and shall cause its regional
delegations to implement these programs in a timely manner; and
(b)    From BANOBRAS to:
(i)   have its financial statements and project related accounts
audited annually by external auditors, satisfactory to the Bank
(para. 3.32);
(ii)   review annually the qualification of the external au4ftors
proposed by SWAs and FIs (para. 3.32);
(iii)   carry out the monitoring and evaluation program at federal level
(para. 3.33);
(iv)   carry out the preparation of new projects in other states
(para.3.13);
(v)   prepare and submit to the Bank semi-annual progress reports and
a project completion report (para. 3.34);
(vi)   submit to the Bank for previous review documentation for all
ICB's and the first LCB's for good and works in each state
(para. 3.29);
(vii)   cause each State Planning Secretariat to:
(a)   maintain a qualified staff assigred to project
coordination (para. 3.15);
(b)   coordinate project activities at state level (para. 3.15);
(c)   carry out the selection of the communities to be
benefitted under the proposed Loan (para. 3.15); and
(d)   approve the Annual Work Plan at state level in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank. Annually update and review with
the Bank (not later than September 30 of each year) its
compliance with the agreed Action Plan during previous



- 21 -
years, including the program targets, and inform the Bank
on the proposed modifications of the targets for the next
year (para. 3.16); and
(e)   carry out the monitoring and evaluation program at state
level in a manner satisfactory to the Bank (para. 3.33).
(viii)   cause each SWA to:
(a)   each year prepare and submit for approval by the
Secretariat of Planning in its State the annual State
Water Plan this plan would be submitted to the Bank for
its comments not later than September 30, (para. 3.16);
(b)   carry out the water and sanitation component of the
project in a manner satisfactory to BANOBRAS (para. 3.06
Ca));
(c)   contract consultants, satisfactory to the Bank, to carry
out the technical assistance and training program (para.
3.16);
(d)   maintain in the communities benefitted under the project a
tariff level cz-vering at least their operating and
maintenance cost plus the debt service on the investment
loan (para. 3.23); and
(e)   have its financial statements and project related account
by community audited annually by external auditors,
satisfactory to BANOBRAS (para. 3.32).
(ix)   cause each PI to:
(a)   approve productive activity subloans on the basis of the
agreed criteria (para. 3.18);
(b)   maintain an account by subcredit (para. 3.32); and
(c)   have its financial statements and project related accounts
audited annually by external auditors, satisfactory to
BANOBRAS (para. 3.32); and
(x)   cause each Promotion Agency to:
(a)   carry out promotion of the project at community level with
the assistance of the consultants (para. 3.18);
(b)   maintain the necessary level of extension workers as
agreed in the staffing plan to implement the proposed
project (para. 3.18);
(c)   promote the income-generating component of the project
which include inter alia community support for subprojects
identification, preparation of feasibility studies,
training the beneficiaries in the new activities, and
marketing (para. 3.18);



- 22 -
(d)   support the community in the organization of its water
committee (para. 3.18); and
B.       Effectiveness
5.02     The following condition must be met to declare the proposed Loan
effective: BANOBRAS finalizes agreement with the Guarantor, and subloan
agreements with the SWA and Fl of at least one of the three participating
states, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank (para. 3.14).
C.       Disbursement in Each State
5.03     The following conditions must be met to declare each state eligible
for disbursement;
(a) BANOBRAS finalizes subloan agreements with the SWA and FI of the
State which did not submit such agreement for effectiveness under
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank (para. 3.14).
(b) Each promotion agency furnishes to the Bank a satisfactory signed
contract for its technical assistance program; (para. 3.18); and
(c) Each SWA furnish to the Bank a satisfactory signed contract for its
technical assistance program (para. 3.16).
5.04     With the above conditions, the proposed project would constitute a
suitable basis for a loan of US$20 million equivalent to BANOBRAS, repayable
in 17 years including a five-year grace period at the Bank's standard
variable interest rate.
May 24, 1989



- 23 -
TABLE 2.1
Page 1 of 2
MEXICO
WATER, WOMEN AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Mexico Water and Sewerage Services (1980)
STATE                   POPULATION       WATER          SEWERAGE
(thousands)        2               X
Aguas Calientes           519.4          84.2            66.9
Baja Calif.Norte        1,177.9          77.0            52.8
Baja Calif.Sur            215.1          75.4            39.9
Coahuila                  420.6          54.0            29.3
Campeche                1,557.7          85.0            56.2
Colima                    306.3          82.4            50.4
Chiapas                 2,064.7          43.0            23.0
Chihuahua               2,005.5          81.0            52.3
Durango                 1,182.5          75.1            37.0
Guanajuato              3,006.3          80.5            54.9
Guerrero                2,109.1          62.8            34.0
Hidalgo                 1,547.5          57.6            25.4
Jalisco                 4,372.5          79.6            64.1
Mexico                  7,564.0          79.8            54.5
Michoacan               2,868.8          70.0            43.7



- 24 -
TABLE 2. 1
Page 2 of 2
MEXICO
WATER. WOMIN AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Mexico Water and Sewerage Services
STATE                  POPULATION        WATER          SEWERAGE
tthousands)        Z              X
Morelos                    947.1         62.0            42.5
Nayarit                    726.1         69.5            32.4
Nuevo Leon               2,513.1         89.3            69.4
Oaxaca                   2,369.0         45.0            22.3
Puebla                   3,347.1         55.8            34.7
Queretaro                  726.0         59.0            54.9
Quintana Roo               276.8         69.0            24.6
San Luis Potosi          1,673.0         52.0            33.0
Sinaloa                  1,849.0         64.9            32.9
Sonora                   1,513.9         82.8            45.0
Tabasco                  1,063.6         58.6            32.8
Tamaulipas               1,924.0         80.9            48.9
Tlaxcala                   556.6         79.4            56.0
Veracruz                 5,387.7         45.9            33.1
Yucatan                  1,136.7         60.1            32.4
Zacatecas                1,136.8         56.9            24.3
Federal Dist.            8,831.1         94.5            82.0
Total                   65,889           70.0            49.0
Sources  Instituto Nacional de Estadistica, Geografia e Informatica
Censo General de Poblaci6n y Vivienda - 1980.



- 11 -
preferably a woman, would be employed and trained by the SWA (minimal
technical skills would be required) (para. 3.20) and would represent it
before the community. Terms of reference for the technical assistance to
SWAs have been agreed and the contract should be signed before declaring
the respective state eligible for disbursement (para. 5.03 (b)). The
technical assistance to the SWA in Queretaro would be provided by
international consultants, satisfactory to the Bank. To take advantage of
the relative high development of the SWA in Queretaro, this agency would be
the supplier of the technical assistance to the SWAs in the other two
participating states through twinning operations (para. 5.01(b) (viii)).
Water rates would be set, and periodically adjusted, so as to cover 100? of
the operating and maintenance costs, and the SWAs debt service to BANOBRAS.
At negotiations, it was agreed on these arrangements (para. 5.01(b) (viii).
3.17     The Delegation of the Secretariat of Health in each state will be
responsible for the implementation of the Health Education program under
the project. This program will be designed by the Health Education Office
within the Secretariat of Health (SSA) in Mexico City. At negotiations, it
was agreed that SSA will develop the program and will design the materials
to be sent to the three participating states by December 31, 1990 (para.
5.01(a) (ii)). These activities are expected to be financed under a
proposed Health Sector Loan. At negotiations, it was also agreed that if
the Health Sector Loan is not effective at the time needed for this
project, the Guarantor will finance these activities with its own resources
(para. 5.01(a) (ii).
3.18     The promotion and implementation of the income-generating
component in each state would be carried out through arrangements
determined to be the most suitable to the capabilities of local
institutions. Financial intermediation would be the responsitility of
local parastatal agencies with experience in handling credit lines for
microenterprises. These agencies, FOMICH in Michoacan, Impulsora
Hidalguense en Hidalgo, and FIMINSSE in Queretaro, are currently providing
intermediation services for credits to small and medium enterprises under
IDB loans and were selected to provide eimilar services under Loan 2858-ME.
The inclusion in their portfolio of the credit operations funded by the
proposed project would result in a positive integration of those services.
In particular, the proposed project would provide seed money for the start-
up of new microenterprises which, once firmly established, would be able to
satisfy their credit needs through existing lines. The promotion and
technical field work related to the implementation of the income-generating
activities, will be also carried out by FOMICH in Michoacan and by
Impulsora Hidalguense in Hidalgo. In the case of Queretaro, the outreach
and field work would be under the responsibility of IDEAS, a state
government agency responsible for carrying various social action programs
throughout the State. These agencies have had experience in organizing and
promoting community activities and have an adequate staff available for the
proposed promotion activities. At negotiations, agreement was reached
that each promotion agency will maintain the necessary level of extension
workers as agreed in the annual workplan (para. 5.01(b) (x)). Financial
statements of the SiAs and FIs are available in the Project File.
3.19     To strengthen the capabilities of the agencies involved in the
promotion of productive activities, the project would provide funds for
technical assistance. Negotiations are underway with the Overseas



- 12 -
educational Fund (OEF), an international NGO involved in the preparation of
the proposed project, with strong experience in community-based projects,
to provide this technical support. Contracts, satisfactory to the Bank,
for these technical assistance programs, between the promotion agencies and
the selected NGO, would be a condition for disbursement in each state
(para. 5.03 (b)).
3.20     The community irould be responsible for: (i) assessing the
availability of its own financial and non-financial resources; (ii)
defining local preferences, abilities and willingness to commit its
resources; (iii) agreeing with the SWA on the level of service to be used
for their water and sanitation systems; and (iv) organizing the water
committees selecting the local water caretaker. The water caretaker
would: (i) carry out minor maintenance works; (ii) inform the SWAs on
major problems requiring their involvement; (iii) collect water tariffs
weekly (to take into account the low-saving capability of the
beneficiaries) and forward payments to the SWA; and (iv) promote community
meetings to evaluate the operation of the system and suggest 'uture
extension and/or upgrading.
I.       Project Cost and Financing
3.21     The estimated project cost, at current prices, over the six-year
project period is US$28.5 million, of which about US$13.0 million, or 46Z,
represents the foreign component. The base cost, expressed in April 1989
prices, would be US$22.1 million, net of taxes (estimated at US$3.4
million). Construction costs are based on unit costs estimated by the
Queretaro SWA with the assistance of consultants from PABO. Physical
contingencies include 10? for civil works and for supplies and equipment.
Price contingencies assume: (i) the exchange rate of the Mexican peso
versus the US dollar will be periodically adjusted for the difference in
internal and external inflation; (ii) a six-year project execution period;
and (iii) a projected international inflation of 5.3 2 p.a. for 1988-1990,
and 4.12 p.a. thereafter. The following table shows project cost by
components. Table 3.7 provides detailed project costs. Unit cost
information is available in Project File.



- 27 -
TABLE 3.3
MEXICO
WATER. MEN AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
QUERTARO
Living Conditions
1980
Municipality      Number of    Houses        Lack        Lack      Lack
Hcuses        1-2        Water      Sewage  Electricity
Rooms
Amealco             6,453       4,827       4.662       5,652      4,641
Amoles              3,816       3,321        3,516      3,643      3,402
A. Seco            2,101        1,695       1,556       1,953      1,556
Cadereyta          5,943        4,337       4,322       5,005      3,331
Colon              4,394        3,054       2,131       3,638      1,941
Corregidora        4,520        3,040         679       3,093      1,126
E. Montes          2,685        1,726       1,218       1,931      1.124
Huimilpan          2,935        2,167       2,266       2,434      1,553
Jalpan             2,656        2,294       2,254       2,435      1,998
Landa M.           2,772        2,445       2,668       2,726      2,131
El Marques          5,379       3,626       2,512       4,364      2,305
P. Escobedo        4,466        2,970       1,038       3,270      1,689
Penamiller         2,314        1,792       1,767       2,238      1,454
Queretaro         49,252       22,787      10,502      15,507      8,716
San Joaquin          864          695         664         702        639
San J. Rio        13,221        7,819       4,473       7,616      4,534
Tequisquiapan      4,272        2,743       1,219       3,143      1.212
Toliman            2,460        1,874       1,847       2,212      1.204
SOURCEs   Queretaro 1980-2010, estudio Socio-Demografico, Universidad
Autonoma de Queretaro, Noviembre 1986.



- 28 -
TABLE 3.4
MEXICO
WATER. WOMEN AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
OUMRETARO
Economically Active PoDulation by Sex ver MuniciDalitv
1980
Municipality     Population   Economically      Men        Women    Percent
Over 12     Active Pop.                          Women
(EAP)                             (EAP)
State             456,864       224,435      173,221      51,214      22.8Z
Amealco             23.084       10,964         9,512      1,452       13.2Z
Amoles              13,547        6.732         5.842        908      13.4Z
A. Seco              7,237        3,173         2,928        245        7.7Z
Cadereyta          22,775        12,538         9,303      3,235      25.8?
Colon              16,964         9,268         7,025      2,243      24.2Z
Corregidora        17,651         8,436        6,869       1,567      18.5?
8. Montes          10,064         5,029         3,937      1,092      21.7Z
Huimilpan          10,219         5,324         4,344        980      18.42
Jalpan              9,021         3,695        3,320         375      10.1S
Landa M.             9,320        4,284         4,045        239        5.52
El Marques         23.634        10,764         8,485      1,258      11.7S
P. Escobedo        17,987         8,392         7,176      1,216      14.4Z
Penamiller          8,428         3,512        3,S03         309       8.?Z
Queretaro         186,891        91,242       55,373      25,869      28.3Z
San Joaquin         3,146         1,411        1,216         195      13.8Z
San J. Rio         S0,485        27,104       19,587       7,417      27.3?
Tequisquiapan      16,894         8,185        6,400       1,785      21.8Z
Toliman             9,517         4,392        3,564         828      18.8?
SOURCEs  Queretaro 1980-2010, estudio Socio-Demografico, Universidad
Autonoma de Queretaro, Noviembre 1986.



- 29 -
TABLE 3.5
MEXICO
WATER. WOMEN AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
QUERETARO
Economically Active PoDulation (EAP) by Tvpe of Activity
1980
Non-
municipality     EAP        Primary     Secondary   Tertiary    Specified
Activities   Activities  Activities  Activities
(Z)          (2)         (2)          (O
Amealco         10,964       69.90         8.73          7.77      13.27
Amoles            6,732      75.78         5.43          8.14      10.47
A. Seco          3.173       75.13         8.09          7.02        7.65
Cadereyta       12,538       36.50        21.52         13.82      27.47
Colon            9,268       42.53        13.87         11.83      31.43
Corregidora      8,436       23.55        25.82         24.37      25.53
E. Montes        5,029       26.28        36.86         20.83      15.72
Buimilpan        5,324       57.43        11.53          6.17      24.19
Jalpan           3,695       66.90         9.98         16.83       4.73
Landa M.         4,284       82.07         4.85          6.51       6.43
El Marques      10,754       45.22        26.40         16.08      11.80
P. Escobedo      8,392       47.28        27.75         12.26      12.22
Penamiller       3,512       58.99        24.85         10.79       3.55
Queretaro       91,242        6.44        32.71         38.15      22.19
San Joaquin      1,411       46.27        27.92         14.67      10.34
San J. Rio      27,104       27.04        24.01         23.70      24.68
Tequisquiapan    8,185       25.33        35.40         19.36      19.56
Tollman          4,392       49.45        20.35         17.82      12.15
SOURCE* Queretaro 1980-2010, estudio Socio-demogr8fico, Universidad
Aut6noma de Queretaro. November 1986.



- 30 -
TABLE 3.6
maxco
WATER, WOMEN AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Hidalgo - ComDarison with National Standard of
Livina Indicators (19101
INDICATOR                                        HIDALGO       NATIONAL
1. Income
I of economically active population
with less than minimum salary                    37.9           25.3
2. Education
2 of illiteracy in population older than 10 yr..  25.9           15.1
I of population of 15 yrs. or older without
any education                                  20.4          14.0
2 of population of 15 yrs. or older with
Incomplete primary education                   29.6          27.9
2 of school-aged children (6-14 yr..) not
attendinL school                               25.8          27.2
Z of population 18 yrs. or older with no
high school                                    67.5           62.8
3. Housint
2 of houses with earth floor                      41.5          26.5
2 of houses without piped water                   40.2          28.4
2 of houses without drainage                      40.0          21.8
I of houses with only one room                    36.2          30.0
4. Health
Gross mortality rate (per 1000)                    8.4            6.5
Children mortality rate (per 1000)                42.8           38.8
Population per doctor (100.)                      30.2           14.8
Population per Hospital Red (1006)                12.4            8.6
S. Nutrition
2 of population less than 5 yr.. old
ingesting the following foods less
than three times per week
Meat                                     67.5           61.1
Milk                                     29.7          20.8
Eggs                                     47.6          33.3
SOURCEs  Monografla del Estado de Hidalgo.  MEC, 1985.



- 31 -                                  TABLE 3.7
MEXICo                                        Page 1 of 3
Water, Womn and Development Project
Detallod Co,t Table
Boolc Cost-April 1098
Thousands of US
1 qUERETARO STATE      1io0      low     1901     1992    1008      1904    TOTAL
*.Water Supply
Arcell               27.83                                                 27.J8
T.rrazda             85.34                                                 8C.84
Son Miguelito        21.82    22.22                                        48.58
El Rodeo             12.90   22.65                                         85.40
Retoru Agrarla    103.95  250.11                                          888.00
San Sobastian                2W.27                                        23B.27
Charco Olenco                180.91                                       180.91
Other Comunitles              47.62  460.6   599.99  659.90 9     5.9o  2047.62
Subtotel              299.89   757.77   459.00  65.90   599.09   556.W0  2058.66
b.Sanitation
Arcila                        74.17                                        74.17
Terrazde                      41.40                                        41.40
Son MIguelito        84.78   49.9W                                         75.20
El Rodeo                      16598                                        16.90
Reform Agraria                23.67                                        28.67
San Sebastian                186.58   119.90                              265.48
Charco Blanco                 25.86    28.10                               40.46
Other Comunitl-e                      29.90   8W9.00   499.9   4990.00  1850.99
Subtotal               84.78  86.57   s48.99   890.00  496.90   499.06  1884.85
c.Tech.Asels. SWA               55.99    16.99   56.00    16.90             120.90
0CA  Equipsent-SWA            8".W    S6.90   60.00   199.99              828.90
Subtotal                       148.99   65.OO   13s.99   110.99             458.00
d.Line of Credit                60.00   120.00  250.90  89.9    490.00 1159.99
NOo's Staff          66.00   49.60    83.13   11.99    11.00    11.00   181.60
Subtotal              68.    129.69   153.99   261.90   311.90   411.99  1881.60
_- -- -__-- -- - --        - - -- -- -- - -- - -- -,_- -- - -              
*eMonot.& Evaluatlon   83.09    11.9l    68.90    11.00    11.99     0.ao   182.00
Basic Cost qUERETARO  834.67  1807.84  1077.99  1267.90  1882.99  1881.99   767.51



- 32                                     TABLE 3.7
Page-T  f 3
MEXICO
Water, Wom n nd Development Project
Detalled Coot Table
Baslc Cost-April 1989
Thousand of US1
2.I4DALO STATE        1989    1990    1991    1992    1998    1994 TOTAL
.lWater Supply
El Alberto          99.00   16.60                                       115.60
Jillopa             46.44   87.29                                       182.78
Lan Aloantarilles   82.54  116.67                                       148.10
Other Ccunltlss   220.99   299.99  450.99   60.00   599.99   55.0.  2870.99
Subtotal             898.08   419.36  460.00  600.00  501..00  5900.  276.84
b.Sanitatlon
El Alberto                   18.61                                       18.61
Jilopa                       96.71                                       95.71
Las Aocantarillas   79.44  112.20                                       191.64
Other Communitles  110.99    60.00  899.90  860.99  4W0.00  59.99  1710.00
Subtotal             189.44  278.42  899.00  860.00  49.990  656.0.  2016.60
c.Toch.Assls.SWA      16.t0   49.50   11.00   11.00   11.99    11.00  116.09
01M Equlp_mt-SWA             16.60   83.00   66.00   45.00   86.90  164.60
Subtotal              16.60   66.00   44.eo   68.00   56.99   46.00  294.60
d.Llne of Credit               80.90   100.00  200.90   260.00  800.99   980.99
NOO'. Staff         68.90   49.60   88.00   10.W9   10.00   10.00  178.60
Subtotal              66.00  129.60  188.00  210.00  260.00  810.99  1108.60
O.Monot.& Evaluation  88.00   11.00   66.00   11.00   11.99   66.90   198.99
Baulc Cost HIDALGO   701.92  902.28  993.00 1137.00 1227.99  1422.00 6868.19



- 33 -                                TABLE 3.7
Page 3o-f 3
lEXico
Water, Wcoen and Developeent Project
Detal led Cost Table
Basic Cost-AprlI 1989
Thousand of US8
S.MICHOACAN STATE      198 9    1990    19t1    19m       1998    1994 TOTAL
.wster Supply
Jsripeo             27.6e  111.16                                       133.08
Sn.Juan Tumblo      84.44   66.66                                        68.99
La Rueda            82.64   19.68                                        62.12
Other Comunitie.            86.60  460.0   606.0   606.66 066    246.06
Subtotal              94.48  486.23  400.00  66.66   666.0D    00.66  2686.71
b.Sanitatlon
Jaripeo                      18.61                                       18.61
Sn.Juan Tiamblo              26.49                                       28.49
La Rueda                     26.88                                       25.88
Other Conunltles            167.64  366.00  456.06  600.00  666.00 2017.64
Subtotal                      246.63   366.60   460.06  606.00  66.660 2B90.53
c.Tech.Assil.SWA      16.60   49.560   11.00   11.66    16.60   10.00  106.60
O3M Equlpuent-SWA   16.88    66.00  65.00  110.00  100.60   80.06  865.38
Subtotal              81.03  104.60   66.00  121.00  110.00   40.60   478.88
d.Llno of Credit              100.06  160.60   260.00  86.00  656.00 1866.00
NQ0'e Staff         66.00   49.60   83.00   11.00   11.00   11.60   101.60
Subtotl               66.60   149.58   183.66   261.00  811.00  511.66  1481.60
e.lonot.& Evaluation   33.6W    11.66   66.66    11.00   11.00   66.00  198.00
Basic Cost MICHOACAN 225.81  991.76  1016.6w  1848.06  1582.06  1817.00 60924.0t
4.PPF OTHER STATES
Tlaxcala                    356.06  8a6.66                              6580.6
Other States                266.60  200.6W  sW6.60  5W.6               1466.00
Basic Cost PPF                56.66    56.00   5a.60 6   00.6.06         2060.60
Project Basa Cost   1281.90 8841.87  8586.06  4237.99  4591.66  4666.00 22116.77
Project Phy.Cont.    126.19  884.19  858.s4  428.70  459.10  466.66  2211.68
Project Price Cont.    36.28  235.60  516.54  826.60 1139.44 1396.94 4158.35
TOTAL PROJECT COST  1424.32 4461.65 4460.04 5407.30 6169.64 6456.94 28478.80



MEXICO
WATER WOMEN AND DEVELOPMENT PfOJECT
Procurement Schedule for MaJor Contracts
Ta rot Dates (Month/Year)
Contract      Type                   Type                       Bldding/
Valuo        of      No. of         of            Document  Proposition   Contract  Delivery
USS 'DO    Contract  Contracts      Biddino           ReadY      Invited      Stoned  Serv.Go>ods
1. Pipes and Fittinos
- Queretaro            470      Supply      a       LCB/ICB              7/89        3/
- Hidalgo              215      Supply      6       LCB/ICB              7/89        S/
- Michoacan            S10      Supply      a       LCB/ICB              7/89        3/
2. Civil Works
- Queretaro            400      Works      19       LCB/Shopping/F.A.    8/89        6/89       10/89      11/89
- Hidalgo             1S       Works      13       LCB/Shopping/F.A.    8/89        8/89       12/89      1/9S
- MiNhoacen            210      Works      20       LCB/Shopping/F.A.   8/89         7/89       11/89      12/89
8. 0 A M Eaulmnt
- Queretaro            820      Supply      5       LCB/ICB/Shopping     1/90        -          1/90       1/86
- Hidalpo              240      Supply      6       LCB/ICB/Shopping     5/90        -          7/90       6/9
- Michoacan            400      Supply      7       LCB/ICB/Shopping     5/S0        -          7/90       5/90
4. Technical Assistance
- SWA                  208      Service     3       Other  /             6/89        4189       7/89       6/89
- Promotion Agney      625      Service     8       Other J               /89         -         6/89       6/89
3/Annual year.
H Twinning operation.                                                                                                                            eo
l Direct contract with NGO.



- 35 -                            TABLE 3.9
MEXICO
WATER, WOMEN AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan Disbursement Scheme
Bank Fiscal Year        Quarterly       Cumulative       Disbursement
and Quarter Ending     Disbursement   --------------------------------
(USS thousands)  (US$ thousand)    (Z of total)
nY 1990
September 30,1989                  200             200              1.00
December  31,1989                  600             800               4.00
March     31,1990                  400            1200               6.00
June      30,1990                  600            1800              9.00
FY 1991
September 30,1990                  350            2150             10.75
December  31,1990                  750            2900             14.50
March     31,1991                  750            3650              18.25
June      30,1991                  750            4400             22.00
FY 1992
September 30,1991                  900            5300             26.50
December  31,1991                  900            6200             31.00
March     31,1992                 1000            7200              36.00
June      30,1992                 1000            8200             41.00
nY 1993
September 30,1992                 1000            9200             46.00
December  31,1992                 1100           10300             51.50
March     31,1993                 1100           11400             57.00
June      30,1993                 1100           12500             62.50
FY 1994
September 30,1993                 1100           13600             68.00
December  31,1993                 1100           14700             73.50
March     31,1994                 1100           15800              79.00
June      30,1994                 1100           16900             84.50
FY 1995
September 30,1994                 1100           18000             90.00
December  31,1994                 1000           19000             95.00
March     31,1995                  600           19600              98.00
June      30,1995                  400           20000            100.00



- 36 -
ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 2
HEXZCO
1AT. 11M0N MND DEVELOPME   PILOT PROJECT
Pro-Selection Criteria for Particinating Communities and
Clialbilitt Criteria for Water and Income GOneratina Proiects
1.       The process of selection of the comnmities to be benefitted under
the project, and the subsequent Inclusion for financiag of particular water
investments and Income generating activities, will be governed by the
following criteriat
(a) Pro-selection Criteria for Participating Communities
2.       The pre- selection of coumunities to be included under the project
is based on a system of prioritization that takes into consideration the
technical and economic feasibility of providing vater services (as measured
by a rough estlmate of the cost per-capita of those services). and the
potential for the successful tplementation of productive activities. The
latter takes Into account the amount of time available for those
activities as a result of the vater investments, as well as the
capabilities of the community to mobilize its energies in order to improve
their standard of living. To this end, the agreed methodology has been
designed to give priority to those communitLes that, while still under
estreme poverty, are not at the lowest end of the incomelmarginality scale.
PARAMETER                             POMS              WEIGHT (C)
(i)  Cost of water          5      4      3       2   1
source. (US$)           I     1      I       I   |        30
<S0  51-80  81-120 120-l5O>l50
(ii) Potential tme-savings  5       4      3        2   1
In vater related         i            i             I
activities. (hrs.Iday) >7.0  5-7  2.5-5.0  O.5-2.5O0.5   25
(iii)Degree of comnunity    1              2            s
marginality  !          I                                  25
LoW        Medim        High
(iv) Participatory          1              2            S
experience of the                                   |      20
commnimty  /           Low         Medium       High
I/ As assessed by the social development agency on the basis of conmnity
access, schools, health centort, social and/or recreational facilities,
churches, etc. and past experience regarding the community's efforts
towards lidividual and/or comanal Improvements.



- 37 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 2
(b) Eligibility of Water and Sanitation Subnroiects
3.       To be eligible for financing, the water and sanitation subprojects
have to comply with the followings
(i)    The proposed subproject corresponds to the least-cost
solution; and
(ii)    The total investment cost per-capita of the water and
sanitation subproject do not exceed US$ 150 equivalent; and
(c)  Eliuibility of Income Generating Activities
4.       The local financial intermediaries responsible to channel funds to
eligible sub-borrowers, will do so on the following basis:
(i)    Credit funds are for the creation of new micro-enterprises;
(ii)    The proposed activity is financially viable; and
(iii)    Ioans will be subject to a maximum of USS 1000 equivalent in
the case of individual borrowers. and a maximum of USS 3000
per person in the case of cooperatives.



- 38 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1 of I
MEXICO
WATER. WMN AND DEVELOMBT PROJECT
Household Survey of Forty-Two Low-Income
Cogmunities in the State of Queretarol
eneral Comments on the Survey
1.       The survey was carried out during the period of Nay to Augw t 1988 by
social and extension workers from IDEAS, Queretaros social development agency.
While the results are helpful to give some preliminary assessment of household
behavior, there is a need to Improve survey methods and sampling design. An
appropriate conceptual and statistical framework is essential to draw inferences
from non-experimental data about how family production, consumption and behavior
respond to policy change. Therefore, project monitoring will Include efforts to
engage the community participation in improving the empirical evidence of
Project impact (Annex 14).
2.       The survey covered data collection on health and education. The
results, which were highly homogenous, are not included in this Annez. All the
coumunities surveyed, had one school and most had a health center with one-hour
trip. School attendance of school-aged children was reported at about 65S.
Regarding health, flu was reported as the main cause for visits to the health
center, with 'stomach problems' following.
1. General
a.  Female head of the family2                                     322
b.  Number of members in the family                                5.6
c.  Family monthly cash income  (Current Mez$ of mid 1988)3 120,000
d.   Imputed monthly income from autoproduction                 60,000
(Current nex$ of mid 198S)4
11 Based on a sample taken between March and June 1988 of 20 households
per coamunity which, on the basis of an average community population of
1,120, represents about 102 of the population.
21 Female head of family may represent a temporary status. since a
substantial amount or male migration is seasonal.
31 There was a substantial dispersion in the reported monthly income,
which ranged from Mex$30,000 to MexS360,000. Although the survey
attempted to measure the number of wage earners in each household, most
people were reluctant or did not know how to answer questions on this
eubject and the results vere omltted. As is the case in similar
household surveys, Income may be under-reported.
41 Derived from agricultural production in 'ejidos' of 2-3 ha per family
and consumption of domestic animals.



- 39 -
Page 2 of 2
e.   Source of Income
Agriculture                                                 402
Manufacturing wages                                         152
Construction wages                                          25S
Remittances                                                 201
f.   Existing Public Facllities
Electricity coverage                                        902
Average monthly electricity bill (Hex$)                  8,000
Primary school (percentage of the communities)             100
Secondary school (percentage of the comomunities)           30
Full-ttme health center (percentage of the communities)   65
Social Center (percentage of the comnu-ilties)              40
2.   Women's allocation of time (hours/dav)5
a.   Food preparation (including milling)                          3.5
b.  Child caring                                                   5.0
c.   Fetching drinking and cooking water                           1.5
d.   Washing clothes in nearest water source                       2.5
a.  Other                                                          2.0
3.  Vater Related Data
a.  Average daily water consumption per capita                     28.1
b.  Average distance to source                                     1.8 km
c.  Average percentage of families served by water vendors         32
d.  Average monthly payment to vendors per household          8,J0O Mex$
4.  Community Participation
a.   Percentage of women involved in community activities6         16
b.   Percentage of people willing to contribute towards new
water and sanitation system
(i)   with labor                                              98
(II)  with money                                              34
c.   Percentage of women willing to participate In income
generating activitles                                         43
Sl  Answers of the question of women's time allocation show substantial
overlapping and require further study in order to evaluate women's
productivity in non-market actlvities consumed directly within the
household. In particular, activities like taking care of children,
cooking and cleaning may be carried out simultaneously and therefore
are difficult to report independently.
61 Most of the positive answers to questions related to community
participation referred to involvement in sewing or knitting classes
provided by local or federal social agencies. Hany answers explaining
lack of participation because "they vere not invited' reveal a
prevalent perception of community participation as a demand-driven
activity.



- 40 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 5
WATER, WOMEN AND DEmELOPMENT PROJECT
Proiect Monitoring and Evaluation
1.       The objective of the project's monitoring and evaluation (M&E)
system is to trace project progress, determine deviations from expected
outcomes so that timely corrective action may be taken, evaluate
achievements and impact and highlight lessons learned so that they are
incorporated in follow-up operations. Detailed descriptions of the project
MIE system are contained in the project files. This Annex outlines the (i)
end of project expectations and (ii) indicators and methods that would be
used to monitor and evaluate project implementation.
(i)      End-of-Proiect Goals
2.       At the end of the project, the following accomplishments, at
minimum, are expected to exist in each states
GOALS                             TARGETS
WATER AND SANITATION
- Water                                  70 communities with 952 coverage
- Beneficiaries                          200,000 people
- Maxsimum Investment Cost               USS 150/per capita
- Latrinesiseptic tanks &/or             80  (water plus sanitation of
cozmmunity septic tanks                water coverage)
- Ventilation facilities                 Improvements in 151 of households
PRODUCTIVE ACTIVITIES
- Increase in income of
beneficiaries participating
in productive activities               202
- Increase In their assets                202
- Employment generated
(beneficiaries & new employees)        102/community
- Financial survival of
enterprises after:
1 year of operation              60X
3 years of operation             501
5 years of operation             402
- Credit recovery                         701
- Women's participation                   701
In productive activities
Progress in implementation would be measured against these aggregate
targets over the project life and during the Interim and final project
evaluationg. Annual workplans would provide for intermediate target
measurements.



- 41 -
Page 2 of 5
(ii)     Indicators and Methods
3.       Project monitoring and evaluation would be organized so that the
greatest operational information would be generated *t the cosmunity level
and this information would be aggregated at state and project levels. The
basic indicators on which information would be collected relate first to
the general project goals and subsequently to the annual targets
established every year by the executing agencies in their respective
workplans. Once a community is selected, a baseline survey would be
carried out to allow before and after the project comparisons of
achievements and change. The following indicators would be incorporated
into a community baseline survey.
CO"4n"ITY DATA                           SO2RCE
POPULATION
- I of population or S of households              Municipal records
sea-disaggregated
- X of women as heads of households                Survey
- I persons who have left the comunnity
in past five years, ses-disaggregated          Survey
COMOUNITY SERVICES
Availability of:                                 Survey
- bank
- post office
- telephone
- public primary school
- public secondary school
- paved roads
- motorized bus service
- truck/transport service
- electricity
- water system
- health center
WATER SERVICES
- X of water taps functioning over time            Surveyl/ater authority
- X of population servediwater tap or             Survey/Water authority
other water facility
- Storage of water (ranked)                        Survey
- automatics piped to house
- cistern
- oil drum, tin pail
- clay barrel



- 42 -
ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 5
WATER SERVICES
- Transport of water to home (ranked)              blrvey
- automatic, faucet in home
- delivery to home (#C_/week)
- pail with pulley in yard
- pail from well or stream in omn yard
- carry over 100 yards
- carry from oil drum to home
- use of burro
- Average timeiday spent in fetching water
(m/f/children)                                  Survey
- Cost of waters S of households who pay            Survey/Water authority
- no fee
- $ /month
- Z of population interested in improved
facilities                                     Survey
$_   amount/month willing to pay for
such improvements                              Survey
DISPOSAL OF HUMAN WASTE
- I of population served by: (ranked)               Survey
- fluah toilets
- modern pit toilet
- privy/latrine
- trench & stick in fence corner
- sceptic tanks: community or private
- Z of population interested in improved
facilities                                     Survey
- $_   amount willing to pay for such
improvements                                   Survey
SOCIO-ECONOMIC
- Z of persons in households                        Survey
- salaried (Male/Female)
- self-employed (m/f)
-  full-time, part-time (mlf)
- engaged in seasonal employment (m/f)
- 1 of persons in household earnings                Survey
-  minmum wage Cm/f)
- below minimum wage (mlf)
- above mininum wage Cm/f)
- I of community gainfully occupied in:             Survey
- agriculture (m/f)
- industry Im/f)
- micro-industry (m/f)
- trade (m/f)



- 43 -
ANNEX 3
Page 4 of 5
SOCIO-ECONOMIC
- J and kinds of businesses in community:         Survey
- Facilities:
- market
- meat packing plant
- dairy cooling/storage
- grain storagelmill
- food wholesaler
- produce collecting station
- transport dealer
- Businesses$
- general store
- small grocery store
- vegetable store
- butcher store
- restaurantleating establishment
- charcoal dealer, etc.
Technical assistance would be provided to design and implement the first
several community baseline surveys until sufficient expertise had been
developed. Data banks would be established in each state to allow adequate
information storage and timely retrieval.
4.       Following the community baseline survey, the water authority would
carry out a technical survey to determine the appropriate design options
and costs of providing water to the community. The indicators and
information needs for this survey are sufficiently developed in the case of
Queretaro and would be usable with little need of modification. A
comparison with Hidalgo and Michoacan would be needed to ensure similar
standards and methods are employed. The water authorities would be
responsible for collecting information on the indicators they select to
monitor progress for their activities. Technical assistance would be
provided to assist in the standardization of data collection and
methodologies.
5.       The project would use an adapted OEY data base survey for
determining information for carrying out productive economic activities.
This survey requires the collection of information on the potential credit
borrower with regard to: family size; income; level of education achieved;
occupation(s)/skills in the household; previous experience in managing an
enterprise, borrowing, and/or receiving technical assistance; previous
exposure to health education; decision making in the household, In the
enterprise and family support attitude with reference to undertaking
productive activities. The last three data items would be used to trace
over time the changing role, or perception of that role, of omen in thc
community.



4 44 -
ANNEX 3
Page 5 of 5
6.       For the health education component a three year pilot monitoring
program would be designed in each state to determine the effectiveness of
the program on behavioral change. Given the many scientific and
methodological issues related to determining behavioral changes, simple
techniques would be developed to measure tne behavioral response to the
health education program. Using knowledge-attitude-and-practice (ZAP)
questionnaires, baseline information would be obtained on the selected
comunities' health and sanitation practices. The indicators that would be
examined are those which relate to the contents of the health education
program that would be implemented with particular attention to those
variables concerning water, such ass (i) personal hygiene (e.g. hand
washing practices); (ii) child care (e.g. taking care of infant's stool);
(iii) sanitation (e.g. treatment of garbage, feces and latrines); and (iv)
maintenance of potable water installations (e.g. cleanliness, water quality
testing). Thereafter, short evaluations would be carried out using rapid
appraisal techniques at fairly regular intervals to determine the effects
of the health education program and allow adjustments to be made in the
health education messages, if necessary. These rapid appraisal techniques
would be tailored to the individual state situations and would be developed
in collaboration with health personnel, an anthropologist and local field
staff to allow for the Incorporation of sensitivity to local norms and
standards. Incentives would be provided to health education staff for the
best performance In Inducing change in hygienic behavior. If by the end of
the pilot period Inconclusive evidence exists that covnunity behavior is
being influenced, this monitoring and evaluation approach would be re-
ezamined. If on the other hand the KAP surveys indicate that behavioral
changes are underway, efforts would be made to examine by the fifth and
sixth project years health $mpact, probably using relatively rapid
inexpensive retrospective methods (infcrmation is available on these In the
project files). Technical a,sistance would be provided to design the NIB
content and methodology for chis component and assist In Implementation and
evaluation activities.



- 45 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 12
MEXICO
WOMEN WATER AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
COMMUNITY PROJECT PROFILE AND ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A.  REFORMA AGRARIA (Queretaro)
1.    Basic Data
Population:                 24,000 (8,000 beneficiaries)
Access:                     Good - Within Queretaro City Limits
Existing Public Services
Education:                  Several primary and secondary schools
Health:                     Several health centers
Electricity:                1002 of the population served
Water:                      662 of the population served
Land Tenure:                Urban dwellings.  No land ownership.
Main Activities:            High percentage of the male population
are rural dwellers in off-season wage employment. The main activities are
in construction and manufacturing. About 302 of the women are wage earners
with a substantial majority engaged as domestics in Queretaro City.
Average Household Income:1   Mex$420,000 per family, per month.
Women's time spent in water  2hrs./day
related activities:
2.    Proposed Project
(a)    Water Supply and Sanitation Component - Investm$nts
j          corresponding to the least-cost solution for the selected level of services
are:
(i)   Construction and installation of the distribution system
(4,500 m. of 8" pipes, and 5,000 m. of 6" to 20 pipes).
(ii)   Construction and installation of 1,200 yard-connections.
(iii)   Construction of five covuunity septic tanks.
(iv)   Rehabilitation of abonc 1,000 kitchen ranges.
1/ Includes non-cash income.



- 46 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 12
(b)    Income Generating Activity
(i) Description
Operation of an 'in-bond' industry for the production of
about 55,100 units of women clothing per year to satisfy
the existing and projected excess demand in Mexico City.
The industry will generate a minimum of 40 jobs for women
working half a day shifts and incomes of about Mex$220,000
per household per month. The required fixed investments
for the optimal sized operation amount to US$36,700 of
which 52Z correspond to machinery and equipment, 46Z to
land and civil works and the rest for office equipment.
(ii)   Summarized Financial Evaluation2
Rate of return about 46Z
(c)    Project Cost
(i) Water Supply and Sanitation
Water Supply Investment Costs         US$330,050.00
Sanitation Investment Cost             US$21,520.00
Investment per Capita                      US$43.94
Annual Operation and Maintenance       US$54,000.00
Costs
(ii) Income Generating Activity
Investment Costs                       US$43,970.00
Annual Operating Costs                 US$36,350.00
Annual Administrative Costs            US$18,000.00
(d)    Project Justification
PV of the Project Net Benefits            US$333,844.82
PV of Incremental Infrastructure          US$254,592.47
Investment
PV of Incremental Infrastructure          US$270,648.96
Operating Expenses
PV of Water and Sanitation Revenues       US$741,211.01
Adjusted LRAC of Water and Sanitation           US$3.97
Services (household/month)
21 Detailed pre-feasibtlity study of this income generating activity has
been included in the project file.



- 47 -
ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 12
ECONOMIC EVALUATION - REFORPA AORARIA (QJERE1ARO)
(US dollaps)
YEAR  INFRASTRUCTURE  INCREMENTAL INFRASTRUCTURE  I?FRASTRUCTIME  TOTAL
INVESTMENT    OPERATING       NET           NET          NET
COSTS        COSTS        REVENUES 1     B DENEFITS /   BENEFITS 8/
1     68160.00         27447.24       -110607.24  -110607.24 -146689.61
2    220211.60         42362.00       -21940w.60  -205346.60 -198927.44
8        --            68162.00         45176.00    78804.00   08761.54
4        --             6870.00         47487.64    76459.66   96907.22
5        --             64484.86        49875.41    79071.64   99519.06
6        --             6606.20         61819.68    81758.87  102208.91
7        --            56742.54         68822.02    64622.12  104969.66
*        --             66406.44        665.84    87864.68  107812.87
9        -             67076.99         676009.69    90286.67  110173.11
10       --            5674.24          59697.01    98295.40  118748.00
11       --            58488.26         61949.27    9e087.66  116886.22
12       --            59129.12         64266.09    99567.47  120016.01
18-20    --            59626.89         66656.26   102837.11  128264.66
Economic Rate of Return                       14.65       28.90      26.8%
Not stream In which bensfits correspond to willingness to pay.
2/ Not stream In which benefit. Include *etimated consumer surplus.
8/ Infrastructure net benefIts plus the net benefits associated with the productive
actlvities.
(e)    Sensitivity Analysis
Costs (+20%)
Rate of Return  Costs (+202)  Benefits (-20%)  Benefits (-202)
14.5Z a            8.3%            7.0                 .72
23.9Z b           16.9%           15.5%                9.32
26.3Z c           19.8%           19.0Z               13.22
a/ Rate of return of the net stream in which benefits correspond to the
willingness to pay.
bf Rate of return of the net stream in which benefits include estimated
consumer surplus.
cl Rate of return of infrastructure net benefits plus the net
benefits associated with the productive activities.



- 48 _
ANNEX 4
Page 4 of 12
D. EL RODEO (Queretaro)
1.    Basic Data (Cont.)
Population (1988)             350
Accesst                       Poor. 5 km gravel road from main road.
No public transportation
Existing Public Services
Education:                  One school with 48 students (80Z of
school-aged population)
Health:                     None
Electricitys                None
Water:                      Water tank of 30m3 filled twice a week.
Land Tenure:                  'Eiido' farm units.  500 ha, of which
300 are for pasture and 200 for
agriculture. About 3-5 ha per
'ejldatario'.
Main Activities:              Rainfed agriculture; production of maize
and beans; domestic livestock;
construction work in the nearby city of
San Juan del Rio.
Average Household Income: 3 Mex$200,000, per family, per month.
Women's time spent on water  3 hrs. per day.
related activitiess
2.    Proposed Project
(a) Water SUpply and Sanitation Component - Investments
corresponding to the least-cost solution for the selected level of services
are:
(i)   Rehabilitation of the existing well;
(ii)   Construction and installation of the distribution system
(3,600m. of 2n pipes).
(iii)   Construction and installation of 70 new yard connections.
(iv)   Construction of three community septic tanks.
3/  Includes non-cash income.



- 49 -
ANNEX 4
Page 5 of 12
(b)  Income Generating Activity
ti) Description
Family operated poultry farms with capacity for raising
1,100 chickens annually in each household module.
Production responsibilities will rest in the family, who
would provide the necessary land (altout 80m 2) to operate
each farm. In addition, a group of about 8 families will
become members of a cooperative with overall monitoring and
commercialization functions. Administrative duties will
require a staff of five people. Participating families will
receive a salary for their labor and, at the end of each
year, the dividends generated by the cooperative.
(ii)   Financial Evaluation 4
Rate of return of about 42Z.
(c) Project Cost
(i) Water Supply and Sanitation
Water Supply Investment Costs                  US$32,230.00
Sanitation Investment Cost                     US$14,480.00
Investment per Capita                             US$133.46
Operation and Maintenance Costs (per year)      US$1,000.00
(ii) Income Generating Activity
Investment Costs                               US$44,250.00
Operating Costs (per year)                     US$97,870.00
Administrative Costs (per year)                US$13,800.00
(d)  Project Justification
PV of the Project Net Benefits                      US$99,955.38
PV of Incremental Infrastructure Investments        US$33,098.21
PV of Incremental Infrastructure Operating           US$1,170.84
Expenses
PV of Water and Sanitation Revenues                 US$28,383.43
Adjusted LRAC of water and sanitation                    US$3.47
(householdimonth)
4/ Detailed pre-feasibility study of this income generating activity has
been included in the project file.



- 50 -
ANNEX 4
Page 6 of 12
ECONOMIC EVALUATION - EL RODEO (QUERETARO)
(US dot lars)
YEAR  DNFRASTRUtTURE  INCREMENlAL  INFRASTRUCTURE  INFRASTRUCTURE  TOTAL
INVESTMENT    OPERATING         NET             NET           NET
COSTS         COSTS         REVEWNES 3/      BENEFITS 2/   BENEFITS 8/
1      10120.00       -120.00      -6645.00         -6000.00      -44476.68
2     80104.00        -170.00    -26541.65         -24981.50      -20770.10
8        --           -205.66       8782.26          5809.14       26881.76
4         --          -196.62       8660.41         6586.60        26526.11
6        -            -167.28       8098.27          6659.74       2e662.35
6         --          -177.95       4040.85          5787.22       26779.04
7                     -160.53       4186.69         6518.08        26010.65
8        --           -159.02       4225.85          e62.25        27044.07
9        --           -149.41       4817.40          6169.97       27162.69
10       --           -189.70       4411.69          6881.28       27828.90
11       --           -129.90       4500.90          6476.27       27468.89
12       --           -120.00       4606.47          6626.08       27617.65
18-20    --           -110.00       4710.60          6777.65       27770.27
Economic Rate of Return                    10.51            17.65          88.25
/ Not *team In which benefitts correspond to wi lIinessJn to pay.
g/  Net strm In which benfits Include estimated consumer surplus.
3/   Infrastructure not benefits plus tho nt benefits associated with the productive
activities.
(e) Sensitivity Analysis
Costs (+20Z)
Rate of Return  Costs (+20Z)  Benefits (-20?)  Benefits (-20Z)
10.5Z a              7.5z             6.9Z                 4.4Z
17.62 b            13.6Z              9.5Z                 6.7Z
33.2Z c            30.42             30.42                27.8?
a/ Rate of return of the net stream in which benefits correspond to the
willingness to pay.
b/ Rate of return of the net stream in which benefits include estimated
consumer surplus.
c/  Rate of return of infrastructure net benefits plus the net
benefits associated with the productive activities.



_ 51 -
ANNEX 4
Page 7 of 12
EL ALBERTO (HidalRo)
[      1~.   Basic Data
Population                   2,700
Access:                       Poor
Existing Public Services
Education:                    Primary school.
Health:                      One doctor visits the community once a
month.
Electricity:                  802 of the population served.
Water:                        None - Stream at 3 km from village.
Land Tenure:                 Ejidal and small properties of about 1
ha. per family.
Main Activities:                Rainfed agriculture (maize) and wage
labor in Mexico City.
Average Household Income: 3    Mex$250,000 per family, per month
Women's time spent on water    4 hr./day
related activities:
2.    Proposed Project
(a) Water Supply and Sanitation Component - Investments
corresponding to the least-cost solution for the selected level of services
are:
(i)   Tmprovement of the intaken and construction of a 1,000 m3
reservoir:
(ii)   Construction of a 400 m transmission line of 6" PVC pipe;
(iii)   Procurement and Installation of a pump to elevate 20 l.p.s.
and installation of a 200 m power-line;
(iv)   Construction and installation of the distribution system
(3,000 m of 3" to 2" PVC pipes);
(v)   Construction and installation of lOf new yard connections;
(vi)   Construction of two community septic tanks.
(vii)   Rehabilitation of about 350 kitchen ranges.
5/ Includes non-cash income.



- 52 -
ANNEX 4
Page 8 of 12
(b)    Income Generating Activity
(i) Description
Installation and operation of a farm to produce about 18
tons per year of rainbow trout to satisfy excess demand in
the State of Hidalgo. The project could be implemented on
the basis of a limit-ed partnership, generating income for
at least ten families; or through a community-wide
cooperative. The required investments for the optimal
sized operation amounts to US$44,000, of which about
US$18,000 are for fixed investments (civil works and
equipment) and US$26,000 are for working capital. The
enterprise is expected to have sales of US$70,400 per year.
(ii)   Summarized Financial Evaluation 6
Rate of return about 30Z
(c)    Project Cost
(i) Water Supply and Sanitation
Water Supply Investment Costs         US$105,000.00
Sanitation Investment Cost             US$16,830.00
Investment per Capita                      US$45.12
Operation and Maintenance               US$7,000.00
Costs (per year)
(ii) Income Generating Activity
Investment Costs                       US$44,000.00
Operating Costs (per-year)             US$28,150.00
Administrative Costs (per year)        US$11,800.00
(d)    Project Justification
PV of the Project Net Benefits            US$177,556.00
PV of Incremental Infrastructure           US$96,088.00
1-inestment
PV of Incremental Infrastructure           US$16,326.00
Operating Expenses
PV of Water and Sanitation Revenues       US$100,671.01
Adjusted LRAC of Water and Sanitation           US$1.60
Services (household/month)
6/ Detailed pre-feasibility study of this income generating activity has
been included in the project file.



- 53 -
ANNEX 4
Page 9 of 12
ECONOMIC EVALUATION - EL ALERTO (HIDALOO)
(US dollars)
YEAR  INWRASTRNCTURE  INCREMENTAL INFRASTRUCTURE  INFRASTRUCTURE  TOTAL
INVESTMENT    OPERATING        NET             NET          NET
COSTS         COSTS        REVEIJES 1/    BENEFITS 2/   BENEFITS */
1        79200.00         977.18    -74846.76        -9205.71    -106821.66
2        81680.00        2017.01    -21782.27        -11246.67     -24249.98
8           -            2080.38     10346.80         21198.79      85292.64
4                        2144.8e     10855.10         21888.17      60605.68
6           --           2209.08     10910.44         22867.9       51040.42
6           --           2274.82     11178.14         22917.09      51589.65
7           --           2840.26     11448.88         2u80.94       62158.40
8           --           2406.86     11721.87         24059.86      62782.82
9           --           2474.18     12007.81         24654.26      53826.72
10          --           2642.07     12301.40         25264.58      68986.99
:1          --           2610.69     12608.87         25891.08      6468.64
12          --           2690.00     12914.98         26584.81     65206.77
18-20       --           2760.00     13284.80         27194.67      55867.18
Economic Rate of Return                    9.2X            28.6X         29.11
/  Net stream in which benefits correpond to willingnes to pay.
3/  Net stram In which benefits include estimated consumer surplus.
3/  Infrastructure net benefit, plus the net bnfits associated with the productive
activities.
(e) Sensitivity Analysis
Costs 1+202)
Rate of Return  Costs (+20Z)  Benefits (-202)  Benefits (-20S)
9.22 a             6.12             5.4?                2.6Z
23.62 b            18.52            17.5?               13.5Z
29.1? c            25.4?            25.62               22.32
a/ Rate of return of the net stream in which benefits correspond to the
willingness to pay.
b/ Rate of return of the net stream in which benefits include estimated
consumer surplus.
c/ Rate of return of infrastructure net benefits plus the net benefits
associated with the productive activities.



-54-
ANNEX 4
Page 10 of 12
D. LA RUEDA (Michoacan)
1.    Basic Data
Population                    900
Accesst                       Good - Gravel road to Maravatio
Existing Public Services
Education:                    One pre-school and one primary school.
Health:                       None
Electricity:                  80Z of the population served.
Water:                        None - Stream at 1.5 km from village.
Land Tenures                  Small land owners.
Main Activities:              Agriculture (maize, barley, wheat),
cattle raising.
Average Household Income: 1    Mex$180,000 per family, per month.
Women's time spent on water    3 hr./day
related activities:
2.    Proposed Project
(a) Water Supply and Sanitation Component - Investments
corresponding to the least-cost solution for the selected level of services
are:
(i)   Construction of an intaken with a capacity of 2.33 l.p.s.;
(ii)   Construction and installation of a 1.79 HP pimping station;
(iii)   Supply and installation of 1.6 km of 2-1/2' PVC transmission
line;
(iv)   Construction of a 15 m3 reservoir;
(v)   Construction and installation of the distribution system
(250m of 20 pipes); and
(vi)   Construction and installation of four community septic
tanks.
11 Includes non-cash income.



- 55 -
ANNEX 4
Page 11 of 12
(b)    Income Generating Activity
(i)   Description
Growing flowers to satisfy the excess demand of domestic
and foreign markets. This activity would create a minimum
of 21 full-time direct jobs or 42 half-day jobs. The
required investments for the optimal size operation amounts
to US$140,000 of which civil works, greenhouses and the
acquisition of the original plants account for 65Z.
Estimated net profits vary from US$15,780 in year 3 to
US$78,420 by year 10.
(ii)   Suumarized Financial Evaluation 7
Rate of return about 502
(c)    Project Cost
(i)   Water Supply and Sanitation
Water Supply Investment Costs          US$47,380.00
Sanitation Investment Cost             US$23,530.00
Investment per Capita                      US$78.79
Annual Operation and Maintenance        US$5,015.00
Costs
(ii)   Income Generating Activity
Investment Costs                      US$140,000.00
Operating Costs (per year)            US$278,600.00
Administrative Costs (per year)        US$13,520.00
(d)    Project Justification
PV of the Project Met Benefits            US$434,559.23
PV of Incremental Infrastructure           US$52,165.54
Investment
PV of Incremental Infrastructure           US$32,967.65
Operating Costs
PV of Water and Sanitation Revenues        US$71,790.58
Adjusted LRAC of Water and Sanitation            US$3.42
Services (household/month)
71 Detailed pre-feasibility study of this income generating activity has
been included in the project file.



- 56 -
ANNEX 4
Page 12 of 12
ECONOMIC EVALUATION - LA RUEDA (SICHOACAN)
(US dollors)
YEAR INFRASTRUCTURE INCREMENTAL INFRASTRUCTURE INFRASTRUCTURE TOTAL
INVESTMENT    OPERATING        NET             NET          NET
COSTS         COSTS        REVENUES 1/    BENEFITS 2/   BENEFITS 8/
1   26030.40         2040.00       -28670.40    -21248.22   -145696.16
2   36262.40         4418.20         4704.40       9804.40     -9944.89
8      -             4457.88         604.67       11801.67     97409.08
4      -             4601.91         6319.27      11729.66     98444.64
6      --            4546.92         6544.79      12090.64     90469.s8
6      -             4592.89         6776.61      12461.11     996u9.82
7      --            4680.82         7014.91      12641.52     99576.82
B 4684.70                            7259.66      18282.14     99966.44
9                    4781.65         7511.62      18688.21    100887.61
10     --            4778.86         7770.89      14045.01    100779.81
11                   4862.65         60o8.88      14487.82    101202.12
12                   4674.92         6809.64      14901.92    101068.22
18-20                4928.07         8590.60      15847.59    102061.69
Economic Rato of Return                   10.9%         24.0%        44.2X
1/  Net stres  In which benefits correspond to wIIingnes  to pay.
Ho Net strnm In which benefits include estimated consumer *urplus.
8/  Infrastructure net benefits plus the net bnefits associated with thi  productive
activities.
(e)     Sensitivity Analysis
Costs (+20Z)
Rate of Return Costs (+20Z) Benefits (-202) Benefits (-202)
10.9? a             6.32             5.32                  .92
24.02 b            17.52            16.2?               10.92
44.2Z c            41.5Z            42.2Z               39.62
a/ Rate of return of the net stream in which benefits correspond to the
willingness to pay.
b/ Rate of return of the net stream in which benefits include estimated
consumer surplus.
c/ Rate of return of infrastructure net benefits plus the net
benefits associated with the productive activities.



- 57 -                    ANNEX 5
Page I of 2
MEXICO
WATER. WOMEN AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Proiect Justification - Economic Analysis
A.       Economic Analysis
(i)  Integration of Proiect Subcomponents
1.       In those communities where access to water is not easy, and women
spend considerable time fetching water to the home, their willingness to
pay for water is related to the value of their time. In turn, the value of
time depends on opportunity costs which are functions of the income
generating possibilities offered by the market. Because in the low-income
communities being considered under the proposed project the interrelation
between water availability and income generation possibilities are so
strong, the potential for double-counting benefits is important. As a
result, for those families expected to participate in the project supported
productive activities, only the benefits derived from the generation of
personal income have been taken into account. This approach is very
conservative since, evidently, water and sanitation services provide
substantial benefits that are unrelated to the value of time. Particularly
important are health and quality-of-life benefits, and associated
externalities.
2.       The number of families estimat.ed to participate in the income
generating activities for the purpos&3 of the economic evaluation is the
minimum necessary to establish a particularly efficient organizational
scheme and/or to capture economies of scale in production and distribution.
In general, this amounts to between 25 and 40 families per community. In
practice, this number is likely to be substantially higher. However, given
the difficulties in forecasting the demand for the credit line subcomponent
of the project, a conservative approach has been adopted in estimating the
benefits form this project component.
(ii) Project Costs
3.       Costs of investments in infrastructure and in income generating
activities are exclusive of taxes and duties and are expressed in October
1988 prices. In the case of infrastructure investments, they include
engineering and physical contingencies. The cost of labor, estimated to
represent 502 of total construction costs, was shadow priced using a wage
rate that is 80Z of the present minimum wage. 1
4.       Incremental operating and maintenance costs were calculated on the
basis of unit cost estimates for the *without project case' carried out by
SWA-Queretaro for consumption levels of 25 l.c.d. In most cases, the
existing situation comprises a combination of trucked water for drinking
and cooking, and fetched water for other purposes. Seasonal variations in
the trucked-fetched combination occur, especially in Michoacan where
streams are dry for part of the year. Based on the operating cost of small
1/ Based on 'Los precios de cuenta en Mexico' - Interamerican Development
Bank - 1986.



- 58 -                           ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 2
double-asle trucks (3-5 tons) and average trips of 20 km. the cost of
trucked water was estimated in Mex$ 4000 per cubic meter tl cubic meter -
1000 1). In the case of peri-urban communities with partial access to
public tap water, SWA-Queretaro estimated the cost of operating and
maintaining the existing system at Mex$ 5000 per month per household (Mex$
500 per cubic meter). For the wvith project case* the SWA in each of the
participating states developed operating and maintenance costs based on the
technical caracteristics of the selected systems for consumption levels of
100 l.c.d. These costs ranged from Mex$ 209 to Mex$ 520 per cubic meter.
In general, however, incremental costs are positive. The reasons are two:
first, there is a substantial expected increase in the water consumed after
the new systems are in place; and second, no cost was attributed to fetched
water, which represents a large share of the water currently consumed. In
particular, on the basis of the sampled beneficiaries, only 32 of .the water
consumed is trucked, 232 comes from public taps and 74Z is fetched from
natural sources.
(iii) Proiect Benefits
5.       To measure the economic return of the water supply investments,
consumer surplus was estimated on the basis of our knowledge of two points
on the demand curves (a) users pay vendors about Mex$2,000 per gallon of
water and consumed about 5 l.c.d., and (b) users are willing to pay about
Mex$6,000 per month to consume 100 l.c.d. Fitting exponential demand
functions between these two points and comparing the area under these
curves with the benefits calculated using willingness to pay based on SWA's
observed payments in similar low-income comunities as a proxy for
benefits, the ratio is between 2.5 and 2. However, the calculation of net
benefits, to be on the conservative side, was made using the lower ratio
(para. 6).
6.       Projected net revenues were calculated assuming that water rates
would be set equal to long-run average costs, adjusted to include the debt
servicing obligations acquired by each community in order to carry-out the
proposed investments. On the average, these rates result in water bills in
the order of Mex$6,000 per month, or one minimum daily wage.
7.       With regard to the returns from productive activities, only the
direct benefits have been quantified. However, it is envisaged that these
activities will have important indirect benefits as well. In particular,
the project is expected to generate important non-quantifiable benefits
from the development of entrepreneurial and labor skills and demonstration
effects in the local -communities.
(iv) Sensitivity Analysis
See Annex 4.
B.       Affordability
8.       Payments for the proposed water and sanitation services will
represent about 32 of households' income, which ensures the affordability
of the project. Available surveys on income distribution in Mexico shows
that households on the lowest quintile spend about 52 of their income on
public utilities such as water and electricity services. The low-cost
technologies being considered allow them rates which, while affordable,
permit the financial self-sufficiency of the proposed systems.



VEXICO
WATER, WOMEN AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
INSTITUTIONAL ASSESMIENT
Q=ERETARO                                        Michoacan                                      H;dx190 
IDEAS              SWA                 FI                      SWA         Ft                          SWA                 FI
Institutional Operates in a         Highly proficient  Smll lnstitut.   Organizationl    Ngw Institution    Woek organization.Seosonod Organizat.
Overall         highly political   One of the top in  Need  seasoning   chart should be   with experienced                             Neds expand
Asseemnt        envi roment.        the country.                            rowl ed            staff.                                  promotion ares
Management      Adquate             Exce lIW,            Cood               Cood               Very good            No delegation      Excellent
Financial       Wek                 Very good            Vory good          Needs Improvement Very good             NW     Improvement Very good
Management
Engineering    N/A                  Excellent            N/A                Good               N/A                  Good               N/A
Management
--                      -------              -                       ----------------------------------------------------
Operation       N/A                 Heds equipmnt    N/A                    Need  improvemet N/A                    Need  improvement N/A
Maintenance                         and training
-- --_    - -- - -- - -- - -- - --_- ___ __ __ __ ___ __ _. _..__ __ __ __ ___ __ ._ __ ___ __ __ __ -_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ -- - -- - -  -_ --- -- --- -- --- -- --- -- --- --   -_ _ ------ ------ ------ ------
Humn Ro ourcesNot formal y         Good program         No development    No devolopmnt    No development          No doevlopmnt    Needs improvet
Development    Implemented                               program            program            progrom              program
----------------_---------------_--_------------_----_-------__--------------__-------------------_----_-----_--------------_--------__----__--
Coemercial      N/A                 Very good            Very good          Woak               Very good            Needs Improvement Very good
operations
Information    Ne   to be           Ned  som             Very pood          Acceptablo        HMo to be upgraded Very wsak             Good
System          Improved            Improvement
Planning        Coordination        Usk                  Accptabl-          Acceptable         Good                 Neods improvement Needs to devolop
Funcions        with other inst.                                                                                                       better coordination        >
Is poor                                                                                                                with SWA. S
Physical        Excellent           Very good            Very good          Neds improvement Very good              Poor                Very good
Arrergemnt
----------__------_---------------------------------------___---     _------- ___----- __--------------------------------------------- _-- _--  __-- _----_-___



- 60 -
ANNEX 7
MEXICO
WATER, WOMEN AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Proiect File
1.     Perfil del Proyecto uAgua, Mujer y Desarrollo". OPS/OMS -
Julio/1988.
2.     OEF Approach to Small Enterprise Development - OEF May/1988.
3.     Women, Watex and Development.  Queretaro - Mexico - OEF/April 1988.
4.     Monografia del Estado de Queretaro 1988.  Gobierno Constitucional
del Estado de Quer4taro.
S.     Hidalgo - Cuaderno de Informaci6n para la Planeaci6n. INEGI-1987.
6.     La Distribuci6n del Ingreso en Mexico.  Fondo de Cultura Econ6mlca -
1974.
7.     Suggested Terms of Reference for the Technical Assistance Program
for SWAs.
8.     Outline of Terms of Reference for the Health Education Program.
9.     Methodology for Project Implementation.
10.    Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance to Promotion Agencies.
11.    Household Survey of Forty-two Low-Income Communities in the State of
Queretaro.
12.    Economic Evaluation - Working Paper
13.    Monitoring and Evaluation - Working Paper.
14.    Unit Cost Analysis.
15.    Prefeasibility Studies for Income-Generating Activities.
16.    Financial Statements and Organization Charts of SWAs in the States
of Queretaro, Hidalgo and Michoacan.
17.    Financial Statements of FIMMINSSE, Impulsora Hidalguense and FOMICH.
18.    List of Operation and Maintenance Equipment to Strengthen SWAs.
19.    Engineering Designs of Water Systems of Nine Low-income Communities
in the Participating States.



h35>19ZE4   nob         g                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~M E X I C
WATER, WOMEN, AND DEV _ .    PROJ:
A/OR '' 'AF_
0 ,vincipaI citiest at to.  ti
DnWwo iOw
m rl ain a oodifs
G~~~~'f    a; jpd iro
rAHAVi~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TCr
SAN I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CNEH
fs,nat~oaOW75 orfsr     o ro OW .o r.0O5  _ot 5\150 Stint 
5~~t BO5~~d~~Tht  inS  t.ti/t.ttt                                                                                            Tapa~~~~~~hA                (
Pt A          v ssF'O- AHOIV
Ito.~~~~~~~~~~~



