Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3101 ME
              (Water, Women and Development Project)
                              between
                       UNITED MEXICAN STATES
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                     Dated September 25, 1989
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3101 ME
                        GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated September  25,  1989, between UNITED MEXICAN
STATES (the Guarantor)  and  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
     WHEREAS ( A)  the  Guarantor  and  Banco  Nacional de Obras y
Servicios Publicos, S.N.C.  (the  Borrower), having been satisfied
as to the feasibility  and  priority  of  the Project described in
Schedule 2 to  the  Loan  Agreement,  have  requested  the Bank to
assist in the financing of the Project;
     (B)  by the Loan Agreement of  even date herewith between the
Bank and the  Borrower,  the  Bank  has  agreed  to  extend to the
Borrower a loan in various currencies equivalent to twenty million
dollars ($20,000,000), on the  terms  and  conditions set forth in
the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that the Guarantor agree
to guarantee the obligations  of  the  Borrower in respect of such
loan and to undertake certain obligations as hereinafter provided;
and
Page  2
     WHEREAS  the  Guarantor,  in   consideration  of  the  Bank's
entering into the Loan Agreement  with the Borrower, has agreed to
guarantee such obligations of the Borrower;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows :
                             ARTICLE I
                 General Conditions ; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth in Section 1.01 of the Loan Agreement (the
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions,  and  in the
Preamble to and in Section  1.02  of  the Loan Agreement, have the
respective meanings therein set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                   Guarantee; Provision of Funds
     Section 2.01. The  Guarantor  declares  its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set  forth  in Schedule 2 to the Loan
Agreement, and to this end, without limitation or restriction upon
any of its other  obligations  under  the Guarantee Agreement, the
Guarantor hereby  unconditionally  guarantees,  as primary obligor
and not as surety  merely,  the  due  and  punctual payment of the
principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the
premium, if any,  on  the  prepayment  of  the  Loan, the punctual
performance of all the  other  obligations  of the Borrower as set
forth in the Loan Agreement,  the punctual performance of the SWAs
and the Eligible States  under  the Subsidiary Loan agreements and
the punctual performance of  the  Financial Intermediaries and the
Eligible States under the Participation Agreements.
     Section 2.02. The Guarantor  shall enter into the contractual
arrangements referred to  in  Section  3.02  of the Loan Agreement
and, unless the Bank  shall  otherwise  agree, shall not change or
fail to enforce any provisions of such contractual arrangements.
                            ARTICLE III
                          Other Covenants
     Section 3.01. The  Guarantor  declares  its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set  forth  in Schedule 2 to the Loan
Agreement, and to this end shall  provide or cause to be provided,
in a timely manner as  needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project.
     Section 3.02.  The  Guarantor  shall,  by  December 30, 1990,
through SSA, complete the design  and the preparation of materials
for the Health Education Program  for  the purpose of carrying out
such Program in a timely manner.
     Section 3.03. For purposes of  Sections  6.02 (c) and (d) and
7.01 (e) of  the  General  Conditions,  the  obligations of Mexico
under the General Interest  Rate Agreement are hereby incorporated
as obligations of the Guarantor  as  if  they were fully set forth
herein.
                            ARTICLE VI
            Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
     Section 4.01. The  Director  General  de Captacion de Credito
Externo of the Secretaria  de  Hacienda  y  Credito Publico of the
Guarantor is designated as representative of the Guarantor for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Page  3
     Section 4.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Guarantor:
          Secretaria de Hacienda y
            Credito Publico
          Direccion General de Captacion de Credito Externo
          Palacio Nacional
          Primer Patio Mariano, 4© Piso
          Despacho 4037
          06066 Mexico, D.F.
          Mexico
                                          Telex:
                                            1777313 SHDCME
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
               Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                  Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                    440098 (ITT)
               Washington, D.C.             248423 (RCA) or
                                             64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                             UNITED MEXICAN STATES
                             By /s/ Pedro Aspe Armella
                                         Authorized Representative
                             INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                               RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                             By /s/ S. Shahid Husain
                                           Regional Vice President
                                   Latin America and the Caribbean
