Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3101 ME
              (Water, Women and Development Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                                and
                BANCO NACIONAL DE OBRAS Y SERVICIOS
                         PUBLICOS, S.N.C.
                     Dated September 25, 1989
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3101 ME
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated  September  25,  1989, between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR  RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT  (the  Bank)  and BANCO
NACIONAL DE OBRAS Y SERVICIOS PUBLICOS, S.N.C. (the Borrower).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower  and  the United Mexican States (the
Guarantor),  having  been  satisfied  as  to  the  feasibility and
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
have requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
     (B)  by an agreement (the  Guarantee  agreement) of even date
herewith between the  Guarantor  and  the  Bank, the Guarantor has
agreed to guarantee the obligations  of the Borrower in respect of
the Loan, and to undertake such  other obligations as set forth in
the Guarantee Agreement;
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan  to  the Borrower upon the terms and
Page  2
conditions set forth in this agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
last sentence of Section 3.02  is deleted (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the  following  additional  terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this agreement;
     (b)  "General  Interest  Rate  Agreement"  means  the General
Agreement on Interest  Rates  Applicable  to  Credit Operations of
Fondos de Fomento financed  by  the  International Bank for Recon-
struction and  Development  between  the  Guarantor  and the Bank,
dated August 7, 1984, as  such  agreement may be amended from time
to time;
     (c)  "Eligible State" means each  of  the State of Queretaro,
the State of Michoacan or the State of Hidalgo in the territory of
the  Guarantor;  and  "Eligible   States"   means  the  States  of
Queretaro, Michoacan and Hidalgo collectively;
     (d)  "SWA" means each of the  following State Water Agency of
an Eligible State having juridical personality and the capacity to
contract under the laws  of  the  Guarantor or the Eligible State,
and  to  which  the  Borrower  has  made  or  proposes  to  make a
Subsidiary Loan  (as  hereinafter  defined):  Comision  Estatal de
Aguas, created by Decree of  the  State of Queretaro, published in
the Periodico Oficial of such State, dated March 13, 1980; Sistema
de Agua Potable y Alcantarillado de Morelia, created by Decree No.
216 of the State of  Michoacan, published in the Periodico Oficial
of such State, dated February  25, 1985; and Comision de Servicios
de Aguas del Estado de  Hidalgo,  created  by Decree No. 38 of the
State of  Hidalgo,  published  in  the  Periodico  Oficial of such
State, dated April 1, 1977;  and  such entities to be collectively
called "SWAs";
     (e)  "Subsidiary Loan" means a  loan  made  or proposed to be
made by the Borrower to a  SWA, partially financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan,  to  be  utilized  by  the  SWA in carrying out
Part A of the  Project,  including  the financing of a Sub-project
(as hereinafter defined)  in  an  Eligible  State; and "Subsidiary
Loan Agreement" means the agreement  between the Borrower, the SWA
and the  relevant  Eligible  State  providing  for such Subsidiary
Loan, as such agreement may be amended from time to time;
     (f)  "Sub-project" means a  specific  investment project, for
the installation and  maintenance  of  water supply and sanitation
services, in  an  Eligible  State  included  in  Part  A.1  of the
Project;
     (g)  "Financial Intermediary"  means  each  of  the following
credit institutions having juridical  personality and the capacity
to contract under the laws  of  the Guarantor or an Eligible State
and qualified by the Borrower and  the Bank to be eligible to par-
ticipate in making  Investment  Subloans  (as hereinafter defined)
under Part B.1 of the Project and each of which shall have entered
into a Participation Agreement  (as  hereinafter defined) with the
Borrower: Fondo de Financiamiento y Garantia para el Desarrollo de
La Micro y Pequena Industrias y  de las Empresas del Sector Social
Page  3
de la Economia  de  Queretaro  (FIMINSSE)  created by the Convenio
Modificatorio  al  Contrato  de   Fideicomiso,  published  in  the
Periodico Oficial of the State of Queretaro, dated March 23, 1988;
Fondo Mixto  para  el  Fomento  Industrial  de Michoacan (FOMICH),
created by Ley No. 70 of  the State of Michoacan, published in the
Periodico Oficial of  such  State,  dated  March  11, 1976; and La
Compania Impulsora Hidalguense  de  Industria  y Comercio, S.A. de
C.V. (IHIC), created by  Decree  No.  70  of the State of Hidalgo,
published in the Periodico Oficial  of such State, dated March 11,
1976;
     (h)  "Investment Subloan" means a  loan  made, or proposed to
be made, in accordance with the  terms and conditions set forth in
Schedule 8 to this  Agreement,  by  a  Financial Intermediary to a
Project Beneficiary (as hereinafter  defined)  and to be partially
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan for the purpose of partly
financing an Investment  (as  hereinafter  defined)  in a relevant
Eligible State under Part B.1 of the Project;
     (i)  "Project Beneficiary" means a  person, group of persons,
or an entity in  the  Eligible States having juridical personality
and the capacity to contract under the laws of the Guarantor or an
Eligible State, and to whom  or which a Financial Intermediary has
made, or proposes to make, an Investment Subloan;
     (j)  "Investment"   means   an   investment   in   productive
activities carried  out,  or  to  be  carried  out,  by  a Project
Beneficiary in a relevant Eligible State utilizing the proceeds of
an Investment Subloan including the establishment and operation of
microenterprises, and investment  in  working capital required for
such activities  including  tools  and  raw  materials required to
carry out piecemeal work for in-bond industries;
     (k)  "Participation  Agreement"  means  the  agreement  to be
entered into, pursuant to Section 3.03 (a) (ii) of this Agreement,
between the Borrower and  each Financial Intermediary and Eligible
State  for  purposes  of  carrying  out  Part  B  of  the Project,
including making Investment Subloans to Project Beneficiaries;
     (l)  "IDEAS" means  Instituto  de  Desarrollo  Economico y de
Asistencia Social, an agency of the State of Queretaro responsible
for carrying out social action programs;
     (m)  "Promotion Agency" means each of FOMICH, IHIC and IDEAS;
such  entities  are   collectively   referred   to  as  "Promotion
Agencies";
     (n)  "Pesos" means the currency of the Guarantor;
     (o)  "Annual  Water  Plan"  means   the   plan  of  each  SWA
describing the proposed investments in water supply and sanitation
services to be made during the following fiscal year;
     (p)  "SPS"  means  the  State  Planning  Secretariat  of each
Eligible State;
     (q)  "Health Education Program"  means  a  program to improve
the health and sanitation habits  of members of communities in the
Eligible States and referred to  in  Section 3.02 of the Guarantee
Agreement; and
     (r)  "SSA" means Secretariat of Health of the Guarantor.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth  or  referred to in the Loan Agree-
ment,  various  currencies  that  shall  have  an  aggregate value
equivalent to the amount  of twenty million dollars ($20,000,000),
being the sum of  withdrawals  of  the  proceeds of the Loan, with
Page  4
each withdrawal  valued  by  the  Bank  as  of  the  date  of such
withdrawal.
     Section 2.02. (a) The  amount  of  the  Loan may be withdrawn
from  the  Loan  Account  in  accordance  with  the  provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement  between  the Bank and the Borrower, for
expenditures made, or, if the Bank  shall so agree, to be made, in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project described in Schedule  2  to  this agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a Special Account on terms and condi-
tions satisfactory to the  Bank.  Deposits  into, and payments out
of, the Special  Account  shall  be  made  in  accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1995, or
such later  date  as  the  Bank  shall  establish.  The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of  the Loan not withdrawn from time
to time.
     Section 2.05. (a)  The  Borrower  shall  pay  interest on the
principal amount of the  Loan  withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a rate per annum for each Interest Period equal to half
of one percent per  annum  above  the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
for the last Semester  ending  prior  to  the commencement of such
Interest Period.
     (b)  As soon as practicable  after  the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the  Guarantor  and the Borrower of the Cost
of Qualified Borrowings for such Semester.
     (c)  For purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "Interest  Period"   means   the  six-month  period
               commencing on each  date  specified in Section 2.06
               of this Agreement, including the Interest Period in
               which this Agreement is signed;
         (ii)  "Cost of Qualified  Borrowings'  means  the cost of
               the outstanding borrowings  of  the Bank drawn down
               after June 30, 1982,  expressed as a percentage per
               annum, as reasonably determined by the Bank; and
        (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the second
               six months of a calendar year.
     Section 2.06. Interest  and  other  charges  shall be payable
semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower  shall  repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the Amortization Schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project;
                     Transfer of Loan Proceeds
     Section 3.01. The  Borrower  declares  its  commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and to this end,  shall  carry out the Project with the
Participation of the  SWAs,  the  Financial Intermediaries and the
Eligible States, all  with  due  diligence  and  efficiency and in
conformity with  appropriate  technical, administrative, financial
and environmental standards and  practices,  and shall provide, or
Page  5
cause to be provided,  in  a  timely  manner as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
     Section  3.02.  The  Borrower  shall  enter  into contractual
arrangements,  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  with  the  Guarantor,
providing, inter alia, for: (i)  the  transfer to the Guarantor of
the proceeds of the Loan;  (ii) the Guarantor's obligation to make
available to the Borrower such portion of the proceeds of the Loan
as shall be required by the  Borrower  to  carry out Part C of the
Project; (iii) the Guarantor's obligation to make available to the
Borrower such portions of  the  proceeds  of  the Loan as shall be
required by the Borrower to  on-lend  to  the SWAs for purposes of
carrying  out  Part  A  of   the  Project;  (iv)  the  Guarantor's
obligation to make available to  the Borrower such portions of the
proceeds of the Loan as shall  be  required by the Borrower to on-
lend to the Financial Intermediaries  for purposes of carrying out
Part B of the Project;  and  (v)  the transfer by the Guarantor to
the Borrower of such funds  as  the  Borrower shall be required to
pay to  the  Bank  on  account  of  principal,  interest and other
charges on the Loan. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not change or fail to enforce any provision of such
contractual arrangements.
     Section 3.03. (a) Without  any limitation or restriction upon
any  of  its  other  obligations  under  the  Loan  Agreement, the
Borrower shall: (i) make a  Subsidiary  Loan  to each SWA for pur-
poses of relending such portions  of  the  proceeds of the Loan as
shall be required by such SWA  to  carry out Part A of the Project
in the relevant Eligible State, under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement,
acceptable to the Bank,  with  each  such  SWA, all in accordance,
inter alia, with the terms and conditions set forth or referred to
in Schedule 6 to this Agreement;  and (ii) enter into a Participa-
tion Agreement, acceptable to the Bank, with each Financial Inter-
mediary, all in accordance, inter  alia, with the terms and condi-
tions set forth or referred to in Schedule 7 to this Agreement.
     (b)  Except as the Bank  shall  otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not change or fail  to  enforce any provision of such Subsi-
diary Loan Agreement or Participation Agreement.
     (c)  The Borrower shall inform the  Bank of: (i) any proposed
changes to such Subsidiary  Loan Agreement or Participation Agree-
ment in order to permit Bank  review and approval of such proposed
changes; and (ii) any breach  or  failure to enforce any provision
of such Subsidiary Loan Agreement or Participation Agreement.
     Section 3.04. The  Borrower  shall,  in conjunction with each
SWA, furnish to the Bank for its review and comment, no later than
September 30 of each  year  until Project completion, the proposed
Annual Water Plan  of  each  SWA  for  the next following calendar
year.
     Section  3.05.  The  Borrower  shall  carry  out supervision,
monitoring and evaluation of  the  Project, with due diligence and
efficiency  and   in   conformity   with   appropriate  technical,
administrative and financial practices,  and   with management and
staff adequate in numbers, qualifications and experience.
     (b)  Without  restriction   upon,   or   limitation  to,  the
Borrower's other reporting  requirements  under this Agreement and
the General  Conditions,  the  Borrower  shall  provide semiannual
reports, no later than March 31  and September 30 of each year, of
such scope and in such detail and format as the Bank shall reason-
ably request, of  the  progress  achieved  toward implementing the
Project.
     Section 3.06. Except as the  Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the  goods,  works  and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the  provisions  of Schedule 4 to this Agree-
ment.
Page  6
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01.  (a)  The  Borrower  shall  maintain, and shall
cause each of the SWAs  and  the Financial Intermediaries to main-
tain,  separate  records  and  accounts  adequate  to  reflect, in
accordance  with  sound   accounting  practices,  the  operations,
resources, and expenditures with  respect  to the execution of the
Project, each Sub-project and each Investment.
     (b)  The Borrower shall cause:
          (i)  the  records,  accounts  and  financial  statements
               (balance sheets, statements  of income and expenses
               and related statements)  of  the Borrower, each SWA
               and each Financial Intermediary and the records and
               accounts for the  Special  Account, for each fiscal
               year to be  audited,  in  accordance with generally
               accepted   auditing   standards   and   procedures,
               consistently applied, by  independent and qualified
               auditors;
         (ii)  to be furnished to  the  Bank as soon as available,
               but in any case not later than six months after the
               end of each such year:  (A) certified copies of its
               financial statements for  such  year as so audited,
               and (B) the report of  such audit by said auditors,
               of such scope and in  such detail as the Bank shall
               have reasonably requested;
        (iii)  to be furnished to  the  Bank each month, certified
               statements of the Special Account; and
         (iv)  to be furnished to  the Bank such other information
               concerning  said  records,  accounts  and financial
               statements, as well  as  the  audit thereof, as the
               Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account  were  made  on  the  basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be maintained, in accordance
               with  paragraph  (a)   of  this  Section,  separate
               records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain or cause to be  retained, until at least one
               year after the Bank  has  received the audit report
               for the fiscal  year  in  which the last withdrawal
               from the Loan Account  was  made, all records (con-
               tracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
               documents) evidencing such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Bank's  representatives  to examine such
               records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such separate  records and accounts are
               included in the annual  audit  referred to in para-
               graph (b)  of  this  Section  and  that  the report
               thereof  contains,  in  respect  of  such  separate
               accounts, a separate opinion by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statement  of  expenditures submitted
               during such fiscal  year,  together with the proce-
               dures and internal controls  involved in their pre-
               paration, can be relied upon to support the related
               withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                       Remedies of the Bank
Page  7
     Section 5.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (k) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  The Borrower or  a  SWA  or  the relevant Eligible State
shall have changed, without the prior approval of the Bank, failed
to enforce, or breached  any  provision of the relevant Subsidiary
Loan Agreement.
     (b)  The Borrower or a Financial Intermediary or the relevant
Eligible State shall have  changed,  without the prior approval of
the Bank, failed  to  enforce,  or  breached  any provision of the
relevant Participation Agreement.
     Section 5.02. Pursuant  to  Section  7.01  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional  event is specified: (a) that
the event specified in paragraph (a)  or (b) of Section 5.01 shall
occur and shall continue for  a  period of sixty days after notice
thereof shall have been  given  by  the  Bank to the Borrower, the
Guarantor, and when  appropriate,  to  the relevant SWA, Financial
Intermediary or Eligible State.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section  6.01.  The   following   events   are  specified  as
additional conditions to the  effectiveness  of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
     (a)  that the Borrower and  the  Guarantor shall have entered
into the contractual arrangements  referred  to in Section 3.02 of
this agreement;
     (b)  that the Borrower shall  have  entered into a Subsidiary
Loan Agreement referred to in Section  3.03 (a) (i) of this agree-
ment with at least one SWA and the relevant Eligible State; and
     (c)  that   the   Borrower   shall   have   entered   into  a
Participation Agreement referred to  in  Section  3.03 (a) (ii) of
the Agreement with  at  least  one  Financial Intermediary and the
relevant Eligible State.
     Section  6.02.  The  following  are  specified  as additional
matters, within the meaning  of  Section  12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to  be  included  in  the  opinion  or  opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
     (a)  that the contractual arrangements referred to in Section
3.02 of this Agreement have  been  duly authorized and are legally
binding  upon  the  parties   thereto  in  accordance  with  their
respective terms; and
     (b)  that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the Participation
Agreement furnished to  the  Bank  pursuant  to paragraphs (b) and
(c), respectively, of  Section  6.01  of  this agreement have been
duly authorized and are  legally  binding upon the parties thereto
in accordance with their terms.
     Section 6.03. The date December 27, 1989, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. The Director General  of the Borrower is desig-
nated as  representative  of  the  Borrower  for  the  purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 7.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
Page  8
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
               Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                   Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                     440098 (ITT)
               Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
                                              64145 (WUI)
     For the Borrower:
          Banco Nacional de Obras y
           Servicios Publicos, S.N.C.
          Insurgentes Norte 423
          06900 Mexico, D.F.
          Mexico
          Cable address:                   Telex:
               BANTECARIO                    BNDSME
               Mexico, D.F. , Mexico         01772619
                                             Mexico City
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                             INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                               RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                             By /s/ S. Shahid Husain
                                           Regional Vice President
                                   Latin America and the Caribbean
                             BANCO NACIONAL DE OBRAS Y
                               SERVICIOS PUBLICOS, S.N.C.
                             By /s/ Fernando del Villar Moreno
                                         Authorized Representative
                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds  of  the  Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each  Category and the percentage of expen-
ditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                           Amount of the
                          Loan Allocated            % of
                           (Expressed in        Expenditures
    Category            Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)  Civil Works for           9,000,000              50%
     Sub-projects
     under Part A.1
Page  9
     of the Project
     and for priority
     works under
     Part C of the
     Project
(2)  Investment Subloans       4,500,000         95% of amounts
     made by Financial                           disbursed by
     Intermediaries under                        Financial Inter-
     Part B.1 of the                             mediaries for
     Project                                     Investment Sub-
                                                 loans
(3)  Equipment and             2,000,000         100% of foreign
     Materials under                             expenditures and
     Parts A.2 and C                             40% of local ex-
                                                 penditures
                           Amount of the
                          Loan Allocated            % of
                           (Expressed in        Expenditures
    Category            Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(4)  Technical assistance,     2,500,000             100%
     training and con-
     sultant's services
     under Parts A.3,
     B.2 and C of the
     Project
(5)  Unallocated               2,000,000
                              __________
     TOTAL                    20,000,000
2.   For purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "foreign  expenditures"  means expenditures in
the currency of any country other  than that of the Guarantor, for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Guarantor; and
     (b)  the term "local expenditures"  means expenditures in the
currency of the Guarantor or  for  goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Guarantor.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of:
     (a)  payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
agreement, except that  withdrawals,  in  a total aggregate amount
not exceeding the equivalent of $1,500,000, may be made in respect
of Categories (1)  through  (4)  on  account  of payments made for
expenditures before that  date  but  after  January 15, 1989, and,
provided, however that  such  withdrawals  are  made within ninety
days of the Effective Date  of  the  Loan  and  in the case of the
applicable  Subsidiary  Loan   Agreements   or  the  Participation
Agreements referred to  in  clause  (c)  of  this paragraph within
ninety days of receiving the evidence referred to in such clause;
     (b)  disbursements  made  by  the  Borrower  under Subsidiary
Loans or by  Financial  Intermediaries under Investment Sub-loans,
unless the Bank shall  have  received  the evidence referred to in
Section 2.02 of the General  Interest Rate Agreement for said time
period with respect to category I  (1) or IV (i), respectively, of
the table set forth in  Schedule  1 to said Agreement, as amended,
except as the Bank shall otherwise agree;
     (c)  payments made  for  expenditures  under Subsidiary Loans
and  Investment  Subloans  for  Parts  A  and  B  of  the Project,
respectively, unless  the  Bank  shall  have received satisfactory
evidence that the  applicable  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement and the
Page  10
Participation Agreement which have not  been furnished to the Bank
pursuant  to  the  provisions   of   paragraphs  (b)  and  (c)  of
Section 6.01 of this  Agreement  shall  have been entered into and
furnished to the Bank,  including  a satisfactory legal opinion of
counsel,  acceptable  to  the  Bank,  that  such  Subsidiary  Loan
Agreement and Participation Agreement have been duly authorized by
the Borrower and the  respective  Eligible  States and are legally
binding upon the parties thereto in accordance with their terms;
     (d)  payments made  for  expenditures  under  Part  A  of the
Project by a SWA,  unless  the  Bank  shall have received a signed
consultants' contract, satisfactory to the Bank, for its technical
assistance program under Part A.3 of the Project; and
     (e)  payments made  for  expenditures  under  Part  B  of the
Project by a Financial  Intermediary,  unless  the Bank shall have
received a signed consultant's contract, satisfactory to the Bank,
for the program of technical  assistance to the Promotion Agencies
under Part B.2 of the Project.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The  objective  of  the  Project  is  to  improve  the living
standard of low-income population in selected States of Mexico by:
(a) assisting the SWAs in  the  states of Michoacan, Queretaro and
Hidalgo to  establish  an  appropriate  system  for  financing and
implementing water and sanitation projects in low-income areas and
strengthening their ability to design, build, operate and maintain
these systems; (b)  improving  the  target population's health and
sanitation  knowledge  and   habits;   and  (c)  promoting  income
generating activities  primarily  among  women  who  were hitherto
engaged in fetching water  and  providing  them with the necessary
credit and training to carry out such activities.
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Bank  and the Borrower may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objective:
Part A:   Water and Sanitation Services
(1)  Carrying out Sub-projects  in selected low-income communities
in rural and peri-urban  areas  in  the Eligible States, such Sub-
projects and communities  to  be  selected  in accordance with the
methodology and by the  entities  specified  in  the Annex to this
Schedule.
(2)  Acquisition and utilization  of  equipment  for the operation
and maintenance of water systems.
(3)  Technical assistance and training  to  strengthen the SWAs in
the  areas   of   organizational   and   operational  performance,
information  systems,  design   and  construction  using  low-cost
technologies and in community mobilization techniques.
Part B:   Income Generating Activities
(1)  Financing of Investments in  the  Eligible States through the
provision of Investment Subloans.
(2)  Technical assistance to the Promotion Agencies consisting of:
(a) training of the staff  of the Promotion Agencies in participa-
tory  education  techniques  targeted   mainly  to  women  and  in
promotion  and  evaluation  of  Investments;  (b)  developing  the
decision-making   and    entrepreneurial    skills    of   Project
Beneficiaries; and (c)  training  of  Project Beneficiaries in the
skills required to carry out productive activities.
Part C:   Project Preparation in Other States
     Technical  assistance   to   BANOBRAS   for  identifying  and
Page  11
preparing water-cum-productive activities projects in other States
of the Guarantor including  financing  of  priority works for such
activities.
                            *    *    *
     The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1995.
                        ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 2
Section I:   Eligibility of Sub-projects
     To be eligible for financing,  a Sub-project must satisfy the
following conditions:
     (a)  the works and designs proposed to be carried out under a
Sub-project shall constitute the least cost solution; and
     (b)  Sub-projects shall have  a  per capita construction cost
of not more than the equivalent of $150 each.
Section II:  Methodology for Selection of Communities
     The communities in the  Eligible States in which Sub-projects
are carried out shall be selected in accordance with the following
two-step procedure.
First Step:  Screening of Communities
     Potential communities shall be  screened  through a review of
secondary data on the following:
     (a)  the estimated cost  of  bringing  water to the community
based on the characteristics of the water source;
     (b)  the degree  of  community  marginality  assessed  on the
basis of  community  access  to  schools,  health  centers, social
and/or recreational facilities, churches, etc.; and
     (c)  the participatory experience  of the community regarding
its efforts towards individual and/or communal improvements.
Second Step:  Application of Selection Criteria
     After screening, communities shall  be  selected on the basis
of the following criteria:
     (a)  the estimated cost of the Sub-projects;
     (b)  community commitment to the Sub-projects; and
     (c)  the  potential  for  the  successful  implementation  of
productive activities in the community.
2.   This  methodology  has  been  applied  in  selecting  certain
communities to be  benefitted  during  the  first  year of Project
implementation. The selection of  the communities to be benefitted
in subsequent years  shall  be  carried  out  by  the  SPS of each
Eligible State following the  methodology  outlined above in close
collaboration with the respective SWA and the Promotion Agency.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                       Amortization Schedule
                                              Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each March 15 and September 15
     beginning March 15, 1995
     through March 15, 2006                          835,000
Page  12
On September 15, 2006                                795,000
_____________________
*    The  figures  in  this  column  represent  dollar equivalents
     determined as  of  the  respective  dates  of withdrawal. See
     General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                      Premiums on Prepayment
     Pursuant to Section 3.04  (b)  of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the  principal  amount  of  any maturity of the
Loan to be  prepaid  shall  be  the  percentage  specified for the
applicable time of prepayment below:
    Time of Prepayment                             Premium
                                         The  interest  rate  (ex-
                                         pressed  as  a percentage
                                         per annum)  applicable to
                                         the Loan  on  the  day of
                                         prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years                          0.18
     before maturity
More than three years but                          0.35
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                            0.65
     not more than eleven years
     before maturity
More than eleven years but not                     0.88
     more than fifteen years
     before maturity
More than fifteen years before                     1.00
     maturity
                            SCHEDULE 4
                  Procurement of Goods and Works
                     and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part  B  hereof goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded on  the basis of international competitive
bidding in accordance  with  procedures  consistent with those set
forth in Sections  I  and  II  of  the "Guidelines for Procurement
under IBRD Loans and  IDA  Credits"  published  by the Bank in May
1985 (the Guidelines).
2.   To the  extent  practicable,  contracts  for  goods  shall be
grouped in  bid  packages  estimated  to  cost  the  equivalent of
$300,000 or more each.
Part B:   Other Procurement Procedures
     1.   Local Competitive Bidding
     Goods under contracts  estimated  to  cost  the equivalent of
more than $25,000 but  less  than  the  equivalent of $300,000 per
contract and all civil works  estimated  to cost the equivalent of
more than $25,000 per  contract  may  be  procured on the basis of
Page  13
competitive  bidding,  advertised   locally,  in  accordance  with
bidding procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
     2.   Local Shopping
     Civil works and goods  under  contracts estimated to cost the
equivalent of $25,000 or less per  contract may be procured on the
basis of comparison of price  quotations  solicited from a list of
at least three  suppliers  eligible  under  the  Guidelines and in
accordance  with  procedures  acceptable  to  the  Bank, provided,
however, that the cost  of  civil  works  and goods procured under
this paragraph shall not in the aggregate exceed the equivalent of
US$8,000,000.
     3.   Force Account
     Civil works may  be  carried  out  by  the  SWAs, under force
account, provided, however, that  the  cost of civil works carried
out pursuant to this paragraph  shall  not exceed in the aggregate
the equivalent of $3,000,000.
     4.   Goods, Works and Services Financed under Investment Sub-
          loans
     Goods, works and  services  financed  out  of the proceeds of
Investment Sub-loans made under  Part  B.1  of  the Project may be
purchased at  a  reasonable  price  on  the  basis  of  the normal
procurement procedures of the  purchaser  of such goods, works and
services, account being taken also  of other relevant factors such
as time of delivery  and  efficiency  and reliability of the goods
and  availability  of  maintenance   facilities  and  spare  parts
therefor and, in the case of  works and services, of their quality
and the competence  of  the  parties  rendering  them  and, to the
extent practicable, after evaluation  and comparison from at least
three suppliers or contractors.
Part C:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect to: (i) all  contracts under Part A of this
Schedule, and (ii) each of  the  first contract for goods or civil
works awarded on the  basis  of  local competitive bidding by each
SWA, the procedures set forth in  paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1
to the Guidelines shall  apply.  Where  payments for such contract
are to be made out  of  the Special Account, such procedures shall
be modified  to  ensure  that  the  two  conformed  copies  of the
contract required to be  furnished  to  the  Bank pursuant to said
paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making
of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such
contract.
     (b)  With  respect  to  each  contract  not  governed  by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth in paragraphs 3 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the  Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to  be  made  out  of  the Special Account, such
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies  of  the  contract  together  with  the  other  information
required to be furnished to the  Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3
shall be furnished to  the  Bank  as  part  of  the evidence to be
furnished  pursuant  to  paragraph   4   of  Schedule  5  to  this
Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts  on account of which the Bank has
authorized withdrawals  from  the  Loan  Account  on  the basis of
statements of expenditure.   Such  contracts  shall be retained in
accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement.
2.   The figure of 15% is  hereby  specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Page  14
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist the  Borrower, the Guarantor, the SWAs and
the Financial  Intermediaries  in  carrying  out  the Project, the
Borrower and the Guarantor  shall  employ,  and the Borrower shall
cause the SWAs and the Financial Intermediaries to employ, consul-
tants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be  satisfactory  to  the  Bank. Such consultants
shall be selected  in  accordance  with  principles and procedures
satisfactory to the Bank on  the  basis of the "Guidelines for the
use of Consultants by World  Bank  Borrowers and by the World Bank
as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the  term  "Eligible  Categories"  means  Categories (1)
through (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "Eligible  Expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be  financed  out  of  the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time  to the Eligible Categories in accord-
ance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equiva-
lent to one million dollars  ($1,000,000) to be withdrawn from the
Loan Account and  deposited  in  the  Special  Account pursuant to
paragraph 3 of this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for Eligible Expenditures  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
this  Schedule.  The  Borrower  shall  make  withdrawals  from the
Special Account for payments of Eligible Expenditures on the basis
of the evidence that  the  Bank  shall have reasonably determined,
and shall debit the Special Account  with the amount in dollars so
withdrawn or with the dollar equivalent of the currency other than
dollars in which the payment was  made, determined on the basis of
the rate of  exchange  between  the  dollar  and  such currency in
effect: (i) on the date each  payment shall have been made, if the
payment has taken place  within  90  days  before  the date of the
withdrawal in question has  been  requested;  or  (ii) on the date
each withdrawal shall have been made.
3.   After the Bank has received  evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special  Account  has  been  duly  opened,  withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent  withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For  withdrawals  of   the  Authorized  Allocation,  the
Borrower shall furnish to  the  Bank  a  request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which  do  not  exceed the aggregate amount of
the  Authorized  Allocation.  On  the  basis  of  such  request or
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from
the Loan Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
     (b)  (i)  For  replenishment  of  the  Special  Account,  the
               Borrower shall  furnish  to  the  Bank requests for
               deposits into the Special Account at such intervals
               as the Bank shall specify.
         (ii)  Prior to or at the  time  of each such request, the
               Borrower shall furnish  to  the  Bank the documents
               and other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4               of 
this Schedule  for  the  payment  or payments in
               respect of which replenishment is requested. On the
Page  15
               basis of  each  such  request,  the  Bank shall, on
               behalf of  the  Borrower,  withdraw  from  the Loan
               Account and deposit  into  the Special Account such
               amount as the Borrower  shall have requested and as
               shall have been shown  by  said documents and other
               evidence to  have  been  made  out  of  the Special
               Account  for   eligible   expenditures.   All  such
               deposits shall be  withdrawn  by  the Bank from the
               Loan Account under  the respective eligible Catego-
               ries, and in the  respective equivalent amounts, as
               shall have  been  justified  by  said documents and
               other evidence.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at  such  time as the Bank shall rea-
sonably request, furnish  to  the  Bank  such  documents and other
evidence  showing  that  such  payment  was  made  exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of   paragraph  3  of  this
Schedule, the Bank shall not  be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be  made  by the Borrower directly from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of
the General Conditions and paragraph  (a)  of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or
     (b)  once the total unwithdrawn  amount of the Loan allocated
to the Eligible  Categories  less  the  amount  of any outstanding
special  commitment  entered   into   by   the  Bank  pursuant  to
Section  5.02  of  the  General  Conditions  with  respect  to the
Project, shall equal the  equivalent  of  twice  the amount of the
Authorized  Allocation.  Thereafter,   withdrawal  from  the  Loan
Account of the remaining unwithdrawn  amount of the Loan allocated
to the Eligible  Categories  shall  follow  such procedures as the
Bank  shall  specify  by  notice  to  the  Borrower.  Such further
withdrawals shall be made only  after  and  to the extent that the
Bank shall have been satisfied  that all such amounts remaining on
deposit in the Special Account as  of the date of such notice will
be utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
payment out of the Special  Account:  (i) was made for an expendi-
ture or in an amount not  eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not  justified  by the evidence furnished to
the Bank, the Borrower shall,  promptly upon notice from the Bank:
(A) provide such additional evidence  as  the Bank may request; or
(B) deposit into the  Special  Account  (or,  if the Bank shall so
request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or  the  portion  thereof  not  so  eligible or justified.
Unless the Bank shall otherwise  agree,  no further deposit by the
Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has
provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case
may be.
     (b)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special  Account will not be required to
cover further  payments  for  eligible  expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion  of  the  funds  on deposit in the Special
Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Bank  made  pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or  for  cancellation in accordance with
the relevant provisions of  this  Agreement, including the General
Conditions.
Page  16
                            SCHEDULE 6
                      Terms and Conditions of
                         Subsidiary Loans
1.   Repayment Term. Subsidiary  Loans  shall have an amortization
period not to exceed  seventeen  years,  including a maximum grace
period of five years.
2.   Interest Rate. The interest rate on Subsidiary Loans shall be
set and  readjusted  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of the
General Interest Rate Agreement.
3.   Currency. Subsidiary Loans shall be made and repaid in pesos.
4.   Specific Terms and Conditions.  Each Subsidiary Loan shall be
made pursuant to a  written  Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the
Borrower, as party of the first part, and the SWA and the Eligible
State,  as  parties  of   the   other,  on  terms  and  conditions
satisfactory  to  the   Bank,   including,  inter  alia,  specific
provisions establishing the following  obligations  of the SWA and
the Eligible State:
I.   Obligations of the SWA
     (a)  Performance Standards.  Carry  out  the Sub-project with
due diligence and  efficiency  and  in conformity with appropriate
technical, administrative,  financial  and environmental standards
and practices.
     (b)  Procurement. Procure goods,  works and services required
for the carrying  out  of  the  relevant Sub-project in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule  4  to this Agreement, such goods,
works and services to be used  exclusively for the carrying out of
such Sub-project.
     (c)  Records  and  Accounts.  Maintain  separate  Sub-project
records and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with sound
accounting practices, the  operations, resources, and expenditures
with respect to the Sub-project.
     (d)  Auditing. (i) have the  records and accounts referred to
in  sub-paragraph  (c)  above  for  each  fiscal  year  audited in
accordance  with   generally   accepted   auditing  standards  and
procedures  consistently  applied,  by  independent  and qualified
auditors; (ii) furnish to  the  Borrower  and  the Bank as soon as
available, but in any case not later than six months after the end
of each  such  year:  (A)  certified  copies  of  the  records and
accounts so audited, and  (B)  the  report  of  such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in  such detail as the Bank shall have
reasonably requested; and (iii)  furnish  to  the Borrower and the
Bank such other information  concerning  said records and accounts
as well as the audit  thereof  as  the  Borrower or the Bank shall
reasonably request.
     (e)  Statements of Expenditure. (i) Maintain separate records
and  accounts  in   accordance   with   sub-paragraph  (c)  above,
reflecting all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals form
the  Loan  Account  were  made  on  the  basis  of  statements  of
expenditure; (ii) retain, until at  least  one year after the Bank
has received the audit  report  for  the  fiscal year in which the
last withdrawal  from  the  Loan  Account  was  made,  all records
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures; (iii)  enable the representatives of
the Borrower and the  Bank  to  examine such records and accounts;
and (iv) ensure that  such  separate  records  are included in the
annual audit referred to in  sub-paragraph  (d) above and that the
report thereof contains, in  respect  of such separate accounts, a
separate opinion by said auditors  as  to whether the statement of
expenditures submitted during such  fiscal year, together with the
procedures and internal  controls  involved  in their preparation,
Page  17
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
     (f)  Annual Water Plan.  Prepare  and  submit  to SPS for its
approval proposed  Annual  Water  Plan  and,  after obtaining such
approval, furnish such Plan to  the  Borrower and the Bank for the
Bank's review and comment, by  no  later than September 30 of each
year, including exchanging views  with  the  Bank on such Plan and
the progress in implementing such Plan during previous years.
     (g)  Supervision. Carry out  supervision  of the Sub-project,
in a manner satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank, through the
Eligible State.
     (h)  Tariffs. Set and  maintain  in  the communities in which
Sub-projects are  carried  out  a  level  of  tariff  as  shall be
required by the  SWA  to  obtain  in  each  calendar year revenues
sufficient to cover  the  sum  of:  (i)  all  of its operating and
maintenance expenses; and  (ii)  debt  service requirements on the
Subsidiary Loans.
     (i)  Consultants.  Employ  consultants,  satisfactory  to the
Bank, to carry  out  the  technical  assistance and training under
Part A.3 of the Project.
II.  Obligations of the Eligible State
     (a)  Monitoring.  Carry  out   monitoring,  coordination  and
evaluation  of  Sub-projects  in  a  manner  satisfactory  to  the
Borrower  and  the   Bank,   with   staff   adequate  in  numbers,
qualification and experience.
     (b)  Guarantee.  Guarantee  (i)  the  payment  of  principal,
interest and other charges on the Subsidiary Loan to the Borrower;
and  (ii)  the  punctual  performance  by  the  SWA  of  all other
obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
     (c)  Counterpart Funds. Provide counterpart financing for the
Sub-projects in the form  of funds, infrastructure, materials, and
labor and any other resources as  may be required to carry out the
Sub-projects and achieve the objectives of the Project.
     (d)  Annual Water Plan.  Through  its  SPS review and approve
the proposed Annual Water Plan.
5.   Other  Terms.  Each  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement  shall  also
include the Borrower's right to:
     (a)  Inspection and Records.  Inspect,  by  itself or jointly
with representatives of the  Bank,  if  the Bank shall so request,
the goods and the sites,  works,  and construction included in the
Sub-project, the operation thereof,  and  any relevant records and
documents;
     (b)  Information. Obtain from the SWAs and the Eligible State
all such information  as  the  Borrower  or  the Bank, through the
Borrower,  shall  reasonably  request  related  to  the  foregoing
provisions of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
     (c)  Suspension and  Termination.  Suspend  or  terminate the
right of the SWAs to use  the proceeds of the Subsidiary Loan upon
failure by the SWA or the  Eligible State, to perform any of their
obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, or upon notice by
the Bank that it intends to  exercise its remedies under Article V
of the Loan Agreement.
                            SCHEDULE 7
                      Terms and Conditions of
                     Participation Agreements
Section I:  General Terms
Page  18
1.   Each Participation  Agreement  shall  be  made  pursuant to a
written agreement between  the  Borrower,  as  party  of the first
part, and the Financial  Intermediary  and  the Eligible State, as
parties of the other, on  terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank, providing arrangements for, inter alia:
     (a)  relending a portion of the  proceeds of the Loan to such
Financial Intermediary for purposes  of making Investment Subloans
under the  Project,  but  only  on  condition  that such Financial
Intermediary agrees to be  bound  by  the  terms and conditions of
this Agreement regarding its  obligations  in the execution of the
Project,  including,  without  limitation,  Section  4.01  of this
Agreement (maintenance of records and accounts), and Schedule 4 to
this Agreement (procurement), as the same may be amended from time
to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank;
     (b)  repayment to the Borrower, of  all amounts relent to the
Financial Intermediary; such  Financial  Intermediary  to bear the
credit risk associated with  any  failure by Project Beneficiaries
to repay Investment Subloans;
     (c)  the requirement  that  all  Investment Subloans financed
under the Project shall be  made  in accordance with the terms and
conditions of Schedule 8 to this Agreement;
     (d)  the requirement that such Financial Intermediary furnish
to  the  Bank,  through  the  Borrower,  such  information  as the
Borrower may require  to  comply  with  its obligations under this
Agreement;
     (e)  the requirement that  the Financial Intermediary submit,
through the Borrower, to  the  Bank  for  its prior approval, each
Investment Subloan  for  a  principal  amount  equivalent to fifty
thousand dollars (US$50,000)  or  more,  that the Financial Inter-
mediary submit  to  the  Borrower,  for  its  prior approval, each
Investment Subloan for  a  principal  amount equivalent to fifteen
thousand dollars  (US$15,000)  or  more,  and  that  the Financial
Intermediary shall have the  sole  right  of approval for Subloans
below such amount;
     (f)  the requirement that  the  Financial Intermediary ensure
that Investments  do  not  result  in  any  negative environmental
impact; and
     (g)  the right of the  Borrower  to  suspend or terminate the
right of the Financial  Intermediary  to  use  the proceeds of the
Loan upon failure by  such  Financial Intermediary or the relevant
Eligible State  to  perform  any  of  their  obligations under the
Participation Agreement,  or  upon  notice  by  the  Bank  that it
intends to exercise  its  remedies  under  Article  V  of the Loan
Agreement.
2.   The  Borrower  shall  cause  each  Financial  Intermediary to
exercise  its  rights  in  relation  to  each  Investment Subloan,
Project  Beneficiary  and  Investment   in   such  manner  as  to:
(i) protect the interests of the Borrower, the Bank, the Financial
Intermediary  and  the  Eligible   State;  (ii)  comply  with  its
obligations under this Agreement;  and  (iii) achieve the purposes
of the Project.
3.   The Borrower shall cause  each Financial Intermediary, except
FIMINSSE, as a Promotion Agency: (i) to promote the Investments in
communities in the Eligible  State, including mobilizing community
support; (ii) to maintain an  adequate level of extension workers;
and (iii) to  identify  Investments,  prepare feasibility studies,
and train Project Beneficiaries in the skills require to carry out
such Investments.
4.   The Borrower shall cause  each Financial Intermediary, except
FIMINSSE,  as   a   Promotion   Agency,   to  employ  consultants,
satisfactory to the Bank,  to  carry  out the technical assistance
program under Part B.2 of the Project.
Page  19
Section II:  Terms of Relending the Proceeds of the Loan
     Amounts relent by  the  Borrower  to a Financial Intermediary
shall be in accordance with the following terms and conditions:
     (a)  Repayment Term. All amounts relent  by the Borrower to a
Financial Intermediary pursuant to a Participation Agreement shall
be repaid over the same term  as the Investment Subloan(s) made by
the Financial Intermediary utilizing such amounts.
     (b)  Interest Rate. The interest  rate  shall be the interest
rate for the Investment  Subloan, minus a financial intermediation
margin of up to 4.5 percentage points.
     (c)  Currency.  All  amounts  relent  by  the  Borrower  to a
Financial Intermediary shall be made and repaid in pesos.
Section III:  Specific Obligations of the Eligible States
     Each Participation Agreement  shall  contain, inter alia, the
following specific  provisions  establishing  the Eligible State's
obligations to:
     (a)  Guarantee.  Guarantee  (i)  the  payment  of  principal,
interest and  other  charges  on  the  Investment  Subloan  to the
Borrower; and  (ii)  the  punctual  performance  by  the Financial
Intermediary of  all  other  obligations  under  the Participation
Agreement.
     (b)  Counterpart Funds. Provide counterpart financing for the
Investments in the form  of  funds, infrastructure, materials, and
labor and any other resources as  may be required to carry out the
Investment and achieve the objectives of the Project.
     (c)  Promotion.  In  the   State   of   Queretaro  only,  the
obligation of such  State  through  IDEAS,  as a Promotion Agency:
(i)  to  promote   the   Investments   in  communities,  including
mobilizing community  support,  and  for  such  purposes to employ
consultants; (ii)  to  maintain  an  adequate  level  of extension
workers; and (iii)  to  identify  Investments, prepare feasibility
studies, and train Project Beneficiaries in the skills required to
carry out such Investments.
     (d)  Consultants. In the case of the State of Queretaro only,
the obligation of such State through IDEAS, as a Promotion Agency,
to employ consultants, satisfactory to  the Bank, to carry out the
technical assistance program under Part B.2 of the Project.
                            SCHEDULE 8
                      Terms and Conditions of
                        Investment Subloans
1.   Terms and Conditions
     Each Investment Subloan, unless otherwise agreed by the Bank,
shall include the following terms and conditions:
          (i)  Appraisal. Each  Investment  Subloan  shall be made
               only for an  Investment  appraised by the Financial
               Intermediary making such Investment Subloan;
         (ii)  Currency. Investment  Subloans  shall  be  made and
               repaid in pesos;
        (iii)  Term. Investment Subloans may be made for a term of
               up to twelve years  and  may include a grace period
               not exceeding three years;
         (iv)  Interest  Rate.  The  interest  rate  on Investment
               Subloans shall be set  and readjusted in accordance
Page  20
               with the provisions  of  the  General Interest Rate
               Agreement;
          (v)  Maximum Amount Limitations.  (i) the maximum amount
               of each Investment Subloan  shall be the equivalent
               of  US$1,000  in  the  case  of  individual Project
               Beneficiaries but shall not in the aggregate exceed
               US$3,000  per  individual  Project  Beneficiary and
               US$3,000  equivalent  per  member  in  the  case of
               groups  or   entities   that   qualify  as  Project
               Beneficiaries; and
         (vi)  Training. Each  Investment  Subloan  shall  be made
               only after the  relevant Promotion Agency certifies
               that the training  needs  have  been identified and
               adequate  training  plans  have  been  prepared for
               Project Beneficiaries.
2.   Written  Contract.  Each   Investment  Subloan  financing  an
Investment shall be made  pursuant  to  a written contract between
the Financial Intermediary and the Project Beneficiary providing:
          (i)  for the obligation of  such Project Beneficiary, to
               carry  out  and  operate  the  Investment  with due
               diligence and efficiency and in accordance with the
               standards and practices referred to in Section 3.01
               of this Agreement;
         (ii)  that the goods, works  and  services to be financed
               out of the proceeds  of  the Loan shall be procured
               in accordance with  the  provisions  of Part B.4 of
               Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
        (iii)  that the goods and works  to be financed out of the
               proceeds of the Loan  shall  be used exclusively in
               the carrying out of the Investment;
         (iv)  that the  Financial  Intermediary  can  inspect, by
               itself  or  jointly  with  representatives  of  the
               Borrower, and the  Bank,  if  the  Borrower, or the
               Bank shall so  request,  such  goods and the sites,
               works,  plants  and  construction  included  in the
               Investment, the operation thereof, and any relevant
               records and documents;
          (v)  for the obligation  of  the  Project Beneficiary to
               furnish all such information as the Borrower or the
               Bank or the Financial Intermediary shall reasonably
               request  relating  to  the  foregoing  and  to  the
               administration, operations  and financial condition
               of the Project Beneficiary  and  to the benefits to
               be derived from the Investment Sub-project; and
         (vi)  the right of the  Financial Intermediary to suspend
               or terminate the  right  of the Project Beneficiary
               to  the  use  of  the  proceeds  of  the Investment
               Subloan upon failure by such Project Beneficiary to
               perform any of their obligations under the contract
               with the Financial  Beneficiary  or  upon notice by
               the Bank that it  intends  to exercise its remedies
               under Article V of the Loan Agreement.
