Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3768 YF 
 
Development Credit Agreement 
 
(Serbia Health Project) 
 
between 
 
SERBIA AND MONTENEGRO 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Page  2
2
Dated June 13, 2003 
 
Page  3
CREDIT NUMBER 3768 YF 
 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated June 13, 2003, between SERBIA AND MONTENEGRO 
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
Association). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; 
 
(B)  
the Borrower will make available to the Republic of Serbia, through the 
Sub-Credit Agreement (as defined hereinafter), the proceeds of the Credit, as provided in 
this Agreement;  
 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions
 
Section 1.01. 
The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 
1999) (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement.  
 
Section 1.02. 
Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings: 
 
(a) 
“EMP” means the Environmental Management Plan, satisfactory to the 
Association, prepared and adopted by the Borrower on February 21, 2003, describing the 
environmental mitigation, monitoring and institutional measures under the Project 
referred to in Section 3.03 (d) of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
“Euro” means the lawful currency of the member states of the European 
Union that adopt the single currency in accordance with the Treaty establishing the 
European Community, as amended by the Treaty of European Union; 
 
Page  4
-
2
-
2
(c) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” means each report prepared in accordance 
with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(d) 
“HIF” means the Health Insurance Fund of the Republic of Serbia 
established pursuant to the  Law on  Health Insurance published on April 4, 1992, and 
published in the Official Gazette of the Republic of Serbia No. 18/1992, as amended, and 
registered with the Commercial Court in Belgrade on August 19, 1992 under the number 
17332/92, or any successor or successors thereto;  
 
(e) 
“MOH” means the Ministry of Health of the Republic of Serbia or any 
successor or successors thereto; 
 
(f) 
“Operational Manual” means the manual describing the operational rules 
and procedures of Project implementation, satisfactory to the Association, adopted by the 
MOH on March 7, 2003, as the same may be amended from time to time subject to the 
Association’s approval; 
 
(g) 
“PCU” means the Project Coordination Unit established within the MOH 
pursuant to the MOH decision No. 500-01-138/2003-02, dated March 27, 2003, and 
referred to in Section 3.03 (a) of this Agreement;  
 
(h) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and 
 
(i) 
“Sub-credit Agreement” means the agreement entered between the 
Borrower and the Republic of Serbia, referred to in Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement, as 
the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and 
agreements supplemental to the Sub-credit Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
The Credit 
 
Section 2.01. 
The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various currencies 
equivalent  to  fourteen  million  seven  hundred  thousand  Special  Drawing  Rights          
(SDR 14,700,000). 
 
Section 2.02. 
(a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit. 
 
Page  5
-
3
-
3
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Euro a  special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory 
to the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. 
Deposits into, and payments out of the Special Account shall be made in accordance with 
the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.03. 
The Closing Date shall be February 28, 2008, or such later date 
as the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
 
Section 2.04. 
(a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment 
charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to 
be set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half 
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty (60) days 
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which 
amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and 
(ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. 
The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year 
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement. 
 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency 
or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the 
provisions of that Section. 
 
Section 2.05. 
The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
 
Section 2.06. 
Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year. 
 
Section 2.07. 
The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in 
semiannual installments payable on each February 15 and August 15 commencing 
August 15, 2013 and ending February 15, 2023. Each installment shall be five percent 
(5%) of such principal amount. 
 
Section 2.08. 
The Euro is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of 
the General Conditions. 
 
Page  6
-
4
-
4
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project
 
Section 3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other 
obligations under this Agreement, shall ensure that the Republic of Serbia carries out the 
Project with due diligence and efficiency, and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, environmental and technical practices, and shall provide, or 
cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the Project. 
 
Section 3.02. 
(a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01, and 
except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, the Borrower, in order 
to ensure the implementation of the Project, shall make the proceeds of the Credit 
available to the Republic of
 
Serbia, under a sub-credit agreement (Sub-credit 
 
Agreement), to be entered between the Borrower and the Republic of
 
Serbia, which shall 
have been approved by the Association. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Sub-credit Agreement in 
such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and, except as the Association shall otherwise 
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, repeal or waive the Sub-credit 
Agreement, or any provision thereof. 
 
Section 3.03. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, and except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, the 
Borrower shall ensure that the Republic of Serbia ensures that:  
 
(a) 
the MOH maintains, during the term of the Project, the PCU, under terms 
of reference and with staff and other resources required for Project implementation, and 
satisfactory to the Association;  
 
(b) 
the MOH implements the Project in accordance with the Operational 
Manual, which shall not be amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived without 
prior approval of the Association;  
 
(c) 
the MOH and HIF shall agree by September 15, 2003 on the institutional 
location, staffing, training of a unit responsible for ongoing review of the basic benefit 
package, provider payment systems and resource allocation methods of the HIF, and shall 
staff the  unit with qualified personnel, satisfactory to the Association, by December 15, 
2003;  
 
Page  7
-
5
-
5
(d) 
 the MOH takes all necessary measures for the implementation of the 
EMP;  
 
(e) 
the MOH expands the EMP to, and discloses it locally for Vranje, 
Valjevo and Zrenjanin prior to launching of civil works procurement under the Project 
for each of these  areas; and 
 
(f) 
the MOH approves by September 15, 2003 the health services 
restructuring proposals and investment plans for Vranje, Valjevo and Zrenjanin, and 
satisfactory  to the Association. 
 
Section 3.04. 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Republic of Serbia:  
 
(a) 
maintains policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Borrower 
and the Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepares, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnishes to the Association, on or about September 30, 2005 a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of 
this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the 
efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during 
the period following such date; and 
 
(c) 
reviews with the Association, by November 30, 2005 or such later date 
as the Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, 
and, thereafter, takes all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the matter. 
 
Section 3.05. 
For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a 
plan for the future operation of the Project; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan. 
 
Section 3.06. 
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
goods, works, and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
Page  8
-
6
-
6
the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants           
 
Section 4.01. 
(a) The Borrower shall ensure that the Republic of Serbia 
maintains a financial management system, including records and accounts, and prepares 
financial statements in a format acceptable to the Association, adequate to reflect the 
operations, resources, and expenditures related to the Project. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Republic of
 
Serbia: 
 
(i) 
has the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section, and the records and accounts for 
the Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance 
with auditing standards acceptable to the Association, 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association; 
 
(ii) 
furnishes to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six (6) months after the end of each such year:   
(A) certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited; and  (B) 
an opinion on such statements, records and accounts and report 
of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and 
 
(iii) 
furnishes to the Association such other information concerning 
such records and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning 
said auditors, as the Association may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall ensure 
that the Republic of
 
Serbia: 
 
(i) 
maintains or causes to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and separate accounts 
reflecting such expenditures; 
 
(ii) 
retains until at least one (1) year after the Association has 
received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last 
Page  9
-
7
-
7
withdrawal from the Credit Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
 
(iii) 
enables the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records; and 
 
(iv) 
ensures that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during 
such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals. 
 
Section 4.02. 
(a) Without limitation upon the reporting obligations set forth in 
Section 3.04 of this Agreement,  the Borrower shall ensure that the Republic of
 
Serbia 
causes financial monitoring reports, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, 
to be prepared and furnished to the Association which: 
 
(i)  
set forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Credit, and explain 
variances between the actual and planned uses of  such funds; 
 
(ii) 
describe physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explain variances between the actual
 
and planned Project 
implementation; and 
 
(iii)  
set forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b) 
The first Financial Monitoring Report shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of the first calendar quarter 
after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period from the incurrence of the first 
expenditure under the Project through the end of such first calendar quarter; thereafter, 
each Financial Monitoring Report shall be furnished to the Association not later than 
forty five (45) days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar 
quarter. 
 
Page  10
-
8
-
8
ARTICLE V 
 
Remedies of the Association
 
Section 5.01. 
Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the Republic of Serbia shall have 
failed to perform any of its obligations under the Sub-credit Agreement. 
 
Section 5.02. 
Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that the event specified in Section 5.01 of 
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days after notice 
thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower.  
 
ARTICLE VI
 
Effective Date; Termination 
 
Section 6.01. 
The following event is specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General 
Conditions:  
 
(a)  
the Sub-credit Agreement has been executed and all conditions to the 
effectiveness of such agreement have been fulfilled; and  
 
(b)  
following the approval of the Government of the Republic of Serbia of 
the arrangements referred to in Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement, the Borrower has 
enacted a law related to the above arrangements, and satisfactory to the Association. 
 
Section 6.02. 
The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of paragraph (b) of Section 12.02 of the General Conditions, to be included in 
the opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association, namely, that the Sub-credit 
Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and the Republic of  
Serbia, and are legally binding upon the parties thereto. 
 
Section 6.03. 
The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
Page  11
-
9
-
9
ARTICLE VII 
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
 
Section 7.01. 
The Minister of International Economic Relations of Serbia and 
Montenegro is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of       
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
 
Section 7.02. 
The following addresses are specified for the purposes of   
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Council of Ministers of Serbia and Montenegro 
Bul. Mihajila Pupina 2 
11070 Belgrade 
Serbia and Montenegro 
 
Facsimile: 
 
(381 11) 311-2979 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145 (MCI) 
 
 
 
 
Page  12
-
10
-
10
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the city of Belgrade, Serbia and Montenegro, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
SERBIA AND MONTENEGRO 
 
By  /s/  Branko Lukovac 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By  /s/  Rory C.
 O’Sullivan 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  13
-
11
-
11
SCHEDULE 1
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Credit Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1) 
Works 
3,770,000 
100% (net of taxes)  
 
(2) 
Goods, including 
4,960,000 
95% of foreign expenditures, 
 
Technical Services 
 
100% of local expenditures  
 
(3) 
Consultants’ services  
3,020,000 
 
 
(a)  Services by individuals 
 
 
70% 
 
(b)  Services by firms 
 
including auditing services 
 
 
80% 
 
(4) Training/workshops, 
and 
1,050,000 
 
100% 
 
Study Tours 
 
  
 
(5) 
Incremental Operating Costs 
350,000 
75% through August 31, 2004, 
 
50%
through August 31, 2005, 
 
35%
through August 31, 2006,  
 
20%
thereafter 
 
(6) Unallocated 
1,550,000
TOTAL 14,700,000
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;  
Page  14
-
12
-
12
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; provided, 
however, that, if the currency of the Borrower is also that of another country from the 
territory of which goods or services are supplied, expenditures in such currency for such 
goods or services shall be deemed to be “foreign expenditures;  
 
(c) 
the term “training/workshops, and study tours” means expenditures 
incurred in connection with training/workshops, and study tours to be carried out under 
the Project, including the travel costs and per-diem allowances for the trainees and other 
expenditures as shall be agreed with the Association; and 
 
(d) 
the term “incremental operating costs” means reasonable and necessary 
incremental expenditures, as approved by the Association on the basis of budgets 
acceptable to the Association, incurred by the MOH with respect to Project 
implementation, management and monitoring, including office space, office supplies, 
utilities, publication of procurement notices, vehicle operation, travel and supervision 
costs, but excluding salaries of officials and employees of the Borrower and the Republic 
of Serbia.  
 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:  
 
(a) 
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; or 
 
(b) 
the Authorized Allocation or in respect of any request or requests for 
deposit into the Special Account, notwithstanding the provisions of Schedule 4, unless 
and until agreement is reached between the Borrower and the Association in respect of 
timely and monitorable mechanisms for the processing of payments for eligible 
expenditures (as defined in Schedule 4 of this Agreement), including payments made 
from counterpart funds of the Borrower.  
 
4. 
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods and works under 
contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent, each in the case of national shopping, 
except for the first two such contracts, and goods and works under contracts costing less 
than $100,000 equivalent, each in the case of international shopping and small works, 
except for the first two such contracts; (b) services for individuals costing less than 
$50,000 equivalent each, and firms costing less than $100,000 equivalent each, except for 
the first such contract; (c) training under contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent 
each, except for the first such contract; and (d) incremental operating costs, all under such 
terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
 
Page  15
-
13
-
13
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 
 
The objective of the Project is to build capacity to develop a sustainable, 
performance-oriented health care system by restructuring health care services and 
improving financing, management and decision making in the Serbian health care 
system. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
 
Part A
:
Health Services Restructuring
1. 
Development and implementation of a masterplan and  planning standards for the 
health care provider network, and strengthening financing, management and decision 
making of the health care system in the Republic of
 
Serbia, through the provision of 
consultants’ services and training. 
 
2. 
Restructuring and rehabilitation of four general hospitals in the Republic of
 
Serbia, specifically, hospitals in Kraljevo, Vranje, Valjevo and Zrenjanin, and support to 
the integration of primary care services and the public health system in the service 
restructuring, through the provision of goods, works, consultants’ services and training. 
 
Part B
:
Health Finance, Policy and Management
1. 
Strengthening the institutional capacity of MOH and HIF to review and improve 
the basic health benefit package, the public/private mix of financing and delivery of 
health services, the provider payment and contracting systems, and the financing of 
public health services, through the provision of consultants’ services and training. 
 
2. 
Establishing of a licensing  body for health professionals and an accreditation  
body for health care providers. 
 
3.  
Developing health information systems which will include operational local 
health information systems in the areas participating in health services restructuring, and 
a
central health sector information service for the Republic of Serbia, through the 
provision of goods, consultants’ services and training. 
 
4. 
Improving the capacity of MOH, HIF and institutes of public health in health 
management, analysis and decision making, and strengthening the communication 
between the health sector leaders and the public, users and staff of the health system, 
through the provision of goods, consultants’ services and training. 
 
Page  16
-
14
-
14
Part C
:
Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation
Support to PCU, responsible for management and implementation of the Project, 
including support for field coordinators in each of four areas participating in the Project, 
and development and maintenance of Project monitoring and evaluation, through the 
provision of goods, consultant’s services and training, including for the audit of accounts 
and financial statements referred to in Section 4.01 (b). 
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by August 31, 2007. 
Page  17
-
15
-
15
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Procurement 
 
Section I
.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A
:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of     
Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, 
September 1997 and January 1999  (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of 
Section I of this Schedule. 
 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
 
(a) Grouping 
of 
contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts shall be grouped in bid packages estimated to 
cost $100,000 equivalent or more each. 
 
(b) 
Two-stage bidding procedure
The bidding procedure for information technology equipment and specialized 
services shall be carried out in two stages in accordance with the provisions of    
paragraph 2.6 of the Guidelines. 
 
(c) 
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. 
 
Page  18
-
16
-
16
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1. International 
Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
 
2. National 
Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
 
3. Direct 
Contracting
Goods which are of a proprietary nature and costing $120,000 equivalent or less 
in the aggregate, may, with the Association's prior agreement, be procured in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines. 
 
4. 
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations 
obtained from three (3) qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. 
The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic 
specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the 
Association, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the 
contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the 
experience and resources to complete the contract successfully. 
 
Part D
:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1. 
 
Page  19
-
17
-
17
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of Part B of Section I of this Schedule, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to: (i) each contract under Part C.3 of Section I of this 
Schedule; and (ii) the first two contracts to be procured in accordance with the procedures 
referred to in each Parts C.1, C.2 and C.4 of Section I of this Schedule, the following 
procedures shall apply: 
 
(i) 
prior to the execution of any contract, the Borrower shall provide to the 
Association a report on the comparison and evaluation of quotations 
received; 
 
(ii) 
prior to the execution of any contract, the Borrower shall provide to the 
Association a copy of the specifications and the draft contract; and 
 
(iii) 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Sections I and IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in 
September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto and the following provisions of Section II of 
this Section. 
 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Consultant Guidelines, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof 
applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
 
Page  20
-
18
-
18
2. 
The following provision shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph: the short 
list of consultants for services under Part A, B and C of the Project, estimated to cost less 
than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 and footnote 8 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1. Least-cost 
Selection
Services for auditing and translation services under Parts A, B and C of the 
Project estimated to cost less than $90,000 equivalent  in aggregate may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of 
the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
2. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
3. 
Single Source Selection
Services estimated to cost less than $650,000 equivalent in aggregate, may, with 
the Association’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
4. Individual 
Consultants
Services of individual consultants for: (a) tasks that meet the requirements set 
forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines; and (b) tasks under Part C of the Project may be selected on a 
sole-source basis in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.3 and 5.4 of the 
Consultant Guidelines, subject to prior approval of the Association. 
 
Part D
:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
A
plan for the selection of consultants, which shall include contract cost 
estimates, contract packaging, and applicable selection criteria and procedures, shall be 
furnished to the Association for its review and approval prior to the issuance to 
consultants of any requests for proposals.  Such plan shall be updated every six (6) 
Page  21
-
19
-
19
months during the execution of the Project, and each such updating shall be furnished to 
the Association for its rev
iew and approval.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such selection plan (as updated from time to time) as shall 
have been approved by the Association. 
 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to: (i)  the first   contract under Part C.1 and C.2 of Section 
II of this Schedule; and (ii) each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $ 100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to: (i) each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants to be selected on a sole source basis; or (ii) the first contract for the 
employment of individual consultants to be selected on a competitive basis; and (iii) each  
subsequent such contract  estimated to cost the equivalent of $ 50,000 or more, the terms 
of reference and short list of candidates, the report on the comparison of the 
qualifications and experience of candidates, the qualifications, experience and terms of 
employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its prior review 
and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been 
given.  The provisions of paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
also apply to such contracts. 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
 
Page  22
-
20
-
20
SCHEDULE 4 
 
Special Account 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories 1 through 5 set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
 600,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to 
 300,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or 
exceed the equivalent of 3,000,000 SDR. 
 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
3. 
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the respective 
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall ensure 
that the Government of the Republic of Serbia furnishes to the Association, on behalf of 
the Borrower, a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or 
amounts as the Government of the Republic of Serbia shall have requested. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Government of the Republic of Serbia furnishes 
to the Association requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the Association shall specify. 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Government of the Republic of Serbia furnishes 
Page  23
-
21
-
21
to the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Government of the 
Republic of Serbia shall have requested on behalf of the 
Borrower, and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by 
the Association from the Credit Account under the respective 
eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as 
shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
 
4. 
For each payment made by the Government of the Republic of Serbia on behalf 
of the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower shall ensure that the 
Government of the Republic of Serbia, at such time as the Association shall reasonably 
request, furnishes to the Association such documents and other evidence showing that 
such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures. 
 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower or the Government of the Republic of 
Serbia on behalf of the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in accordance with the 
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of 
this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
if the Government of the Republic of Serbia shall have failed to furnish 
to the Association, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this 
Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant 
to said Section in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions in respect of 
expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated to said Categories, 
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
 
Page  24
-
22
-
22
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the said eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice 
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
 
6. 
(a) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B) 
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the 
Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so 
eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by 
the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided 
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions. 
 
