                                         Document of
                                     The World Bank

                             FOROFFICIAL USEONLY

                                                                        ReportNo: 43156-YF




                                      PROJECTPAPER

                                            ON A


                    PROPOSEDADDITIONAL FINANCINGLOAN


                       INTHEAMOUNT OFEURO 10.5MILLION
                            (US$13.5 MILLIONEQUIVALENT)


                                           TO THE

                                  REPUBLICOF SERBIA

                                           FORTHE

                                     HEALTHPROJECT



                                       February 3,2009



HumanDevelopmentSector Unit
South EastEuropeCountry Unit
Europeand Central Asia Region


This document has a restricteddistribution and may be usedby recipientsonly in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank
authorization.

                        CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                   (Exchange Rate EffectiveFebruary 3, 2009)


                        CurrencyUnit = New Serbian Dinar (RSD)
                          RSD72.8676 = US$1.OO
                          US$1.28195 = Euro 1.00

                                FISCAL YEAR
                           January 1   - December31

                    ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS    Country Assistance Strategy
CIDA   Canadian InternationalDevelopment Agency
CPS    Country Partnership Strategy
DILS   Delivery of ImprovedLocal Services
DRG    Diagnosis-RelatedGroup
EC     EuropeanCommission
HIF    HealthInsuranceFund
IBRD   InternationalBank for Reconstructionand Development
IDA    InternationalDevelopmentAssociation
IFRs   Interim Un-auditedFinancialReports
IPH    Instituteof Public Health
ISA    InternationalStandardsfor Auditing
IT     InformationTechnology
MOH    Ministry of Health
OECD   Organizationfor Economic Cooperation and Development
PCU    ProjectCoordinationUnit
PDO    ProjectDevelopmentObjective
SDR    Special DrawingRights
SHP    Serbia HealthProject




                        Vice President:    Shigeo Katsu
                     Country Director:     Jane Armitage
                     Country Manager       Simon Gray
                      Sector Manager:      Abdo Yazbeck
                    Task Team Leader:      Daniel Dulitzky

                                                                         FOROFFICIAL USE ONLY

                                         PROJECTPAPERDATA         SHEET


                                                           Sector Manager: Abdo Yazb
                                                           Country Director:Jane Armi


        Borrower:Ministry of Finance
        Responsibleagency: Ministry of Health




        policies?
        Have these beenapproved by Bank management?

        Revised project development objectives/outcomes[Ifapplicablej

        The original Project Development Objective would remain the same, i.e. to build capacity to
        develop a sustainable, performance orientedhealthcare system where providers are rewarded for
        quality and efficiency and where health insurance coverage ensures access to affordable and
        effective care.

        Progress towards the development objectives supported by the additional financing would be
        monitoredaccordingto the following key performance indicators:

                (i) Standards and guidelines are used to make decisions on investments in
                         informationtechnology
                (ii)     Ministry of Health safeguards quality of services by introducing internationally
                         certifiedClinical Practice Guidelinesfor clinical pathways
                (iii) MinistryofHealthpublishesregularreviewofperformanceofhospitals

        Does the scaled-up or restructuredprojecttrigger any new safeguardpolicies? No

                                             For Additional Financing
        [XI Loan    [ ] Credit   [ ] Grant
        For Loans/Credits/Grants:
                Total Bank financing(US$m.): 13.5
                Proposedterms: standard IBRDterms


                             Source                           Local           Foreign         Total




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without World Bank authorization.


      Republic of Serbia: HEALTH PROJECTADDITIONAL FINANCING



                                          TABLE OF CONTENTS

I     INTRODUCTION             .............................................................................................................
I1
 ..   BACKGROUNDAND RATIONALEFOR ADDITIONAL FINANCING                                                                              ................11
I11
  .    PROPOSEDCHANGES                       ................................................................................................      4
IV    CONSISTENCY WITH CAS OR CPS                                   ..........................................................................     6
V     APPRAISALOF SCALED-UPPROJECTACTIVITIES                                                         ...........................................   7
VI    EXPECTEDOUTCOMES                         ..............................................................................................      9
VI1                                                                                                                                              10
VI11 FINANCIAL TERMS AND CONDITIONSFORTHE ADDITIONAL
 .....BENEFITSAND RISKS                   ................................................................................................

FINANCING ................................................................................................................................        11


I. INTRODUCTION

1.      This Project Paper seeks the approval of the ExecutiveDirectorsto provide an additional
financing EURO 10.5 million (US13.5 million equivalent) to the Serbia Health Project
(P077675), Credit 3768. The additional loan would finance activities started under the Serbia
Health Project (SHP) to reform hospital payment methods and improve quality of health care
services. The Serbia Health Project has been very successful in supporting the initial reforms
aimed at introducingoutput-based payment methods and improvingquality of service delivery in
hospitals. However, these reforms need to be sustained over time to deliver best results. The
proposed additional financing would enable the Government to scale up existing efforts to
improve efficiency, utilization and quality of hospital care. The World Bank is in a unique
positionto providethe support that is neededduringthe next phaseof reform.

2.      More specifically, the proposed loan would finance the provision: (i) of management
information technologies (hardware and software) for hospitals and the Health Insurance Fund
(HIF); (ii)of technical assistance to hospitals, the HIF, and the Ministry of Health (MOH) to
support institutionaland management reforms on a sector and hospital level so that hospitalscan
react to the new financial incentives set by case-based payment systems such as Diagnosis-
Related Groups (DRGs) and eventually improve hospital productivity and efficiency, and (iii)of
technical assistance to support monitoringand evaluation of the payment reform within hospitals
and the HIF and on a sector level in order to evaluate and adjust the impact of the payment
change and to prevent adverse effects and cost escalations. These activities would contributeto
the effectiveness and financialsustainabilityofthe health system.

3.       The implementationarrangementsremainthe same as inthe original Credit.

11.      BACKGROUNDAND RATIONALE FORADDITIONAL FINANCING

Background

4.       The Serbia Health Project, for a total of SDR 14.7 Million (US20 Million equivalent)
was approved by the Bank's Board on May 22, 2003 and the Credit became effective on October
10, 2003. The current Project Development Objective (PDO) is to build capacity to develop a
sustainable, performance oriented health care system where providers are rewarded for quality
and efficiency and where health insurance coverage ensures access to affordable and effective
care.

5.       After Credit effectiveness in October 2003, project start up activities proceeded slowly,
with less than US$l.O million or 5% of the Credit havingbeen disbursed as of March 2005. As a
result, a restructuringof the project was undertaken in June 2005 wherein the scope and number
of activities were streamlined and rationalizedwithout changing the development objectives, the
general architecture of the project and the total budget.         An action plan to speed up
implementationwas devised and has succeeded in turningthe projectaround. InNovember2006,
a formal reallocationof Credit proceeds was effected in accordance with the project restructuring
recommendations, and since then the ongoing project consists of the following components: (1)
Health Services Restructuring, (2) Health Finance, Policy and Management and Quality
Improvement and (3) Project Coordinationand Monitoring and Evaluation. One of the changes
made to the project in November 2006 is related to the scope of civil works, as it became
apparent that one of the four hospital sites included in the original project design was going to
embark in civil works that were larger than originally agreed. As part of the formal reallocation
of funds the civil works associated to that hospital (Vranje) were excluded from the project (the



                                                 1

SHP only financed the design of such work). Specifically the changes in project design
associated with the reallocationof Credit proceeds stipulatedthat financing of civil works would
occur in three hospitals instead of four, while medical equipment, technical assistance, and
training would still be financed in the four hospitals. The civil works excluded from the project
involved some new construction in Vranje hospital. In a parallel activity to the project, the
Ministry of Healthproceededwith the constructionof a new annex to the main building - o n the
land that belongs to the hospital- and the creation of acclimatizedconnections between existing
buildings.These works have been carried out under Serbian construction laws.

Progressto Date

6.       As of December 8, 2008, SDR14.4million (98.2%) has been disbursed out of the
available IDA credit of SDR14.7 million. The PDO indicators reveal that satisfactory progress
towards achieving the planned objectives has been sustained since June 2006. In particular,the
Project has been able to produce positive changes in the four pilot hospitals that are being
restructured. During the life of the project these hospitals experienced faster improvement in
efficiency indicators than the rest of comparable hospitals in Serbia. Moreover, the project has
also been successful in introducinga modern legal framework for health sector reform in Serbia
and in strengthening capacity for improvingand measuring quality of healthcare services as well
as in introducingthe first steps of provider payment reforms. More broadly, the project has been
an invaluableinstrumentto build capacity of Government institutions(i.e. the MOH, the HIF, the
Instituteof Public Health(IPH) and the hospitals) for better planning, financing, management and
monitoringof public resources available for the health sector. At the same time, the Government
has succeeded to contain the increase in public health expenditures and to rationalize its labor
force.

7.       On December 3, 2007 the World Bank agreed to a request of the Ministry of Health to
extend the closing date of the Serbia Health Projectuntil August 30, 2008 for two main reasons.
First, a few more months would allow an orderly conclusion of the following activities that are
currently under implementation: (i)the renovation of the vaccine production unit in Torlak
Institute,(ii) the Health Sector ReconfigurationStrategy and the policy discussion of its findings
and (iii) the piloting of provider payment reform in seven hospitals. Second and most important,
six months were neededto bridgethe ongoingcredit with the additionalfinancing. Due to further
delays in the negotiations of the additional financing brought about by the general elections in
May 2008 and the time it took for the reconstitution of the government, the Bank agreed to
further extend SHP's closing date to February 28, 2009. It is expected that further extension of
this closingdate by six months to August 30, 2009 will be completed prior to the current closing
date to allow adequate time for the legal agreement of the additional financing to be declared
effective. The closing date of the Additional Financingwould be December 31,201 1.

Justification for Additional Financing

8.       Reforming hospital payment methods started only during the last year of the Serbia
HealthProject,mainly becausethere was a needto gain the political momentum and consensusof
all stakeholders to create the conditions to develop and implement such reforms. As in other
European countries changing the way healthcare providers are paid is the central pillar of
reorientingthe health system to improve hospital productivity. In Serbia, this reform involves a
shift from input-based financing that sets an incentiveto increase the number of hospital beds and
the number of employees, towards a system that rewards outputs and quality leading to more
efficient public spending. Serbian hospitals report relatively high numbers for hospital beds
(Figure 1).    High bed numbers combined with low inpatient admission rates (Figure 2) and


                                                 2

 relatively long average lengthof hospital stays (Figure 3), point to low productivity in terms of
 patientturnover per bed and caseloads per staff. Total health expenditure (THE) was 8% of GDP
 in 2005', which is comparable to neighboringcountries (Figure 4). As the experience from OECD
 countries shows, reforming the payment system is a long-term process and requires continued
 monitoring, evaluationandadjustment to correctfor adverse providerreactions.

 9.       The proposed additional financing would enable the Government to scale up existing
 activities by supporting the implementation of case-based payment system. Introducingoutput-
 based financing is a complex but necessary process to improve efficiency and ensure
 sustainability of hospital care in middle income countries. It requires investments in modern
 health and financial information technologies and international technical assistance to build
 management capacity at different levels in the healthsystem (such as the HIF, the MOH and the
`hospitals) as well as sustained dialogue with many stakeholders, including the Ministry of
 Finance. At the same time, clinical pathways will be developed and accreditation of hospitals
 will be sustained to continue improving quality of health care and prevent drawbacks that new
 payment system could induce.

Figure 1: Hospital beds per 100,000 pop           Figure 2: Inpatient admission per 100 pop
                                                                                                I
   700 T--                         ,




Source: WHO 2005. http://www.euro.who.intlhfadb   Source: WHO 2005. http://Www.euro.who.int/hfadb

Figure3: Average length of stay                   Figure 4: THE in % of GDP

   10 1    -      ..         f R  8.4 8.6 8&         10
                                                      8
                                                      6
                                                      4
                                                      2
                                                      0




 Source: WHO 2005. http://www.euro.who.int/hfadb  Source: WHO 2005. http://www.euro.who.indhfadh

 10.      The proposed scaling up is consistent with the World Bank Guidelines for Additional
 Financing (OB/BP 13.20) since it will finance the "implementation of additional or expanded
 activities that scale up a project's impact and development effectiveness".        The team has
 considered several possible approaches for financing the project, including through a new

 IMOH Serbia: Developmentof National HealthAccounts in Serbia- Phase 111.August 3 1, 2007


                                                 3

operationor a repeater project. The choice of additional financing was made to maximize cost-
effectiveness and timeliness in processing so that implementation of scaling up activities can
supplement successful implementation of ongoing activities quickly by using existing
implementationcapacity and arrangements.

111.    PROPOSED CHANGES

11.     The additional loan will finance scaling up activities that were supported by the original
project mostly under Component 2 (Health Finance, Policy and Management and Quality
Improvement) and in particular in Subcomponent 2.1 (Health Finance), Subcomponent 2.2
(Quality Improvement), Subcomponent 2.3 (Health Information System) and Subcomponent 2.4
(Capacity Building and Communication of the MOH). Information on the individual sub-
components of the additionalfinancing is provided in the following paragraphs:

         (i)Information technology. Hospital payment reforms requires: (a) investment in
         Serbian Health IT network that will link 400 health care providers into the single
         communicationbody, thus allowing testing of new discharge forms; (b) investmentin the
         implementation of servers, hardware and LAN (network within hospital) in hospitals
         based on the experience of 4 hospitalsthat were equipped under the SHP; (c) investment
         in hospitalmanagementsoftware, includingupgradingof hospitalsoftware currently used
         in 4 hospitals to include additional data on finance and accounting, expenditures,
         production factors, ICD-10 update, procedure coding, case-mix information of patients,
         ABC costing, and license fee for DRG software and replicating hardware and upgraded
         hospital software in at least 5 additional hospitals2;and (d) investment in upgrading
         databases of the HIF and the IPH including members, claims and provider databases so
        that data can be used by the provider performance analysis department in the HIF for
         monitoringand evaluationof payment effect on HIF expenditures.

         (ii)Hospital managementand Quality. To ensurethat providerscan reactto the new
         incentives set through the payment system, there is a need for technical assistance to be
         provided to the Chamber of Health Care Institutions to implement institutional and
         organizational changes that can produce more financial and management autonomy in
         hospitals, and ensure improved quality and productivity in care. This includes capacity
         building in order to evaluate performance of health sector managers in Serbia.
         Furthermoreit includes supporting hospitals in staff-mix adjustments as proposed in the
         human resource strategy of the MOH, and creating a staff payment merit system to
         reward staff for better performance and patient satisfaction. It also includes supporting
         health facilities in adjusting department (day care and day surgery) and bed structure
         following the health sector restructuring strategy, including partnerships with private
         providersto improve hospital productivity. Legal changes for hospitals to become public
         firms with more autonomy and clearly defined responsibilities and accountabilities are
         also necessary so that financial and management responsibility for staff and all other
         production factors can be devolved to the directors of health facilities.          Technical
         assistance is also needed for the development and implementationof clinical pathways in
         hospitals, which will build upon the clinical practice guidelines produced under the
         HealthTechnology Assessment component of the SHP. Special attention is going to be
         devoted to rational pharmacotherapy. At the same time, the accreditationprocess started



2 The final number of hospitals will be decidedjointly with the plans for IT investments that are to be
financedbythe Instrumentfor Pre-AccessionFunds ofthe EuropeanCommission.


                                                  4

          under the SHP will be replicatedto the selected hospitals in order to improve quality of
          health care services.

          (iii)Monitoringand Evaluationinthe MinistryofHealthand theHealthInsurance
          Fund: To build capacity to monitor and evaluate the impact of the payment change on
          overall healthpolicy goals with special emphasis on pharmaceuticals, technicalassistance
          is planned to be provided to: (a) health care facilities for monitoring and evaluation and
          fine-tuningof DRGs in hospitals; (b) the HIF to build analyticalcapacity and support the
          creation of a provider performance analysis department in charge of data analysis,
          auditing of provider results to detect misreportingof DRGs, and presenting results to the
          HIF director and hospitals;(c) the Ministry of Healthto be able to use all informationthat
          is generated to steer implementation of provider payment reform and (d) the National
          Health Account team at the Institute of Public Health, who will be monitoring and
          evaluating the sector-wide effect of DRGs and its impact on total health expenditures.
          This sub-component also includes specific capacity building activities such as
          internationaltraining courses and conferences related to payment reforms; study tours on
          DRGs for example to Ireland, Tuzla Canton in Bosnia and Herzegovina and Hungary;
          and the nationalflagship course offered by the World Bank Instituteon health financing.

12.       The following table compares components under the project at appraisal, the restructuring
in 2005 andthe sub-components plannedunder the additionalfinancing:

Appraisal IDA
           -             US% Restructured - IDA        US% Additional Financing        -  EURO US%(M)
                         (M\
Component 1- Health Services                           (M)     IBRD                        (M)   Equiv

1.1 Masterplanning       0.3



1.2. Restructuring in    3.2    1.2Medical equipment   3.5
Kraljevo
1.3 Restructuring in     8.0    1.3 Change Management  0.6
Valjevo, Vranje and
Zrenjanin
Subtotal Comp. 1         11.6                          10.5
Component 2 -Health Finance, olicy and Management and Qual y Improvement
2.1 Basic benefit        0.8   2.1 Health Financing    0.8      1. Information Technology 7.8  10.1
package and provider           Capitation                      Software upgrade for
payment system                 DRGs                            DRGs
                               National Health                 Scale up of IT system to 9
                               Accounts                        hospitals
                                                               Institutionalizationof IT
                                                               Agency in MOH
2.2 Financing of public  0.1   2.2 Quality Improvement 0.7     2. HospitalManagement      1.7  2.2
health services                Licensingand                    and Quality Improvement
                               accreditation                   Introductionof evidence-
                               Continuous Quality              based management
                               Improvements                    Clinical pathwaysto
                               Health Technology               improve quality
                               Assessment                      Continuous accreditation

2.3 Licensing and        0.5   2.3 Health Information  5.3     3. Monitoring and          0.7  0.8
accreditation                  Systems                         Evaluation and
                                                               Communication in MOH
                                                               and HIF
2.4 Health Information   5.3   2.4 MOH Capacity        0.7
Systems                        Building and



                                                    5

Appraisal IDA
            -                  US$       Restructured - I D A         US$       Additional Financing     -      EURO       US$ (M)
                                (M)                                   (M) IBRD                                    (M)        Equiv
                                         Communication
2.5 MOH Capacity                0.7
Building and
Communication
Subtotal Comp. 2                7.4                                   7.5                                        10.2     13.1
Component 3 -Project Management, M&E
3.1 Project Management          1.0      3.1 Project Management       1.2       4. Project Management            0.3      0.4
and M&E                                  and M&E                                and M&E
Subtotal Comp. 3                1.o                                   1.2                                        0.3      0.4
Unallocated                                                           0.7
TOTAL                           20.0                                  20.0                                       10.5     13.5

13.        The Additional Financingprojectcosts are summarized inthe table below:


Project Cost By Component and/or Activity                                   Local                Foreign             Total
                                                                        US$ million            US$ million        US$ million
1. HealthManagementInformationTechnology                                       2.20                7.37                9.57

2. Hospital Managementand Quality Improvement                                   1.50               0.50                2.00

3. Monitoring& Evaluation,Communication                                        0.40                0.40                0.80

4. ProjectManagement                                                           0.40                0.00                0.40

Total Baseline Cost                                                            4.50                8.237              12.77
  PhysicalContingencies
  PriceContingencies                                                           0.40                0.30                0.70
                                           Total Project Costs'                4.90                8.67               13.47
                                  Interestduring construction
                                                   Front-endFee                0.00                0.00                0.03
                                  Total Financing Required                     4.90                8.57               13.50

'Identifiable taxes and duties are US$2.20 million, and the total project cost, net of taxes, is US$lI.4 million. Therefore, the
share of project cost net of taxes is 83.8%.


IV.        C O N S I S T E N C Y WITH C A S OR CPS

14.        The project and its additional financing remain consistent with the Country Partnership
Strategy for the Republic of Serbia for the period FYOS-FY11, which also aims at improving
delivery of social services at all levels of Government. By focusingon provider payment reforms
at Secondary and Tertiary Health Care hospitals, the additional financing would complement
activities supporting the capitation payment reforms in Primary Health Care (PHC) centers that
are being financed by the World Bank Delivery of Improved Local Services Project (DILS), the
Canadian InternationalDevelopmentAgency (CIDA) and the European Commission(EC). The
additional financing would also complement information technology investment in hardware,
software and network connections between health facilities and the HIF branches supported by
DILSandthe EC.




                                                               6

V.       APPRAISAL OF SCALED-UP PROJECT ACTIVITIES

Technical

15.      The overall strategy for reorienting the health system towards measuring and financing
outputs in line with best practice in OECD countries.Planned activities also build on experience
accumulated during the implementation of the original project. In particular, investments in
information technology, which have produced a high quality health information system in the
four pilot hospitals, are planned to be scaled up in nine hospitals. Moreover, international
technical assistance that is ongoing in seven hospitalswill provide guidance on the best options
available to upgrade the existing hospital health information system to measure production of
services in all Serbian hospitals. At the same time, the successful experience with hospital
accreditationand HealthTechnologyAssessment will be continuedunder the additionalproject.

Economic

16.      Government intervention is justified to provide the right incentive to health providers
(hospitals) by changingthe payment mechanism. Hospitals are currently financed according to
the inputsthey use instead of the outputs they produce, and therefore have no financial incentives
to reduce the number of staff and beds and increase the number of admissions; or to keep high
occupancy rates and reduce patients' average length of stay. As described in Section I1
(Justification for Additional Financing), the activities planned under the additional loan are to
continue supportingthe Government of Serbia develop and implementprovider payment reforms
as the main strategy to improve efficiency of service delivery, control the cost of health care
provision while ensuring access to quality care. Where implemented successfully, similar
provider payment reforms did produce significant increase in hospital productivity. For instance,
in the US Medicare system, the average length of hospital stay (Le. one of the most commonly
used indicators of hospitalperformance) fell by 15% in the first three years after DRG payment
was introduced; and fell as much as 24% in certain diagnoses. Moreover, over the past two
decades, production of health care services, as measured by total hospital discharges, increased
markedly in countries with output-based payments, while it remained on a similar low level in
Spain, Canada and the Netherlands, where physicians are paid a monthly salary independent of
their workload. Similar results have been observed in Central Europeancountries.Basedon these
experiences, we expect that, once the hospital payment reform is completed, the number of
hospital beds and the average lengthof stay will decrease and hospital admission will increase in
Serbia so that the country will have a more cost-effective health delivery system that provides
better access and better quality services to its citizens.

Institutional

17.      Project implementation arrangements for the Serbia Health Project have worked very
well over the past two and a half years and will be continued for the Additional Financing
activities. The executingagency for the additional project will continue beingthe MOH and will
continueworking with other agencies and institutions such as the HIF, the IPHand all healthcare
institutions. The Project Coordination Unit (PCU), which is established in the Sector for
InternationalRelations in the MOH, will execute activities planned under the additional project.
The Assistant Minister for this Sector will continue havingoverall responsibilityfor the Project in
the Ministry while the Assistant Minister for the Sector for Health Insurance and Health
Financingwill havetechnicaloversightof all activities.



                                                    7

18.    Because of the experience and strong capacity of its existing staff, the PCU will also
coordinatethose activities envisaged to be implementedunder the recently approved DILS. The
combinedoperationalcost will be reduced and synergies will be maximized.




                                               8

Fiduciary

Procurement

19.     Procurement for the additional financing would be carried out in accordance with the
World Bank's "Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the
Bank in May 2004 and revised in October 2006; and "Guidelines: Selectionand Employmentof
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in
October2006, and the provisions stipulatedin the LoanAgreement.

FinancialManagement

20.     The financial management responsibilities for the additional financing (P110593) will
remain with the PCU within the Ministry of Health which is in charge of implementationof the
original credit. Last supervisionof the ongoingHealth Serbia project (P077675, IDA 37680) was
conducted in November 2008. The financial management arrangements of the project were
assessed to be satisfactory. With the proposed additional loan amounting to US$16.6 million
equivalent, acquiring acceptable accounting software to be used for project accounting and
reporting would be useful for ensuring that all financial transactions are captured in reliable
manner. In order for the financial management arrangements for the additional financing to be
acceptable, the softwareneedsto be acquired prior to disbursement ofthe additional financing

21.     Audit of project financial statements for 2006 for the ongoingproject has been submitted
within due date and audit opinion was clean. Quarterly financial monitoring reports are submitted
timely and providereliable financial information.The PCU is adequately staffed and appropriate
controlsand procedureshave been instituted.

22.     Auditing and financial reporting arrangements will remain the same for the additional
financing. The financial statements will be audited by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank and on terms of reference acceptable to the Bank. The annual audited statements and audit
report will be provided to the Bank within six months of the end of each fiscal year and at the
closingof the project.The audits will be conducted in accordance with InternationalStandards on
Auditing (ISA). Project management-oriented interim un-auditedfinancial reports (IFRs) will be
used for project monitoring and supervision. The format of the IFRs used for the ongoingproject
will be also used for the additional financing. The PCU will produce a full set of IFRs for each
calendar quarter throughout the life of the project for all project components and all sources of
funding. They will be due 45 days after each quarter end. Designated account in EUR for
administering additional funding will be opened in a commercial bank acceptable to the World
Bank.Ceilingfor the designatedaccount will be definedin disbursement letter.

Environmentaland Social

23.     The additional financing will invest in information technology and technical assistance.
No safeguards policies are envisaged to be triggered; therefore, an EnvironmentalCategory "C"
rating has beenestablished by our Regional Safeguards Unit for this project.


VI.     EXPECTEDOUTCOMES

24.     The PDO would remain the same, i.e. to build capacity to develop a sustainable,
performanceoriented health care system where providersare rewarded for quality and efficiency



                                                9

and where healthinsurancecoverage ensures access to affordableand effective care. Inparticular,
it is expected that the activities financed by the additional project will contribute to produce a
health system that is able to use public and private resources allocated for health care more
efficiently and delivers better access and quality services to people in Serbia. Progress towards
the development objectives supported by the additionalfinancing would be monitored according
to the following key performanceindicators:

     (i)     Standards and guidelines are used to make decisions on investments in information
             technology
     (ii)    Ministry of Health safeguards quality of services by introducing internationally
             certified Clinical PracticeGuidelinesfor clinical pathways
     (iii)   Ministry of Health publishesregular review of performanceof hospitals

25.      Below we describe the expected intermediateoutcomes of each component and reportthe
output indicatorsthat will be usedto measurethem:

Component 1 Information Technology:The cost-effectivenessof investments in information
                -
technology in the health sector is demonstrated and mechanisms are in place which facilitate and
promote such investments

0    Modern, standardized, nationwide framework for medical informatics established (baseline:
     No standards are adopted; target: At least three standards are officially adoptedby the MOH)
0    Number of hospitals with fully upgraded health information system (baseline: 0; target: all
     hospitalsreceivingsupport from the project)
0    Proportionof healthinstitutions3connectedto the IT Network (baseline:30%; target: 80%)

Component2 -HospitalManagementand Quality:System is introducedto improvequality of
services and measureperformanceof healthcare providers

0    Number of common clinical pathways prepared by at least nine pilot hospitals (baseline: 0;
     target: 3)
0    Proportionof general hospitalsreportingaccordingto DRG classification (baseline:0; target:
     50%)

Component 3 -Monitoring and Evaluationand Communicationin MOH and HIF:Capacity
in strengthenedto monitor and evaluate performanceof healthcare providers

     0   Evaluationpreparedby the Ministry of Health and the Health Insurance Fundof hospitals
         with new reportingsystem (baseline: no evaluation is carriedout of hospitalperformance;
         target: evaluation is prepared by the end ofthe project)

VII.     BENEFITS AND RISKS

26.      The main benefits are relatedto the modernizationof the health system in Serbia that the
additionalproject would support. They include: (i)a transparent information system that is able
to measuretypes, volume and quality of healthcare services produced; (ii)healthinstitutionsthat
plan, finance and monitor resources basedon services deliveredby providersinsteadof on inputs;
and (iii)healthservices of betterquality.


3 Include regional branches of HIF, regional IPHs, Primary Health Care Centers, Hospitals, State
Pharmacies.


                                                  10

27.    The main risk is related to the political instability in the country. A different political
leadership for the health sector may need some time to become acquainted with the reforms that
have happened in the past and are planned in the additional loan. There is, however, sufficient
understandingand ownership of the activities planned in the MOH, the HIF and the hospitals
themselves to expect any eventualslow downwould not last too long.

VIII. FINANCIAL TERMSAND CONDITIONSFOR THE ADDITIONAL
FINANCING

28.    The original financing was provided as an IDA Credit terms. The proposed additional
financing will be an IBRD Flexible Loan for Euro 10,500,000, variable spread; front end fee
financedout of loanproceeds.




                                              11


