                 Document of
              The World Bank


                                      Report No: 65962-YF




           RESTRUCTURING PAPER


                   ON A


     PROPOSED PROJECT RESTRUCTURING


                     OF


SERBIA HEALTH PROJECT ADDITIONAL FINANCING
             (Loan No. 76950-YF)

                  TO THE


            REPUBLIC OF SERBIA


              December 27, 2011
                           ABBREVIATIONS



GOS     Government of Serbia
IHMIS   Integrated Health Management Information System
HIS     Health Information System
IP      Implementation Progress
IT      Information Technology
MOH     Ministry of Health
PHC     Primary Health Care
PDO     Project Development Objective




         Regional Vice President:       Philippe H. Le Houérou
               Country Director:        Jane Armitage
                 Sector Director:       Ana L. Revenga
                Sector Manager:         Daniel Dulitzky
                                    2
Task Team Leader:       Ana Holt




                    3
             SERBIA HEALTH PROJECT ADDITIONAL FINANCING
                               P077675
                                 IBRD LOAN 76950-YF

                              RESTRUCTURING PAPER


1.     This Restructuring Paper seeks approval to extend the current project Closing Date by
three months from December 31, 2011 to March 31, 2012. The Government of Serbia (GOS)
is seeking the extension to enable satisfactory completion of acceptance procedures for
networks, hardware and software for the Integrated Management Information System (IMIS).

2.      Together with the original Credit (Cr. 3768-YF), which closed on December 28, 2009,
with a remaining balance of a little over SDR 7,200, this Additional Financing operation has
contributed significantly to define a modern legal and institutional framework for the health
system and to build capacity to improve hospital efficiency, contain expenditures, regulate
public and private providers, measure quality of services, and build an effective information
system.

3.      The project has continued to make good progress towards achieving its development
objectives. Project management and coordination has worked effectively, including financial
and procurement management. The project objectives of “building capacity to develop a
sustainable, performance-oriented health care system where providers are rewarded for
quality and efficiency and where health insurance coverage ensures access to affordable and
effective care? continue to be relevant and achievable.

4.      Implementation Progress has consistently been rated Satisfactory with the exception
of a rating of Moderately Satisfactory in January 2011 because of delays resulting from the
decision by the Ministry of Health (MOH) to increase the scope of a hardware procurement
package for hospitals. The increased scope of this package was possible because of savings
in the initial procurement tender. Progress in achieving Project Development Objectives
(PDO) has also been Satisfactory. Twelve out of 15 outcome indicators under the original
project were fully achieved, one partially achieved, and only two were not achieved. Two of
the three outcome indicators under the Additional Financing are fully achieved, and one
partially achieved. Financial Management is rated Highly Satisfactory and there are no
outstanding audit reports.

5.     As of December 8, 2011, €4.18 million or 40 percent of Loan proceeds has been
disbursed, with signed commitments amounting to €10.23 million or 97.4 percent of loan
proceeds. The total amount of all information technology (IT) related contracts yet to be paid
accounts for 51 percent of the total Loan, and are awaiting final acceptance of installed
networks, hardware, and software.

6.      The proposed extension of the closing date is necessary to: (i) allow successful
updating of the Health Information System (HIS) software originally installed in the four
participating hospitals, and (ii) full implementation of the HIS in 20 hospitals. Good progress
is being made in both activities with key implementation milestones well advanced: (i)
customization of software has been finished in all hospitals, (ii) training has been completed
                                             4
in all hospitals and primary health care (PHC centers), and (iii) hardware has been installed in
all the facilities.     However, to ensure that acceptance procedures are carried out
systematically, it is prudent to allow additional time to avoid the risk that some unexpected
issues could slow down the process. This will be the first and final extension of the Loan
Closing Date.

7.       The requirements of OP/BP 13.30 have been met, namely: (i) the project objectives
are achievable; (ii) the performance of the Borrower and other project implementing agencies
is satisfactory; and (iii) the Borrower has prepared a specific Action Plan acceptable to the
Bank for completion of the Project within the proposed requested extended timeframe, i.e.
March 31, 2012. No new safeguards policies will be triggered.

8.      In view of the above considerations, the proposed extension is justified since the
Integrated Management Information System (IMIS) is a critical tool to improve the
Government’s stewardship function in the health sector.




                                              5
