Report No. PID7381
Project Name                     India-Rajasthan District Primary (@j 
Education Project-I
Region                           South Asia
Sector                           Education
Project ID                       INPE45050
Borrower                         Government of India
Implementation Agency            Government of Rajasthan
Ministry of Education
Contact Person:
Mr Priya Darshi Thakur
Secretary Education
Date Prepared                    January  1998
Appraisal Date                   October 7, 1998
Project Board Date               March  1999
Project Objectives. The proposed project will assist the Government of
Rajasthan to build and strengthen state, district and sub-district capacity to
accelerate in 10 low literacy districts -- Alwar, Bhilwara, Sriganganagar,
Jhalwar, Kota, Nagaur, Sikar, Sirohi, Tonk and Jhunjhunu-- progress towards
universal primary education by establishing conditions that will allow more
children, especially from socially disadvantaged sections (girls,SC,ST
children and children with mild and moderate disabilities, working children)
complete a five year primary education cycle of reasonable quality. To this
end, the project will support activities designed to: (i) increase access to
primary education; (ii) reduce drop out and improve learning achievement; and
(iii) strengthen the capacity of institutions at the state and district level
to manage primary education.
The project investment will constitute the first phase of IDA funding that
facilitates the implementation of GOR's policy regarding universalization of
primary education. This will be following by a second phase which will
involve IDA investment in an additional 9 districts(FYOO) --Hanumangarh,
Churu, Jaipur, Dausa, Bharatpur, Karauli, Sawaimadhopur, Bundi, and Dholpur.
Together with investment by the Department of International Development (DFID,
UK) in the remaining 13 districts of the state, these IDA investments are
expected to establish in the state the capacity to provide access to primary
education, or its non-formal equivalent, to all 6-10 year old children in
Rajasthan and allow increasing number of primary school graduates to continue
in upper primary classes.. The total IDA investment in Rajsthan in support of
primary education is expected to total about $175 million through two
operations.
Project Description. The proposed project will have the following three
components:
(a) Expanding access to primary education especially for disadvantaged groups
by: (i) opening new Primary schools (Shiksha Swayam Sewi Vidyalayas) and



alternative schools, constructing additional classrooms and repairing the
existing classrooms; (ii) positioning para teachers in new Primary schools,
alternative schools and in existing regular primary schools to meet the demand
of increased enrollment; and (iii) strengthening Integrated Child Development
Scheme (ICDS) centers and selectively establishing Early Childhood Education
(ECE) centers in villages that are not eligible for opening anganwadis under
the ICDS.
(b) Increasing retention and improving learning achievement in primary schools
by: (i) promoting community awareness and mobilizing community involvement in
microplanning and school improvement; (ii) establishing VECs for each village
or habitation where regular and alternative schools are located. VECs will be
directly involved in community mobilization, enrolling children in new or
alternative schools, school improvement and management, and improving student
and teacher attendance; (iii) constructing toilets (separate for girls) where
water is available or alternative arrangements (dry toilets) where water is
scarce and providing drinking water facilities in schools which do not have
such facilities; (iv) developing instructional material with active
involvement of teachers and insuring its timely distribution to students. (v)
instituting continuous inservice training for and onsite professional support
to teachers; and (vi) developing targeted interventions for special focus
groups including providing financial assistance to community VECs for school
improvement and to teachers to develop or purchase aids to enhance teaching
and learning.
(c) Improving state and district capacity to manage primary education by: (i)
establishing and strengthening State and District Project Offices (SPO staff
will comprise of the project director, area specialists, financial and
accounts professionals and support staff; DPO staff will comprise of the
project coordinator, four program officers, financial and accounts
professionals, and support staff); (ii) establishing and adequately staffing
BRCs and CRCs to train and provide onsite professional support to teachers and
to facilitate community mobilization (decisions regarding the construction of
BRCs will take into consideration the availability of existing buildings that
can be utilized as BRCs). (iii) strengthening the SIERT which is responsible
for developing curricular material, developing training modules for teachers
and ECE functionaries, the training of teacher trainers and conducting
specific research and evaluation studies. Strengthening the DIETs to enable
them to conduct teacher training and provide support to BRCs and CRCs. The
strengthening of SIERT and DIETs will involve enabling the hiring of technical
expertise and staff experienced in primary education. The CEM, working out of
an existing institution, for training of education management personnel and
carrying out research in educational planning and management. (iv) Concurrent
third party evaluation studies will be carried out. EMIS and PMIS data will
be collected. Progress reports, sample surveys and classroom observation
studies will be carried out. The financial management system will monitor
procurement and disbursements
Project Implementation. The proposed project will be implemented in 10 low
literacy districts by the autonomous registered society called "Rajasthan
Council of Primary Education (RCPE)" established on November 3, 1997.by the
Government of Rajasthan and overseen by the District Primary Education Program
(DPEP) Bureau in the Department of Education GOI. The state project office
and district project offices will prepare Annual Work Program and Budget with
the involvement of school staff and VECs and supervise implementation of
- 2 -



activities. The DIETs and the BRCs will be responsible for teacher training
and the CRCs will be provide onsite professional support. Accounting,
auditing and reporting requirements will be as agreed by IDA with GOI for all
DPEP states. The project implementation will be supervised through the joint
supervision mission for DPEP.
Project Cost and Financing. The estimated total project cost of $101.8 million
would be financed by an IDA, Interim Trust Fund credit of $83.6 million and a
contribution from GOR of $18.2 million equivalent including all taxes.
Environmental and Social Aspects. The proposed project would not raise any
environmental concerns. Construction of schools, additional classrooms and
block resource centers (BRCs) will be on the land donated by the community or
on GOR land. No involuntary settlement issues will arise from implementing
the civil works component of the proposed project. GOR has provided
confirmation this to IDA in writing describing the process of securing land
for civil construction in districts. Documentation for registration/transfer
of the land to education department will be made available at the District
Education office. Toilets and drinking water will be integral components of
the new school designs to ensure sanitation and hygiene
Social assessment and participatory approach: Communities, parents and
teachers constitute primary stake-holders in this project. Participation of
stake-holders has been ensured from project preparation through the Social
Assessment Studies. Social Assessment Studies provided opportunities to the
community members to express their views on education, barriers to education
and appropriate interventions. A second level of participation occurred in
the preparation of district investment proposals through consultations with
various groups. Consultations with teachers involved eliciting teachers'
views on their relationships with the community, difficulties faced in the
course of their job and reasons for low enrollment, dropout and low levels of
academic performance. Consultations were also held with representative from
the Zilla Parishad, Block Samitis and NGOs. Detailed documentation of the
consultation meetings and SAS findings were made available to the appraisal
team. The finally approved investment proposals will be shared with the
stakeholders after Negotiations.
Contact Point:                   The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending March 5, 1999.
- 3 -



