Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 18934-IN
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED INTERIM TRUST FUND CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 63 MILLION (US$85.7 million equivalent)
TO
INDIA
FORA
RAJASTHAN DISTRICT PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
March 29, 1999
Education Sector
South Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective = October 1998)
Currency Unit = Rupee
US$1 = Rs. 42.50
Rs. I = US$ 0.0235
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 -March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYIMS
AS                        Alternative School
AWPB                      Annual Work Plan and Budget
BRC                       Block Resource Center
CAS                       Country Assistance Strategy
CRC                       Cluster Resource Center
DEO                       District Education Office
DFID                      Department for International Development
DIET                      District Institute for Educational Training
DOE                       Department of Education
DPEP                      District Primarv Education Programn
DPO                        District Project Office
ECE                        Early Childhood Education
EMIS                       Educational Management Information Systems
FMS                       Financial Management Systems
GER                       Gross Enrollment Ratio
GOI                       Government of India
GOR                       Government of Rajasthan
ICDS                      Integrated Child Development Scheme
JRM                       Joint Review Mission
LJ                        Lok Jumbish
MTR                        Mid-Term Review
NARP                      National Appraisal Report and Process
NER                       Net Enrollment Ratio
OBC                       Other Backward Communities
PIP                        Project Implementation Plan
PMIS                       Project Management Information System
PMR                        Project Management Report
PRI                       Panchayati Raj Institution
PROBE                     Progress Report of Basic Education
RCPE                       Rajasthan Council of Primary Education
RSTB                       Rajasthan State Textbook Board
SAS                        Social Assessment Study
SC                         Scheduled Caste
SIDA                       Swedish International Development Agency
SIERT                      State Institute for Educational Research and Training
SIEMAT                     State Institute for Educational Management and Training
SK                         Shiksha Karmi
SMC                       School Management Committee
SPO                       State Project Office
SSv                       Shiksha Swayam Sevi Vidyalaya
ST                        Scheduled Tribe
TLC                       Total Literacy Campaign
UPBEP                     Uttar Pradesh Basic Education Project
VEC                       Village Education Committee
WEC                       Ward Education Committee
Vice President                      Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director         :          Edwin R. Lim
Sector Manager           :          Ralph W. Harbison
Team Leader              :          Ward Heneveld
Task Leader              :          N.K. Jangira



India
Rajasthan District Primary Education Project
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objectives                                       2
1. Project development objectives and key performance indicators
B. Strategic Context                                                    2
1. Sector-related CAS goals supported by the project
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices
C. Project Description Summary                                          4
1. Project components
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project
3. Benefits and target population
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements
D. Project Rationale                                                    8
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies
3. Lessons learned and reflected in project design
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership
5. Value added of Bank support in this project
E. Summary Project Analysis                                             11
1. Economic
2. Financial
3. Technical
4. Institutional
5. Social
6. Environmental assessment
7. Participatory approach
F. Sustainability and Risks                                             15
1. Sustainability
2. Critical risks
3. Possible controversial aspects
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness conditions
2. Other



H. Readiness for Implementation
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
Annexes
Annex 1.         Project Design Summary
Annex 2.         Detailed Project Description
Annex 3.         Estimated Project Costs
Annex 4.         Cost-Benefit Analysis Summary
Annex 5.         Financial Summary
Annex 6.         Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Annex 7.         Procurement
Table A     Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Table Al    Consultant Selection Arrangements
Table B     Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Table C     Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Annex 8.         Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 9.         Documents in Project File
Annex 10.        Statement of Loans and Credits
Annex 11.        Country at a Glance
Map



South Asia Regional Office
Education Sector Unit
Project Appraisal Document
India
Rajasthan District Primary Education Project
Date: March 29, 1999                                        Task Team Leader: N.K. Jangira
Country Manager/Director: Edwin R. Lim                      Sector Manager/Director: Ralph W. Harbison
Project ID: IN-PE-45050        Sector: Education            Program Objective Category: Poverty Reduction
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan                Program of Targeted Intervention:     Yes
Project Financing Data                    [  Loan    [X] Interim       [ ] Guarantee        [ ] Other
Trust                                [Specify]
Fund
Credit
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (SDRm/US$m): SDR 63 million/US$85.7 million
Proposed terms:                             [X] Multicurrency      [  Single currency, specify
Grace period (years): 10         [X] Standard Variable [] Fixed           []        LIBOR-based
Years to maturity: 35 years
including grace
period
Commitment fee: 0.5%
Service charge: 0.75%
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                               Local               Foreign            Total
Government of Rajasthan                                       15.6                   0.0             15.6
Cofmanciers
ITF                                                           84.5                   1.2             85.7
Total                                                        100.1                   1.2            101.3
Borrower: Government of India
Guarantor:
Responsible agency(ies): Ministry of Human Resource Development (GOI) and Government of Rajasthan
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):      2000         2001        2002       2003        2004        2005
Annual       3.0         17.3        26.5       23.1        10.6         5.2
Cumulative       3.0        20.3         46.8       69.9        80.5       85.7
Project implementation period: 5 years. Expected effectiveness date: July 31, 1999. Expected closing date: December 31, 2004.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                 Page 2
Country: India                                                                           Project Title: Rajasthan DPEP
A: Project Developmerit Objective
Project development objective and key performance indicators (see Annex 1):
The project will assist the government of Rajasthan (GOR) to build and strengthen state, district and sub-district capacities to ensure
good quality prirmary education (5 years) for all primary age children, especially from disadvantaged groups such as female,
Scheduled Caste (SC) and Scheduled Tribe (ST), children from Other Backward Communities (OBC), working children and
children with disabilities.
The key performance indicators to monitor this objective would be: (a) yearly improvement in Gross/Net Enrollment Ratios
(GER/NER); (b) reduction in disparity in the GERs for boys and girls, SC and ST and others to less than 5 percentage points by the
end of the project period; (c) improvement in grade transition rates; (d) reduction in dropout rates to less than 10 percent; (e)
transformed classroom practices and improvement in student achievement in literacy and numeracy by 25 percentage points; (f)
improved state and district capacities to manage education; (g) teachers receiving continuous in-service training through local
institutions; and (h) School Management Committees (SMCs) on behalf of Village Education Committees (VECs) formed to
encourage community involvement in school construction and school improvement through participation in school management.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1):
CAS document number: Report 17241 -IN            Date of latest CAS discussion: January 15, 1998 (Progress Report,
February 18, 1999)
The project is consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) of 1998. Alleviating poverty, promoting economic reform and
growth and strengthening the social sector are basic objectives of the CAS. Poverty is severe in Rajasthan with 47 percent of the
rural population (29 percent of the urban population) living below the poverty line. The economic and social returns to primary
education are reported in Bank publications (Primary Education in India), in Project Appraisal Documents for Bihar, UP and
Andhra Pradesh and in various surveys (Health and Family Welfare Surveys). Differences in education development between states
have also been shown in Bank poverty studies on India to be a major cause for variation in the incidence of poverty. Therefore, as
part of improving the quality, effectiveness/efficiency and service delivery of India's social and anti-poverty programs, the Credit
will assist the State of Rajasthan in its primary education sub-sector where the participation and literacy rates of female children and
children from disadvantaged communities are low. The Credit to the State of Rajasthan is also in line with the CAS focus on human
resource development, and the enhancement of economic development at the state level. Furthermore, Rajasthan is one of the states
with which the Bank is working to initiate fiscal reform that promotes development.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
The key sector issues in Rajasthan are:
Low literacy: The literacy rate in Rajasthan is 55 percent (1997) and female literacy is 35 percent. According to the Health and
Family Survey, 82 percent (44 percent males) of rural females and 75 percent (40 percent males) of all females over 6 years of age
in Rajasthan are illiterate.
Low and disparate enrollment: Social stratification and poverty have resulted in severe disadvantage in primary school access and
learning for girls, SC and ST students. Only two in five children in the poorest 40 percent of households in Rajasthan attend school
compared to over three in five children from the next 40 percent and nine out of ten from the top 20 percent. Only 15 percent girls
and 25 percent boys complete 8 years of education before they reach 14 years of age. The recently published Public Report on Basic
Education (PROBE report) identifies the physical facilities in the sampled schools (about 15 percent schools do not have permanent
buildings, 74 percent do not have drinking water, blackboards are missing in one out of five classroom), the high indirect cost of
education for parents (Rs. 318 per child per year), and the poor levels of learning in government schools as dissuading poor parents
from sending their children to school.
Poor teaching, low achievement levels, and high drop out: Achievement levels in Rajasthan are low. The average score in
mathematics and language of grade 2 students is about 50 percent. The situation is worse in grade 4 with the average score being
less than 40 percent. The PROBE report identifies reasons for low achievement levels which include low student attendance, low
teacher attendance (due to lack of commitment and demand from required non-teaching activities), shortened instructional time
(about 150 functional working days per year with approximately 4 hours of instruction per day), difficult textbooks, and a lack of
focus on student thinking and development of problem solving skills in the classroom (due to inadequate pre-service and in-service
training).



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                 Page 3
Country: India                                                                           Project Title: Rajasthan DPEP
Inadequate public sector institutions and weak management: District-level institutions such as the DIETs, established for improving
primary and upper primary education, are weak. State level institutional capacity (the State Institute for Educational Research and
Training (SIERT) and the Rajasthan State Textbook Board) to improve the quality of primary education also needs strengthening in
terms of additional staff, staff development and modernization of printing and distribution of instructional materials. Furthermore,
in the project districts institutional capacity to provide professional support to teachers in school and to stimulate community
mobilization and involvement in school management is insufficient. Capacity for participation in the management and
administration of primary education at the district and sub-district levels is also weak.
Government strategy: GOR is deeply concerned about the educational backwardness of the state. Since 1992, it has moved to
increase access and provide quality education through a variety of innovative schemes. The Shiksha Karmi (SK) and the Lok
Jumbish (LJ) projects constitute two such schemes established with the assistance of the Swedish International Development Agency
(SIDA). Both projects represent publicly funded, semi-autonomous schemes that have been fairly successful and are well known for
their teacher training models, school mapping and microplanning initiatives, respectively. Other innovative GOR projects include
Saraswati Yojana (adult women trained to educate girls in their homes or community centers), the centrally sponsored Total Literacy
Campaign and the Digantar program for tribal education.
Elementary education was under dual control until February 1999. Rural lower primary schools were under the administration of
local elected government bodies (Panchayati Raj Institutions (PRIs), and rural upper primary schools and all urban primary schools
were under the Education Department. Rajasthan has recently transferred the whole elementary education system to the Rural
Development and Panchayat Department of the state government. All elementary school projects and programs, irrespective of their
source of funding, are being brought under one umbrella for better coordination and convergence. The professional support system
of the Block Resource Center (BRC) and the Cluster Resource Center (CRC) is also expected to be brought under the PRIs.
However, the District Institutes for Educational Training (DIETs), SIERT, and the State Institute for Educational Management and
Training (SIEMAT) will remain with the Education Department. An efficient coordination mechanism between these institutions
which is essential for effective project implementation is being put in place. At negotiations, GOR provided a description of this
coordination mechanism that will ensure services from the various institutions, especially from the Education Department and PRIs,
for the implementation of the relevant DPEP activities.
The Government of India (GOI) will assist the GOR, through the centrally sponsored District Primary Education Program (DPEP),
to address issues facing the education sector. The DPEP is a national program and a multi-donor-financed operation responding to
the Revised National Policy in Education and its accompanying National Program of Action. The National Program of Action was
approved by the GOI and the states in 1992 to improve the quality of education and to reduce disparities in the provision of primary
education among socially disadvantaged groups. DPEP is currently being implemented in about 180 educationally disadvantaged
districts in fourteen states (Assam, Haryana, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Karnataka, Kerala, Tamilnadu, Andhra Pradesh,
Gujarat, Himachal Pradesh, Orissa, Uttar Pradesh West Bengal and Bihar). Financial assistance from IDA amounts to about US$1.3
billion in six credits. In addition, contributions from other donors are: European Commission for Madhya Pradesh ECU 150 million
(about US$200 million); Government of Netherlands for Gujarat US$25.8 million; Department for International Development
(DFID UK) for Andhra Pradesh and West Bengal (US$100 million); and UNICEF for Bihar (US$10 million). GOR has requested
the Bank to support DPEP in 19 districts of the state in two phases. Phase I, which the present Credit is funding, will cover 10
districts (Alwar, Bhilwara, Sriganganagar, Jhalawar, Kota, Nagaur, Sikar, Sirohi, Tonk and Jhunjhunu), and Phase II will cover the
remaining 9 districts (Hanumangarh, Churu, Jaipur, Dausa, Bharatpur, Karauli, Sawaimadhopur, Bundi, and Dholpur). Wherever
possible DPEP will be interfaced with the District Poverty Initiative Project (DPIP).
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Given the low levels of completion rates and literacy rates in the state, three issues are to be addressed by the project: (i) low levels
of enrollment especially among females, SC and ST children, OBC children, working children and children with disabilities; (ii) low
retention rates resulting in high costs per graduate; (iii) low levels of academic achievement (see Annex 2B for levels of
achievement in language and mathematics); and (iv) weak educational management structures and institutions at the state, district,
sub-district and school levels, resulting in the less than optimal use of available resources.
The strategies to address these issues are:
(a) Expanding access to primary education especially for disadvantaged groups: The state intends to reduce differences in
enrollment between gender and disadvantaged groups and others to less than 5 percentage points. The objective of expanded access
will be achieved by various interventions: constructing additional classrooms; new schools and repairing unusable classrooms; and
establishing alternative schools; meeting the specific educational needs of children with disabilities; appointing para-teachers; and
strengthening early childhood education.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                  Page 4
Country: India                                                                           Project Title: Rajasthan DPEP
(b) Increased retention and improved learning achievement: The state intends to reduce dropout rates to less than 10 percent and
differences in learning achievement between gender and social groups to less than 5 percentage points. In addition, by the end of the
project period, leaming achievement will increase over the baseline levels of achievement by 25 percentage points. The project will
increase retention and improve leaming through the following interventions: community awareness campaigns; the establishment of
School Management Committees on behalf of Village Education Committees to support and monitor the quality of education; the
construction of toilets and the provision of drinking water in every school; the development of interesting and appropriate
instructional material for students; teacher training with a more child-friendly pedagogy; on-site professional support to teachers;
provision of resources for making teaching aids; and the allocation of special funds to SMCs for school improvement.
(c) Improved state and district capacity to manage primary education: The State Project office (SPO) and the District Project
Offices (DPOs) have been established to administer DPEP at the state and district levels. Block Resource Centers at the district
level and Cluster Resource Centers at the sub-district level will be established for the professional development of teachers. The
capacities of auxiliary institutions such as the State Institutes for Education Research and Training and the District Institutes for
Educational Training will be strengthened. The State Institute for Educational Management and Training is to be established in an
existing institution. SIEMAT will focus on issues of educational management in addition to training personnel in this area. A
system of monitoring and evaluation will also be established.
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2for a detailed description and Annex 3for a detailed cost breakdown):
(a) Expanding access to primary education especially for disadvantaged groups by: (i) opening new primary schools and altemative
schools, constructing additional classrooms and repairing the existing classrooms; (ii) positioning para-teachers in new primary
schools, alternative schools and existing regular primary schools to meet the demand of increased enrollment; and (iii) strengthening
Integrated Child Development Scheme (ICDS) centers and selectively establishing Early Childhood Education (ECE) centers in
villages that are not eligible for opening centers under the ICDS.
(b) Increasing retention and improving learning achievement in primary schools by: (i) promoting community awareness and
mobilizing community involvement in school mapping and microplanning, and school improvement; (ii) establishing School
Management Committees for each school; (iii) constructing toilets (separate for girls) where water is available or alternative
arrangements (dry toilets) where water is scarce and providing drinking water facilities in schools that do not have such facilities;
(iv) developing instructional material with active involvement of teachers and insuring their timely distribution to students; (v)
instituting continuous in-service training for and on-site professional support to teachers; and (vi) developing targeted interventions
for special focus groups including providing fnancial assistance to community SMCs for school improvement and to teachers to
develop or purchase aids to enhance teaching and learning.
(c) Improving state and district capacity to manage primary education by: (i) establishing and strengthening the SPO and DPOs (the
SPO staff will comprise the project director, area specialists, financial and accounts professionals and support staff; DPOs staff will
comprise the project coordinator, four program officers, financial and accounts professionals, and support staff); (ii) establishing and
adequately staffing BRCs and CRCs to train and provide on-site professional support to teachers and to facilitate community
mobilization (decisions regarding the construction of BRCs will take into consideration the availability of existing buildings that can
be utilized as BRCs); (iii) strengthening SIERT which is responsible for developing curricular material, developing training modules
for teachers and Early Childhood Education functionaries, the training of teacher trainers and conducting specific research and
evaluation studies and strengthening the DIETs to enable them to conduct teacher training and provide support to BRCs and CRCs.
The strengthening of SIERT and DIETs will involve enabling the hiring of technical expertise and staff experienced in primary
education. Establishing SIEMAT, working out of an existing institution, to train education management personnel and carrying out
research in educational planning and management; and (iv) in order to monitor project implementation, third-party evaluation
studies will be carried out. Educational Management Information System (EMIS) and Project Management Information System
(PMIS) data will be collected. Progress reports, sample surveys and classroom observation studies will also provide information on
the effectiveness of project interventions. The financial management system will monitor procurement and disbursements.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                              Page 5
Country: India                                                                        Project Title: Rajasthan DPEP
Project components with financial allocations are as follows:
Component                       Category         Cost Incl.      % of       IDA         % of
Contingencies    Total    financing     IDA
(US$M)                  (US$M)   financing
Expanding Access to Primary Education       Physical              20.2            19.9        16.7        19.5
Increasing Retention and Improving Learning  Training             42.6            42.1        38.7        45.2
Achievement
Improving State and District Capacity to   Institutional          38.5           38.0         30.3        35.3
Manage Primary Education                   Capacity Bldg.
Total                                                            101.3            100         85.7        100
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
Decentralized education planning and management: The project supports GOR's policy of establishing a decentralized
management structure for education to ensure community ownership of primary education. This entailed the GOR transfer of
educational planning and management to the Panchayati Raj Institutions (the locally elected self-governing bodies at the district and
sub-district levels). School Management Committees with representation from females, Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes, and
parents with disabled children will work with the village Panchayat and the school to improve education provided. School
Management Committees will also be involved in microplanning for school and resource mapping, mobilization of community
support for encouraging parents to enroll and retain children in school, management of the community construction program and
school management. For convergence of resources, the SMCs and VECs will work with the Panchayati Raj Institutions to secure
available government funds (from various government schemes such as the Jawahar Rojgar Yojana Scheme, the Employment
Assurance Scheme, and the Battees Zila Battees Kam Scheme) and local contributions for the construction of primary schools. In
addition, available monetary and non-monetary inputs will be mobilized by the SMCs and VECs for enhancing the effectiveness of
project interventions.
Redeployment of teachers and employment ofpara-teachers: The project supports the redeployment of existing teachers to ensure a
more rational and efficient use of existing resources in addition to the employment of para-teachers in new and existing schools.
Para-teachers are grade 8 and grade 10 school-leavers, recruited from the local community, provided with well-designed initial and
annual training modules, and strong professional and personal support/supervision. They will initially be paid at a rate around one-
third of the normal teachers' salary. Compared to regular teachers, locally recruited para-teachers have been shown to help lower
dropout and repetition rates and increase learning achievement. The technical and financial sustainability of and career incentives
for these para-teachers at project completion will be addressed during the course of the project. Student achievement under para-
teachers will also be monitored during the project.
Balancing supply and demand dimensions of educational provision: The educational provision in India has been predominantly
norm-based and supply-driven. In contrast, this project is based on district-based social assessment and baseline studies that will be
supplemented by microplanning and school and community resource mapping to fnalize the allocation of inputs. The construction
of new schools will commence only after the process of school mapping and microplanning have been completed. Convergence of
inputs from different sources has been built into the district plans.
Schoolfocused initiative: The SMC, with the school head, will make decisions regarding the use of resources for school
improvement and will carry out planned school construction through the local community with technical support from the project.
The project also supports school-based initiatives through the establishment of CRCs (for groups of six to eight schools) that-will
provide on-site professional support for improving teaching and student learning in each school.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                               Page 6
Country: India                                                                         Project Title: Rajasthan DPEP
Involvement of NGOs in planning and implementation: NGOs were involved in project formulation and more are being identified for
implementing specific project interventions like Early Childhood Education, alternative schools, instructional materials
development, development of teacher training programs and research and evaluation studies.
3. Benefits and target population
Investment in primary education has significant economic and social benefits. For India, these have been documented in the recent
sector work, Primary Education in India. The economic impact of primary schooling in India as measured by rates of return is
estimated to be about 13 percent. Bank studies on poverty in Indian states conclude that levels of literacy have long-term effects on
poverty reduction. The assumed social impact of this project is based on clear evidence of a strong and positive relationship
between mothers having completed primary schooling and the related reductions in total fertility rates of 25 percent, in infant and
child mortality rates of 40 percent, and in severe child malnutrition by 33 percent. In addition, education has a positive impact on
women's utilization of schemes for raising family incomes. More intangible future social benefits of the project include the
empowerment of future generations of women and the possibilities for more informed participation in the political process by a
larger number of literate men and women.
Direct beneficiaries: An additional 600,000 children in the age group between six to ten year olds (out of which about two-thirds are
expected to be girls and one-third SC and ST children) who are to be provided access to primary education are the direct
beneficiaries. The project has also made provision for the inclusion of OBC children, working children and children with
disabilities. Another 2.2 million already enrolled students in the proposed ten project districts are expected to benefit from the
emerging quality of primary education.
Indirect beneficiaries: Families and teachers can be identified as indirect beneficiaries of the project. About half a million families,
most of them poor families in Rajasthan, are expected to benefit from the basic education of their children. The project inputs for
improving schools, the professional development of existing teachers and newly appointed para-teachers, and improved school-
community relations will raise teachers' self esteem, motivation and accountability.
System as a beneficiary: Government statistics indicate that for every 100 children who enrolled in grade I in 1993 in the ten project
districts, only 43 completed grade 5 five years later. This completion rate and the data on repetition rates indicates that to produce a
graduate of lower primary school utilizes an amount of resources equal to providing 7.9 pupil-years of schooling. This implies that
around 60 percent more resources are being used than would be required if dropout and repetition rates were zero. On the
assumption that the DPEP intervention will increase the quality of education and reduce dropout and repetition rates in primary
schools by half, about 6.7 years would be required by a child to complete the primary school cycle. This would reduce the cost per
graduate by about 20 percent
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation period: July 31, 1999 to June 30, 2004
Executing agency:     GOR through an autonomous registered society called "Rajasthan Council of Primary
Education" (RCPE) established on November 3, 1997.
Project coordination:   DPEP Bureau of the Department of Education (DOE) at the Ministry of Human Resource
Development, GOI.
Project oversight:    DPEP Bureau, GOI
The tried out and well-established DPEP design and its implementation practices in DPEP states provide guidelines for the
institutional and implementation arrangements for DPEP in Rajasthan. Accordingly, the Rajasthan Council of Primary Education
operates through the State Project Office and District Project Offices. The RCPE will act as an advisory body to the SPO in addition
to approving all the Annual Work Plan and Budgets (AWPBs). According to the Project Implementation Plan, implementation
would be through incremental expansion of the state and district components and sub-components with the release of funding based
on previous performance and expenditure. The yearly release of funds to the SPO is to be based on: (i) good state and district
project implementation; (ii) approval of the AWPBs by the DPEP Bureau on the basis of the National Appraisal Report and Process
(NARP); (iii) evidence of payment of the GOR contribution of 15 percent to the RCPE for the ongoing DPEP program; and (iv)
demonstrated additionality of DPEP investments compared to 1997/98 expenditure levels in the state. GOR will carry out, and
cause the RCPE to carry out, the project in accordance with the DPEP Guidelines and the PIP agreed with the IDA
administrator of the Interim Trust Fund (ITF) Credit.
The first year implementation of Rajasthan DPEP will primarily focus on developmental activities: (a) building management
capacity and physical infrastructure in the SPO, the 10 district project offices, the Block Resource Centers and the Cluster Resource



Project Appraisal Document                                                                              Page 7
Country: India                                                                        Project Title: Rajasthan DPEP
Centers; (b) formation of School Management Committees, mobilizing community support for education, school mapping, and
mic- )planning; and (c) preparation of curricular material and training modules.
The Bank appraisal 'Aission reviewed the detailed proposals that will ensure effective implementation of the project: (i) appropriate
and skilled personnel are already in place in the State Project Offices and key staff in addition to the existing two in the District
Project offices will be in place immediately after negotiations; (ii) adequate training of SPO and DPO staff; (iii) adequate fnancial
allocations by GOI and GOR for commencing activities prior to the ITF Credit disbursement; (iv) time schedules for the
construction, hiring and training of staff for DIETs, BRCs and CRCs; (v) a description of the coordination of the two departments
responsible for education in each of the 10 districts - the Rajasthan Rural and Panchayat Department and the state Department of
Education; (vi) the preparation of a detailed teacher training model identifying the modalities of the training schedule and the
specific skills that are to be developed during training; (vii) establishing Educational Management Information Systems, Project
Management Information Systems, and Financial Management Systems for monitoring financial outlays and utilization of resources;
and (viii) procurement and bidding documents for the first year.
More specific points for accomplishing the three project outcomes - access, retention and improved learning, and improved
educational management - are: (i) ensuring that 95 percent of teachers' posts in the project districts are filled and remain filled
throughout the project implementation period; (ii) the creation and distribution of appropriate instructional material including
textbooks, teacher guides and workbooks by the commencement of the project; (iii) timely and efficient hiring and training of DIET,
BRC and CRC staff; (iv) community mobilization and establishment of SMCs that ensure the effectiveness of the microplanning
exercise which in turn ensures the rational and cost-effective location of new schools and extra classrooms, with school construction
taking place only after school mapping and microplanning exercises have been completed; and (v) creating effective in-service
training modules for the training of teachers.
Monitoring and Evaluation arrangements: The project will be monitored and evaluated according to the input and output indicators
specified in Annex I and Annex 2 of the PAD. This will involve an annual review of implementation and AWPBs for the following
fiscal year; progress of implementation covering physical targets for civil works, procurement, training, software/systems,
development and expenditures. The review will be conducted in the first quarter of each year. Progress reports and work plans
follow a format agreed with the DPEP Bureau and IDA.
Progress toward the achievement of development objectives will be measured in several ways:
Educational Management Information System: Using the EMIS system, the DPEP Bureau in the light of ongoing DPEP experience
will provide data annually regarding enrollments, Gross Enrollment Ratios/Net Enrollment Ratios by gender, SC and STs, grade
transition rates and grade repetition rates, student teacher ratios in urban and rural area schools, average student and teacher
attendance data, and number of teachers and other functionaries trained.
District-based learning achievement survey: A district-based survey of student achievement in language and mathematics will be
carried out in 2001 and 2004 to measure improvement in learning over baseline levels collected during project preparation.
Classroom observation studies will evaluate the extent to which teachers have appropriated in-service training skills and the extent to
which teachers are implementing a more child friendly pedagogy in the classroom.
Research and evaluation studies: Outcomes of the third party evaluation studies commissioned by the DPEP Bureau and the state
and periodical surveys undertaken by other organizations and agencies will complement information obtained from the management
information systems and from learning achievement studies. GOR will also undertake in-depth reviews of the quality and
effectiveness of para-teachers across programs in the state, in addition to reviews of school and community factors that contribute to
quality education and achievement.
Supervision missions: The Bank will carry out bi-annual supervision missions in collaboration with other donors to spot-check
implementation. As long as the JRM is the mechanism for supervision, an additional two (Bank) persons will join the JRM in order
to perform the review of Rajasthan in an acceptable manner. In addition, two in-depth reviews, one in the year 2001 and another in
the year 2004, will be conducted.
Accounts andfinancial management: Financial management arrangements for the project are detailed in Annex 6. Key actions that
need to be completed are: (i) design, develop and implement an integrated computerized financial management system (FMS). This
will include procurement of necessary hardware, the development of software, and the training of staff in FMS. This is expected to
be completed by March 31, 2000 in accordance with World Bank regulations; (ii) recruitment by the Rajasthan SPO of a suitable
accounting professional as Financial Controller; and (iii) appointment of a firm of Chartered Accountants as auditors for the project
by July 31, 1999.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                 Page 8
Country: India                                                                           Project Title: Rajasthan DPEP
Disbursements: Disbursements from the ITF Credit would initially be made by the traditional system (reimbursements with full
documentation and against Statements of Expenditure) and would be converted to the new procedures (i.e., based on Project
Management Reports - PMRs) after the successful implementation of the computerized FMS. The target date for this conversion is
July 15, 2000. Disbursements will start on the basis of PMRs submitted for the quarter ending June 30, 2001.
Procurement: Procurement will be according to IDA's Procurement Guidelines as detailed in Annexes 6 and 7.
Special Accounts: A Special Account would be maintained in the Reserve Bank of India; and would be operated by the Department
of Economic Affairs (DEA) of the GOI. The authorized allocation of the Special Account would be US$6 million that represents
about 6 months of initial estimated disbursements from the ITF Credit. However, the authorized allocation in the Special Account
will be limited to US$3 million until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the ITF Credit Account equals or exceeds the
equivalent of SDR 12 million. The Special Account would be operated in accordance with the Bank's operational policies.
Retroactive financing: Retroactive financing in the amount of US$6 million equivalent (SDR 4.4 million) would cover eligible
expenditures for implementing appraised activities after June 1, 1998 based on a Statement of Expenditure. Retroactive financing
would support (a) start-up activities for establishing the SPO and DPOs; (b) setting up BRCs and CRCs; (c) start-up activities for
constituting VECs, including carrying out microplanning; and (d) the development of materials for pedagogical renewal.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Project alternatives were considered and the decisions taken are given below:
GOR decided that the project would be a centrally sponsored scheme with similar financial arrangements as in other DPEP projects.
With reference to the coverage of grades, after much discussion on whether Rajasthan DPEP should cater to grades 1 to 8, it was
finally decided to confine DPEP to grades 1 to 5. Covering grades I to 5 will ensure DPEP's clear focus on universalizing five years
of primary education. Support for the development of upper primary education in a more comprehensive state plan that involves the
development of elementary education as a whole could form the basis for possible future Bank investment.
In accordance with the national DPEP guidelines, DPEP in Rajasthan will be implemented in the proposed project districts through
the autonomous Rajasthan Council of Primary Education. The possibility of using the existing Lok Jumbish Society or Shiksha
Karmi Society to implement DPEP instead of establishing the RCPE was discussed with GOR. It was decided to establish a separate
RCPE for the implementation of DPEP for the following reasons:
(i) The LJ society has an established structure with a specific philosophy and ethos which is different from that of the DPEP at this
stage, and it was not considered prudent to disturb it. School mapping and microplanning developed in Lok Jumbish will, however,
inform similar activities in DPEP districts.
(ii) The Shiksha Karmi project in Rajasthan has a defined focus on the placement and training of teachers for schools in rural and
remote areas where the placement of teachers is problematic. Primary teachers who may not be qualified are identified from local
communities and then intensively trained, in addition to receiving consistent and continuous professional support from their
supervisors. Local communities are involved in managing the school. The results in terms of community involvement in school
improvement, teacher and student attendance, classroom practice and student achievement are encouraging. GOR's DPEP program
reflects some elements of the Shiksha Karmi model, especially in its teacher selection and teacher training methodology. The SK
model will also inform the setting up of alternative schools in DPEP, and experienced personnel from SK will also participate as
resource persons in teacher training for Rajasthan DPEP.
The IDA Administrator has agreed to fund DPEP in 19 districts in Rajasthan, subject to the preparation and approval of district
plans. As Rajasthan is a new DPEP state, preparations for the implementation of DPEP in ten districts was initiated in the first phase
and preparations and appraisal for the remaining nine districts will follow.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                              Page 9
Country: India                                                                        Project Title: Rajasthan DPEP
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing and planned):
Sector issue                           Project               Latest Supervision (Form 590) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation      Development
Progress (IP)       Objective
(DO)
Bank-financed
Access and quality of basic education     Uttar Pradesh Basic Education           S                  S
Project
Uttar Pradesh Basic Education          S                   S
Project II
Access and quality of primary education   District primary Education              S                  S
Program (DPEP)
DPEP II
DPEP III (Bihar)                       S                   S
S                  S
Other development agencies
European Union                            DPEP (Madhya Pradesh)
UNICEF (cofm)                             DPEP III (Bihar)
Government of Netherlands                 DPEP II (Gujarat)
Swedish International Development Agency  Lok Jumbish
Shiksha Karmi
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The design of DPEP in 1993 took account of key lessons learned from educational projects in South Asia and the accumulated
international experience in primary education. Specific educational projects that have contributed to the preparation of Rajasthan
DPEP are: DPEP I, II, and III, Uttar Pradesh Basic Education Project I and II, the UNICEF-assisted project in Bihar, the total
literacy campaign in Bihar, the UK DflD-assisted project in Andhra Pradesh and the Swedish International Development Agency
financed Lok Jumbish project in Rajasthan. The experience in DPEP states suggests that in terms of initial enrollment there is a
rapid increases in the GER, and the growth in enrollment of girls is faster than boys due to the large initial gap in enrollment
between the two. A trend analysis between 1995 to 1998 on access and retention by the National Institute for Educational Planning
and Administration in DPEP I districts, carried out as part of the DPEP I mid-term review, reports an average increase in enrollment
in all DPEP districts, apart from Kerala, of 9.43 percent in 1995-96 and 6.48 percent increase in 1996-97. This study also indicates
that girls' enrollment which was 45.5 percent in 1995-96 is now 46.3 in 1997-98. The index of Gender Equity (lOOxShare of girls
enrolled/Share of girls in corresponding population) in various grades has improved in all districts. In 37 out of the 42 districts
gender equity has been achieved.
The Bank experience with the primary education portfolio in India since 1993 confirns the benefits of the initial design
assumptions. These include: the establishment of an independent society at the state level for implementation; a delivery model
maintaining one-fourth of the project funding for civil works; a comprehensive package of interventions involving instructional
materials, special grants as incentives to improve instruction, continuous site-based teacher training, and institutional capacity
building at state, district and sub-district levels. The Bank's engagement with DPEP over the last five years reiterates the
importance of the following specific elements of the project:
(i) Flexible implementation arrangements are essential in order to cope with the wide variations in initial conditions, investment
priorities and implementation capacity between districts and blocks. Flexibility also encourages the utilization of the skills and
strengths of already existing innovative projects in education in the state. It is important that since DPEP is a centrally sponsored
scheme, the national and state guidelines should enable rather than circumscribe local pedagogical, managerial and organizational
innovation.
(ii) Building community support for education is a central element to the successful implementation of school development
programs. Community participation and activation of School Management Committees and Village Education Committees have
demonstrated a strong, pent-up demand for basic education that exists in many communities in India. Community mobilization and
microplanning also ensure community ownership in school management and cost effectiveness in implementing a large-scale school
construction program. Two important lessons with regards to SMCs are evident. First, the establishment of the SMC has to be
process-oriented and participatory. If SMCs are bureaucratically appointed, the SMCs' involvement with school improvement and
management is negatively affected. Second, the involvement of the community and SMCs in the physical aspects of the school



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                 Page 10
Country: India                                                                           Project Title: Rajasthan DPEP
is easier to initiate at the start of the project than their involvement with quality issues such as monitoring teacher performance and
improving learning and ownership. Both aspects of the SMCs involvement-in construction and in the qualitative part of school
improvement-will need continued attention during implementation.
(iii) Textbooks, workbooks and teacher guides are essential for changing classroom practice, and revised materials should be
developed in the early stages of the project. Blcck Resource Centers and Cluster Resource Centers serve as effective institutional
mechanisms to provide recurrent in-service teacher training and school based professional support to teachers. Therefore, early
operationalization of these institutions is critical to project effectiveness in enhancing student learning. Improvement in "enabling
conditions" such as availability and rational deployment of teachers, enforcement of norms regarding school opening, and teacher
attendance will need to be rigorously pursued. Strengthening of the State Institute for Education Research and Training and District
Institutes for Educational Training continues to be an area of concern especially critical to project sustainability, and the discussion
of alternative arrangements for the longer term should receive priority during implementation.
(iv) The mid-term baseline assessment study in DPEP I districts reports an increase in student learning achievement in both
mathematics and language, especially from grade 1 to grade 2. However, student performance in the higher grades can be further
improved. Though gender differences in achievement have been reduced to less than 5 percentage points, differences in
achievement between SC/ST and other students and between rural and urban students still persist. Further, mastery learning of basic
language and mathematics skills needs more attention than is currently being provided. Student learning materials developed under
DPEP will need to focus on the development of reasoning and problem solving skills. And the development of teachers' subject
matter knowledge and the use of interactive pedagogy in the classroom during teacher training require attention. In addition, the
process of continuous assessment of classroom processes and student learning and the use of this assessment in improving teaching
and student performance has to be systematically implemented in the project.
(v) Establishing the capacity to provide all school age children with education opportunities of acceptable quality is a process that is
expected to take ten years or more and will require continued effort on the part of the government, beyond the period of the project,
possibly in the form of follow up projects.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
*  GOI commitment to accelerate the pace of providing basic education is visible in the 1992 revised education policy and in the
Government's resolve to raise basic education spending from 3.9 to 6 percent of GDP by the end of the Ninth Plan (2002).
GOI's commitment is also evidenced in the 17 percentage point rise in literacy levels from 38.55 percent in 1991 to 55 percent
in 1997;
*  GOR is beginning to tackle state fiscal reforms and has approached the Bank and the GOI for assistance to accelerate the pace
of the program to universalize primary education;
*  GOR has conducted the district-based baseline achievement assessment study, the social assessment study and the state-based
education finance study.
*  Key staff in the SPO are in place. District planning teams are in position and remaining key staff will be appointed immediately
after negotiations.
*  GOR has already approved the annual recurring cost of continuing project interventions after project completion.
*  The recent PROBE report covering the state of primary education in four states (MP, UP, Bihar and Rajasthan) indicates state
interest in improving the access to and quality of primary education is highest in Rajasthan when compared to the other three
states, reflected in the better infrastructure and maintenance, extensive incentive schemes, and more parent-teacher interaction.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank has become the largest source of external funding for universalizing primary education in India. The experience of the
Bank in the implementation of large-scale programs of education reform and with the design of external assistance strategies for
these programs, has been valuable to GOI and the participating states in DPEP I, II and III, and in UPBEP I and II. The proposed
project, using the Bank's international experience in primary education in the context of Joint Review Missions will help GOR make
progress towards its goal of Universal Primary Education in the project districts with special attention to the needs of girls and other
disadvantaged groups. The DPEP experience in other states on funding strategies for primary education, including the areas of
teacher deployment in rural and remote areas and more appropriate or efficient allocation of funds to schools based on enrollments,
are expected to affect education policies state-wide. In addition, through the discussions on fiscal policy, the Bank can advise GOR
on ways to increase allocations to primary education through intra- and inter-sectoral adjustments.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                 Page 11
Country: India                                                                           Project Title: Rajasthan DPEP
E: Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1 .Economic (Refer to Annex 4)
(a) Economic and social returns The positive economic and social returns to primary schooling in India, in general, have been
described in the Project Appraisal Documents for primary education projects in Bihar (3012-IN), Uttar Pradesh (3013-IN) and in
Andhra Pradesh based on research studies reported in the Bank publication, Primary Education in India (1997). In summary,
analyses of long run data on rural household agricultural productivity and a disaggregation of the sources of economic growth in the
1970s and 1980s reinforced the positive findings of earlier studies of the economic rates of return to primary education and provided
additional evidence of externalities. In addition, the Health and Family Welfare Surveys conducted in each major state in India in
1993 suggest that, across all states, primary schooling of mothers is associated with reductions in child mortality of 40 percent,
fertility of 25 percent and severe child malnutrition of 33 percent. These are substantial effects with significant economic
consequences, in addition to improving the quality of life for women and children in particular.
While no studies of the economic returns to primary schooling have been undertaken specifically for Rajasthan, the effects of
mothers' schooling on aspects of social behavior have been measured. Actual and preferred fertility rates fall consistently by
mothers' educational level with the largest falls (15-16 percent) associated with a primary schooling. The percentage reduction in
the under-five mortality rate is similar (14 percent) and there is a marked increase in the proportion of children who receive the full
complement of inoculations (by 129 percent). There is general undernourishment in Rajasthan with around 40 percent of children
severely undernourished and 19 percent chronically undernourished. While there is a slight reduction in rates of chronic
malnourishment for children whose mothers have a primary schooling, it appears that a complete elementary education of eight
years is required before there is a significant reduction in the rates (6.3 percentage points). (For additional detail see Annex 4).
(b) Poverty reduction. Poverty in Rajasthan is severe with 47 percent of the rural population living below the poverty line (World
Bank Report, 1997). Across India, states have performed differently in reducing poverty over time. In the case of Rajasthan,
illiteracy appears to be responsible for two thirds of the difference in the rate of poverty reduction compared to Kerala. While nine
out of ten children from the wealthiest households complete primary schooling in Rajasthan, less than three in ten from the poorest
40 percent of households complete. To assess the potential role of government subsidization of primary schooling in reducing
poverty, two issues are involved - the impact of education on income and the extent to which government expenditures on schooling
are in fact captured by the poor. There is sufficient evidence from existing studies in India and elsewhere, to confidently predict that
higher levels of education on average lead to higher income. Recent analysis has also documented that while the poor in India,
particularly in Rajasthan, currently have very low rates of access to education compared to middle and upper income groups, the
likely effect of further expansion on access is more than proportionately pro-poor. While the existing pattern of expenditure results
in only 14 percent of the total going to children in the poorest 20 percent of households, their share of any additional expenditure has
been estimated to be 22 percent.
(c ) Internal efficiency and cost effectiveness. Government statistics indicate that for every 100 children who enrolled in grade I in
1993 in the ten project districts, only 43 children completed grade 5, five years later. This completion rate plus data on repetition
implies that to produce a graduate of this cycle utilizes an amount of resources equal to providing 7.9 pupil-years of schooling. This
implies that around 60 percent more resources are being used than would be required if dropout and repetition rates were zero.
Emphasis in the DPEP, including in this project, is given to quality improvement both to increase the levels of learning of those who
graduate and to reduce the levels of repetition and dropout. While the mid term review of DPEP I did not produce accurate
assessments of the effects of the project on dropout rates, repetition rates were shown to have decreased on average by seven percent
a year. Further, the Shiksha Karmi program already exists in generally remote parts of Rajasthan to improve the quality of schooling
and the proposed project has based some of its interventions on this program. A recent evaluation has compared retention rates in
schools coming under the program with others in adjacent areas outside of the program. These rates translate into a 30 percent
difference in favor of Shiksha Karmi in the teaching years provided per primary school graduate in the two types of schools. If the
DPEP project is equally successful in reducing the dropout rate, the cost per graduate would fall by a similar amount.
In addition to the project components aimed at increasing internal efficiency through improvements in quality, teaching costs will be
reduced by placing para-teachers in the proposed new schools and in existing schools where increased student attendance justifies
additional teachers. Evaluations of the outcomes of similar teachers employed under the Shiksha Karmi scheme suggest that, the
program can be very cost effective. Overall, including training and professional support, the cost per para-teacher is about half that
of a regular teacher. Compared to conventional schools with regular teachers, in Shiksha Karmi schools: (i) both dropout and
repetition rates are significantly lower even though the schools are located in more 'difficult' areas and the pupils are economically
and socially disadvantaged; and (ii) leaming achievements of pupils are at least as high - the Baseline Assessment Survey tested
levels of learning achievement in language and mathematics for grade I and 4 children in both types of school. Children in the
group of schools with para-teachers scored higher in grade 1 mathematics in six out of eight districts and in language test in four out
of eight, with no significant differences in the other four districts. In the grade 4 tests, they scored significantly higher in both



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                 Page 12
Country: India                                                                           Project Title: Rajasthan DPEP
subjects in five of the eight districts, while there were no significant differences in the remaining three districts.
2. Financial
Fiscal impact
This project will promote educational expansion and improvement in ten districts in Rajasthan, and it is anticipated that a further
nine districts will be covered in a subsequent project. The overall objective of these operations is to provide the facilities and
incentives to universalize a good quality primary education. Since the state has the second lowest literacy rate in India, the financial
effort required to universalize will need to be particularly great. Already the Government's expenditure on education as a share of
total non-Plan expenditure is 26 percent, one of the highest in the country. Of this, 57 percent is for elementary education. A recent
World Bank study of the state's finances estimated that real expenditures on primary education would need to increase by over 11
percent a year if universalization were to be achieved during the Ninth Plan period. This estimate included the cost of employing an
additional 38,000 regular teachers. The estimate needs to be viewed in a wider fiscal context of a need to reduce the growth of
overall Government expenditures to restore fiscal balance. Currently, two thirds of the state's total revenues are consumed by
salaries, pensions and interest payments, and the fiscal deficit increased from around 3 percent in the early 1990s to 6.8 percent in
1995/96. The recent study suggested the need for several reforms, particularly in the power and water sectors and in state owned
enterprises. In the absence of such reforms and the continuation of current levels of fiscal deficit, interest payments could increase
to almost 30 percent of total revenues by 2001/02 from current levels of around 18 percent. Without significant changes to the
existing patterns of revenues and expenditures and the re-direction of fmancial resources to the key development areas which require
public sector funding, the achievement of the objective of universal schooling will be very difficult. The implications are that the
universalization objective will need to be seen over a longer time period than that covered by the Ninth Plan and that the unit costs
of education need to fall (while increasing inputs which will enhance learning achievements). The increased employment of para-
teachers within a supportive environment which at least maintains teacher quality is central to achieving these ends.
The direct fiscal impact of the project for GOR during the period of implementation will be relatively modest compared to the
projections described above. DPEP Guidelines require that the state government contributes 15 percent of the total cost. This
translates to around Rs. 12.5 crores (US$3 million) a year. In 1997/98, non-plan expenditure on elementary education was Rs. 1620
crores and plan expenditure (outside of the centrally sponsored schemes) was Rs. 120 crores. Therefore, plan expenditure will need
to increase by around 10 percent. The risk that the Government's contribution will not be forthcoming is low but as the program to
universalize develops further momentum, the need for overall fiscal reform will intensify if the quality of schooling is not to fall
further and if the levels of school dropouts are to be reversed.
3. Technical:
Rajasthan DPEP is designed to expand access and transform teaching and learning in the classroom on a large-scale. Considering
this project and earlier DPEP projects (I, II, III and UPBEP I and II) areas of concern include:
*  Employment ofpara-teachers: The employment of para-teachers in the project with either grade 10 or a grade 8 pass could
affect the achievement levels of students. The lowering of minimum qualifications and therefore, subject content knowledge
may affect instruction in higher grades (grade 4 and 5). There is a provision of intensive in-service training and on-site
professional support to para-teachers in schools based on the proven Shiksha Karni program methodology. Continuous
monitoring of para-teachers' recruitment, training, enhancement of content and pedagogic knowledge will have to be ensured.
*  Slow observable change in classroom practices: The extent and rapidity with which classroom practices can be transformed
during the project period is an area of concern. To be able to measure change in classroom processes the project needs to
develop indicators that represent change and monitor classrooms in terms of these indicators. Experience in other
DPEP/IJPBEP projects indicates that this is a slow process and that clear indicators should be constructed in monitoring reform
in pedagogy. The large number of multigrade schools and the extent to which in-service training and pedagogical support can
address instruction of multiple grades in one class will also impinge on the extent to which classroom practices are transformed.
Sample studies will be conducted in the first year, in the third year with the Mid-term Review and in the final year to measure
change in classroom practices.
*  Human resource development: The adequate functioning of the institutions that support teacher development (DIETs, BRCs,
and CRCs) will be crucial to the project's success. The effectiveness of human resource development -- both teachers and
administrative staff-- will depend on the extent to which the Rajasthan DPEP can establish an iterative process of monitoring
the outcome of training and support programs and the adaptation of programs to address issues arising out of the monitoring
process. Specifically, with reference to teachers, an entry-level evaluation of teachers' subject content and pedagogical
knowledge will be used to adapt in-service training to teachers' specific needs. Continuous evaluation of the impact of teacher
training and on-site professional support to be used as feedback for improving training design and implementation will be
carried out.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                 Page 13
Country: India                                                                           Project Title: Rajasthan DPEP
4. Institutional:
(a) Executing agencies: The Rajasthan Council for Primary Education, an autonomous body registered under the Registration of
Societies Act 1958, established by GOR and headed by the Minister for Rural Development and Panchayat Department, is in-charge
of the overall implementation of DPEP. The State Project Office with an Executive Council headed by the Development
Commissioner is directly responsible for project implementation. The Education Department will work closely with the Rural
Development and Panchayat Department which is responsible for the administration of primary schools in rural areas.
Three issues of particular concern were identified during-project preparation: two pertaining to the project's management; the other
involving the institutional arrangements for pedagogical renewal.
* Administration of Elementary Education: Until recently, elementary education had a dual system of governance with rural
lower primary schools under the administrative control of the local government bodies while urban primary and rural upper
primary schools under the education department. The governance of the elementary education system, including BRCs and
CRCs are now under the jurisdiction of the PRIs through locally elected bodies at the village, sub-district and district levels.
Training and support institutions (DIETs, SIERT, SIEMAT) will continue to be under the Education Department. The IDA
Administrator will have to closely monitor the shared role and function of the two departments for effective implementation and
management of DPEP.
*  Project management: Earlier sector investments in India required considerable start-up time to build effective state, district,
sub-district school managerial and professional capacity for sustainable primary education development. It is important for the
state to ensure timely project implementation that will position and augment managerial and professional capacity. In
Rajasthan, the project commences with the SPO established and fully functional with its core planning team. Core teams in the
DPOs will be in place soon after negotiations. Continuity in preparation and implementation is addressed through retroactive
financing. In addition, staff stability is to be ensured by GOR.
* Institutional arrangements for pedagogical renewal: The State Institute for Educational Research and Training with support
from the state resource groups (to be constituted under the project), technical assistance from consultants, the DPEP Technical
support group and the National Council of Educational Research and Training will provide leadership for pedagogical renewal.
Field-tested workbooks for students and teachers' guides to be used in the classroom will be developed by SIERT and printed
and distributed by the Rajasthan State Textbook-Board. The District Institutes for Educational Training supported by the district
academic resource group will support Block Resource Centers to conduct in-service training to teachers and Cluster Resource
Centers to provide on-site professional support to teachers. Ongoing evaluation of the training and change in classroom practice
will be carried out by the SIERT and the DIET. Periodic studies on the effectiveness of teacher training and its impact on
classroom practice and student learning by independent agencies will also be commissioned. Rajasthan has an impressive record
of developing innovative interventions in primary education on a small scale. However, Rajasthan has not fully succeeded in
taking these interventions to scale and furthermore, their incremental and slow pace of growth is viewed with concern by the
public as well as government authorities. Building institutional capacity to accelerate the pace of providing access to quality
primary education using the strengths of existing innovative programs constitutes a major challenge for the Rajasthan DPEP.
Technical assistance and involvement of NGOs and organizations from other DPEP states have been included in the investment
proposal to facilitate GOR's expansion of quality primary education.
5. Social assessment:
Reducing disparities in access, school completion, and learning achievement in primary schools across gender and social groups are
primary objectives of Rajasthan DPEP. In order to identify the situation of various social groups in the state, a Social Assessment
Study (SAS) was carried out in ten villages in each district using secondary data, household surveys, interviews with specified
groups, and time budgeting of children, women and men (Annex 2A). The SAS highlights the general and specific issues affecting
the educational participation of disadvantaged groups in each district - causes for low enrollment, dropout and low achievement.
Lack of female participation cuts across caste and class - females belonging to higher castes such as the Rajputs and Muslim
minorities are discouraged from going to school. Strategies identified by the Social Assessment Study for increasing female
participation that are addressed by project interventions are: employing female teachers, adjustment of school timings, sibling care
through early childhood development centers to be located near or in primary schools, separate toilet facilities for girls in schools,
escorts for bringing girls to school, appropriate instructional material without gender bias, and targeting families for continued
follow up by VEC members for sending girls to school. Certain cultural practices which are often difficult to change in a short
period of time such as the purdah system and beliefs resulting in parental perceptions of their girl child as eventually belonging to
their husband's family will continue to be barriers to female participation in schools.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                               Page 14
Country: India                                                                         Project Title: Rajasthan DPEP
Many of the DPEP interventions such as the proximity of schools, toilet and drinking water facilities on the school premises, the
transformed atmosphere in the classroom with consistent teacher attendance and active learning approaches, the timely availability
of attractive and interesting instructional material, and the representation of disadvantaged communities in VECs for school
management will encourage enrollment and persistence in education among disadvantaged communities. Lack of support and
resistance from higher castes, notions of purity and pollution, seasonal migration, extreme poverty, household chores and
irresponsible parenting (alcoholism, parents encouraging absenteeism due to family functions and festivals) will continue to pose
risks to the project's goal of providing basic education to children from disadvantage communities since cultural practices, beliefs
and attitudes require considerable time for transformation.
6. Environmental assessment:    Environmental Category []A    []B    [x] C
The proposed project would not raise any environmental concerns. Schools, additional classrooms and block resource centers will
be constructed on land donated by the community or government land. Each village has common land for developing civic utilities
and village Panchayats pass resolutions on the allocation of this land for the school. Additional classrooms are to be constructed in
the existing schools, which are already constructed. No involuntary resettlement issues are expected to arise from implementing the
civil works component of the proposed project. GOR has provided confirmation to the Administrator in writing, detailing their
process of securing land for civil construction in districts. Documentation for registration/transfer of the land to the education
department!panchayat department will be made available at the District Education Offices. All civil works undertaken will comply
with the GOR's and GOI's existing building/ construction codes. Such provisions will also be reflected in future bidding
documents. One of the major gains will be that the primary school graduates can be expected to become more responsible and
environmentally conscious citizens, since environmental studies form a part of the core curriculum in grades I to 5. It is also likely
that knowledge gained in school on environmental issues will be shared at home, thus influencing parental attitudes. Also toilets and
drinking water will be integral components of the new schools' design to ensure sanitation and hygiene.
7. Participatory approach:
(a) Primary stakeholders:
Communities, parents and teachers constitute primary stakeholders in this project. Participation of stakeholders has been ensured
from project preparation through the Social Assessment Studies mentioned above. Social Assessment Studies provided
opportunities to community members to express their views on education, barriers to education, and appropriate interventions. A
second level of participation occurred in the preparation of district investment proposals through consultations with various groups.
Consultations with teachers involved eliciting teachers' views on their relationships with the community, difficulties faced in the
course of their job and reasons for low enrollment, dropout and low levels of academic performance. Consultations were also held
with representative from the locally elected government bodies and NGOs. Detailed documentation of the consultation meetings
and SAS findings were made available to the appraisal team. The finally approved investment proposals will be shared with the
stakeholders after negotiations.
During implementation, SMCs will mobilize communities for school mapping and microplanning. The project will also empower
local communities by enabling their involvement in school management and monitoring activities. Local communities will
participate in continuous microplanning for school and resource mapping, community mobilization for school improvement,
involvement in monitoring student and teacher attendance, carrying out and supervising community construction, and verifying
enrollment data and its use in planning school improvement. In addition, local decision making concerning the use of school
improvement grants and the appointment of local persons, preferably women, as.para-teachers have also been built into the project
design.
(b) Other key stakeholders: Other stakeholders include the Department of Women and Child Development, Department of Rural
Development and Panchayats, PRIs, Department of Health, Department of Social Welfare, Department of Women and Child
Development and NGOs. They are involved in the pooling of resources and are represented in planning, implementation and
evaluation groups.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                 Page 15
Country: India                                                                           Project Title: Rajasthan DPEP
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
(a) Institutional Sustainability
The establishment of an integrated and coherent institutional framework will be an issue for sometimne due to the changes being
considered-by the new government in Rajasthan. As a part of implementing the 73rd and 74th Constitutional amendment to
decentralize administration, the new government is committed to bring all projects and programs relating to elementary education,
irrespective of the source of funding, under local government authorities. This transition will take a certain amount of time to be
instituted. Sharing of the responsibilities between the Rural Development and Panchayat Department and the Education
Department, sharing of institutions supporting both elementary and secondary education and the progressive integration of project
structures into regular structures within the new framework starting about the fourth year of the project will continue to be monitored
during project implementation. The transitional period of administrative change will be monitored closely.
GOR's cabinet-approved commitmnent to undertake financial responsibility for recurring expenditure after the project is a positive
signal for the integration and institutionalization of project interventions. During project implementation the state will have to
determine ways in which the pedagogical, managerial and organization innovations developed under this project will be transferred
in a timely, effective and efficient fashion to the state's mainstream educational institutions. To ensure GOR's involvement in
mainstreaming project interventions at project completion the project will outline after the mid-term review specific strategies and
activities that are going to take place at project completion. Pedagogical sustainability will deal with how the process of in-service
training and the system of on-site pedagogical support implemented during the project will be continued after project completion.
Managerial and organizational sustainability will describe the strategies conceived to retain staff and maintain quality performance
in DIETs, BRCs and CRCs after project completion.
(b) Fiscal Sustainability
The state of public finances in Rajasthan was described briefly in section E2. To provide the resources to universalize schooling
over the next five years with current teacher norms would require increased financial allocations of around 11 percent a year. With
the current fiscal deficit of almost 7 percent and interest payments equal to almost 20 percent of revenues and increasing, the
objective cannot be reached. What is required is a longer time frame, changes in the level and composition of unit costs and, most
important, reform of state finances. The current project supports the strengthening of primary education in 10 of the 25 districts and
is, therefore, one step towards universalization. The incremental recurring expenditures following completion of the project have
been estimated at around Rs. 34 crores. This is three times the level of Government's required contribution during the project and
almost 30 percent of current plan expenditure on elementary education. These estimates, though large, suggest that the specific
interventions of the project can be sustained. One half of the incremental costs will cover the payments to the para-teachers in
regular and alternative schools, and these payments are one third the level of regular teacher salaries. Thus total incremental costs
are much less than they would be if the teachers appointed under the project were regular staff. In that case incremental costs would
have been equal to one half of current plan expenditures and thus less likely to be sustainable.
The project is a part of a set of expanded activities in primary education across the state that are anticipated to be implemented over
the coming years. If expenditure levels and patterns similar to those in the project districts are replicated across all districts, the
incremental costs will require an increase equal to two thirds of existing plan expenditures, even if every additional teacher
employed across the state were to be a para-teacher. Given the deteriorating trends in public finances through the 1990s, the current
level of the fiscal deficit and the large proportion of revenues pre-empted by salaries, pensions and interest payments a reform of
public finances will be necessary if universalization of primary schooling is to be achieved in the near future. The Bank has
completed a review of the fiscal situation facing the state and has begun discussions on a program of reform with the Government.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                 Page 16
Colntry: India                                                                           Project Title: Rajasthan DPEP
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in thefourth column ofAnnex 1):
Risk                           Risk                    Risk Minimization Measure
Rag
Annex 1, cell "from Outputs to Objective"
Future budget allocations by GOR to the project may   H        The use of RCPE for flow of funds and the role played
not be timely and adequate due to lower than                   by the DPEP Bureau in ensuring GOR's annual
anticipated growth rates, competing demands on state           contribution of 15 percent of the total project cost.
resources and inadequate special central (GOI)                 GOR is committed to the annual recurring cost of Rs. 35
assistance.                                                    crores (about US$8 million) for continuing to implement
project interventions after the project.
Annex 1, cell "from Components to Outputs"
Difficulties in large-scale construction, particularly in  M   Use of local appropriate construction technology;
areas where water is scarce.                                   technical supervision; and training of SMC members in
monitoring construction quality.
Mobilization could be slow especially in remote areas  L to M  Establishing and facilitating SMCs to promote literacy in
with low levels of literacy and poor economic                  remote areas; the employment of local educated persons
conditions.                                                    in these villages as teachers; and the use of folk media to
create awareness of the importance of education.
Community specific cultural patterns that interfere   M        Highlighting the maintenance of toilets during
with the use of toilets.                                       community mobilization.
Factors outside the project may limit rational        M        Policy and defined criteria for teacher deployment;
deployment of teachers and make it difficult to keep           appointment of local para-teachers by the community.
teacher-student ratios at the state norm in many
schools.
Weakness in district and district professional        M        GOR assurance to positions trained staff in districts and
institutions may slow down training and affect the             sub-districts immediately after negotiations; involvement
quality of training and on-site professional support.          of NGOs, state and district resource groups; working
closely with GOR's Education and Rural Development
and Panchayat departments
GOR's transfer of elementary education to the PRIs  M to L     Departments are in the process of clearly defining the
which involves a change in institutional                       responsibilities of their respective institutions and
responsibilities.                                              creating an effective coordination mechanism between
the two departments. Close monitoring by the DPEP
Bureau of the progress of institutional transition.
Overall Risk Rating     M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
None



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                 Page 17
Country: India                                                                           Project Title: Rajasthan DPEP
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions:
None
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]:
The Government of India and the Government of Rajasthan shall:
(a)   maintain policies and procedures a(equate to enable them to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with
indicators satisfactory to the Association, the carrying out of the Project and achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)   carry out with the Association a joint in-depth review of the Project on two occasions by December 31, 2001 and December
31, 2004; such review to include a status report: (i) in both reviews, integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities
performed, and (ii) in the first review set forth the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the
achievement of the objectives thereof; and
(c)   after the first review, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the
objectives based on the conclusions and recommendations offered by the Association during each such joint review in the course of
further implementation of the Project.
At negotiations Rajasthan provided assurances that it shall:
(d)   carry out the Project in accordance with: (i) the DPEP Guidelines; and (ii) the Project Implementation Plan agreed upon with
the administrator;
(e)   appoint individuals with adequate skills, qualifications and experience for the State Project Office and at all times maintain
the SPO, District Project Offices, State Institutes for Education Research and Training, State Institute for Educational Management
and Training and District Institutes for Educational Training with adequate staff, resources and facilities satisfactory to the
Association;
(f)   appoint by July 31, 1999 and thereafter maintain a Financial Controller at the SPO with suitable experience and appoint by
July 31, 1999 and thereafter maintain, a firm of chartered accountants with terms of reference and qualifications satisfactory to the
administrator for auditing the records, accounts and financial statements for the Project;
(g)   ensure that at least 95% of the teachers' posts in each Project District, starting July 1, 2000, remain filled throughout the
Project implementation period;
(h)   establish by March 31, 200 1, a VEC/WEC for villages or urban areas having at least one school, a School Management
Committee in every new or alternative school with responsibility for assisting with Project implementation;
(i)   establish by December 31, 1999 technical resource groups at the state and Project District levels, to assist in the development
and implementation of the Project;
(j)   by December 31, 2001 and December 31, 2004, furnish to the Administrator data, as of September 30, 2001 and September
30, 2004, respectively, for all the Project Districts on (i) the enrollment of children in the age group of 6 to 10 years in primary
education, (ii) the primary education dropout rates and (iii) mathematics and language achievement scores of children in primary
education, all with separate categories for females, Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and other backward classes;
(k)   ensure that no involuntary resettlement arises from any use of land, or change of land use for the Project, except to
the extent that the Administrator agrees in writing prior to such resettlement that the arrangements for such involuntary
resettlement are satisfactory to the Administrator;
(1)  (i) implement the Project in accordance with strategies for improving primary education of female students; (ii) implement
the Project in any tribal area (as designated by Rajasthan in accordance with applicable state laws) in accordance with procedures
and strategies for the delivery of the Project benefits to tribal people as set forth in the Project Implementation Plan;.
(m)  select non-governmental and community organizations participating in the Project in accordance with criteria and procedures
satisfactory to the Association.
H. Readiness for Implementation
[/] The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of project implementation.
[V] The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of project implementation.
V] The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory quality.
[] The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):



Proiect AppruisWl Document                                                                                  Page I8
Counry: India                                                                             Pjcct Title: Rjasthan DPEP
l. Compliance with Bank Poldi
[LI   7his project complies with all applIcable Bank policies.
[NA] [(The following exceptions to Ba6k policies ar rocommended for approval_. The project complies with all other applicable
Bank policies.]
Task Team Leader/Task Manager: N . K . J a n g i r a
Sector Manager/Dfrector.     p h   . arbison
Coutry.Manager/Directo   Edwin  R. Lim



Annex 1
INDIA: Rajasthan District Primary Education Project
Project Design Summary
Narrative Summary       Key Performance Indicators   Monitoring and Evaluation      Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:
Improve quality, effectiveness   Literacy rates especially of  Census data.          (CA) Sustained investment in
and service delivery of India's   women.                Household survey data.       quality basic education is
social and anti-poverty                                  Economic and sector work.   essential to enhance
programs, including primary    Years of education completed                          opportunity for economic and
education.                  by the 15 years old and above                            social benefits to poor sections
population.                                              of the population.
(R) The financial situation of
both the State and Central
governments can slow the
program of fiscal adjustment
and economic reform.
Project Development
Objective:
Assist GOR to strengthen state  An increased percentage of 11-  National education statistics.   (CA) GOR will maintain its
and district capacities that  15 years old (especially female, Census data.          commitment to basic education
ensures good quality primary    SC/ST, working and disabled    Household surveys.    beyond the project period and
education (5 years) for all  children, and children with  Educational Management     continue to provide adequate
children, especially from   limited educational         Information Systems (EMIS).   budget allocations, including
disadvantaged groups such as   opportunities) who have  Project Management           non-salary expenditures on
female, scheduled caste (SC)    completed primary education;   Information Systems (PMIS).   elementary education.
and scheduled tribe (ST), and   improvement in levels of  Mid-term Review (MTR) and
working and disabled children.  achievement.            end-of-project reviews.      (R) Future budget allocations
by GOR may not be timely and
adequate due to lower than
anticipated growth rates,
competing demands on state
resources and inadequate
special central (GOI)
assistance.
Outputs:
1. Expanded access to primary  1. About 300,000 additional    EMIS.                  (CA) More accessible
education especially for    children, out of which 150,000   The collection of information,   education facilities; improved
disadvantaged groups.       will be from disadvantaged  monthly, by CRCs from        quality of education; and
communities, in the age group   School Management       community mobilization
of 6-10 years will be enrolled    Committees (SMCs),     among disadvantaged groups.
by 2002 and another 300,000    Alternative Schools (ASs) and
(150,000 from disadvantaged    Early Childhood Education  (R) Competing demands on
communities) additional     Centers (ECEs) on enrollment   state resources may affect
children will be enrolled by the  for the District Project Offices  timely availability of funds,
end of the project period.  (DPOs).                     and more so the sustainability
Reduction in disparity in   Sample surveys.              of school quality inputs.
enrollment rates between boys
and girls, SC and ST and                                 (R)The GOR's transfer of
others to less than 5 percentage                         elementary education to the
points by end of project period                          PRIs which involves a change
in institutional responsibilities
and operating procedures.



2. Increased retention and  2.1 Improvement in grade    EMIS.
improved learning achievement transition rates. Reduction in   The collection of information
drop out rates to less than 10    monthly by CRCs on
percent.                    attendance and quality of
programs for the DPO.
2.2 Transformation in       Classroom observation studies.
classroom practices from rote   CRC feedback.
to activity-based, child-   Field visits.
centered practices using    VEC observations.
materials developed under
DPEP.
2.3 The improvement of      PMIS.
mathematics and language    Achievement studies in 2001
achievement scores when     and 2004.
compared to the achievement
scores contained in the 1998
baseline study of achievement
by around 5 percentage points
by 2001 and 25 percentage
points by end of project period.
3. Improved state and district   3.1 The State Project Office  EMIS.
capacity to manage primary    (SPO) and DPOs will be    Field visits.
education.                  staffed and functional before
commencing project
implementation.
3.2 Block and Cluster       Evaluation studies.
Resource Centers (BRCs and    PMIS.
(CRCs) for professional
development of teachers will
be established and made
functional in the first year of
project implementation and
continue after project
completion.
3.3 SMCs will be established    Evaluation studies.
and SMC members will be able  Cluster Resource Center
to meaningfully manage school  feedback.
improvement by the end of the
project period.
3.4 Training of district and  Field visits.
block level management in   PMIS.
participatory planning and
supervision.



Project Components:
1.1 Constructing new schools   1.1 909 new schools, 1058  PMIS.                         1.1 (R) Difficulties in large-
and classrooms and repairing    additional classrooms and 262   EMIS.                   scale construction, particularly
or rehabilitating existing   schools (existing schools     Evaluation studies           in areas where water is scarce.
classrooms.                  without buildings) constructed.
1.2 Placement of para-teachers.  1.2 7250 para-teachers in  EMIS.                       1.2 (CA) Maintain student-
position and teaching with   PMIS.                         teacher ratio to state norm and
regular attendance and using                               rationalize teacher deployment.
DPEF methods.
1.2 (R) Political influence may
limit the rational deployment
of teachers.
(R) Sustainability of para-
teachers employed at lower
levels of remuneration
compared to regular teachers
but doing equivalent work.
(R) Comparable student
performance between students
of para-teachers and regular
teachers.
1.3 Supporting the preschool
component of Integrated Child  1.3 700 ECE centers attached    PMIS.                     1.3 (CA) Early childhood
Development Scheme centers   to local primary schools      Field visits.                education and care improves
and selectively establishing  opened; 2998 ECE centers                                  school readiness of children
Early Childhood Development  opened in areas where ICDS III                             which improves their length of
Centers.                     will be operational after the                              time and education in school.
first year.
1.3 (CA) Empowered mothers
from poor communities will be
more responsive.
2.1 Enhancing community
awareness and involvement in   2.1 Organizing awareness    EMIS.                        2.1 and 2.2 (CA) Local
school improvement by        campaigns and monthly         PMIS.                        communities are best suited for
providing monthly feedback to  feedback sessions.          Progress reports.            addressing local and specific
CRCs.                                                      Field visits.                issues concerning student
participation in school.
2.2 Establishing SMCs for
each school.                 2.2 SMCs established for every  Progress reports.          (R) Mobilization could be slow
village.                     Field visits.                 especially in remote areas with
low levels of literacy and poor
economic conditions.
2.3 Constructing toilets and
providing drinking water     2.3 6000 toilets constructed  EMIS                         2.3 (CA) Availability of
facilities.                  and 798 hand pumps and 1113   PMIS                         separate toilets for girls is
PHED connections provided    Progress reports.             expected to improve their
for drinking water with good    Field visits.             retention.
maintenance by the
community.                                                 2.3 (R) Community specific
cultural patterns may interfere
with the use of the toilets.
2.4 Developing and providing
instructional materials.     2.4 Textbooks, workbooks and   EMIS.                       2.4 and 2.5(R) Weakness in
teacher guides developed/    PMIS.                         state and district professional
procured and supplied to     Progress reports.             institutions (SIERT and
students.                    Field visits.                 DIETs) may slow down
I__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   I______________training  delivery  and  affect



quality of training packages
and the support of
improvements in classroom
teaching.
2.5 Providing continuous in-
service training.            2.5 Master trainers, teachers  EMIS
and para-teachers trained every  PMIS
year from year 1999 onwards.   Progress visits
2.6 Developing targeted
interventions for focus groups.  2.6 Workbooks and extra   AWPBs.                       2.6 (CA) Empowering
teaching and learning material   PMIS.                     communities and teachers
distributed. Escort services  Implementation status reports.  through meeting immediate
provided for students,                                     needs stimulates school
particularly girls, to be brought                         improvement efforts.
to school. Teachers and VECs
receive funds for school                                   CA) Targeted interventions
improvement                                                increases participation and
improves student learning.
3.1 Building and strengthening
state and district project   3.1 Key staff trained and     EMIS.
offices.                     positioned in the SPO and     PMIS.
DPOs.                        Progress reports.
Field visits.
3.2 Establishing BRCs and
CRCs at the block and cluster   3.2 84 number of BRCs and
level respectively for       1041 CRCs constructed and
monitoring and training.     trained staff, positioned.
3.3 Establishing and
strengthening state and district  3.3 Staff in SIERT, RSTB,  PMIS.                      3.3 (R) Delay in GOR staffing
institutions (SIERT, RSTB,   SIEMAT and DIETs              Implementation status reports.   policy may delay the
SIEMAT and DIETs).           positioned. Persons trained                                functioning of these
and materials developed.                                   institutions.
3.4 Project Monitoring and
Evaluation                   Third party evaluation studies
will be carried out. EMIS and
PMIS data will be collected.  Supervision Missions
Progress reports, sample
surveys and classroom
observation studies will be
done. The financial
management system will
monitor procurement and
disbursements



Annex 2
Page I of 4
Annex 2
INDIA: Rajasthan District Primary Education Project
Project Description
Rajasthan is an educationally under-developed state with a literacy level of 38.8% (1991), which happens to be the second lowest in
the country. The state has the lowest female literacy rate (20.8%) in the country. Low levels of literacy, especially female literacy,
qualifies the districts in Rajasthan for support under the carefully-designed and well-established District Primary Education Program
since DPEP targets states with female literacy rates that fall below the national average. IDA has agreed to fund 19 districts. The
proposed credit covers 10 districts in phase I, and the preparation for funding the remaining 9 districts in phase II will commence
during phase I. The Swedish Aid Agency (SIDA) has been funding 10 blocks in phase I districts and 8 blocks in the phase II districts
under the Lok Jumbish project. During the project period the 10 Lok Jumbish blocks will be subsumed under DPEP project and it is
expected that Lok Jumbish, with DFID funding will cover the remaining 13 districts not covered by DPEP. The proposed project will
assist the Government of Rajasthan (GOR) to build and strengthen state, district and sub-district capacity to accelerate progress
towards universal primary education in the ten low literacy districts in Phase I of the project. This will be accomplished by fostering
conditions that allow more children, especially from socially disadvantaged groups to complete a five-year primary education cycle of
reasonable quality. These groups include, females, SC, ST, Other Backward Communities children (identified in the Social
Assessment Study), children with mild to moderate disabilities, and working children. The project will support activities designed to:
(i) increase access to primary education; (ii) increase retention and improve learning achievement; and (iii) strengthen the capacity of
institutions at the state and district levels to manage primary education.
Project Component 1: Expanding access - US$20.2 million (total cost of component)
(i) The construction of schools and classrooms: The project will fund the construction of new schools and additional classrooms.
Two types of new schools are envisaged in the project --new primary schools (Shiksha Swayam Sevi Vidyalayas) and alternative
schools. New primary schools are to be constructed in villages with populations of above 250 and in villages with a concentration of
SC/ST children and in desert, hilly tracts and tribal areas with populations of 150. New schools will have two classrooms with
sanitary and drinking water facilities. The credit will fund 909 new primary schools. Alternative schools will be constructed in
villages with a population of less than 150. The 2455 Alternative schools will be of two types - 6-hour and 4-hour. The 1743 6-hour
schools will be located in remote inaccessible areas while the 712 4-hour schools are intended for working children without primary
education and for children who have dropped out of the regular school system. Physical structures for both 6-hour and 4-hour
alternative schools will be provided by the community and GOR. Decisions on where new schools are to be constructed will be based
on microplanning focusing on the size of the population and the various social groups represented. These decisions will also be made
in conjunction with local communities and will be located near to disadvantaged households. Effective technology and innovative
design will characterize the construction of new schools. School Management Committees will construct new schools and additional
classrooms with technical supervision by the Rajasthan DPEP's civil works personnel. In addition, 262 schools are to be constructed
for existing schools that are without buildings. 1058 additional classrooms adjoining already existing schools will also be constructed
to accommodate additional enrollment.
(ii) Vacant teacher positions and para-teachers: Para-teachers will staff both new primary and alternative schools. Project funds
will be used to recruit 7250 para-teachers. 1818 teachers will be recruited for new primary schools. 1743 para-teachers will be hired
for the 6 hour alternative schools and 712 teachers will be hired for the 4 hour alternative schools. In case of increased enrollment and
in order to maintain the state teacher-pupil norm of one teacher for 49 (or less) students in a class, an additional 2977 para-teachers
will be hired. The qualification norm for para-teachers is to be grade 10 pass relaxed to grade 8 pass in remote areas. The policy of
recruiting para-teachers from the community in which the school is located has evolved from the results of the Shiksha Karmi project
in Rajasthan. According to the Baseline Assessment Study, students taught by para-teachers in the Shiksha Karmi model perform
better than students taught by regular teachers, indicating the value of employing teachers with a sense of belonging and a
commitment to the community rather than qualified teachers without this community involvement. Furthermore, the support of
communities is ensured in that the School Management Committee will play an important role in the selection and appointment of
para-teachers for alternative schools in their own communities. The Rajasthan Government has assured the Association that 95% of
teacher posts in project districts will remain filled during the project period.
(iii) Early childhood education: The project will establish 2998 early childhood education centers where the Integrated Childhood
Development Scheme (ICDS) is expected to be operational in one year and 700 ECE centers attached to primary schools (in locations
not eligible for ICDS centers). In addition, GOR intends to strengthen the early childhood education centers by providing training, pre-
school kits and a remuneration of Rs.200 to each worker/teacher.



Annex 2
Page 2 of 4
Project Component 2 Increase retention and improve achievement - US$42.6 million (total cost of component)
(i) Community mobilization: Community mobilization forms a significant component of the project and is expected to promote
enrollment, retention and achievement. By organizing community level activities and utilizing local NGOs the project will
communicate to community stakeholders the importance of education and the need for actively supporting and monitoring the
provision of education in their local communities. Communities will also be involved annually with school mapping.
(ii) School Management Committees: A School Management Committee will also be formed for every school and educated with
respect to ways in which the Committee can manage the schools in their villages in areas such as monitoring school quality and
discouraging teacher and student absenteeism. The Village Education Committee will oversee a cluster of SMCs. SMCs will also
play a critical role in school construction and in drawing students from disadvantaged backgrounds into the school system. The
chairperson of the SMCs will be the Head of the elected village governmental body (Gram Panchayat). The SMCs will be composed
of representatives from SC/ST groups, parents of disabled children, ECE workers, parents, teachers and headmasters. 30% of the
VECs will be women. In urban areas ward committees will be formed in place of SMCs. The main functions of the SMC are school
mapping and micro planning, decision making and involvement in construction activities and school maintenance, identification and
selection of para-teachers and school improvement (monitoring teacher and student attendance and performance). For convergence of
resources for school construction from other schemes, SMC with VECs will collaborate with the Panchayati Raj Institutions (PRIs).
JRY, EAS and BZBZ schemes involve the joint contribution of government funds and local contributions for the construction of
primary schools. In addition, available monetary and non-monetary inputs will be mobilized from the communities by the SMCs and
VECs for enhancing the effectiveness of project interventions.
(iii) Drinking water and toilets: The absence of drinking water on the school premises causes students to miss classes in order to
quench their thirst. Similarly, the lack of sanitary facilities negatively affects the consistent attendance of students especially girls.
Drinking water will be made available on school premises by installing 798 ne>v hand pumps and 1113 PHED connections or drinking
water taps. 6000 toilets, especially for girls will also be constructed. In areas where water is scarce, dry toilets may be constructed.
(iv) Instructional material: The project will develop an appropriate curriculum and textbooks based on already existing material
created by the State Institute of Educational Research and Training (SIERT) and Lok Jumbish. The free distribution of textbooks by
GOR necessitates the creation of a standard textbook with a uniform curriculum. The ITF credit will be used to fund the development
of the textbook "till a camera ready copy" is completed and the textbooks are field tested, and GOR will fund the printing and
distribution of textbooks. Project funds will also be utilized for the development, printing and distribution of appropriate teaching
guides for the textbooks and student workbooks.
(v) In-service training: Successful implementation of educational reform depends upon effective training and continuous school
based evaluation of pedagogy. The structure and content of training vast numbers of teachers that have been developed in DPEP 1,
DPEP II and DPEP III and in the Shiksha Karmi program will be adapted to the Rajasthan DPEP project. For each district there will
be four to five key subject specific resource persons chosen from District Institutes of Educational Training (DIETs), NGOs and
Education Departments. These resource persons will receive six days of training by the Shiksha Karmi resource unit. Block Resource
centers (84) to be constructed at the block level and Cluster Resource Centers (1041) to be constructed for a cluster of villages will be
responsible for the training and continued school-based professional support to the teachers for improving teaching and learning.
Block resource personnel will be trained for ten days by the key resources persons including teacher trainers from the Shiksha Karmi
project. Block resource personnel will in turn be responsible for teachers already in service and for newly recruited para-teachers.
Teachers in service will be given nine days of training in the first year plus six days of training in the consecutive years. In the first
year, para-teachers will be given 45 days of foundational training plus 10 days of remedial training. In each consecutive year para-
teachers will be given 30 days of content-based training, and ten days of remedial training. Cluster resource personnel will provide
school-based monitoring and on-site professional support through scheduled and unscheduled visits to help the teachers implement the
teaching and learning practices presented in training courses.
(vi) Targeted Interventions: This category comprises of a variety of activities to encourage student attendance, especially of children
from disadvantaged communities. Activities intended to target the retention of the general student population include: setting up a
fund of Rs. 2000 for each school for school improvement through the VECs; recognizing good teacher performance; and enabling
teachers (by providing Rs.500) to purchase materials to prepare their own instructional aids. In addition, students from disadvantaged
communities will receive free teaching and learning materials, and female students will be provided free escort services to and from
their schools.



Annex 2
Page 3 of 4
Project Component 3 Improve state and district institutional capacity to manage primary education - US$38.5 million (total
cost of component)
The state level body -Rajasthan Council of Primary Education (RCPE) has been established as an autonomous body and is registered
under the Registration of Societies Act 1958. The RCPE is responsible for the complete planning, implementation and monitoring of
the District Primary Education project. The RCPE consists of a governing council and a State Project Office (SPO). The governing
council, headed by the Education Minister of the State, deals with policy planning and review and it approves all Annual Work
Program Budgets (AWPBs). The SPO with its executive council headed by the Education Secretary GOR is responsible for leading
implementation. The RCPE's governing council will oversee the implementation of the state and district AWPBs by the State Project
Office and 10 DistriLI Project Offices.
(a) State Project Office (SPO): The SPO will supervise and direct the project at the district and sub-district level through the DPOs.
Since, convergence is an important aspect Rajasthan DPEP, an important task of the SPO will be the identification of local resources
available to DPEP. The SPO will also coordinate the activities of various institutions such as NGOs, the Rajasthan Department of
Education and auxiliary institutions including the SIERT and SIEMAT. In addition, the SPO will be responsible for the monitoring
and reviewing of DPEP interventions, inputs and outputs. Both the SPO and the DPOs will be staffed with key personnel and will be
operational at the commencement of the project using initial fumding from GOI and GOR. Personnel at the SPO already appointed
include a State Project Director; program officers for primary education, alternative schools, community mobilization, and civil
works; and data entry operators. All key staff will be in place by June 30, 1999. A computerized fmancial management system will
be implemented by April 1, 2000 and an accounts professional will be appointed by June 30, 1999.
(b) District Project Offices (DPOs), Cluster Resource Centers (CRCs) and Block Resource Centers (BRCs): DPOs implement
plans in addition to managing the flow of funds to project activities at the block and cluster levels through BRCs and CRCs/VECs
respectively. DPOs will also coordinate the activities of District Institute for Educational Training (DIETs) specifically with regards
to teacher training. In addition, an important function of the DPO in the effective management of the DPEP will be to coordinate the
functions of the District Education Offices (DEOs) and the local elected government bodies that are in-charge of elementary
education. Other functions of the DPOs include the implementation of the civil works plans; microplanning with communities to
facilitate and accelerate the EMIS, awareness building at the community level and coordinating convergence with other agencies and
NGOs. Key personnel including the project coordinator and accounts officer are already in place in the ten DPOs. The project funds
will support construction and facilitate the BRC's efforts at providing and overseeing teacher training and microplanning. Each BRC
will have a facilitator and four resource persons. Decisions regarding the construction of BRCs will take into consideration already
existing buildings that can be utilized as BRCs. The cluster facilitator at CRCs will offer continued in-house and school- based
pedagogical support to schools. In addition, CRCs will be involved in mobilizing community support for schools in each village and
in the data collection for the EMIS.
(c) SIERT, SIEMAT and DIETs,: The ITF credit will finance the strengthening of State Institutes for Educational Research and
Training's capacity through technical support from responsible national institutions for curriculum revisions and textbook preparation,
the development of training modules and the training of staff from the District Institutes of Educational Research and Training and
other resource persons to train teachers. DIET staff and other resource persons will in turn train master trainers who will be
responsible for introducing teachers to the new child-friendly and activity-centered pedagogy envisaged in DPEP. The State Institute
for Educational Management and Training will be responsible for training educational management personnel. SIEMAT's role will be
performed by specialists in management and planning operating from an already existing institution.
(d) Monitoring, Research and Evaluation: The Educational Management Information System (EMIS), Project Management
Information System (PMIS) and Financial Management System (FMS) will be used for monitoring progress. Third party evaluation
studies will also be carried out. This will involve an annual review of implementation covering physical targets for civil works,
procurement, training, software/systems, development and expenditures and of the action plans, investment proposals and financing
requirements for the next fiscal year. The review will be conducted by DPEP in the first quarter of each year. Progress reports and
work plans would follow a common framework for all the districts. Progress toward the achievement of development objectives will
be measured in several ways: (i) District-based assessment surveys conducted in the third and last year of the project will monitor
progress on key education indicators. Most importantly student learning achievement will be measured against the baseline
assessment study carried out during project preparation and will be presented by GOR during the third annual review and at project
completion; (ii) Classroom observation studies will evaluate the extent to which teachers have appropriated in-service training and the
extent to which teachers are implementing the more child-friendly pedagogy in the classroom; (iii) PMIS, in compliance with the
IDA's Loan Administration Change Initiative (LACI) requirements, will provide quarterly information on the project's physical
targets for civil works, procurement, and training, software/system development and expenditures. The EMIS will provide age-
specific enrollment data at village level; year-wise retention rates by grade, gender and socially disadvantaged students for consecutive
school years; and average student and teacher attendance data. This information will be based on school records in addition to VEC
attendance reporting mechanisms and sample surveys. The FMS will monitor disbursement and financial management; (iv) Annual



Annex 2
Page 4 of 4
supervision reports will be prepared by the DPEP Bureau and the DPEP Joint Supervision missions carried out twice a year by GOI
and program donors, including IDA, administrator of the ITF credit. In addition, the DPEP Bureau and DPEP project states will
conduct an annual implementation review workshop where states will report on their project implementation progress and share
experiences in the implementation of one program element selected in consultation with the program donors; and (vi) Two in-depth
reviews will be conducted by GOI and GOR



Annex 2A
Page I of 3
Annex 2A
Social Assessment Survey
Social assessment surveys focusing on local-micro-level contextual dimensions of cultural practices and social institutions relevant to
educational performance and participation was conducted in the ten DPEP project districts. Surveys made use of secondary data,
household surveys, focus group interviews, and time budgeting of children and women. The sample consisted of ten villages from
each district. The SAS identified the socially disadvantaged communities in the ten districts and the stakeholder perceptions of the
barriers to school enrollment and retention.
Literacy rates and % SC/ST in the population
District                                %SC in                      % ST in
M   F    SC/M    SC/F   Population   ST/M    ST/F   Population
Alwar         61  23   51        11     18          53       7      8
Bhilwara      46  17   34       5       17          23       2      9
Ganganagar   55  26   31        7       30          53       19    .3
Jhalawar      48  16   35       6       17          35       5       12
Jhunjhunu     68  26   56        13     15          64       16     2
Kota          64  30   50        13     20          44       9       14
Nagaur        49  13   29        3      20          46       7       .2
Sikar         64  20   51       8       14          57       11     3
Sirohi        46  17   39       8       29       _16         2      23
Tonk          50  15   43       6       20          40       3      12
The above table in the Social Assessment report conveys the relative literacy position of females, SC/ST communities. In addition to
identifying levels of disparity among traditionally disadvantaged groups listed above, the social assessment survey provides more
detailed empirical information on specific disadvantaged communities within the SC/ST communities and among other backward
communities (OBCs). The table below summarizes the disadvantaged communities in each district.
Disadvantaged groups in the ten districts
District      Dropout   Minorities   OBC             SC                       ST
(6-11)
Alwar         58.17     Meos        Yadavs           Chamar                   Meena
SD=4                                Mali             Harijans
PS=14                               Nais             Balais
GP=478                              Dhobi            Khatik
V=1946
Bhilwara      63.36     Muslims    Bagaris, Gujaras  Khalbelias (N), Nayaks    Bhils
SD=5                                Gadris           Raigars Balais Kanjars
PS=II                               Banjaras Keers
GP=378
V=1670
Ganganagar   42.30                  Nais, Kumbhar,   Lavan Sikh, Mahjabi
SD=5                                Suthar           Sikh, Kammo Sikh,
PS=7                                                 Bavari Sikh, Meghwal,
GP=291                                               Chamar, Bavari, Nayak,
V=2738                                               Balmiki, Oad
Jhalawar      65.30     Julahs,     Banjaras,        Chamars, Harijans,
SD=                     Mirasis,    Lodhas, Suthars,  Balais,
P=S6                    Mewati      Kumhars, Naths,
GS=251                              Bairagas,
V=1448                              Luhars, Telis



Annex 2A
Page 2 of 3
Jhunjhunu     41.30      Chodar,     Gujaras, Yadavs,  Balai (N) Raigar (N)     Meena
SD=                      Fakir, Kaji  Jangid, Mali,    Chamar (N) Harijan,
PS=8                     Bisaity,    Charan, Dakot,    Dhanka Khatik Dhobi
GP=288                   Teli, Kasi,   Nayak, Luhar,    Sansi
V=824                    Leelgar     Badgurjar, Nai
Kalal Daroga
Teli
Kota          94.66      Muslims    Gandiya (N),       Raigar, Chamar, Kahar,    Bhil, Bhil
SD=2                                 Banjare (N),     Basera, Balai             Thakar
PS=5                                 Gujaras, Bhoi,                             Meena
GP= 162                              Bangare.
V=8l1
Nagaur        41.24      Muslims    Bagaris, Gujaras   Chippa, Rebari, Meghwal,  Sansi Meena
SD=4                                 Banjaras          Harijan, Gawaria,
PS=11                                Nayak
GP=461                               Teli
V=1467
Sikar         55.69      Muslims     Saini             Balai, Raigar, Meghwal    Meena
SD=3                                 Gujaras                                    Sansi
PS=8                                 Kumavat                                    Bhopas
GP=33 3
V~931
Sirohi        61.26      Muslims     Rebari, Kale,     Meghwals, Kolis,         Meen,
SD=2                                 Mali, Nth, Jog    Sargara, Gameti          Garasiya,
PS=6                                                                            Bhil
V=446
Tonk          61.06      Nagori      Gujaras           Khanjar                  Sansi
SD=2                     muslims
PS=6
V=1019__ _ _ _ _ _ _            _ _
SD=Subdivisions; PS=Panchayat Samitis; GS=Gram Panchayats; V=Villages
Lack of female participation cuts across caste and class, females belonging to the higher castes such as the Rajputs and the Jats are
discouraged from going to school. Causes for the lack of female participation beyond the scope of DPEP are: a woman's accepted
position in society as lower than their male counterparts; domestic chores; early marriage; segregation because of the purdah system
and gender; parental perceptions of their girl child as parayadhan (outsider) symbolizing their future belonging in their husband's
family; and perceptions of education as more corrupting than benefiting the girl child. Strategies identified by the Social Assessment
Study for increasing female participation that are addressed by project interventions are: employing female teachers; more appropriate
timings; sibling care; conveying the importance of female literacy to parents and communities; and mobilizing community support.
Causes identified for the lack of enrollment and persistence in education among the disadvantaged communities that cannot be
addressed by DPEP include lack of support and resistance from higher castes, notions of purity and pollution, migration, agricultural
and grazing activities and irresponsible parenting (alcoholism, parents encouraging absenteeism due to family functions and festivals).
Many of the DPEP interventions such as the proximity of schools, toilet and drinking water facilities on the school premises,
transformed atmosphere in the classroom with consistent teacher attendance, the timely availability of attractive and interesting
instructional material, and the involvement of the community are described by parents and teachers in the social assessment survey as
meaningful and useful interventions that can increase enrollment and retention.
Third party evaluation, the mid-term review and EMIS will provide progress on enrollmnent and retention of students from
disadvantaged communities listed in this survey.



Annex 2A
Page 3 of 3
Annex 2B
Baseline Achievement Survey
In preparation for this project baseline assessments of achievement was conducted in mathematics and language. The sample
consisted of 13625 students including students from Shiksha Karmi schools.
Table 1: Achievement Grade 1 mathematics and language (actual scores)
Mathematics (maximum score=20)              Language (maximum score=20)
District                            SC           ST                              SC           ST
Rural   Urban    M       F      M     F      Rural   Urban    M       F      M       F
Alwar           13        14        14    13     12    14    11        15        13    13     14     13
Bhilwara        10        11        9     11     10    11    10        10        9     11     10     9
Ganganagar      13        15        13   11      19    13    11        15        11   11      16     14
Jhalawar        12        14        12   12      11    10    11        14        11    13     10     9
Jhunjhunu       14        16        14   14      14    13    13        16        14    12     10     12
Kota            10        11        11    9      9     9      8       8          8     7      8      8
Nagaur          11        11        14    11     14    12    11        11        13    12     16     12
Sikar           14        13        15    14     12    11    13        13        13    12     14     14
Sirohi           10      12         11    10     10    10    11        12        1 1    11    11     11
Tonk            11        15        10    10     12    10    10        17        10   9       10     11
Table 2: Achievement Grade 4 mathematics and language (actual score)
Mathematics (maximum score=40)               Language (maximum score=70)
District                            SC           ST                              SC           ST
Rural   Urban    M       F      M     F      Rural   Urban    M       F      M       F
Alwar           15        19        17    16     14    15    34       37         38    34     33     34
Bhilwara        14        17        14    19     13    12    33       33         32    36     32     31
Ganganagar      14        15        14    14     14    12    33       38         34    32     40     30
Jhalawar        12       11         12    10     11    14    32       29         31    27     30     35
Jhunjhunu       17        19        14    16     16    14    38       41         32    37     38     32
Kota            11        10        10    10     11    13    29       31         28    27     29     32
Nagaur           15       17        15    14     15    15    34        31        35    35     25     38
Sikar           15       14         15    15     15    17    35       34         33    36     31     36
Sirohi          12       15         12    12     11    9     31       37         32    30     27     23
Tonk            14       19         13    15     15    14    34       47         31   36      34     39



Annex 2A
Page 4 of 3
Table 3: Comparison of the scores of general government rural students and the scores of shiksha Karmi students (in percent)
Mathematics                        Language
Grade 1         Grade 4            Grade 1         Grade 4
District        Rural   SK      Rural    SK        Rural   SK      Rural    SK
Bhilwara        50      62      35        33       49       56     47        47
Ganganagar      61      78      35       42        54       74     47        52
Jhalawar        58      65      30        31       55       59     45        46
Kota            45      73      26       43        37       64     40        54
Nagaur          55      63      38       48        55       54     48        48
Sikar           68      71      36       53        61       71     49        62
Sirohi          52      36      29       33        53       53     44        44
Tonk            51      59      33       50        48       47     46        65
NB.: Maximum score is in brackets.
Major findings are:
*  Grade I achievement varies from 7.96(39.80%) to 13.76 (68.80%) in language and 9.71 (48.55%) to 14.34 (71.70%) in
mathematics.
*  Grade 4 achievement varies from 29.0(41.4%) to 38.83 (55.5%) in language and 10.66 (26.65%) to 17.34 (43.42%) in
mathematics.
i The performance of urban students is higher than rural students
i No significant differences are evident in performance between girls and boys; and SC/ST and the rest of the students.
i Significant differences are evident between the performance of students from the general government rural schools and students
from Shiksha Karmi schools. Shiksha Karmi students' scores are higher that the general government school students in both
mathematics and language especially in Grade I.



Annex 3
Annex 3
INDIA: Rajasthan District Primary Education Project
Estimated Project Costs
Project Component                                        Local           Foreign       Total
-----------------------US $ million--------------------
Expanding Access to Primary Education                        18.3            0.1         18.4
Increasing Retention and Improving Learning Achievement     38.0             0.6         38.6
in Primary School
Improving State and District Capacity to Manage Primary     35.0             0.4         35.4
Education
Total Baseline Cost                                          91.3            1.1         92.4
Physical Contingencies                                     7.0            0.1           7.1
Price Contingencies                                        1.7            0.1           1.8
Total Project Cost                                         100.0             1.3        101.3



Annex 4
Page I of 5
Annex 4
INDIA: Rajasthan District Primary Education Project
Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
E. Summary Project Analyses
1. Economic:
a. Economic and social returns. The economic and social returns to primary schooling in India, in general, have been described in the
Project Appraisal Documents for primary education projects in Bihar (3012-IN), Uttar Pradesh (3013-IN) and in Andhra Pradesh
based on research studies reported in the Bank publication, Primary Education in India (1997). Summarizing, analyses of long run
data on rural household agricultural productivity and a disaggregation of the sources of economic growth in the 1970s and 1980s
reinforced the positive findings of earlier studies of the rates of return to primary education and provided additional evidence of
externalities. Differences in educational development between states have also been shown in recent Bank poverty studies for India to
be a major cause of variations in the incidence of poverty. In addition, the Health and Family Welfare Surveys conducted in each
major state in India in 1993 suggest that, across all states, primary schooling of mothers is associated with reductions in child
mortality of 40%, fertility of 25% and severe child malnutrition of 33%. These are substantial effects with significant economic
consequences, in addition to improving the quality of life for women and children in particular.
No studies of the economic returns to schooling have been undertaken specifically for Rajasthan though the positive conclusions of
the across-states analyses (National Family Health Survey 1992/93: Rajasthan.) are likely to be equally applicable there. The effects
of mothers' schooling on aspects of social behavior have been measured and some of the results are described in table 1. Actual and
preferred fertility rates fall consistently by mothers' educational level with the largest falls (15-16%) associated with a primary
schooling. The reduction in the under-five mortality rate is relatively small (14%) at lower schooling levels though there is a marked
improvement in the proportion of children who receive the full complement of inoculations (129%). There is general
undernourishment in Rajasthan with around 40% of children severely undernourished and 19% chronically undernourished. While
there is a slight reduction in rates of chronic malnourishment for children whose mothers have a primary schooling, it appears that a
complete elementary education of eight years is required before there is a significant reduction in the rates (6.3 percentage points).
Table 1. Fertility, Child Mortality and Nutritional Status by Mothers Education. Rajasthan, 1993.
Children    Ideal Number  Under-Five  All Child     Children
Ever Borne  of Children    Mortality   Inoculations Undernourished
(per 1000)     (%)          (%)
Illiterate  3.3           3.1           112         15.4         19.8
Primary     2.8           2.6            96         35.2         18.8
Middle      2.4           2.5            ---        58.1         13.5
Secondary +  2.1          2.2            49          ---         14.4
(b) Poverty reduction. There are two sets of justification for governments to subsidize education. One utilizes arguments of
efficiency and externalities and the need for aggregate coverage at levels beyond those which would be purchased by individuals. The
other focuses on social equality and poverty alleviation. To assess the potential role of government subsidization of primary education
in reducing poverty, two issues need to be addressed - the impact of education on income and the extent to which government
expenditures are captured by the poor. As noted above, there is sufficient evidence from existing studies in India, and elsewhere, to
confidently predict that higher levels of education lead to higher income. Recent analysis ("Why have some states in India performed
better than others in reducing absolute poverty," Datt and Ravallion, 1996; "Reducing Poverty in India: Options for More Effective
Public Services, World Bank, 1998) has also documented the extent to which the poor in India, including in Rajasthan, have
differential access to education compared to middle and upper income groups.
Together with Bihar, Rajasthan has the lowest education indicators across Indian states. According to the Health and Family Welfare
Survey, 82 % of rural females and 75 % of all females over 6 years of age in Rajasthan were illiterate in 1993. For males the rates
were 44 and 40 % respectively. Overall, fifty six % of the total population was illiterate and only 28.9 % had completed a five-year
primary schooling. Not all social and income groups are equally poorly educated. Children in the wealthiest 20 % of households in
the state have virtually the same chance of being in school as in any other state. It is children in the poorest households who do not
have access. For instance, only two in five children in the poorest 40 % of households in Rajasthan attend school compared to over



Annex 4
Page 2 of 5
three in five children from the middle 40% and over nine out of ten children in the richest 20% of households. In this respect, the
situation in Rajasthan is worse than in any other state apart from Bihar. In Tamil Nadu and Kerala, for example, 72 and 89% of
children in the poorest income group are in school. Poor girls in particular are denied schooling in Rajasthan. Only 17% of girls
living in the poorest category of households are in school and only 2% of 15-19 year old girls in this income group have completed
eight years of schooling compared to 71% of girls in the most wealthy 20% of households. In Kerala, 58 % of the poorest girls have
completed eight years. Not only do few children from poor and middle income households attend school at any point in time,
completion rates, particularly for the poor, are low in Rajasthan and below those in most other states (Table 2).
Table 2. School Attainment by Household Income. Selected States.
Bottom 40%                    Top 20%
Cohort Finished Finished Cohort Finished
Grade I Grade 5 Grade 8         Grade I Grade 5 Grade 8
Rajasthan   100    35      29      14       100    91       90      77
Maharashtra 100    59      47      28       100    98       96      83
Tamil Nadu  100    68      52      27       100    98       96      84
If Rajasthan is to meet the objective of universalizing primary education, the major challenge is to reach poor and middle income girls
and poor boys. Children from relatively wealthy households are already in school and most complete a full elementary education.
As background to the Bank's recent report on poverty in India, (Reducing Poverty in India: Options for More Effective Public
Services) Lanjouw and Ravallion estimated the degree to which a number of the Government's explicit anti-poverty programs impact
on the poor and compared these to the effects of expenditures on primary education. Across all-states, among the three main anti-
poverty programs, the poor were relatively more likely than higher income groups to be included in the public works programs, then
the subsidized credit program and finally the subsidized food program. Regarding the distribution of expenditures on primary
education, current enrollment rates by income groups, both nationally and in Rajasthan, increase by quintile income group - in
Rajasthan from 27% to 58% suggesting that current expenditures confer increasingly greater benefits to higher income groups.
However, the authors also calculated marginal participation rates - the increment in participation for each given income group
associated with a change in total participation. The picture is sharply reversed and an expansion of primary schooling is shown to be
decidedly pro-poor at the margin, comparing well with the explicit anti-poverty programs. The exercise suggests across all-states, that
while the existing expenditure program results in 14% of the total going to children in the poorest 20% of households, their share in
any additional expenditure would increase to-22%.
Poverty in Rajasthan is severe with 47% of the rural population living below the poverty line (World Bank Report, 1997). Across
India, states have performed differently in reducing poverty. Datt and Ravallion have attempted to isolate and measure the reasons for
this for the period 1958 to 1991. Taking Kerala's annual rate of reduction in poverty (measured through the rural headcount approach)
as the base, the question is asked as to how much of the difference between each state's rate of poverty reduction and that of Kerala is
due to differences in the spread of irrigation, female literacy, and the health of the population measured through the infant mortality
rate. In the case of Rajasthan, the incidence of rural poverty declined at an annual rate of 1.47 percentage points below the rate in
Kerala. According to the study, the main cause of this (equal to 1.09 percentage points) was the low level of female literacy. Of all
states, apart from Jammu and Kashmir, the impact of low literacy levels in slowing down the rate of poverty reduction, was greatest in
Rajasthan. Overall, recent empirical analyses show that (a) increasing literacy through expanding and improving primary education
can reduce levels of poverty and (b) increases in expenditure on primary education are more than proportionately captured by the
poorest children.
(c ) Internal efficiency and cost effectiveness
Low completion rates and high dropout characterizes the primary education system in Rajasthan. Government figures indicate that for
every 100 children who enrolled in class I in 1993 in the ten project districts, only 43 children completed class V, five years later.
Two of the district plans presented annual grade-wise enrollments from 1993/4 to 1997/8. These are shown below:
District   Grade 1    2      3      4      5
Sirohi    28,812    12,368  11,188 10,276  9,368
Nagaur   135,777   65,067  40,501  33,353 32,457
Overall retention rates were 32 and 24% - significantly below the official rates. The main problem appears to be in grade I. Of those
who did enroll in grade II, 76 and 50% completed the primary cycle four years later. Using a standard flow model, the official
completion rate implies that to produce 430 graduates from a 1000 entry utilizes an amount of resources equal to 7.9 pupil-years per



Annex 4
Page 3 of 5
graduate of a five-year cycle. This implies that around 60% more resources are being used than would be required if dropout rates
were zero. Expenditure on elementary education in Rajasthan in 1996/97 was Rs. 1055 crores. For the same number of graduates an
efficient system would have required almost Rs. 400 crores fewer.
The DPEP, including this project, gives a major emphasis to quality improvement both to increase levels of learning of those who
graduate and to reduce the levels of repetition and dropout. Reports prepared for the Mid Term Review of DPEP I were not able to
produce accurate assessments of the effects of the project on dropout rates. Repetition rates had decreased in all DPEP districts in
Tamil Nadu, Assam, Karnataka, Maharashtra and Haryana, on average by 7% a year. The most dramatic falls were in Assam where
very high rates (around 35%) had been halved. A program - Shiksha Karmi - already exists in parts of Rajasthan to improve the
quality of schooling through training courses and the dissemination of newly developed materials and through increased levels of
community support and involvement. Around 6000 villages in 75 blocks have been involved in the program, initiated in 1992 and
taken to scale in 1995. In several ways the proposed project within DPEP is based on the experiences of this program. A recent
evaluation ("A Review of Gender Issues in the Shiksha Karmi Project," Sherry Chand et al., 1997) has compared retention rates in
schools coming under the program with others in adjacent areas outside of the program. Taking 1993/94 intakes, 39% were in class V
in 1997/8 in the Shiksha Karmi schools compared to 25% in the comparator schools outside of the scheme. These rates translate into
8.0 and 11.4 teaching years per primary school graduate respectively in the two types of schools. If the project is similarly successful
in this area, the cost per graduate would fall by around 30%.
(d) Component alternatives, innovations and cost effectiveness
The DPEP, initiated in 1994, is now being implemented in over 150 districts in fourteen states. IDA loans currently support three
projects within the Program. Projects are developed within overall GOI Guidelines which outline the activities which are allowed and
place financial ceilings for civil works and project management. A feature of the Program is the continuous learning which occurs
resulting from common training programs, interactions between project teams across states and from the joint supervision missions.
An outcome of this has been an in-built testing of alternatives in project conception, composition and mode of implementation. In
addition, as part of the ESW leading to Primary Education in India, data from the baseline studies of learning achievement, and
school, teacher and student characteristics undertaken in the initial set of seven DPEP states were analyzed to assess which of the
policy variables open to change had important potential effects on levels of learning achievement.
The Baseline Assessment Survey for Rajasthan allows some very crude initial observations regarding the relationship between
learning achievement and educational inputs including teachers, learning materials and physical infrastructure. Achievements in
mathematics and language were measured for pupils completing classes I and IV across the ten project districts. The availability of
teaching-learning materials (12 items) and aspects of school facilities (14 items) plus the level of teacher vacancies were also
measured. Across the districts, the school-related variables significantly correlated with achievement scores were: teacher vacancies,
reference and story books and magazines, toilets and tables for teachers. Further analyses of the data have been agreed to by the state.
In the proposed project, the main innovation being piloted is the use of so-called para-teachers. Teachers salaries currently consume
97.6% of combined plan and non-plan expenditure on elementary education in Rajasthan leaving little for learning materials and other
inputs which may have a positive effect on the quality of schooling. The total number of teachers in primary schools in 1996/97 was
95,044 plus almost 36,000 teachers in primary sections of upper primary schools. To enroll all primary age children (plus an
additional 10% under and over age children) with a teacher:pupil ratio of 1:40 would require roughly 174,000 teachers. In light of the
severe fiscal conditions in the state, and the positive assessment of the Shiksha Karmi program (described below) the project will
develop a program to place para-teachers in the proposed new schools and in existing schools where increased student attendance
justifies additional teachers. The total number of newly appointed para-teachers over the five-year period will be around 3800, equal
to ten percent of the existing teaching force in the projected districts and three percent of all teachers in the state. The savings as a
proportion of total expenditure on primary education is small but as a proportion of project expenditure it is significant. Equally
important, evaluation of the introduction of para-teachers into both new and existing Government schools will be of importance for all
future plans to expand educational coverage. Current knowledge of the outcomes of similar teachers employed under the Shiksha
Karmi system suggest that, the program can be very cost effective. Compared to conventional schools with regular teachers:
(a) both dropout and repetition rates are significantly lower (even though the schools are located in more 'difficult' areas and the
pupils are economically and socially disadvantaged). The most recent evaluation, of the 1993/94 cohort, shows a 38% dropout rate
with 33% having completed the primary cycle and 29% still in school. In school year 1997/98, 77% of schools had a daily average
attendance rate of 80% and over.
(b) learning achievements of pupils are at least as high - the Baseline Assessment Survey, undertaken during project preparation,
tested levels of leaning achievement in language and mathematics for class I and V children in regular and Shiksha Karmi schools.
Children in the latter group of schools scored higher in class I mathematics in six out of eight districts and in language test in four out
of eight, with no significant differences in the other four districts. In the class IV tests, they scored significantly higher in both
subjects in five of the eight districts, while there we no significant differences in the remaining three districts.
(c) community support is strong.



Annex 4
Page 4 of 5
The initial remuneration of the Shiksha Karmi, or para-teacher, is around one third that of the regular teacher. After eight years of
successful teaching and further training, the remuneration can increase to a level equal to the starting salary of a normal teacher. The
levels of in-service training and professional support, which are essential for the success of the program, are above those for regular
teachers. They are estimated to add another 50% to the salary cost. Overall, the cost per para-teacher is about half that for the regular
teacher. It is anticipated that the para-teachers employed through the project will be subject to the same recruitment criteria, training
and support and remuneration as the teachers in the Shiksha Karmi program. This will be monitored and the effect on learning
evaluated. Existing survey data indicate that the existing para-teachers are cost effective.
(e) Fiscal impact
This project will promote educational expansion and improvement in ten districts in Rajasthan and it is anticipated that a further nine
districts will be covered in a subsequent project. The overall objective of these operations is to provide the facilities and incentives to
universalize a good quality primary education. Since the state has the second lowest literacy rate in India, the financial effort required
to universalize will need to be particularly great. Already the Government's expenditure on education as a share of total non-Plan
expenditure is 26%, one of the highest in the country. Of this, 57% is for elementary education. A recent internal World Bank study
of the state's finances estimated that real expenditures on primary education would need to increase by over 11% a year if
universalization were to be achieved during the Ninth Plan period. This estimate included the cost of employing an additional 38,000
regular teachers. The estimate needs to be viewed in a wider fiscal context of a need to reduce the growth of overall Government
expenditures to restore fiscal balance. Currently, two thirds of the state's total revenues are consumed by salaries, pensions and
interest payments and the fiscal deficit increased from around 3% in the early 1990s to 6.8% in 1995/96. The study suggested the
need for several reforms, particularly in the power and water sectors and in state owned enterprises. In the absence of such reforms
and the continuation of current levels of fiscal deficit, interest payments could increase to almost 30% of total revenues by 2001/02
from current levels of around 18%. Without significant changes to the existing patterns of revenues and expenditures, and the re-
direction of financial resources to the key development areas which require public sector funding, the achievement of the objective of
universal schooling will be adversely affected.
Even if the Government does implement a major program of fiscal reform, an 11% annual real increase in primary education
expenditures is unlikely. The implications are that the universalization objective will need to be seen over a longer time period than
that covered by the Ninth Plan and that the unit costs of education need to fall (while increasing inputs which will enhance learning
achievements). The increased employment of para-teachers within a supportive environment which at least maintains teacher quality
is central to achieving these ends.
The direct fiscal impact of the project for GOR during the period of implementation will be relatively modest compared to the
projections described above. DPEP Guidelines require that the state government contributes 15% of the total cost. This translates to
around Rs. 12.5 crores (US$3 million) a year. In 1997/98, non-plan expenditure on elementary education was Rs. 1620 crores and
plan expenditure (outside of the centrally sponsored schemes) was Rs. 120 crores. Therefore, plan expenditure will need to increase
by around 10%. The risk that the Government's contribution will not be forthcoming is low but as the program to universalize
develops further momentum, the need for overall fiscal reform will intensify if the quality of schooling is not to fall further and if the
levels of school dropouts are to be reversed.



Annex 5
Annex 5
INDIA: Rajasthan District Primary Education Project
Financial Summary
(US$ Million, including contingencies)
Operational Period
2000    2001    2002    2003    2004
Project Costs
Investment Costs               11.6    19.0    13.1       5.5      5.0
Recurrent Costs                12.3    13.9    16.0       4.7      0.2
Annual Total                   23.9    32.9    29.2    10.2        5.1
Cumulative Total               23.9    56.8    86.0    96.2   101.3
Financing Sources (% of total
project costs)
ITF                            88       89      77       79       96
Co-financiers
Govemment of Rajasthan         12       11      23       21        4
Total                      100      100      100      100     100



Annex 6
Page I of 6
Annex 6
INDIA: Rajasthan District Primary Education Project
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
Procurement Arrangements
The procurement arrangements to be undertaken by the project will be the responsibility of the implementing agency, Rajasthan
Council of Primary Education (RCPE). The RCPE will be responsible for all procurement activities either directly or through the
hiring of procurement agents or consultants to assist it.
The RCPE will provide a team of qualified engineers in each district to extend technical support to the School Management and
Village Education Committees (VEC) and to supervise the progress of civil works. The State Project Office (SPO) will have one
Building Advisor, two Assistant Engineers and one Architect (on contract). One Assistant Engineer will be placed in the district and
one Junior Engineer in each block. Staff will be oriented to provide technical assistance to SMC to be able to carry out the civil works
program according to the specified time schedule and also ensure quality.
For all procurement such as MIS, equipment and other supplies, consultants and services, the RCPE will directly manage procurement
activities with the assistance of staff working on procurement matters.
Civil Works
The civil works program encompasses the construction of 1171 primary school buildings, 2455 sheds for alternative schools (AS) in
areas which are not eligible for a formal primary school, 1058 additional classrooms, 6000 toilets, 798 drinking water units (hand-
pumps), 84 Block Resource Centers and 1041 Cluster Resource Centers in 10 educationally disadvantaged districts of Rajasthan. The
construction program also covers repairs and renovations to be made in 2336 existing school buildings and civil works as per
requirement in 9 District Institutes for Educational Training. The average base cost of civil works is US$17.7 million. The cost of
construction of a primary school would be US$5,760, an alternate school would be US$1,570, an additional classroom would be
US$2,800, a CRC would be US$3,940 and a BRC would be USS 0.016 million. The cost of repairs and renovation of existing school
buildings ranges from US$560 to US$1,200. Toilets and drinking water facilities will be provided at a unit cost of US$1,030 and
US$1,010 respectively.
Construction of school buildings and additional classrooms forms a large proportion of the civil works program. In the spirit of
decentralizing project activities as far as possible to the village community, the school and classroom construction below US$20,000
per contract will be undertaken by the SMC and VEC. Therefore, ICB and NCB will not be suitable. Community construction and
direct contracting will be the appropriate procedures and will account for almost the entire civil works program. Further, the remote
locations of some institutions and the low cost of work calls for allowing such works to be procured under the force account and
comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three qualified contractors eligible under the guidelines. However, force
account will be limited to five percent and direct contracting to four percent of civil works costs. NCB will be appropriate for the few
construction activities that are valued at more than US$20,000.
Equipment
Procurement of equipment would be phased on an annual basis in accordance with the requirement of the project activities. Phasing
of the procurement of equipment and furniture will be closely sequenced with the civil works program. Most of the procurement will
be carried out by blocks/districts. Items to be procured include computers, furniture for schools, BRCs and CRCs and office
equipment etc. The average base cost of equipment and furniture for the project is US$1.9 million. Since the value of most of the
items to be procured under equipment and furniture is expected to be below US$50,000, other methods of procurement, such as local
shopping, will be used. NCB will be used for the procurement of items such as computer hardware, software and allied equipment,
books for libraries published by NCERT and NBT, office equipment and fixtures and furniture valued at more than US$50,000.
Vehicles



Annex 6
Page 2 of 6
Procurement of vehicles required for the SPO will be in packages below US$100,000 for which the method of procurement will be
national shopping (DGS&D rate contracts are acceptable under national shopping). Vehicles for the District Project Offices and
DIETs will be hired as per requirement.
Procurement methods (Table A)
ITF-financed works, goods and services will be procured using Bank guidelines of January 1995, revised January, August, 1996,
September 1997 and January 1999 for goods/works and January 1997, revised September 1997 and January 1999, for services. The
procurement methods applicable to the various expenditure categories are summarized in the Table A below. For procurement under
the project, the Bank's standard bid documents shall be used.
* Contracts for civil works estimated to cost over US$20,000 equivalent will be carried out following National Competitive
Bidding (NCB) procedures. Contracts for civil works estimated to cost equivalent of US$20,000 or less will be procured
following procedures acceptable to the Administrator:
(a)    direct contracting;
(b)    under quotations solicited from at least three qualified contractors;
(c)    unit/piece rate system through qualified contractors or registered NGOs or other beneficiary associations,
or
(d)    through Force Account, as last resort.
* Contracts for the purchase of goods valued at more than US$300,000 equivalent each would be procured through International
Competitive Bidding (ICB).
Contracts valued more than US$50,000 but less than US$300,000 may be awarded on the basis of NCB procedures acceptable to
Administrator. Items or groups of items valued US$50,000 equivalent or less per contract may be procured on the basis of
national shopping procedures. Other items or small groups of items such as supply of furniture, equipment and books valued at
less than US$5,000 equivalent per contract may be procured through direct contracting or national shopping procedures.
Contracts estimated to cost US$20,000 equivalent or less for operation and maintenance of equipment, hiring of vehicles and
procurement of educational & teaching materials may be awarded through:
(a)     direct contracting; or
(b)     national shopping procedures.
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
* All contracts for goods with an estimated value of more than US$300,000 equivalent.
* All contracts for works with an estimated value of more than US$300,000 equivalent.
* The first NCB contract each for goods and works regardless of the value.
*  Consultants' contracts with an estimated value of US$100,000 or more for firms and US$50,000 or more for
individuals.
* Terms of Reference for all consultant contracts costing more than US$ 1,000.
Disbursement
The proposed allocation of loan proceeds is given in Table C.
A Special Account would be maintained in the Reserve Bank of India; and would be operated by the Department of Economic Affairs
(DEA) of Government of India. The authorized allocation of the Special Account would be US$2.5 million which represents about 6
months of initial estimated disbursements from the ITF Credit. The Special Account would be operated in accordance with the Bank's
operational policies.
Financial Management System
The State Project Office, Rajasthan will develop and implement a comprehensive computerized financial management system. Project
Monitoring Reports of the project would be generated from the fmancial management system.



Annex 6
Page 3 of 6
The project financial management system would be documented in the form of a 'Financial Management Manual'. This would, inter-
alia, include the: (i) funds flow process; (ii) detailed accounting system (including the Chart of Accounts; formats of books, vouchers,
statements, etc.; formats of financial reports; linkages between the Chart of Accounts and financial reports; inputs of budget and other
data; data capture, information flow and processing; (iii) internal control mechanisms; (iv) financial and accounting policies and
procedures; (v) budgeting and forecasting system; (vi) auditing arrangements; (vii) organization and staffing including job
responsibilities of key staff, and (viii) service standards (benchmarks) for various accounting and fmancial activities. The Financial
Management Manual would serve as a reference document for all project staff.
Assessment of the current Financial Management System: The project is a follow-on project in the on-going District Primary
Education Program (DPEP). The co-ordinating agency for all DPEP Projects in India is DPEP Bureau in the Ministry of Human
Resources. The implementing agency in the state of Rajasthan is the Rajasthan Council of Primary Education. The DPEP Bureau
which has considerable experience of running the DPEP Program in India has the following strengths: (i) a good accounting system
has been established and is operational; (ii) staff are trained to carry out basic accounting functions; (iii) a reasonable system of
internal controls is in place; and (iv) a very good computerized system with a facility for generating several fmancial reports has been
developed and is operational. Financial information from the accounting system is used to prepare various management reports.
However, it must be emphasized that these are the strengths of DPEP Bureau and not of the Project Implementing Agency
and it is being assumed that because of the significant experience DPEP Bureau has in managing the DPEP program, these
strengths will be used to empower the State Project Office, Rajasthan. SPO Rajasthan is at an initial stage of inception.
There is however scope for improvement in the following aspects: (i) use of financial reporting/financial statements as a project
management tool. There is need to analyze financial information and actively use the information in decision-making; (ii) need for
enhanced clarity and consistency of activities and expenditures which are being charged as project expenditure; (iii) documentation of
operation of the computerized system and controls over data integrity (iv) linking of physical progress with financial progress, and (v)
increasing of focus on audit of SMC's, CRC's and BRC's where a significant portion of the expenditure is incurred.
Flow of Funds
Government of India would pass on IDA funds to State Project Office through banking channels. Government of Rajasthan will pass
on its share through a budgetary allocation under a single identifiable line item. The State Project Office, which is a registered
society, would receive funds against this allocation.
SPO will retain part of the funds for payments on activities managed directly by the SPO, and pass on funds to the 10 District Project
Offices through banking channels. The amounts passed on to each DPO would be on the basis of their cash flow forecasts (which in
turn would be based on their work plans and budgets.) It is expected that the transfer of funds from SPO to DPO would be on a
quarterly basis. DPO would utilize the funds for payments on activities managed directly by the DPO and for expenditures/advances
for Block Resource Centres, Cluster Resource Centres and School Management Committees as explained below.
DPOs will provide advances to the respective BRC's, CRC's and VEC's through banking channels based on the approved activities at
those levels. Subsequent payments will be based on the reported expenditure for the quarter and projected expenditure for the next
quarter. It is expected that release of funds for civil works would be in installments of 50%, 35% and 15% of the approved amount of
the works. This design of the funds release mechanism takes into account the objectives of ensuring that there is sufficient amount of
funds available at the works while at the same time ensuring that internal controls are maintained and that amounts are being promptly
and regularly accounted for. The first installment would be paid after approval of the works. The subsequent installments would be
paid on achievement of the objectives specified for the previous installment.
The IDA accounts of BRC's would be operated by the BRC Facilitator or jointly by BRC Facilitator and Chairman Block Education
Committee - depending on the nature and quantum of expense, CRC's by the CRC Facilitator and VEC's jointly by the Chairman and
Member Secretary of the VEC. These payments can be to suppliers, consultants, staff etc. based on approved activities. These
payments would be supported by standard documentation.
Accounting and Internal Controls
Books of accounts for the project would be maintained using double-entry bookkeeping principles. Standard books of accounts (cash
and bankbooks, journals, ledgers, etc.) would be maintained at the SPO and DPO levels using an integrated computerized accounting
system.
A Chart of Accounts would be developed to enable data to be captured and classified by expenditure center, budget heads, project
components, expenditure categories, and disbursement categories. This would match closely with the classification of expenditures
and sources of funds indicated in the project documents (Project Implementation Plan and Project Cost Tables).



Annex 6
Page 4 of 6
Accounting for BRC's, CRC's and SMC's in each district would be done at the respective DPO. The accounting records (sub-ledgers)
at the DPO level would provide details of accounts of the various BRC's, CRC's and SMC's. (important tool for monitoring the
amounts advanced to and expenditures incurred on the various BRC's, CRC's and SMC's.) No books of accounts will be maintained
at the BRC's, CRC's and SMC's other then basic reporting of expenditures.
Transaction Infornation Flow and Accounting:
(i)    The SPO and DPO will generate and maintain the transaction vouchers for their various receipts and expenditures made at
the SPO and DPO levels respectively (including at the DPO level, for amounts advanced by DPO to the BRC's, CRC's and
SMC's);
(ii)    Each BRC, CRC and SMC would generate the transaction vouchers for receipts and payments made by it on various
activities. At the BRC level, the BRC Facilitator will record the transactions mainly bank receipts and payments. At CRC
level it will be done by CRC facilitator. At SMC level this will be done by the member secretary of the SMC. There will be
a systematic filing of the supporting documentation for the transactions. At the time of submission of monthly account
statement to the district, at the DPO' s, these monthly accounts statements would be approved/authorized after being correctly
classified for account heads (based on the Chart of Accounts), and entered into the computerized accounting system. This
would enable generation of the sub-ledger giving the details of the accounts of each unit.
(iii)    Consolidation of the project accounts at the SPO would be done by consolidation of accounts of the SPO and the 10 DPOs,
which would be done by the computerized system. Data transfer would be handled through either diskette transfer from
DPO' s to SPO or through an integrated computer network - the NICNET.
Internal Controls: Internal control mechanisms include the following:
(i)    the establishment of appropriate budgeting systems, and regular monitoring of actual financial performance with budgets and
targets;
(ii)   identification of expenditure which can be charged to the project, and the categories under which the expenditure would be
charged;
(iii)   accounting of expenditure on activities would be based on actual expenditures, and not on the basis of estimated costs.
Financial Reporting
Project Financial Statements and Project Financial Management Reports would be generated from the project accounting system. The
main objective of the financial management reports is to provide project management with timely information on various financial
aspects, and thereby serve as an active project management tool.
The SPO and DPOs would generate quarterly financial management reports from the integrated computerized fmancial management
system for the whole project and for their respective districts respectively. These reports would be management-oriented (i.e.,
summaries rather than transactional details). The reports would include: (i) a comparison of budgeted and actual expenditure and
analysis of major variances, including on sources and application of funds (by components and summarized expenditure categories)
and on key physical parameters; and (ii) forecasts for the next 2 quarters. These reports and the Withdrawal Application (which would
be based on the financial forecasts and actual expenditures classified by disbursement category) would also be used by IDA for
quarterly disbursements in accordance with the disbursement procedures under LACI.
Auditing Arrangements
The purpose of the audit would be to provide an independent confirmation to project management and to IDA on the accuracy of
financial statements and working of internal controls; and to supplement the internal control mechanism. The Accounts of the Project
will be audited by the Comptroller and Auditor General of India (CAG) and a firm of Chartered Accountants. The annual project
financial statements audited by the firm of Chartered Accountants would be submitted within 6 months of the close of GOI's fiscal
year (as required under the Bank's operational policies).
The Terms of Reference of the firm of Chartered Accountants would include a concurrent audit. This would strengthen internal
controls, and would also facilitate early completion of the annual audit. Since a significant portion of the expense will be made at the
level of SMC's, CRC's and BRC's, the Terms of Reference drawn up for the auditors would be oriented towards a strong emphasis on



Annex 6
Page 5 of 6
the audit of these units involving site visits. The auditors would carry out such tests and controls as deemed necessary by them. In
accordance with the Bank's operational policies, the Terms of Reference and qualifications of the firm of Chartered Accountants
would be reviewed by the Bank. The firm of Chartered Accountants would be appointed before the start of the project.
Staffing
Key Professional Staff: The most important requirement for effective fmancial management of the project is appointment of qualified
and appropriate staff at key levels. The financial and accounting team for the project would be headed by a Financial Controller
located in the SPO. The finance and accounting team would have overall responsibility for the financial management aspects of the
project. The Financial Controller would report to the Project Director for the project. The Financial Controller would be a qualified
accounting and finance professional with about 4/5 years experience.
At each of the DPOs, the finance function would be headed by an Assistant Accounts Officer with about 4/5 years experience,
including suitable experience in modem accounting and financial practices. The Assistant Accounts Officer will be fully responsible
for all fin ncial and accounting aspects at the DPO level and below. The Assistant Accounts Officers would report functionally to the
Financial Controller, and administratively to the District Project Manager.
Supporting Staff: Both the SPO and DPO would have appropriate number of accountants/account clerks to carry out the various
routine activities under the direction of the key professional staff indicated above. The number of these staff would be determined
based on the quantum of activity. To promote efficiency and maintain a lean organization, all routine activities relating to generation
of books of accounts, compilation, preparation of financial reports, etc., would be handled through the computerized financial
management system to the maximum extent possible.
Readiness for Implementation and Next Steps
An agreement has been reached with the DPEP Bureau and SPO, Rajasthan on the form and content of the Project
Monitoring Reports.
The final key target dates agreed with the Bureau and SPO, Rajasthan are summarized as under:
Recruitment of Key Staff: July 31, 1999
Appointment of Auditors: July 31, 1999
Implementation of a computerized Financial Management System: July 15, 2000



Annex 7
Page I of 7
Annex 7
INDIA: Rajasthan District Primary Education Project
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements1
(in US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category                             Procurement Method                  Total Cost
(including
contingencies)
ICB        NCB         Other /a    N.B.F
1. Works
Civil Works                                          0.21       21.26        -            21.48
(0.19)    (19.23)                    (19.43)
2. Goods
Furniture                                            0.91        0.10        -             1.01
(0.82)     (0.09)                     (0.92)
Equipment                                            0.34        0.80        -             1.15
(0.31)     (0.73)                     (1.04)
Vehicles                                             -           0.04                      0.04
(0.04)                    (0.04)
Books and Libraries                                  3.37        1.44        -             4.81
(3.05)     (1.31)                     (4.35)
3. Services
Training and Consultants
-Project Preparation & Implementation                -          12.94        -            12.94
(Incl Training, Workshop &                                     (12.94)                   (12.94)
Fellowships)
-Institutional Development (includes
Local and Foreign Consultants,                       -          14.67        -            14.67
Studies, Professional Services and                             (14.67)                   (14.67)
NGOs)
4. Miscellaneous
-Salaries of Additional Staff                        -          30.36        -            30.36
(21.66)                   (21.66)
-Incremental Operating Expenses (i.e.                -           4.26        -             4.26
consumables, office expenses)                                   (3.08)                    (3.08)
-Educational and Teaching Materials                  -           7.92        -             7.92
(5.65)                    (5.65)
-Hiring of Vehicles                                              2.55        -             2.55
(1.82)                    (1.82)
-Equipment Operation & Maintenance                   -           0.08        -             0.08
(0.06)                    (0.06)
TOTAL                                                4.84       96.44        -           101.3
(4.4)     (81.3)                     (85.7)
For details on presentation of Procurement Methods refer to OD 11.02, "Procurement Arrangements for Investment Operations."
Details on Consultant Services can be shown more easily in the Table Al format (additional to Table A, where applicable).



Annex 7
Page 2 of 7
Note: N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed (includes elements procured under parallel cofinancing procedures,
consultancies under trust funds, any reserved procurement, and any other miscellaneous items). The procurement
arrangement for the items listed under "Other" and details of the items listed as "N.B.F." need to be explained in
footnotes to the table or in the text.
/a "Other Methods" include direct contracting, comparison of price quotations, construction through communities
and force account.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan/ITF credit



Annex 7
Page 3 of 7
Annex 7
INDIA: Rajasthan District Primary Education Project
Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(in US$ million equivalent)
Selection Method                         Total Cost
Consultant Services                                                                     (including
Expenditure Category                                                                   contingencies)
QCBS    QBS       SFB      LCS       CQ      Other   N.B.F.
A. Institutions
*  Project Preparation and   5.6                               2.4                           8.0
Implementation (Incl.
Training, Workshops and
Fellowships)
*  Institutional Development  7.35                             3.15                         10.5
(Incl Local and Foreign
Consultants, Studies,
Professional Services and
NGOs)__                               _   __   _   __   _   __   _   _  _  _
B. Individuals
*  Project Preparation and                                     5.0                          5.0
Implementation (Incl.
Training, Workshops and
Fellowships)
*  Institutional Development                                   4.2                          4.2
(Incl Local and Foreign
Consultants, Studies,
Professional Services and
N G O s)__                                     _   _ _  _   __   _   _ _  _   __   _   _ _  _   _  _
Total 12.95                                14.75                 .    27.7
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications (incl. single source contracts)
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan.



Annex 7
Page 4 of 7
Annex 7
INDIA: Rajasthan District Primary Education Project
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Reviewii
Expenditure              Contract Value               Procurement             Contracts Subject to
Category                 (Threshold)                   Method                  Prior Review /
Estimated Total Value
Subject to Prior
Review
1. Civil Works             Civil works estimated to
cost the equivalent of
US$20,000 or less per
contract, up to an aggregate
not exceeding S$21,260,000
may be executed by:
(i) Direct Contracting up to   Direct Contracting       Post review only
an aggregate not exceeding
US$850,000;
(ii) on the basis of       Solicitation of 3 bids       Post review only
comparison of price
quotations obtained from at
least three qualified
contractors eligible under
the guidelines; or
(iii) Unit/piece rate systems   Rate Contract           Post review only
through qualified
contractors or Registered
NGOs or other beneficiary
associations; or
(iv) by Force Account as a    Force Account             Post review only
last resort up to an aggregate
not exceeding
US$1,100,000, in a manner
satisfactory to the
Administrator.
Civil works estimated to   National Competitive        First works contract under
cost more than the         Bidding (NCB)              NCB regardless of value and
equivalent of US$20,000 per                           all contracts above
contract.                                             US$300,000 by prior review
in accordance with
paragraphs 2 and 3 of
Appendix I to the
Guidelines. All others by
post review.
2. Goods
(a) Furniture, equipment,  US$5,000 or less per       Direct Contracting          Post review only
books for libraries and    contract up to an aggregate
materials                  not exceeding US$150,000
equivalent
US$50,000 or less per      National Shopping            Post review only
contract, up to an aggregate   Procedures (includes
not exceeding US$          DGS&D Rate Contracts)
2,190,000 equivalent
2 Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement Documentation" and contact the
Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.



Annex 7
Page 5 of7
More than US$50,000 per    National Competitive       First goods contract under
contract, up to an aggregate   Bidding (NCB)          NCB regardless of value and
not exceeding                                         all contracts above
US$4,620,000 equivalent                               US$300,000 by prior review
in accordance with
paragraphs 2 and 3 or
Appendix I to the
guidelines. All others by
post review.
(b) Vehicles               US$ 100,000 or less per    National Shopping             Post review only
contract, up to an aggregate   Procedures (includes
not exceeding US$ 40,000.   DGS&D Rate Contracts)
3. Services
(a) Procurement Agent      (i) More than US$200,000    Quality and Cost Based     Prior review of all
contracts, research contracts,  per contract up to an  Selection (QCBS)           consultant contracts shall be
IEC contracts, professional   aggregate not exceeding                             governed by the provision of
services, NGO contracts,   US$2,770,000;                                          paragraphs (i), (ii), (iii) and
studies, training, workshops                                                      (iv) below;
and fellowships.
(ii) US$200,000 or less per   Quality and Cost Based  (i) with respect to each
contract up to an aggregate    Selection (QCBS) with  contract for the employment
not exceeding              Short List (could comprise    of consulting firms
US$8,320,000               of domestic firms only if  estimated to cost the
foreign consultants are not    equivalent of US$200,000
interested)                or more, the procedures set
forth in paragraphs 1, 2 and
[other than the third
subparagraph of paragraph
2(a)] and 5 of Appendix I to
the Consultant Guidelines
shall apply.
(ii) With respect to each
contract for the employment
of consulting firms
estimated to cost the
equivalent of US$100,000
or more, but less than the
equivalent of US$200,000,
the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 1, 2 [other than
the second subparagraph of
paragraph 2(a)] and 5 of
Appendix I to the
Consultant Guidelines shall
apply.
(iii) With respect to each
contract for the employment
of individual consultants
estimated to cost the
equivalent of $50,000 or
more, the qualifications,
experience, terms of
reference and terms of
employment of the
consultants shall be
furnished to the
Administrator for its prior
review and approval. The
contract shall be awarded
only after the said approval



Annex 7
Page 6 of 7
shall have been given.
(iv) Terms of Reference for
all contracts.
All other cases: Post Review
(iii) US$100,000 or less per  (i) QCBS with Short List
contract, up to an aggregate   (could comprise of domestic
not exceeding              firms only if foreign
US$16,600,000 equivalent    consultants are not
interested)
(ii) Single Source Selection
- (acceptable for tasks
representing a natural
continuation of assignment,
when rapid selection
essential, when only one
firm is qualified, or for
small assignments)
4. Miscellaneous
(a) Incremental operating  Incremental operating costs
costs and maintenance      and maintenance estimated
to cost the equivalent of
US$ 20,000 or less per
contract, up to an aggregate
not exceeding US$
10,600,000 may be executed
by:
(i) Direct contracting up to    Direct Contracting      Post review only
an aggregate not exceeding
US$8,250,000; or
(ii) On the basis of price  Solicitation of three bids  Post review only
quotations obtained from at
least three qualified
contractors eligible under
the guidelines up to an
aggregate amount not
exceeding US$2,350,000.
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:



Annex 7
Page 7 of 7
Annex 7
INDIA: Rajasthan District Primary Education Project
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category              Amount in US$    Financing Percentage
million
Civil Works                                          17.7              90%
Equipment, Furniture, Vehicles and Books              5.7      100% of foreign
expenditures, 100%
of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost) and
80% of local
expenditures for
other items procured.
Training, Workshops, Fellowships and                 25.9             100%
Consultant Services
Incremental Operating and Maintenance Costs          29.5      80% until March 31,
2001; 60% from
April 1, 2001 until
March 31, 2002;
55% from April 1,
2002 until March 31,
2003; and 25%
thereafter.
Unallocated                                           6.9               -
Total                                                85.7              85



Annex 8
Page 1 of I
Annex 8
INDIA: Rajasthan District Primary Education Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                     Planned               Actual
(At final PCD stage)
50.0                54.2
PHRD Grant (Japan)                               85.0                 85.0
Total                                            135.0               139.2
B. Project Schedule                             Planned              Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)     19 months           23 months
First Bank mission (identification)           08/11/1997           08/11/1997
Appraisal mission departure                   08/21/1998           11/16/1998
Negotiations                                  10/22/1998           03/23/1999
Planned Date of Effectiveness                 03/15/1999           07/31/1999
Prepared by: Government of India / Rajasthan
Preparation assistance: PHRD Grant (Japan)
Bank staff who worked on the project included: N.K. Jangira (Senior Education Specialist,
SASED, Task Leader), Prema Clarke (Education Specialist, SASED, Co-Task Leader), Edward
Heneveld (India Education Team Leader), Keith Hinchliffe (Senior Economist, SASED),
Kalpana Seethepalli (Operations Analyst, SASED), Susan Hirshberg (Education Specialist,
SASED), Vijay Rewal (Consultant Architect), Adriaan Verspoor (Lead Education Specialist
(AFTH3) formerly Education Adviser (SASED), Rajat Narula (Financial Analyst, SACIF), Mam
Chand (Procurement Specialist, SACIF). Hiroko Imamura (LEGSA); Anthony Byrne (SARFM);
Agustin Litvak (SARPS) assisted the team prior to the negotiations. John Middleton (Lead
Education Specialist, EACTF), Marlaine Lockheed (Sector Leader, MNSHD), John Shotton
(Deputy Director, Center for Overseas and Developing Education) acted as peer reviewers.
Sudesh Ponnappa (Program Assistant, SASED) assisted in the mission preparation and
documentation, Gertrude Stubblefield (Team Assistant, SASED) assisted during negotiations.



Annex 9
Annex 9
INDIA: Rajasthan District Primary Education Project
Documents in the Project File*
A. Project Implementation Plan
1.   Rajasthan District Primary Education Project I - Project Implementation Plan
2.    Rajasthan District Primary Education Project I - Working Plans for Jhalawar, Nagaur, Bhilwara, Sirohi,
Kota, Sriganganagar, Jhunjunu, Tonk and Alwar Districts
3     Rajasthan District Primary Education Project I - GOI Preappraisal Mission (June 1-12, 1998) Report by
Education Consultants India Limited
4.    Rajasthan District Primary Education Project I - Project Costs for Districts and State Component
5.    Rajasthan District Primary Education Project I - Rajasthan State Component Plan - Rajasthan Council of
Primary Education.
6.   Annual Work Plan and Budget (December 1998 - March 2000) - State Level Intervention (DPEP) -
RCPE
B. Assessment Studies
1 .   Rajasthan District Primary Education Project I - Baseline Assessment Survey of Rajasthan (June 1998) by
State Institute of Educational Research and Training, Udaipur
2.    Rajasthan District Primary Education Project I - Rajasthan State Finance Study by Center for Applied
Research and Studies, Jaipur
3.    Rajasthan District Primary Education Project I - Social Assessment Studies in the districts of Jhalawar,
Nagaur, Bhilwara, Sirohi, Kota, Sriganganagar, Jhunjunu, Tonk and Alwar
C. Other
1.   Rajasthan District Primary Education Project I - Bid Document for Procurement of Computer Hardware
and Software - RCPE
2.    Rajasthan District Primary Education Project I - Procurement Plan - RCPE
3.    Rajasthan District Primary Education Project I - Construction Manual
*Including electronic files.



Annex 10
Page I of 4
Annex 10
INDIA: Rajasthan District Primary Education Project
Statement of Loans and Credits
Status of Bank Group Operations in India
Operations Portfolio
(As of March 31, 1999)
Difference Between Expected
and Actual
Original Amount in US$               Disbursements a/                  Last PSR
Millions                                                  Supervision Rating
b/
Project ID  Fiscal              Purpose                                                         Using       Using
Year                                    IBRD       IDA    Cancel.  Undisb   Original   Formal.   Develop.   Inpia_.
Esti-      Revised    Objec-    Progress
mates       Est.        Tives
Number of Closed Projects: 331
Active Projects
IN-PE-9869    1989   NATHPA JHAERI HYDRO              485.00         0.00    0.00      111.65      111.63        0.00      S          S
IN-PE-9982    1990   NOR REG TRANSMISSION             485.00        0.C0    0.00       178.66      178.65        0.00      S          S
IN-PE-9988    1991   TECH EDUCATION II                  0.00      307.10   51.37        75.02      133.42      55.61       S          S
IN-PE-9877    1991   DAM SAFETY                        23.00      130.00   60.03        25.81       84.17      -4.50       S          S
IN-PE-10390   1992   MAHARASHTRA FORESTRY               0.00      124.00   16.18        34.18       49.91      33.23       S          S
IN-PE-9963    1992   POPULATION VIII                    0.00       79.00    0.00        55.86       51.17        0.00      S          S
IN-PE-9946    1992   NATIONAL HIGHWAYS II             153.00      153.00    0.00       154.13       91.19        0.00      S          S
IN-PE-9921    1992   SHRIMP & FISH CULTURE              0.00       85.00   48.51        16.05       63.78       15.17      U          S
IN-PE-10424   1993   NATL LEPROSY ELIMIN.               0.00        85.00    9.07       24.71       32.15        4.44      S          HS
IN-PE-10418   1993   KARNATAKA WS & ENV/SAN             0.00        92.00    0.00       31.64       29.26        0.00      S          S
IN-PE-10416   1993   PGC POWER SYSTEM                 350.00         0.00    0.00      117.11      107.51        0.00      S          S
IN-PE-10410   1993   RENEWABLE RESOURCES               75.00      115.00    0.00        70.78       97.72        0.00      S          S
IN-PE-10408   1993   BIHAR PLATEAU                      0.00      117.00    0.00        51.37       57.45        0.00      S          S
IN-PE-10407   1993  ADP - RAJASTHAN                     0.00      106.00    0.00        22.98       23.17        0.00      S          S
IN-PE-9977     1993   ICDS II (BIHAR & MP)              0.00      194.00    0.00       118.38        83.30      93.67      U          U
IN-PE-9961    1993   UP SODIC LANDS RECLAM              0.00       54.70    0.00        12.94         7.24       0.00      S          S
IN-PE-9959    1993   RUBBER                             0.00        92.00   36.58       23.19       55.39       11.79      S          S
IN-PE-9955    1993   UTTAR PRADESH BASIC ED             0.00      165.00    0.00        21.79       -9.14   -142.42        S          S
IN-PE-10457   1994   POPULATION IX                      0.00       88.60    0.00        50.16       17.61        0.00      S          S
IN-PE-10455   1994   BLINDNESS CONTROL                  0.00      117.80    0.00        81.38       35.60        0.00      S          S
IN-PE-10449   1994   ANDHRA PRADESH FOREST.             0.00        7 7.40    0.00      25.54        12.19       0.00      S          S
IN-PE-10448   1994   FORESTRY RESEARCH ED               0.00       47.00    0.00        22.43       38.17        4.22      S          S
IN-PE-9964    1994   WATER RES CONS.HARYANA             0.00      258.00    0.00       147.93       78.87        0.00      U          U
IN-PE-9870    1994   CONTAINER TRANSPORT               94.00         0.00    0.00       73.23       67.24        0.00      S          S
IN-PE-10563   1995   FINANCIAL SECTOR DEV             700.00         0.00  200.0       266.97    -233.03         0.00      S          S
0
IN-PE-10522   1995   ASSAM RURAL INFRASTR.              0.00      126.00    0.00        97.64       39.14        0.00      U          U
IN-PE-10506   1995   MP FORESTRY                        0.00        58.00    0,00       19.06         7.61       0.00      S          S
IN-PE-10503   1995   AGRIC HUMAN RES DEVT               0.00       59.50    0.00        33.64       26.20        0.00      S          S
IN-PE-10489   1995   AP 1ST REF. HEALTH SYS             0.00      133.00    0.00        66.14         9.05       0.00      S          S
IN-PE-10476   1995   TAMIL NADU WRCP                    0.00      282.90    0.00       211.95      105.73        0.00      S          S
IN-PE-10464   1995   DISTRICT PRIMARY ED                0.00      260.30    0.00       127.92       33.10        0.00      S          S
IN-PE-10463   1995   INDUS POLLUTION PREVEN           143.00       25.00    0.00       144.82       80.56        0.00      S          S
IN-PE-10461   1995   MADRAS WATER SUP II              275.80         0.00  189.3        56.59      156.33        5.51      S          S
0
IN-PE-43310   1996   COAL ENV&SOCIAL MIT.               0.00        63.00    0.00       45.55       14.17        0.00      U          U
IN-PE-39935   1996   ILFS-INFRAS FINANCE              200.00         5.00    0.00      179.22       98.09        0.00      S          S
IN-PE-35825   1996   STATE HEALTH SYS II                0.00      350.00    0.00       263.11       89.05        0.00      S          S
IN-PE-35821   1996   DISTRICT PRIM EDUC 2               0.00      425.20    0.00       307.88         5.54       0.00      S          S
IN-PE-35170   1996   ORISSA POWER SECTOR              350.00         0.00    0.00      326.13       83.63        0.00      S          S
IN-PE-10529   1996   ORISSA WRCP                        0.00      290.90    0.00       161.11       -2.82        0.00      S          S
IN-PE-10485   1996   HYDROLOGY PROJECT                  0.00      142.00    0.00        94.62       45.74        0.00      S          S
IN-PE-10484   1996   UP RURAL WATER                    59.60         0.00    0.00       50.24         7.83       0.00      HS         HS
IN-PE-10480   1996   B SEWAGE DISPOSAL                167.00       25.00    0.00       119.89       86.34        0.00      S          S
IN-PE-49301   1997   A.P. EMERG. CYCLONE               50.00      100.00    0.00       119.95       36.97        0.00      U          U
IN-PE-45600   1997   TA ST'S RD INFRA DEV              51.50         0.00    0.00       33.82       15.32        0.00      S          S
IN-PE-44449   1997   RURAL WOMEN'S DEV                  0.00       19.50    0.00        18.32         7.34       0.00      U          U
IN-PE-43728   1997   ENV CAPACITY BLDG TA               0.00       50.00    0.00        43.30         9.45       0.00      S          S
IN-PE-36062   1997   ECODEVELOPMENT                     0.C0        28.00    0.00       22.54         2.86       0.00      U          U
IN-PE-35158   1997   AP IRRIGATION III                175.00      150.00    0.00       254.04        22.78       0.00      S          S
IN-PE-10531   1997   REPRODUCTIVE HEALTHI               0.00      248.30    0.00       233.16        48.36       0.00      S          S
IN-PE-10511   1997   MALARIA CONTROL                    0.00      164.80    0.00       152.45       20.61        0.00      S          U
IN-PE-10473   1997   TUBERCULOSIS CONTROL               0.00      142.40    0.00       128.63       46.59        0.00      S          U
IN-PE-9995    1997   STATE HIGHWAYS I(AP)             350.00         0.00    0.00      327.32       27.32        0.00      S          S
IN-PE-50638   1998   UP BASIC ED II                     0.00        59.40    0.00       31.35       -6.98        0.00      S          S
IN-PE-49477   1998   XERALA FORESTRY                    0.00       39.00    0.00        35.25       -2.09        0.00      S          S
IN-PE-49385   0998  AP ECON RESTRUCTURING             301.30      241.90    0.00       483.35      -61.49        0.00
IN-PE-38021   1998   DPEP III (BIHAR)                   0.00      152.00    0.00       139.31        16.56       0.00      S          S
IN-PE-35827   1998   WOMEN & CHILD DEVEP.               0.00      300.00    0.00       301.87         0.00       0.00
IN-PE-35824   1998  'JP DIV AGRC SUPPORT               79.90       50.00    0.00       125.09        10.92       0.00
IN-PE-35169   1998   U.P. FORESTRY                      0.00       52.94    0.00        45.48         1.90       0.00      S          S
IN-PE-35160   1998   NARYANA POWER APL-I               60.00         0.00    0.00       41.33         9.32       0.00      S          HS



Annex 10
Page 2 of 4
Difference Between Expected
and Actual
Original Amount in US$              Disbursements a/                 Last PSR
Millions                                                Supervision Rating
b/
Project ID   Fiscai           Purpose                                                        Using       Using
Year                                   IBRD      IDA    Cancel.  Undisb   Original   Formal.   Develop.   Implem.
Esti-     Revised    Objec-    Progress
mates       Est.       Tives
IN-PE-10561   1998   NATL AGR TECHNOLOGY             96.80      100.00    0.00      191.07        9.16       0.00
IN-PE-10496   1998   ORISSA HEALTH SYS                0.00       76.40    0.00       73.56        -.03       0.00      S         S
IN-PE-9979    1998   COAL SECTOR REHAB              530.00        2.00   15.00      472.13       48.88       0.00      S         S
IN-PE-50651   1999  MAHARASH HEALTH SYS               0.00      134.00    0.00      129.77       -3.09       0.00
IN-PE-50646   1999  rUP SODIC LANDS II                0.00      194.10    0.00      192.25        4.94       0.00
IN-PE-49537   1999  AP POWER APL I                  210.00        0.00    0.00      199.83      -10.17       0.00
Total                                              5,464.9    7,038.1   626.0    7,914.6    2,405.3          76.7
Active Projects       Closed Projects          Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):               3,734.88           33,285.32           37,020.20
Of which has been repaid:                178.66           10,509.62           10,688.28
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:              11,698.29           22,105.50           33,803.79
Amount sold                      :                0.00              133.77              133.77
Of which repaid              :                 0.00              133.77              133.77
Total Undisbursed                :            7,914.57               59.71            7,974.28
a. Estimated disbursements to date as projected at appraisal, or if disbursement estimate has
been formally revised, then revised disbursement estimate, minus actual disbursements to
date.
b. Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a letter based system was
introduced (HS = highly Satisfactory, S - satisfactory, U = unsatisfactory, HU = highly
unsatisfactory): see proposed Improvements in Project and Portfolio Performance Rating
Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.



Annex 10
Page 3 of 4
India
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
(In US$ millions, as of February 28, 1999)
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                            IFC
FY Approval        Company        Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic   Loan   Equity   Quasi  Partic
1964/75/79/90      MUSCO              0.00"   1.08    0.00    0.00    0.00     1.08    0.00    0.00
1978/87/91/93      HDFC              40.00    2.29    0.00    0.00   40.00     2.29    0.00    0.00
1981               Nagarjuna Steel    0.00    .07    0.00    0.00    0.00      .07     0.00    0.00
1981/86/81/91/93/96  ITW Signode      0.00    1.55    0.00    0.00    0.00     1.55    0.00    0.00
1981/86/89/94/92   TISCO              3.28   15.37    0.00    0.00    3.28    15.37    0.00    0.00
1981/90/93         M&M                 .33    6.49    0.00    1.33    .33      6.49    0.00    1.33
1984/90/94         India Lease         .66    .86    0.00    0.00    .66       .86     0.00    0.00
1984/91            Bihar Sponge       12.68    .68    0.00    0.00   12.68     .68     0.00    0.00
1986               EXB-City Mills      .48    0.00    0.00    0.00    .48      0.00    0.00    0.00
1986               EXB-CECL             .01    0.00    0.00    0.00    .01     0.00    0.00    0.00
1986               EXB-NB Footwear    .19    0.00    0.00    0.00    .19       0.00    0.00    0.00
1986               EXB-STG             .37    0.00    0.00    0.00     .37     0.00    0.00    0.00
1986               EXB-TAN             .03    0.00    0.00    0.00    .03      0.00    0.00    0.00
1986/92/93/94      GESCO              0.00   11.80    0.00    0.00    0.00    11.80    0.00    0.00
1986/93/94/95     India Equipment      .38    .77    0.00    .93    .38        .77     0.00    .93
1987               Hindustan          4.03    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.03     0.00    0.00    0.00
1987/88/90/93      Titan Watches       .68    1.03    0.00    0.00    .68      1.03    0.00    0.00
1988/90/92         Tata Telecom       0.00    .10    0.00    0.00    0.00      .10     0.00    0.00
1988/94            GKN Invel          0.00    1.40    0.00    0.00    0.00     1.40    0.00    0.00
1989               AEC                10.53    0.00    0.00    0.00   10.53    0.00    0.00    0.00
1989               UCAL               0.00    .63    0.00    0.00    0.00      .63     0.00    0.00
1989/90/94         Tata Electric     27.22    0.00    0.00    0.00   27.22     0.00    0.00    0.00
1989/91            Gujarat State      4.46    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.46     0.00    0.00    0.00
1989/95           JSB India           0.00    1.21    0.00    0.00    0.00     1.21    0.00    0.00
1990               HOEL               0.00    .28    0.00    0.00    0.00      .28     0.00    0.00
1990               TDICI-VECAUS II   0.00    1.41    0.00    0.00    0.00      1.41    0.00    0.00
1990/92            CESC              41.59    0.00    0.00   56.95   41.59     0.00    0.00   56.95
1990/93/94/98     IL & FS             18.75    6.23    1.81    6.00   18.75    6.23     1.81    6.00
1990/94           ICICI-IFGL          0.00    .30    0.00    0.00    0.00      .30     0.00    0.00
1990/95           ICICI-SPIC Fine     0.00    1.88    0.00    0.00    0.00     1.88    0.00    0.00
1991               BSES               17.50    0.00    0.00    0.00   17.50    0.00    0.00    0.00
1991/93            Triveni            0.00    1.11    0.00    0.00    0.00     1.11    0.00    0.00
1991/96            VARUN              0.00    1.35    0.00    0.00    0.00     1.35    0.00    0.00
1992              Indus VC Mgt Co     0.00    .01    0.00    0.00    0.00      .01     0.00    0.00
1992               Indus VCF          0.00    1.00    0.00    0.00    0.00     1.00    0.00    0.00
1992               Info Tech Fund     0.00    .64    0.00    0.00    0.00      .64     0.00    0.00
1992               SKF Bearings       2.86    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.86     0.00    0.00    0.00
1992/93            Arvind Mills       0.00   17.10    0.00    0.00    0.00    17.10    0.00    0.00
1992/94/97         Ispat Industries  78.31    5.77    0.00   85.00   38.45     5.77    0.00    0.00
1992/95           IL&FS Venture       0.00    1.05    0.00    0.00    0.00     1.05    0.00    0.00
1992/96/97         NICCO-UCO          6.31    .50    0.00    0.00    2.31      .50     0.00    0.00
1993/94/96         Indo Rama          19.68   11.98    0.00    7.87   19.68    11.98   0.00    7.87
1993/97            20TH Century       13.31    .80    0.00     .89   13.31     .80     0.00    .89
1994               Centurion Growth   0.00    2.39    0.00    0.00    0.00     2.39    0.00    0.00
1994               Chowgule           13.42    4.58    0.00   21.09   13.42    4.58    0.00   21.09
1994               Crdcap Asset Mgt   0.00    .32    0.00    0.00    0.00      .32     0.00    0.00
1994               DLF Cement          8.80    4.94    0.00   12.75    8.80    4.94    0.00   L2.75
1994               GujaratAmbuja      0.00    8.23    0.00    0.00    0.00     8.23    0.00    0.00
1994               Taurus Starshare   0.00    7.17    0.00    0.00    0.00     7.17    0.00    0.00
1994/97            GVK               28.33    7.45    0.00   33.98   28.33     7.45    0.00   33.98
1994/98            Global Trust       5.00    3.19    5.00    0.00    5.00     3.19    5.00    0.00



Annex 10
Page 4 of 4
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                            IFC
FY Approval        Company        Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic   Loan   Equity   Quasi  Partic
1995               Centurion Bank     0.00    3.87    0.00    0.00    0.00     3.87    0.00    0.00
1995               EXIMBANK           18.18    0.00    0.00    0.00   18.18    0.00    0.00    0.00
1995               GE Capital        10.00    5.00    0.00    0.00   10.00     4.39    0.00    0.00
1995               Prism Cement       15.00    5.02    0.00   12.00   15.00    5.02    0.00   12.00
1995               Rain Calcining     19.25    5.47    0.00    0.00   19.25    5.46    0.00    0.00
1995               Sara Fund          0.00    6.12    0.00    0.00    0.00     2.60    0.00    0.00
1995/98            RPG                0.00   11.25    0.00    0.00    0.00    11.25    0.00    0.00
Communicatns
1996               India Direct Fnd   0.00    7.50    0.00    0.00    0.00     4.51    0.00    0.00
1996               Indus II           0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00     3.00    0.00    0.00
1996               Indus Mauritius    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00
1996               United Riceland    10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996/99            Moser Baer         4.00    2.14    0.00    0.00    4.00     2.14    0.00    0.00
1997               Asian Electronic   0.00    5.50    0.00    0.00    0.00     5.50    0.00    0.00
1997               CEAT              20.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   15.00     0.00    0.00    0.00
1997               Duncan Hospital    7.00    .84    0.00    0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00    0.00
1997               EEPL               0.00    .03    0.00    0.00    0.00      .03     0.00    0.00
1997               Owens Coming      25.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   25.00     0.00    0.00    0.00
1997               SAPL               0.00    .07    0.00    0.00    0.00      .07     0.00    0.00
1997               SREI               15.00    3.00    0.00    0.00    8.00    3.00    0.00    0.00
1997               Walden-Mgt India    0.00    .01    0.00    0.00    0.00     .01     0.00    0.00
1997               WIV                0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00     .88     0.00    0.00
1998               IDFC               0.00   15.46    0.00    0.00    0.00    15.46    0.00    0.00
1998               TCW/ICICI          0.00   10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00     3.20    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:          502.62  226.29    6.81  238.79  429.76   205.40    6.81  153.79
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
1998                 IVCAAF           0.00    5.74   0.00     0.00
1999                 SARSHATALI   30.00    5.00   0.00        0.00
COAL
Total Pending Commitment:    30.00   10.74   0.00   0.00



Annex II
Annex 11
INDIA: Rajasthan District Primary Education Project
India at a glance                                                             4/27/99
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                            South      Low- 
Inrsa     Asia  Income        Development diamond'
19S 6
POPuMsO. mi4aar (mIons)                             976.9      1,289     2,048                 Life expectancy
GNP pw cpit (Atas mrnwo  USS)                         390       390       350
GNP (Als meod, US$ bhm                              381.0       502       722
Averae annual grwth, 139248
1.7       1.9       21
Labor force (%)                                       2.0        2.2       2.3     GNP                              Gsros
per                            plimary
Most tent e     _smat n(Wt yer avelbIa, 199248)                                    capita                       enrollment
Poverty (% afpepuhaiorn below nabonul pOver tyne)      35
Uobanpopuoftotaoptoulatlon)                            27        27        28
Ufeexpectaucylat bi(atal)                              63        62        59
Inant mortft  or 1,OO0 6ve bkt As)                     63        71        78
CGIDdmalnuttn (f Octh tunder A)                        6.e..                                 Access to safe water
Accessto safewaler(% of poRWagb)                       81l       77        71
lleracy t% opoWviation AP                              43        51        47
Gross plmay enroimnet    otschooPgeg popxtiOn)        101        99        91         -India         Low-incomegfup
mate                                  ~~~~~~~110  10                -I1a              Lo-nom0ru
Female                                               90        89        81
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENtS
1377     19S7      1997      1         9#"
Economic ratior
GOP tUSS3 bons)                            102.7    247.8      397.1    420Q
Gross domestic investmenVGDP                204      22.8       23.1      23,4                     Trade
Exports of goods and services/GOP            6.6      5.5       10.5      10.5
Gross domestic savings/GOP                  21.1     20.1       19.3      19.8
Gross nalonai savings/GOP                      ..    20.5       218       21.7
Currentaccount bancelGOP                     16       -2A       -13       -1.4     Domestic
Interest payments/GDP                        0.3      0.7        1.0       0.9                                 Investment
Total debtVGOP                              14.1     19,4       23.5      22,4     Savings                     I tm
Total debt serviofexports                   15.3      32.0      23.1      19A
Present value of debtGOP                       _        ..      17.8
Pre#nt value of debtexports                   ..       -.    135.4
Indebtedness
17-7-87  tSi         1997     1M    199-03
(average annualgrowth)
GDP                                 4.4      5.7      73         5.0       5.5         - ng           Lo4cmgu
GNP per capIa                       2.1      3.8      5.6        3w3       4.        _     ndia  -Low-income group
Export of gods Wd serAces           3.4     12.0      8.4       11.4       7.2
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977     1987      1997      1998      Growth rates of output and lnvestment (S
(X ot GDP)
Agdiulture                                  38.2     31.4       29.3      27.5    20
rIndustry                                   23.0     26.2       26.1      28.1    20-o
Manufacturing                              15.5    16.1       16.8      16.8    10
Services                                    38.9     42.3       44.7      48.4            93                    97 0
Private consumption                         69.3     68.2       70.1      69.1    .201
General govemmentconsumption                 9.6     11.7       10.2      11.1
Imports of goods and services                5.9      8.1       14.0      14.1              " GDI    -GDP
197747  1988-98       1997      1998     Growth rates of exports and Imports (%)
(eea" anual growbb)
Agrlutura                                    2.6       3.7       9.4      -1.0    40
Industry                                     5.2      6.6        6.0       5.9    30
Manufacturing                               5.5      7.1       7.7       6.8    20
Services                                     5.5      7.2        8.0       8.2    10
PdIvate consumpton                           4.8      5.0       10.2      -0.1     0
Generra govemment consumption                6.9      6.8       11.3      19.4   -10       3   94          s
Gross domestic Investment                    4.2      6.4       -1.3       7.7   -20
Imports of goods and services                8.7      8.5        9.7       3.5            -Exports          C-imports
Gross national product                       4.3      5.7        7.5       5.0
Note: 1998 data am preliminary estimates.
* The diamonds show four key Indicetors In the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond wiil
be Incomplete.



