                                   Document of
                                 The World Bank




                                                              Report No: 36106

                       IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                    (IF-N0440)

                                      ON A

                                     CREDIT

                         IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 63.0 MILLION

                                     TO THE

                                      INDIA

                                      FOR A

                 RAJASTHAN DISTRICT PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT




                                   June 21, 2006




Huam Developement Sector Unit
South Asia Region

                     CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                        (Exchange Rate Effective )

                       Currency Unit = Rupee (Rs)
                                  Rs 1 = US$ .0227
                                US$ 1 = Rs 44

                              FISCAL YEAR
                             April 1-March 31

                ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AWPB     Annual Work Plan and Budget
BAS             Baseline Assessment Study
BRC             Block Resource Center
CAS             Country Assistance Strategy
CRC             Cluster Resource Center
CSS             Centrally Sponsored Scheme
CTS             Child Tracking System
CWSN            Children with Special Needs
DFID            Department for International Development (UK)
DIET            District Institute of Education and Training
DISE            District Information System for Education
DPEP            District Primary Education Program
DPC             District Project Coordinator
DPO             District Project Office
ECE             Early Childhood Education
EMIS            Educational Management Information System
FMS             Financial Management System
GER             Gross Enrollment Ratios
GOI             Government of India
GOR             Government of Rajasthan
ICB             International Competitive Bidding
ICDS            Integrated Child Development Scheme
ICR             Implementation Completion Report
IDA             International Development Association
IDS             Institute for Development Studies
IED             Integrated Education for the Disabled
JRM             Joint Review Mission
MAS             Mid-term assessment Study
MDG             Millennium Development Goals
MHRD            Ministry of Human Resource Development
MTR             Mid-term review
NCB             National Competitive Bidding
NCERT           National Council of Education Research and Training
NEP             National Education Policy
NER             Net Enrollment Ratio
NGO             Non-Governmental Organization

OBC                  Other Backward Communities
PMIS                 Project Management Information System
PRI                  Panchayati Raj Institution
PTR                  Pupil Teacher Ratio
QAG                  Quality Assurance Group
RCPE                 Rajasthan Council of Primanry Education
REI                  Rajasthan Education Initiative
RGSJB                Rajiv Gandhi Swarna Jayanti Pathshalas
RGSP                 Rajiv Gandhi Shiksha Pathshalas
SC                   Scheduled Caste
SDMC                 School Development and Management Committees
SIDA                 Swedish International Development Agency
SIEMAT               State Institute of Educational Management and Training
SIERT                State Institute for Education Research and Training
SPD                  State Project Director
SRG                  State Resource Group
SIS                  State Implementation Societies
SPO                  State Project Office
SSA                  Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan
SMC                  School Management Committee
ST                   Scheduled Tribe
TAS                  Terminal Assessment Study
TLM                  Teaching Learning Material
UNICEF               United Nations Children's Fund

                          Vice President:      Praful C. Patel
                       Country Director        Michael E. Carter
                         Sector Manager        Michelle Riboud
         Task Team Leader/Task Manager:        Prema Clarke

                                            INDIA
              RAJASTHAN DISTRICT PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            10
6. Sustainability                                                                11
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 12
8. Lessons Learned                                                               14
9. Partner Comments                                                              15
10. Additional Information                                                       15
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             16
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             18
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             20
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             22
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             24
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                25
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            26
Annex 8 Borrower's contribution                                                  28

Project ID: P045050                                                  Project Name: RAJASTHAN DISTRICT PRIMARY
                                                                     EDUCATION PROJECT
Team Leader: Prema Clarke                                            TL Unit: SASHD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 29, 2006


1. Project Data
                     Name: RAJASTHAN DISTRICT PRIMARY                             L/C/TF Number: IF-N0440
                            EDUCATION PROJECT
    Country/Department: INDIA                                                             Region: South Asia Regional
                                                                                                     Office

         Sector/subsector: Primary education (46%); Sub-national government administration (35%); Tertiary education
                            (10%); Pre-primary education (9%)
                   Theme: Education for all (P); Rural services and infrastructure (P); Participation and civic engagement
                            (P); Gender (S); Decentralization (S)


   KEY DATES                                                                 Original               Revised/Actual
            PCD: 03/10/1998                                    Effective: 09/30/1999                09/30/1999
       Appraisal: 03/16/1999                                       MTR: 04/04/2003                  04/04/2003
       Approval: 06/08/1999                                     Closing: 12/31/2004                 12/31/2005



     Borrower/Implementing Agency:         GOVERNMENT OF INDIA/MINISTRY OF HUMAN RESOURCE
                                           DEVELOPMENT; GOVERNMENT OF INDIA/& GOVERNMENT OF
                                           RAJASTHAN
                       Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Praful C. Patel                                Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director:               Michael F. Carter                              Edwin R. Lim
Sector Manager:                 Michelle Riboud                                Ward Heneveld
Team Leader at ICR:             Prema Clarke                                   N.K. Jangira
ICR Primary Author:             Rachidi B. Radji


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        U
                      Sustainability:      L
    Institutional Development Impact:      M
                  Bank Performance:        S
             Borrower Performance:         S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                      Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

If the six-point rating scale were to be used, the ratings for Outcome would be Moderately Unsatisfactory, and

Bank Performance and Borrower Performance would be Moderately Satisfactory.
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
As stated in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD), the development objective of the project (Rajasthan
DPEP) was to assist the Government of Rajasthan (GOR) to build and strengthen state, district and
sub-district capacities to ensure good quality primary education (5 years) for all primary age children,
especially from disadvantaged groups such as female, Scheduled Caste (SC) and Scheduled Tribe (ST),
children from Other Backward Communities (OBC), working children and children with disabilities. This
objective was consistent with the Plan of Action of the National Education Policy (NEP) adopted by the
Government of India (GOI) in 1986, and with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy for 1998, which
stressed the importance of strengthening basic social services for alleviating poverty and promoting
economic growth.

The project covered ten of the thirty two districts in the state of Rajasthan. It was followed a year later by
the preparation of a second project (Rajasthan DPEP II), which covered an additional nine districts. The
remaining districts were later covered by a DFID-supported project. Quantified targets were developed, and
baseline values and projected achievement levels were available for the main areas of intervention with
regard to inputs, processes, outputs and outcomes. These targets served as basis for monitoring progress
during implementation and the final evaluation. In retrospect, some of the targets, such as the reduction of
school drop-out from above 50 percent in 1998-1999 to less than 10 percent at the end of the project,
appear to be too ambitious, taking into consideration the existing institutional capacity and other
constraints.

Some of the features mentioned in the project design are worth highlighting. Since 1973, education has
become a shared or concurrent responsibility of the central and state governments. Education received
substantial support from the central government after the adoption of the NEP. Built on the principle of
additionality and convergence, the District Primary Education Program (DPEP), a Centrally Sponsored
Scheme for financing primary education, commenced in 1992. Though the financing of the DPEP program
represents a marginal proportion of the overall state expenditure on education, this supports essential policy
reform in primary education in India. Preparation and design of DPEPs are based on "guidelines" which
were put together by GOI, building on a decade of earlier small-scale projects in basic education supported
by various donors.

3.2 Revised Objective:
N/A

3.3 Original Components:
The project was structured around three main components and many sub-components as they are
summarized in the table below. The organization of the project, along with the cascading implementation
framework from the state, district, sub-district and school levels, appears to be well aligned with the
country's institutional context. The project components form a well articulated package of policy actions
and scaling up of innovations and expenditure programs. In particular, the focus on education quality,
empowering the community for school management and innovative interventions targeted at disadvantaged
populations was as critical as it was significant.

                                                  Main Components
(a) Expanding access to primary education especially for disadvantaged groups (US$20.2) :
·       Opening new primary schools and alternative schools, constructing additional classrooms and



                                                      - 2 -

repairing the existing classrooms;
·        Positioning para-teachers in new primary schools, alternative schools and existing regular primary
schools to meet the demand of increased enrollment;
·        Strengthening Integrated Child Development Scheme (ICDS) centers and selectively establishing
Early Childhood Education (ECE) centers in villages that are not eligible for opening centers under the
ICDS.

(b) Increasing retention and improving learning achievement in primary schools (US$42.6 million):
·        Promoting community awareness, mobilizing community involvement in school mapping,
micro-planning, and school improvement, and establishing School Management Committees (SMCs) for
each school;
·        Constructing toilets (separate for girls) where water is available or alternative arrangements (dry
toilets) where water is scarce, and providing drinking water facilities in schools that do not have such
facilities;
·        Developing instructional material involving greater participation of teachers and ensuring their
timely distribution to students;
·        Instituting continuous in-service training for and on-site professional support to teachers;
·        Developing targeted interventions for special focus groups including the provision of financial
assistance to SMCs for school improvement and to teachers to develop or purchase aids to enhance
teaching and learning.

(c) Improving state and district capacity to manage primary education (US$38.5 million) :
·        Establishing and strengthening the State Project Office (SPO) and District Project Offices (DPOs)
at the state and district levels;
·        Establishing and staffing Block Resource Centers (BRCs) and Cluster Resource Centers (CRCs)
to train and provide on-site professional support to teachers and to facilitate community mobilization;
·        Strengthening the State Institute for Education Research and Training (SIERT) to carry out its
core responsibilities of developing curricular material and training packages, and conducting research and
evaluation, establishing a State Institute of Educational Management and Training (SIEMAT) and
strengthening the District Institutes for Education and Training (DIETs);
·        In order to monitor project implementation, carrying out evaluation studies by third party, carrying
out sample surveys and classroom observation studies, and putting in place functional Educational
Management Information System (EMIS) and Project Management Information System (PMIS).



3.4 Revised Components:
N/A

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at entry is rated moderately satisfactory. This assessment draws on a weighted set of both positive
factors and shortcomings. In addition to the project's development objective being fully consistent with the
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), three positive aspects are evident. First, project preparation was
characterized by strong Government and state ownership as framed under the DPEP "Guidelines." Second,
as mentioned above, the project design built on lessons learned from past experiences in the sector, the
IDA-financed DPEP I and II and a number of projects financed by other donors (notably UNICEF project
in Bihar, DFID project in Andhra Pradesh and SIDA project in Rajasthan). Third, the outcome orientation
in the design of the project resulted in the definition of clear performance indicators.

On a less positive side, as mentioned above, the project's design seems to have been too optimistic with


                                                       - 3 -

regard to some of the outcome targets as well as in projecting the pace of implementation. In this respect, it
is worth mentioning that these targets were drawn from DPEP Guidelines, which raises an issue of the
framework set by these Guidelines providing sufficient space and flexibility to address the distinctive status
and needs of the different states. Another shortcoming in project design was the mitigation strategies
identified in the PAD for two key risk factors namely teacher deployment and decentralized governance.
These strategies proved to be insufficient to fully control for these risks during the life of the project. The
issue of teacher vacancies was present throughout project implementation. With regard to decentralization,
GOR's attempt to progressively implement the 73th and 74th constitutional amendments in the education
sector seems to have failed to fully capture and take into account some of the determinant factors of
success in this area. Considering the complexity of the country's decentralization scheme, it appears that the
pace and the importance of consensus and capacity building were underestimated for an effective transfer
of elementary education from the GOR to the Panchayati Raj Institutions (PRIs), leading to critical delays
in project implementation.

Project at Risk at Any time
The project was classified as a "problem project" in 2002 to reflect the lag in implementation along with
serious staffing issues.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Measuring progress towards the attainment of key development objectives has been a challenge given the
overall low quality of the available data and critical information on education quality (the terminal learning
assessment survey), which was not fully available at the time this report was prepared. Overall, the
performance of the project, which was extended for one year, appears to be moderately unsatisfactory
with regard to the main objective of building and strengthening state, district and sub-district capacities to
ensure good quality primary education (5 years) for all primary age children, especially from disadvantaged
groups.

Expanding access to primary education The project was expected to enroll an additional 600,000 children
and 50 percent of this increase was to be children from disadvantaged communities. Disparity in the Gross
Enrollment Ratios (GERs) for boys and girls, SC and ST was to be reduced to less than 5 percent by the
end of the project. Achievements of this objective have been broadly satisfactory and in some cases
exceeded expectations. Primary school enrolment increased from 2.2 million in 1999-2000 to 2.9 million in
2005-2006, representing an expansion of about 31.6 percent. The GER rose from 106 percent in
1999/2000 to 118 percent in 2004/2005 while the Net Enrollment Ratio (NER) increased from 83 percent
to 92 percent during the same period. The observed increase in enrollment varied quite significantly from
one district to another, even though the disparity between districts seemed to have been reduced. The
difference between GERs of districts on two ends of the spectrum dropped from 28 percentage points to 22
percentage points.

The gender gap has narrowed but achievements were below target. Overall, girls account for 46.9 percent
of total enrolment in 2005-2006, compared to 42.3 percent in 1999-2000. This represents a decrease in the
gender gap from 21.4 percentage points at project commencement to 14.8 when the project closed. Even
though the GER seems to have grown considerably, it was not sufficient to bring down the difference
between GERs for boys and girls to less than five percentage points, as expected. Considering the status of
women in Rajasthan, this target was too ambitious even if relevant for more progressive states in India.

Significant progress is evident with regard to the enrollment of disadvantaged groups, especially SC and



                                                      - 4 -

ST. Enrollment of these groups rose more rapidly (47.7 percent) than the general population (31.6 percent).
However, it was not sufficient to meet the target set in terms of reducing the disparity between the different
groups to less than 5 percentage points. The project, though, seemed to have been very successful in
bridging the existing gender gap within these groups. The difference between the GERs of SC/SCT boys
and girls is now less than 1 percentage point, exceeding the set target of 5 percentage points. Data on the
enrollment of children from OBCs, working children and children with disabilities was not available.

Despite the impressive results in increasing enrollment, some challenges remain in meeting the Millennium
Development Goals (MDGs). It was estimated that about 4.6 percent of the total 22054 habitations do not
yet have access to any schooling in 2005. The task of enrolling the remaining children is not going to be
easy because they are the hardest to reach and retain. A new trend is observed in terms of the growing
enrolment in private schools even in rural areas. It was seen in some places that about 20-30 percent of the
students in government were moving to private schools. This new phenomenon needs to be studied because
it might reflect beneficiary motivation and perception, which could help identify measures to strengthen the
quality and effectiveness of public services.

Improving retention, completion and learning achievement These objectives were at the heart of the
outcomes-framework of DPEP program. Dropout rates were expected to decline to 10 percent from the
baseline rate of 60 percent, and learning levels were expected to increase by 25 percent from baseline
levels. Overall, achievements have been moderately unsatisfactory in these key areas of the reform agenda
supported by the project.

Retention and Dropout: In 2005-06 the average dropout rate for project districts was still as high as 44.9
percent. The lowest rate reported was 32 percent in Sikar district. These persistent high rates of dropout
along with similarly high GERs, suggests that there exists probably a definition and/or methodological
problem. It seems that the definition of dropout lacks clarity and exclusiveness ­ there is no distinction
between dropouts who leave the school system, migrating from one village/district/state to another, and
those who transfer to private schools. A cohort study with a representative sample of one school per block,
conducted in 2005, reflects this issue. According to this study drop out was only 11.6 percent indicating
that children were in school but not necessarily in government schools. Despite this information, the
dropout in government schools remains significant.

Student learning: The ICR is able to only partially evaluate student learning in the project as the results of
the Terminal Assessment Survey (TAS) was not available except for two districts namely Tonk and Sirohi.
In comparison with Baseline Assessment Survey (BAS), the Mid term Assessment Survey (MAS) showed
slight improvement in performance in language and mathematics, even though student achievement in some
districts declined (Sirohi, Bhilwara and Tonk). Preliminary TAS figures from the two districts again
indicate mixed results when compared to the BAS data provided in the PAD Annex 2B. The 25 percent
increase of TAS over BAS has not been achieved in Class I. In fact when compared to the BAS there is a
decrease in scores ranging from 5 percent in language in Sirohi to 25 percent in mathematics in Tonk. One
possible explanation for such deterioration is the effect of the sizeable influx of first generation learners
into the system (including the SC/ST). Tonk has achieved the 25 percent increase over BAS for Class IV
mathematics while in Sirohi scores have declined. Smaller improvements are evident for Class IV language
in both districts. The DPEP Guidelines also include the project objective of increasing the percentage of
students in Class IV who scored over 60 percent. In the case of Tonk the percentage of students who scored
over 60 percent increased from 38.6 percent in language and 11.4 percent in mathematics to 50.8 percent
and 29.6 percent respectively.

On project impact in classroom, there is evidence that the project has clearly contributed to improving
student learning conditions as well as equipping teachers for their jobs. However, as the learning


                                                     - 5 -

assessments indicate the translations of these inputs into improved learning at the classroom level is still
weak. A classroom observation study, documentation and feedback from BRCs and CRCs indicate that use
of Teaching and Learning Material (TLM) and innovative teaching practices is very limited and most
classrooms still remain traditional in their approach. BRCs and CRCs have not been able to provide much
support and monitoring in classrooms exacerbated by the unavailability of an adequate number of teachers
in classrooms.

Improving state and district level institutional capacity Achievement of objectives is moderately
unsatisfactory. While institutional capacity has been strengthened in many areas, effectiveness of some of
the new institutions like BRCs/CRCs continues to be low. The institutional framework established for
project implementation and supervision has not been fully effective in delivering the planned services due to
a number of reasons (including a high turnover of leadership). Shortcomings noted in areas of monitoring
and evaluation has had adverse effects on the assessment of project outcomes.

4.2 Outputs by components:
(a) Expanding access to primary education especially for disadvantaged groups is rated satisfactory,
considering the achievements in school constructions, early childhood centers, deployment of teachers to
meet additional enrollment.

The construction of schools and classrooms: Targets set for this sub-component were successfully
completed facilitated by the increase in the civil works ceiling from 24 percent to 33 percent. In furthering
the project goal of school construction there was significant convergence with the state scheme of Rajiv
Gandhi Shiksha Pathshalas (RGSP). Under this scheme 4261 RGSP were built. In this way the initial
target of 909 new schools and 262 buildings for schools without buildings were easily met. In other civil
works activities, such as construction of BRCs, and CRCs, targets set were also met and/or exceeded. A
GOI study of civil works under DPEP (2004) found the quality of works good and recognized state efforts
to keep unit cost under control. Also, there has been active community participation through the SMC
(renamed School Development Management Committee (SDMC)) in civil works, well appreciated by all
the stakeholders. The study suggested further strengthening of community involvement in civil works
especially at the design stage.

Vacant teacher positions and para-teachers: The project was successful in meeting the target of recruiting
some 7590 para teachers assisted by the SDMCs. Even though it was not in the DPEP Guidelines, the state
was committed to filling 95 percent of teacher posts throughout the project period. This did not take place
during most of the project period. In 2004, the percentage of teacher positions unfilled ranged from 4
percent in Sikar to 23.5 percent in Nagaur. The education department coordinated successfully with the
Woman and Child Department to achieve the target of opening 2998 ECE Centers in areas where the ICDS
was not operating.

(b) Increasing retention and improving learning achievement in primary schools

Implementation and achievement under this key component is assessed moderately unsatisfactory. The
provision of essential instructional materials has led to improvement in student learning conditions.
Community involvement in school management has brought about improved awareness of the value of
education. However, the impact of this input has been limited so far in terms of student learning. One of the
major reasons for this has been the exclusion of the issue of overall teacher shortage and neglect of
ensuring teacher accountability in the original design and DPEP Guidelines.

Community mobilization: The state has ensured the establishment of the SDMCs in 10262 out of a total of



                                                      - 6 -

10335 primary schools under the project. Community awareness activities such as children's fairs,
meetings for women, and enrolment drives were organized during the project period in every district. The
SDMCs seem to be proactive and are supportive of the goals of universal primary education. Their
participation and contribution in donating land, money and material are evident. It was envisaged that these
SDMCs will participate in micro-planning exercises, in the preparation of Annual Work Plans and Budget
(AWP&Bs) and in supporting enrolment, retention and civil-works. The project supported the SDMCs by
providing training, technical assistance and funds. Their role was however limited and marginal in
managing the quality of education in schools. The structure and the organization of the SDMCs have
evolved over time as the result of the learning and adjustment process. However, there are concerns about
its composition with the school head as chairperson and the teacher as secretary.

Constructing of toilets and providing toilets: During the project period 7352 toilets were constructed,
1297 hand pumps and 1810 water connections installed, all beyond initial targets. This provision certainly
helped bringing and retaining the students in the schools, especially girls.

Developing and providing instructional material: Improving the quality of education was an important
goal for DPEP. This was to be done by transforming teaching and learning, the curriculum, textbooks, and
in-service training. The SPO coordinated with the SIERT and the State Resource Group (SRG) to
collectively design and develop new textbooks for Classes I to V. These books were developed and
introduced incrementally each year with Class V completed in the last year of the project. The new
textbooks have bigger font size, colored illustrations and relevant content to make it interesting for children.
Development of workbooks for children and "Guidebooks" for teachers by the SIERT are significant
project contributions. Strategies to improve teacher motivation, the preparation of TLM and multi-grade
modules were also developed to assist teachers improve instruction.

Grant for Teaching and Learning Material: Under the project, TLM grants of Rs. 500 per teacher were to
be provided. Evidence from evaluation and JRM reports show that there were delays in the release of
teacher grants during the project period, and accounts of grants received were also not always properly
maintained. TLMs allowed teachers to procure basic teaching and learning materials. Training in the use
and development of TLMs and a teacher guide were provided. However, SIERT's classroom observation
study and JRMs did not find much evidence of TLM use in classrooms. Whatever little TLM is present in
some schools visited by the ICR mission, besides being repetitive and simplistic, is not sufficient to provide
conceptual clarity to students.

Providing continuous in-service training: Project resources supported improvements in pedagogical
practices. As planned, the establishment of BRCs and CRCs has helped bring academic support closer to
teachers and classrooms, but there is a need to improve their actual effectiveness (see below in section c).
Training was provided to teachers on universal primary education and its objectives - child-centered and
activity-based learning and student evaluation. According to the SPO report, 87 percent of teachers were
trained in 2005. The cascade model of training was used where the state level Key Resource persons
trained district personnel who in turn trained BRCs who trained the teachers. The cascade model, an
inevitability given the large numbers of teachers, however, did lead to some transmission loss and dilution
of training.

JRM reports and evaluations indicate that teachers' subject content knowledge is low and that they have not
fully internalized training to be able to generate appropriate activities that can support learning. Overall, it
will be important to introduce multi-grade instruction as an alternative and sound practice as many primary
schools with five grades have only one or two teachers. Training that has essentially remained prescriptive,
advising teachers to create joyful and activity-based classrooms, could experiment with new models of
adult pedagogy where teachers' own experiences become the basis for reflection and development.


                                                     - 7 -

Developing targeted intervention for enhancing the achievement of focus groups: The performance of this
sub-component is below expectation. The project provided Rs. 2000 through SDMCs for school
improvement, which has been implemented. However, low priority has been given to alternative school
modalities. There is a lack of targeted interventions for children with mild to moderate disabilities, working
children and the use of distance education for in-service training. Lack of data on these interventions is a
limitation of the project. There are no special textbooks, learning materials or specific training to address
any of the special needs groups.

(c) Improving state and district institutional capacity to manage primary education

This sub-component is rated moderately unsatisfactory. While institutional capacity has been
strengthened in many areas, effectiveness of some new institutions like BRCs/CRCs is still low. In addition
to shortcomings in the area of monitoring and evaluation, the institutional framework established for project
implementation and supervision has not been fully effective in delivering the planned services.

Building and Strengthening State and District Program Management Structures: To realize project goals
in an effective and efficient manner, structures and processes were put into place at the state, district and
sub-district levels. To a large extent the success of the project can be attributed to the existence of the state
level autonomous society that managed the project and allowed for fund flows preventing bureaucratic
bottlenecks. The State Project Office (SPO), the District Project Office (DPO), and the BRC and CRC at
the sub-district levels primarily managed and implemented the program. These institutions also served as
support systems to existing educational administrative structures providing critical academic inputs
including training of teachers and other functionaries, monitoring and supervision, community mobilization
and teacher development.

The SPO was not adequately staffed through the project period, and frequent changes of State Project
Directors (SPDs) eleven SPDs in a six-year project, affected program implementation. At the DPO level
there is increasing convergence of the role of District Education Officer and the District Project
Coordinator (DPC). The vision for this convergence is to institutionalize effective changes brought about
by the project. For effective mainstreaming, there is need to give considerable attention to this process of
convergence and operational integration. DPOs were understaffed, which hampered their ability to fulfill
their supervisory role effectively. The establishment of BRCs and CRCs helped bring academic support
closer to teachers and classrooms. However, the functionality of BRCs and CRCs has been constrained by
staffing issues. They were also extensively engaged in collecting data and, therefore, had little time to
provide pedagogic support to teachers. At the school level, SDMCs are formed largely from among the
community members, though their role seems to be limited. These local level bodies need to be further
equipped and made responsible for basic monitoring tasks (teacher absenteeism, etc) and providing regular
information to the CRCs for follow-up action.

Establishing and strengthening State and District Resource Institutions and Groups: During the project
period, SIERT collaborated with the SPO in developing textbooks, workbooks and teacher guides and
training manuals among other things. A SIEMAT is yet to be established in the state. The DIETs could
have potentially played an important strategic role in the pedagogic chain providing the link between the
state and the block level institutions. However, as the management of these institutions was not directly
under the DPEP, DIETs were not empowered or strengthened to play a significant role in the project. The
state needs to enhance the role of BRCs and CRCs in providing pedagogical support to teachers and
classrooms.




                                                       - 8 -

Strengthening State and District capacity for monitoring, research and evaluation: In line with the DPEP
guidelines, the project introduced the concept of long-term planning with the development of the perspective
plan that covered the entire project period. The perspective plan also provided the basis for the preparation
of AWP&Bs. AWP&Bs were meant to be participatory based on data emerging from household surveys
and District Information System for Education (DISE). Micro-planning at the habitation and village level,
however, needs to be strengthened.

Education management information system: Despite efforts deployed by the SPO team, the EMIS did not
get fully functional before the project closed. Availability of reliable data remained reportedly a concern
throughout the project. Too much data was collected without much emphasis on its reliability and
applicability. There were considerable discrepancies and contradictions in the DISE data. One of the
reasons for this could be that the size of the educational administration has not kept pace with the
expansion of the school system.

There are many different sources of data available with the state. In addition to the DISE, the state initiated
a baseline survey in 2001 and updated it in 2004 with a Child Tracking Survey (CTS). This data does not
have disaggregated data on specific groups of out-of-school children e.g. children from families that
migrate, who transfer to private schools or to other districts/states, working children and urban deprived
groups. The DISE figures do not include enrollment in some of the existing alternative schemes which
needs to be incorporated to get the correct enrollment. The convergence of the DISE data and the CTS did
not take place, which would have been useful for effective planning. The process of data gathering and its
management still remain an area of concern. The data collected from the schools at the CRC level needs to
be disseminated and crosschecked with the larger community. Participation of the PRIs, Non-Governmental
organizations (NGOs) and concerned citizens could help in making the data more accurate and reliable

Evaluation and Research studies: The state has undertaken very few state level research studies in relevant
areas. During the project period, five external studies were carried out and the five others commissioned in
the last year of the project are yet to be completed. As mentioned above, the TAS is yet to be completed.
The learning levels of children in alternative programs were never fully assessed. Some action research
studies carried out by the teachers during the project period are heartening. Many of these studies focused
on various challenges faced by the teachers in the process of program implementation. The studies
generated had their limitations with inevitable methodological issues and differences in interpretation but
they have initiated much debate, discussion and further refinement.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
N/A

4.4 Financial rate of return:
A brief cost and benefit analysis has been carried out, using the data available (see annex). Rajasthan
DPEP can be expected to yield substantial future economic benefits. It has increased primary school
enrollments, and the rate of primary school completion in the state. As a result more of the labor force in
Rajasthan will have at least a primary school education. A simulation of five alternative earning streams
for DPEP students with five years of primary education was done assuming that children enter the labor
market five years after completing primary schooling. Rates of return to the project were derived using
alternative assumptions about the number of beneficiaries, increase in earnings as a result of the project
and project cost per student. Under fairly modest assumptions regarding the net benefits from the project,
rates of return from the project were fairly high. They ranged from 8 percent in the lowest-case scenario,
where the percentage of net beneficiaries is only 10 percent and primary education increases earnings by
Rupees 2,400 per year, to 19 percent in the best-case scenario with 20 percent net beneficiaries and



                                                      - 9 -

earnings rising by Rupees 3,600 per year.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
Overall the institutional strengthening under the project has had some positive impact on the sector's
institutional framework, but there is need to improve the effectiveness of some of the new institutions.
Project implementation led to an improved capacity of the state of Rajasthan to plan, manage and monitor
the provision and quality of primary education. The clearest indicator of this impact is the fact that much of
the institutional network developed and strengthened within the sector is being enhanced and/or scaled up
into the new flagship program for universalizing elementary education, the Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan (SSA).
The establishment of the BRCs and CRCs at the sub-district levels has addressed the institutional vacuum
that existed at the sub-district level. At the village level, the SDMCs for every school were established. The
latter have provided an enabling framework for progressively fostering community mobilization and
empowerment in school management. The project was committed to the generation of critical and useable
knowledge. Awareness of the main stakeholders has increased with regard to the benefits of using data and
studies to inform planning and policy. Even though, the number of studies generated and the achievements
in setting up the Monitoring and Evaluation system were limited, there is evidence that project
implementation did help to create the foundation in these critical areas.

While the decentralization process was not expected to be directly financed by the project, it was presented
in the PAD as one of key elements of the state's institutional framework supported under the project. The
73rd and 74th Constitutional amendment gave powers of local governance to PRIs. While Rajasthan was a
forerunner among Indian states to transfer power to PRIs for education service delivery, the limited success
and the change in regime at the state level forced the reversal of this decision. It seemed that the
implementation of this useful policy reform has not sufficiently taken into account the time, capacity and
consensus building needed for an effective transition.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Some exogenous factors have effected project implementation and outcomes. On the positive side, it is
worth mentioning the favorable environment generated by the increased awareness of the importance of
education and the continued discourse across the country on the need to ensure eight years of education as a
fundamental right, which culminated in May 2002 with the 93rd Amendment to the Constitution.

On less positive side, there were the following two factors: (i) a general elections in 2002 and local
elections in 1999 and 2004 led to intervals of slow implementation, which were prolonged by consecutive
changes in the leadership; and (ii) court cases with regard to the recruitment policy of both regular and
para-teachers have prevented the state ensure timely and smooth recruitment of regular teachers and
additional teachers required to respond to increased enrollment.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Leadership and ownership at all levels ­ national, state, district and sub-district ­ are major factors
contributing to the results of the program. Added to this was the flexibility of the World Bank staff and
their ability to understand the importance of working with a truly home-grown program.

The integrated nature of supervision represented in the JRMs (GOI, Indian professionals, World Bank and
main sector donors) through their collegial and professional approach proved to be quite an effective
mechanism for maintaining focus on the primacy of outcomes. But it led to some limitations regarding the
supervision of the project by the Bank.




                                                        - 10 -

Counterpart funds were provided in a fairly timely fashion during the course of the project.

Sufficient thinking did not go into the transfer of responsibility for education to the PRIs, which did delay
project implementation. The need for adequate personnel with appropriate skills and knowledge was not
well thought through.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Heavy reliance on using technical people from within the system may have limited the rate of pedagogical
change and innovation. On the other hand, this may have contributed to a high degree of internalization of
program objectives and processes. Further thought, however, should be given to the optimal balance
between internal expertise and external change agents.

Other factors internal to the state and/or implementing agency that affected program implementation and
outcomes include: (i) instability of tenure as illustrated by the fact that there were eleven SPDs
implementing the project over six years; and (ii) under staffing adversely effected the functioning of the
project.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The estimated cost of the project at appraisal was US$101.3 million, comprising of US$85.7 million from
IDA funds and US$15.6 million (or 15.5 percent of the total project cost) as counterpart funds from the
Government. The largest allocation (US$38.6 million) was for increasing retention and improving learning
achievement, followed closely by the allocation for improving state and district capacity (US$35.4). Due to
the observed devaluation of the US dollar the actual cost of the project has increased (US$109 million).
The project which was originally expected to be implemented over five years was extended for one year.
The financial performance of the project was broadly satisfactory even though its implementation had been
slow in the earlier stages. The project was able to spend 90 percent of the Credit amount, leaving about
US$8.7 million undisbursed at project closing. In comparison with the initial plan, the utilization of funds
under some categories varied significantly. Civil works showed a utilization ratio of about 163 percent,
reflecting the decision made in 2003 to increase the ceiling on civil work from 24 percent to 33 percent of
the project funds. Consultant services showed lower ratios of 67 percent. These low expenditures are likely
attributable to the fact that the Government relied largely on individual and local consultants to implement
the various components of the project.


6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Sustainability is likely. At the national level, sustainability is evidenced by the scaling up of DPEP into
Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan (SSA), which will carry on and expand DPEP activities and integrate them into the
regular state structure. At the state level, commitment to sustainability is evidenced by the implementation
of the DPEP phase II covering nine additional districts, and the commitment and enthusiasm shown by
officials in interviews and reports to the SSA program.

The transition from DPEP I to the SSA program seems to have taken place quite smoothly for the ten
districts. The decision made by the state to merge at the district level, the functions of District Education
Officer and DPC constitutes an important step toward mainstreaming project interventions and institutions
created within the project. Further reflection will be needed to define a road map for the full operational
integration of functions at all levels with a measurable phasing out plan.

On fiscal sustainability, the central and state governments are committed to continue the reforms



                                                       - 11 -

undertaken under this project. The massive SSA program sponsored by the central government covering All
India will provide 75 percent of the costs for first five years and 50 percent subsequently. Preliminary
estimates of program cost and projected budget show that almost all the states will be able to sustain
program reforms with the assistance of the SSA program. Experience so far indicates that states, which
were previously part of DPEP, are able to sustain and expand project interventions. A word of caution here
with regard to the recruitment and financing of additional teachers to respond to the expansion of schooling
(para teachers versus permanent teachers). A detailed analysis of the costs of appointing the requisite
number of teachers and its financial implications to the state in the long run needs to be undertaken.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
As mentioned above, the continuation and/or expansion of implementation of the supported reform
programs and activities in the ten districts has been organized through a smooth transition under the SSA,
which is actually under implementation with support from IDA and other sector donors until 2010.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Bank performance is rated satisfactory during project identification and preparation. As mentioned above
in this report, DPEP was developed to support the GOI's 1986 NEP, updated with the National Action
Plan in 1992. Building on the experience and lessons learned from the preparation and implementation of
the first DPEP projects, the Bank was to smoothly prepare in about fifteen months this operation in close
collaboration with the government. The concept review took place in March 1998 and the negotiations were
held one year later. The identification mission comprised seven members, including an education adviser,
two education specialists, a civil works specialist. It laid the ground for a brief appraisal mission later on.
Overall, the real value added of the Bank's support was input into the institutional development and
technical support of the program. The team was effective in providing support to the preparation of a
`home-grown' program through analytical and technical work.

7.2 Supervision:
Supervision work is rated moderately satisfactory. JRMs for all the DPEP projects (GOI, States, donors)
were organized bi-annually. JRMs, led by GOI and donors in rotation, provided an occasion for the
participating institutions to review progress made in implementing these programs while providing collegial
support to the states visited. Judged by the number of people involved, the process has proven to be
effective in providing a cost-effective supervision mechanism reducing the burden on government-donor
coordination and providing an emphasis on measurable and time-bound outcome. The active role played by
the World Bank team in the JRMs has been well appreciated by all the stakeholders. However, overall the
intensity of project supervision by the Bank team has been below what was required, taking into
consideration the implementation issues and challenges faced by the project. The biannual JRM mechanism
was limited in responding to emerging issues such as those related to the frequent change of SPDs. Also,
the limits on the number of people (2) that could participate in any mission, agreed to by the Bank at the
time of negotiations, curtailed supervision work especially in some areas such as financial management.
There is a need for flexibility to adjust during implementation on supervision modalities. These issues have
been highlighted by the Bank's Quality of Supervision Assessment report of the Rajasthan DPEP II project
in 2004.

The Bank has shown great flexibility to requests made by GOI. For instance, in May 2004, the Bank
agreed to increase percentage of IDA financing of recurrent costs from 25 percent to 80 percent with
retroactive effect (from April 2003). Project implementation was also extended for twelve months through
two amendments to the Development Credit Agreement. A first two-month extension was granted on


                                                      - 12 -

December 21, 2004 to allow IDA to discuss and agree with the GOI on improving the supervision
arrangements for all DPEP projects, especially with regard to fiduciary management. A second amendment
dated February 23, 2005 brought the cumulative extensions up to one year.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall, the Bank performance over the project period is rated moderately satisfactory

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The borrower performance has been satisfactory during project preparation. DPEP is a clear indication of
the GOI's and GOR's commitment to achieving universal primary education. It used the lessons from
previous small programs to scale up interventions across the most difficult districts and states, and brought
awareness of the importance of education, which was just burgeoning in the early 1990s. The Government
has shown strong leadership during preparation. The Ministry of Human Resource Development (MHRD)
effectively coordinated the preparation of the project.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Overall, the government performance has been moderately satisfactory during implementation. The
Bureau located in MHRD coordinates the supervision and evaluation of state and district programs. The
Bureau established a Technical Support Group to provide guidance and assistance to the states and
organized the biannual JRMs to the states. During project implementation, GOI has initiated two internal
supervision missions to help address implementation bottlenecks faced by the project. These missions failed
to fully impact project execution because some of their recommendations were never implemented.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Overall, the performance of the implementation agency has been moderately satisfactory. Rajasthan
Council of Primary Education (RCPE) which is an autonomous body registered under the Registration of
Societies Act 1958, has been the executing agency of the project. As such, the RCPE was responsible for
planning, implementation and monitoring DPEP. The governing council of the RCPE, led by the Education
Minster of State, was in charge of policy planning and approval of AWP&Bs. The SPO, with its executive
council (including 10 DPO) headed by the Education Secretary GOR, was responsible for implementation.

After a very slow start, the project got to speed up about 24 months later. However, the implementation
effectiveness has been constrained to a large extent by frequent changes of key positions, in particular at
the SPO level as mentioned in para 5.3. This led to frequent loss of momentum in implementation, which
impacted the overall implementation performance. One major shortcoming noted in this regard is the fact
that the project's monitoring and evaluation system has remained overall weak and fragile, leading to
difficulties in measuring the attainment of key project outcomes such as the TAS.

Quality of financial management of the project has evolved over time. At the end of 2002, the project was
put on special watch due to serious staffing problems, which were later resolved. Annual audit reports were
generally prepared on time and their quality was broadly satisfactory. However, the quality of the internal
controls has remained a concern throughout the project. The Bank and the executing agency agreed to
tighten the enforcement of the initially planned Loan Administrative Change Initiative system during project
execution. However, progress in setting up a core computerized financial management system has been
slow and was not completed by the end of the project. Compliance with the observations raised in the audit
reports was done with some delay. Considering the nature of procurement involved in the project, no
serious issues were recorded, except the procurement of library books. In the latter case, proposals were
invited from book suppliers for the selected curriculum and more than 2000 proposals were received. The



                                                     - 13 -

committee appointed for evaluation of the proposals evaluated the proposals and made recommendations.
However, over a period of more than 18 months the GOR did not make a final decision due to objections
raised by suppliers. Fresh proposals were invited recently with revised conditions, and as a result the
process was not completed before project-end.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall, the borrower performance could be rated moderately satisfactory

8. Lessons Learned

The need for a reliable monitoring and evaluation system for understanding project impact. The limited
availability and questionable reliability of information on the project's development objectives did constrain
effective implementation. A working monitoring and evaluation system in place from the beginning of the
project is critical for understanding the impact of various interventions, for identifying problems and
bottlenecks to achieving outcomes and most importantly, for taking corrective action.

Implementation and supervision performances could be greatly impacted by the stability of key staff. As
presented in the report, the frequent change of key staff such as the SPD has prevented the project from
being smoothly implemented and has even contributed to undermining the impact of various actions. For
effective project implementation, it is critical to have continuity in leadership in order to sustain the pace of
implementation overtime as well as provide continuous direction and encouragement to staff to work
toward achieving project outcomes.

Teacher availability and productivity are key ingredients for achieving overall program outcomes.
Program implementation showed that it is very hard to ensure progress in educational outcomes without
fully addressing teacher recruitment and management related issues. In this regard, a policy for recruitment
and deployment of teachers, on the same lines as the recently developed transfer policy, needs to be
integrated into future programs. It would be critical that adherence to this policy be properly monitored.

One part of the above equation is obviously the necessity to ensure financing sustainability of teacher
recruitments. In this regard, there is a need to carefully assess the decision made by GOR to recruit regular
teachers in permanent positions rather than hire para-teachers. Even though, the SSA framework could
implicitly generate some incentives for such a move in the short and medium terms (the central government
subsidizing 75% of additional teacher salary), it will be important to carry out analytical work to assess
budget implications (state's liabilities) and long run fiscal sustainability of this policy option after the SSA
ends in 2010.

Greater accountability in service delivery across institutional levels will be important for accelerating
the pace towards education outcomes. Effectiveness of the cascading approach for program
implementation, which was fully in line with the country's institutional framework, relies on technical
performance and motivation of a number of actors from the state to district and sub-district to village. If it
is true that what is happening in classrooms is essential for impacting key outcomes, there is greater need
for accountability from the staff at all levels. At the school level, classroom observations along with the
observed teacher absenteeism showed that accountability to student learning was low. Similarly, it will be
useful to define or redefine the accountability structure of key actors in the system, especially at the
sub-district levels such as the CRCs, BRCs and school level. It is possible to instill this by clearly defined
performance criteria and incentives, which are not necessarily financial. This coupled with systematic
monitoring will bring greater effectiveness in the education system.




                                                      - 14 -

Careful assessment of the motivation of key stakeholders and realistically planning the capacity building
required if decentralization of education management is to be implemented. While the project has clearly
laid the ground for greater community participation in planning and management at the school level, the
planned transfer of educational planning and management to PRIs was attempted but did not blossom. The
two processes will have to converge so as to establish closer accountability links between the various actors
involved, but this will take more time than anticipated. Sustained leadership, convergence of motivation of
key actors and feasible planning of the actual transfer of responsibility appear to be important elements in
moving forward the dialogue with the Government on this important subject.

Private school development, a new feature that requires greater attention for monitoring both sector's
performance and policy. There is a visible move of students from government to private schools, which are
mushrooming at a significant rate. These small schools with poor infrastructure or equipment and teachers
with limited education and training are enrolling large numbers of children from poor communities. This
emerging trend requires systematic study. It will not only throw light on this new phenomena, but improve
information and knowledge about the private schools, including actual figures and trends in enrollment of
students.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The Borrower provided a short report which summarizes the project implementation as well as the main
lessons learned. (see annex 8). In the report, the Bank performance has been highly satisfactory, stressing
the useful cooperation and helpful supervision visits. Lessons learned and recommendations made include
the following:

- To give the SPD the Secretariat status i.e. ex-official Special Secretary, so as to speed up the decision
making process
- To be more realistic in setting targets, taking into account the implementation period
- To give the SDMC a statutory position in PRI so as to improve their overseeing of school functioning

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information

Financial Management: Staffing has been an issue under the project and has led to accounting and control
issues that were reported in audit reports over the life of the project (weaknesses in internal controls, lack
of proper system of reconciliation at various levels and inadequacies in the maintenance of accounting
records). In this regard, intensive training would have helped to upgrade the skills of project staff and
address some of these weaknesses. Also, it would have helped to institute an internal audit system from the
start of the project, with regular compliance by the project and sharing of the same with the Bank.

One of the financial covenants of the project was the implementation of a computerized financial
management system (FMS) in the SPO and DPOs. As this system was never fully implemented, it was not
utilized in the project and accounting information continued to be generated through Excel spreadsheets
maintained by project staff. Early resolution of problems of computerized FMS or early evaluation of the
usefulness of such a system and timely decision on having an alternative system would have prevented
some of the persistent weaknesses in accounting reported in the audit reports.



                                                       - 15 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                1
                Indicator/Matrix                           Projected in last PSR                      Actual/Latest Estimate
To increase enrollment by 300,000 by 2002     Additional 600,000 students enrolled.       Some additional 690,000 students were
and an additional 300,000 by the end of the                                               enrolled, of which about 40% were students
project. Half of this increase in enrollment                                              from SC/ST.
would be students from SC/ST communities.

To improve transition of students from grade Dropout reduced to less than 10 %            No accurate and consistent figures were
to grade and to reduce the dropout of         (Baeline: 56% in 1998-1999).                available on dropout by the end of project.
students from the school system to less than                                              According to latest DISE, dropout rate still as
10 %.                                                                                     high as 49.4 %.

To increase achievement in language and       Based on MAS. Class I: Language - 70%,      Full results of the TAS study not available
mathematics for Class I and Class IV by       Mathematics - 74%. Class IV: Language -     when this ICR was prepared.
25%.                                          60%, Mathematics - 45%.

To improve state and district capacity to                                                 SPO, DPOs, BRC, CRCs and SDMCs
manage primary education.                                                                 functional, and the effectiveness of these
                                                                                          institutions expected to improve over time.




Output Indicators:
                                                                                1
                Indicator/Matrix                           Projected in last PSR                      Actual/Latest Estimate
Constructing new schools and classrooms       909 new schools, 1058 additional classrooms The initial targets were merged to reflect the
and repairing or rehabilitating existing      and 262 schools (existing schools without   convergence achieved with the RGSM
classrooms.                                   buildings) constructed.                     scheme. 793 buildingless schools provided
                                                                                          with buildings, and 2865 additional
                                                                                          classrooms were built.


Placement of para-teachers.                   7250 para-teachers in position and teaching 7590 para-teachers recruited.
                                              with regular attendance.


Supporting ECE.                               700 ECE centers attached to local primary   In convergence with the Women and Child
                                              schools opened; 2998 ECE centers opened     Department, 1043 ECE centers opened.
                                              in areas where ICDS III will be operational
                                              after the first year.


Enhancing community awareness and             Organizing awareness campaigns and          Awareness activities such as Balmelas, Kala
involvement in school improvement.            monthly feedback sessions.                  Jatthas, Mahila Meetings, School Mapping
                                                                                          and Micro planning have been organized
                                                                                          during the project period.


Establishing SMCs for each school.            SMCs established for every village.         SDMCs have been constituted for each
                                                                                          public school.


Constructing toilets and providing drinking   6000 toilets constructed and 798 hand       Initial targets exceeded. 7352 toilets, 1297
water facilities.                             pumps and 1113 water connections provided hand pumps, and 1810 water connections
                                              for drinking water with good maintenance by available in project districts.
                                              the community.


Developing and providing instructional        Textbooks, workbooks and teacher guides     Competency-based textbooks developed and
materials.                                    developed/ provided and supplied to         provided free of cost to all students.
                                              students.                                   Workbooks were developed and distributed
                                                                                          (about 2.3 million sets).


Providing continuous in-service training.     Master trainers, teachers and para-teachers As of 2002/2003 school year, more than 80
                                              trained every year from year 1999 onwards.  % of teachers have been trained annually.




                                                                   - 16 -

Developing targeted interventions for focus   Workbooks and extra TLMs distributed.          A wide range of interventions have been
group.                                        Escort services provided for students,         implemented. These include (i) the
                                              particularly girls to be brought to school.    development and distribution of teacher
                                              Teachers and SDMCs receive funds for           motivational material as well as a reference
                                              school improvement.                            books for the development of TLMs.
                                                                                             Teachers and SDMCs have received funds
                                                                                             for school improvement.


Building and strengthening state and district Key staff trained and positioned in the SPO    Key positions broadly well staffed over the
project offices.                              and DPOs.                                      project period but the frequent change of
                                                                                             staff has been a permanent issue.


Establishing BRCs and CRCs for monitoring 84 BRCs and 1041 CRCs constructed and              84 BRCs and 1051 CRCs functional by the
and training.                                 trained staff positioned.                      end of the project.


3 Establishing and strengthening state and    Staff in SIERT and DIETs positioned and        With the exception of SIEMAT, the state and
district institutions (SIERT, SIEMAT and      materials developed.                           district level institutions were functional by
DIETs.)                                                                                      the end of the project, even though the level
                                                                                             of their effectiveness varies.


Project Monitoring and Evaluation.            Third party evaluation studies will be carried  Some studies were carried out along with
                                              out, EMIS and PMIS data will be collected.     attempts to improve the DISE. But, the
                                                                                             monitoring and evaluation system has
                                                                                             remained overall fragile during the project
                                                                                             period.

1End of project




                                                                   - 17 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal     Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                                                          Estimate       Estimate        Appraisal
                       Component                          US$ million   US$ million
Expanding Access to Primary Education                       18.40           36.90              200
Increasing Retention and Improving Learning Achievement     38.60           29.20             75.6
Improving State and District Capacity to Manage Primary     35.40           42.90            119.8
Education

Total Baseline Cost                                         92.40          109.00
 Physical Contingencies                                      7.20
 Price Contingencies                                         1.80
                         Total Project Costs               101.40          109.00
                  Total Financing Required                 101.40          109.00


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category            ICB            NCB                2        N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                           0.00             0.20        21.30          0.00         21.50
                                  (0.00)           (0.20)      (19.20)         (0.00)       (19.40)
2. Goods                           0.00             4.60         2.40          0.00          7.00
                                  (0.00)           (4.20)      (2.20)          (0.00)       (6.40)
3. Services                        0.00             0.00        27.60          0.00         27.60
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (27.60)         (0.00)       (27.60)
4. Miscellaneous                   0.00             0.00        45.30          0.00         45.30
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (32.30)         (0.00)       (32.30)
5. Miscellaneous                   0.00             0.00         0.00          0.00          0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                   0.00             0.00         0.00          0.00          0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
   Total                           0.00             4.80        96.60          0.00         101.40
                                  (0.00)           (4.40)      (81.30)         (0.00)       (85.70)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category            ICB            NCB                2      N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                           0.00            0.00        35.10           0.00        35.10
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)     (31.10)         (0.00)       (31.10)
2. Goods                           0.00            0.70         7.00           0.00         7.70
                                  (0.00)           (0.50)      (6.20)         (0.00)       (6.70)
3. Services                        0.00            0.00        18.50           0.00        18.50
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)     (17.20)         (0.00)       (17.20)


                                                - 18 -

   4. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00             40.70             0.00             40.70
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)           (29.43)            (0.00)           (29.43)
   5. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   6. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
       Total                               0.00               0.70            101.30             0.00             102.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.50)           (83.93)            (0.00)           (84.43)

    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
Expanding Access to           16.70         3.50                    31.21         5.80                  186.9    165.7
Primary Education
Increasing Retention and      38.70         3.90                    22.80         2.77                  58.9      71.0
Improving Learning
Achievement
Improving State and           30.30         8.20                    30.42         9.00                  100.4    109.8
District Capacity to
Manage Primary
Education


   Project cost: Compared to the appraisal estimate, the project cost has increased from US$101.4 to
   US$109.0, reflecting the average devaluation of the US dollar during the life of the project.

   Procurement method: No ICB procurement was envisaged under the project at the appraisal stage.
   Books, for an aggregate value of US$ 3.37 million, and equipment and furniture, for an aggregate value of
   US$ 1.25 million were to be procured following NCB procedures. The majority of procurement activities
   were done following the agreed NCB/Shopping procedures.

   Work procurement: All works contracts, where no single contract exceeded the value of US$ 13,000
   were awarded to School Development and Management Committees (SDMCs). The aggregate amount of
   works contracts awarded was more than 63% of the appraisal estimates.

   Good procurement: With the concurrence of IDA all furniture was procured following shopping
   procedures despite the envisaged NCB procedures to be used. Equipment procured following NCB
   procedures corresponded largely with the estimates made at appraisal. However the equipment procured
   following shopping procedures exceeded by more than 300%. This was necessitated due to increased
   number of buildings constructed.

   Services and miscellaneous: The procurement completed was reasonable compared with the appraisal
   estimates.



                                                          - 19 -

      Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits


      Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits


      Project Investment Cost and Investment Per Student
      The total project cost of Rajasthan DPEP I was USD 101.3 million. There were 2.35 million students at the
      start of the project in the 10 districts covered by it. The project enrolled an additional 0.69 million students
      in primary education. This resulted in an average per student expenditure of USD 33.32 over the project
      period or USD 5.56 per student per year.

      Economic Benefits
      Rajasthan DPEP I can be expected to yield substantial future economic benefits. It has increased primary
      school enrollments, and the rate of primary school completion in the state. As a result more of the labor
      force in Rajasthan will have at least a primary school education. A simulation of five alternative earning
      streams for DPEP students with five years of primary education was done assuming that children enter the
      labor market five years after completing primary schooling. Rates of return to the project were derived
      using alternative assumptions about number of beneficiaries, increase in earnings as a result of the project
      and project cost per student. Under fairly modest assumptions regarding the net benefits from the project,
      rates of return from the project were fairly high. They ranged from 8% percent in the lowest-case scenario
      where the percentage of net beneficiaries is only 10% and primary education increases earnings by Rupees
      2,400 per year, to 19% percent in the best-case scenario with 20% net beneficiaries and earnings rising by
      Rupees 3,600 per year.

      Table 1: Rates of Return (%) to Rajasthan under Alternative Scenarios
               Alternative        Net Beneficiaries: Net Beneficiaries: Net Beneficiaries: Net Beneficiaries: Net Beneficiaries:
                Scenarios         10% of Students       12.5% of Students  15% of Students   17.5% of Students    20% of Students
         Incremental Earnings             12%                14%                 16%               17%                19%
         increase by Rs. 3,600
                 per year
         Incremental Earnings             11%                13%                 15%               16%                18%
         increase by Rs. 3,300
                 per year
         Incremental Earnings             10%                12%                 14%               15%                17%
         increase by Rs. 3,000
                 per year
         Incremental Earnings              9%                11%                 13%               14%                16%
         increase by Rs. 2,700
                 per year
         Incremental Earnings              8%                10%                 12%               13%                15%
         increase by Rs. 2,400
                 per year
        Source: World Bank Estimates. Assumptions: Between 10% and 20% are net beneficiaries of the project and project impact
will result in incremental earnings of Rs. 2,400 to Rs. 3,600.
        Students join the labor force five years after completing primary education which is when earnings stream commence, and the
duration of life-cycle earnings profile is forty years. These
        assumptions are based on the DPEP literature cited in Sipahimalani-Rao and Clarke (2003) and Duraiswamy (2000).


      Clearly, the future economic benefits resulting from the project are potentially high. Moreover, the above
      estimated rates of return are conservative and under-estimates of the true rate of return. As demand for
      post-primary education increases with the spread of primary education, an additional benefit of the project
      will be to increase the supply of workers with secondary and higher education. Also, the benefits of the


                                                                     - 20 -

project will last beyond the project period. The infrastructure built and capacities developed under the
project will benefit generations of students who will come after the direct beneficiaries of the project have
passed out. Primary education is also a building block for economic growth and development, and a key
factor in poverty alleviation.

Spillover Benefits
The benefits of primary education go beyond higher wages, yielding many spillover social benefits
especially those related to more female education. Girls with more education are likely to marry later. More
educated women are more likely to be healthier and have healthier families, as they are more efficient
producers of health and likely to use modern health services. Mothers who have more education experience
lower fertility and lower infant and child mortality. They are also more likely to enter the labor force, and
send their daughters to school.




                                                     - 21 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)        Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                       Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              08/11/1997-08/13          7    Education sdvisor (1); Education
              /1997                          specialist (2); Civil Work
                                             Specialist (1); Operations (1);
                                             GOI (1); SIDA (1).

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              03/23/1999-03/27          4    Education specialist (2);
              /1999                          Legal Counsel (1);
                                             Enviornment specialist (1).

 Supervision
              12/23/1999               10    Education specialist (3);            S               S
                                             Economist (1); Education
                                             Planner (1); ECE specialist
                                             (1); Pedagogy and research
                                             (1); Project management
                                             specialist (2); Community
                                             mobilization (1).

              12/07/2000                8    Community mobilization (1);          S               S
                                             Education management and
                                             Planning (1); Education
                                             specialist (1); Pedagogy and
                                             research (2); Education
                                             economist (2); School
                                             administration (1).

              12/05/2001                8    Education specialist (1);            S               S
                                             Education management (1);
                                             Gender specialist (1); Education
                                             economist (2); Pedagogy (1);
                                             ECE specialist (1); Assessment
                                             specialist (1).

              05/06/2002                8    Project management (1);              S               S
                                             Education economist (3);
                                             Pedagogy (1) ECE specialist (1);
                                             School based management (1);
                                             Education planning (1).

              11/27/2002                7    Education specialist (2); ECE        U               U
                                             specialist (1); Education
                                             economist (2); Education
                                             planning (1); Pedagogy (1).

              06/12/2003                5    Education specialist (1);            U               U




                                              - 22 -

                                                  Pedagogy (1); FM specialist (1);
                                                  Procurement specialist (1);
                                                  Disbursement specialist (1).

               12/01/2003                    3    Education specialist (2)             U    S
                                                  Operations specialist (1).

               06/04/2004                    1    Education specialist (1)             S    S

               12/07/2004                    5    Education specialist (3);            S    S
                                                  Operation specialist (1);
                                                  Education economist (1).

               06/08/2005                    6    Education specialist (2);            U    U
                                                  Operations specialist (1); FM
                                                  Specialist (2); Legal (1)

 ICR
               02/19/2006-03/02             6     Human Development                    S    U
               /2006                              specialist (1); Education
                                                  economist (1); Education
                                                  specialist (2); Procurement
                                                  specialist (1); FM specialist
                                                  (1).

The last ISR has actually rated the DO and the IP as moderately unsatisfactory

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                      Actual/Latest Estimate
                                       No. Staff weeks                    US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                     45                              77
  Appraisal/Negotiation                          50                              85
  Supervision                                  126                              209
  ICR                                            11                              24
  Total                                        232                              395




                                                  - 23 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
        Socially disadvantaged
groups such as Schedule Caste and
Schedule Tribe
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 24 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 25 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Joint Supervision Review Mission Reports

Eleventh Joint Review Mission (March 30, 2000 - April 17, 2000).
Twelfth Joint Review Mission (November 9, 2000 - November 27, 2000).
Thirteenth Joint Review Mission (April 19, 2001 - May 5, 2001).
Fourteenth Joint Review Mission (November 17, 2001- December 5, 2001).
Fifteenth Joint Review Mission (April 18, 2002 - May 5, 2002).
Sixteenth Joint Review Mission (November 17, 2002 - November 23, 2002).
Seventeenth Joint Review Mission(April 23, 2003-April 28, 2003)
Eighteenth Joint Review Mission (November 25, 2003 - November 30, 2003)
Nineteenth Joint Review Mission (July 8, 2004 - July 21, 2004)
Twentieth Joint Review Mission (November 29, 2004 - December 13, 2004)
Twenty-first Joint Review Mission (May 5, 2005 - May 16, 2005)

State and National Implementation Completion Reports

National Reflection Paper. Implementation Completion Report. The District Primary Education
Programme, Phases I & II. Department of Elementary Education & Literacy, Ministry of Human
Resource Development, GOI. May 2003.

Classroom interaction in formal and alternative schools in ten DPEP Phase I Districts, World View
Hindustan Foundation, Jaipur

Utilization of teachers' grant for teaching learning material, SIERT, Udaipur

Functioning of BRCs, CRCs and SMCs in DPEP Phase I Districts, IDS, Jaipur

Retention in DPEP Phase-I Schools , World View Hindustan Foundation, Jaipur

Mid term Achievement Survey, SIERT, Udaipur

National Studies

Aggarwal, Yash. 2001. District Primary Education Programme. Progress towards Universal Access
andRetention. District Report Cards. New Delhi, National Institute of Educational Planning and
Administration.

Aggarwal, Yash. 2002. District Primary Education Programme. Universal Access and Retention. Where
do we stand? Elementary Education Report Cards. New Delhi, National Institute of Educational Planning
and Administration.

World Bank Reports/Studies

Sipahimalani-Rao, Vandana and Prema Clarke. A Review of Educational Progress and Reform in The
District Primary Education Program (DPEP I and II). 2002. DPEP Evaluation. Report No.1. NewDelhi,
SASHD, The World Bank.




                                                     - 26 -

Hirshberg, Susan. 2003. DPEP Case Study. Washington DC, The World Bank.

Jalan, Jyotsna and Elena Glinskaya. 2002. Improving Primary School Education in India: An
Impact Assessment of DPEP-Phase I (draft). Washington DC, The World Bank.

Pandey, R. 2000. Going to Scale with Education Reform: India District Primary Education
Reform,1995-99. Washington DC, The World Bank.

Hussock, Howard. 2000. Implementing Education Reform in India: The Primary School.

Textbook Debate and Resistance to Change in Kerala. Cambridge, MA: Kennedy School of
Government, Harvard University.

Lockheed, Marlaine, John Middleton, Keith Hinchliffe, N.K. Jangira, Philip Cohen, Jane Hannaway, and
Adrian Verspoor. 1997. Primary Education In India.Washington, DC, The World Bank.

Bashir, Sajitha, and V. Ayyar. 2001. District Primary Education Programme. Encyclopaedia of Indian
Education. New Delhi, National Council of Educational Research and Training.




                                                  - 27 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's contribution

Implementation Completion Report
INDIA : Rajasthan District Primary Education Project
(Cr No. 44-IN)

About the Credit
        The Credit is a tripartite agreement between the IDA, and GoI and GoR. While the coordinating
agency for all DPEP projects in India is the DPEP Bureau in the Ministry of Human Resources, the
implementing agency in the State of Rajasthan is the Rajasthan Council of Primary Education.

        The Rajasthan DPEP was negotiated in 1999 because of the concern of the borrower state,
Rajasthan, about the educational under-developed status of the state with a literacy level of 38.55% (1991),
which was the second lowest in the country. Rajasthan's keenness to bring rapid improvement by making
concerted efforts was aligned with the donor agency, the World Bank, finding the funding consistent with
the CAS of 1998. Among others, strengthening the social sector are basic objectives of the CAS. Rajasthan
had the dubious distinction of recording the lowest female literacy rate of 20.44% in the country. Low
levels of literacy, especially female literacy, qualified the districts in Rajasthan for support under carefully -
designed and well established District Primary Education programs since DPEP targets the states with
female literacy rates that fall below the national average. The IDA agreed to fund 19 districts of the state in
two phases ­ phase I covering 10 low literacy districts

1       Project Objectives
Development objective of Rajasthan DPEP was to assist GoR to strengthen state and district capacities that
ensures good quality primary education (5 years) for all children, especially from disadvantaged groups
such as female, SC and ST, and working and disabled children.

The objectives were required to be communicated to all those engaged in the implementation of the project.
Therefore, much needed clarity was provided by prescribing performance indicators to monitor the
progress, which at the end of the project gives a comprehensive picture about the success of project
implementation. The performance indicators are given below:

a)      yearly improvement in Gross/Net Enrollment Ratios (GER/NER);
b)      reduction in disparity in the GERs for boys/girls, SC and ST and others to less than 5 percentage
points by the end of the project period;
c)      improvement in grade transition rates;
d)      reduction in drop out rates to less than 10 per cent;
e)      transformed classroom practices and improvement in student achievement in literacy and numeracy
by 25 percentage points;
f)      improved state and district capacities to manage education;
g)      teachers receiving continuous in-service training through local institutions; and,
h)      School Management Committees (SMCs) on behalf of Village Education Committees (VECs)
formed to encourage community involvement in school construction and school improvement through
participation in school management.

2    Achievement of Project Objectives
Assessment of the achievement of these objectives of a project, with the implementing machinery
widespread and penetrating down to the grass-root level with numerous players, is a somewhat difficult



                                                       - 28 -

proposition. All the same it can be said that the relevant objectives with substantial development results
have been achieved without major short comings. Strictly speaking the project cost initially fixed was Rs.
411.84 crore which at the MTR was refixed at Rs. 481.24 crore. Against this the expenditure incurred till
31 December 2005, the credit closing date, was to the tune of Rs. 456.57 crore (94.87%). Approximately
5.6 US $ (at the rate of 44 Rupees per $) of the credit is expected to remain unutilized due to late approval
of extension in September 2005 and approval of the plan by the Project Appraisal Board in October 2005.
If 5.13% of the credit remains unutilized, it was, among others, owing to the delay in the approval of the
project. On the whole a happy picture emerges about the utilization of credit despite the procedural hazards
the Department was subjected to and changes in the Director, DPEP in the life of the project.

         There is no doubt that the program has had salutary effect on the educational development of the
state. Going by the census data, there has been remarkable improvement in the male and female literacy in
2001 over 1991: While the male literacy reached 75.7% from 54.99, the female literacy reached 43.9%
from 20.44%. That the female literacy more than doubled in the decade is a remarkable achievement,
considering the fact that the 10 project districts were the low literacy districts: the male literacy was
ranging from 67.4% to 85.2%, and female literacy 32.2% to 60.4%. Qualitative importance of the data
increases by the fact that Kota and Jhunjhunu districts occupy first and second positions in the state.

2.1      Outcome / Achievement of Objective
2.1.1    Expanding Access
The Pre- and Post-project enrollment figures separately for boys and girls are juxtaposed below to bring
into sharp focus the fact that not only has enrollment increased rapidly but that the gender gap is also being
reduced.

General Population (Figure in thousands)
Student               1999-2000             2005-06              Rise over 1999-2000
Category              enrollment            enrollment
                                                                 Net Rise% Rise
Boys                  1270                  1538                 26821.1
Girls                 931                   1358                 42745.86
Total                 2201                  2896                 69531.58

The figures given in the two tables bring out in bold relief the fact that the disadvantaged groups such as
girls, SC and ST have been benefited in good measure. The percentage rise of the SC/ST students was
much higher than the general population. Likewise the percentage rise of the girls was higher than the boys
in all the categories and within the girls the percentage rise in enrollment in ST was the highest followed by
the SC and the general population.

Viewed in terms of GER, a rising trend was observed through out the project except for 2004-05 when it
slightly declined. It was 105.95 in 1999-2000 and rose to 118.10 in 2004-05. NER data on yearly bases is
not readily available. However, the NER figures for 1999-2000 suggest that NER for boys, girls and
students was 90.66, 73.96 and 82.64 respectively. The corresponding figures for 2004-05 are 97.68, 86.12
and 92.12 indicating an improvement in the situation.
Decreasing Gender Disparity in enrollment of SC/ST Students (percent)
Years                 SC Students           SC Students          ST Students          ST Students
                      Boys                  Girls                Boys                 Girls
1998-99                97.01                 79.81                 96.65                87.87
1999-00                97.51                 84.38                 83.87                89.34


                                                      - 29 -

2000-01               100.57                 89.85               102.19               93.26
2001-02               101.14                 95.71               104.67               95.59
2002-03                99.16                 98.37               106.42              103.68
2003-04               101.25                 95.56               109.51              106.16
2004-05               101.19                100.77               109.48              108.82

Inescapable conclusions emerging from the analysis of the data given in the table are; a) there has been a
steady rise in the enrollment percentages of SC/ST boy and girl students; b)between the SC and ST, the
percentage rise in enrollment in the latter is more significant; and c) the gender disparity within SC/ST has
reduced.

Generally the rise in enrollment did increase the PTR, but in a bid to maintain high quality of education,
this was not allowed to happen. The PTR from 45 in 1999-2000 has declined to 35 in 2005-06. This is
largely owing to the recruitment of 38754 teachers across the state to meet the requirement. Keeping in
view the rising number of students, care was taken to raise the target of the construction of school buildings
to 793 from 262 and additional classrooms to 2865 from 1058.

For expanded access to primary education, the targets were achieved ­ against a target of enrollment of
6.00 lacs in the life of the project, the achievement was 6.92 lacs; similarly, against the target of enrollment
of 3 lacs for SC/ST, the achievement was 2.83 lacs. More importantly, for the state as a whole, the gender
gap has been effectively brought down to 6.21 in 2005-06 from 15.41 at the beginning of the project.

Alive to its responsibility towards the Children With Special Needs (CWSN), the project has taken up
seriously, the identification of the CWSN, a difficult task indeed and is also making efforts for their
enrollment. During 2005-06, 63215 CWSN were benefited out of 66547 identified. In the initial years the
progress was not encouraging. Subsequently, the mechanism to address their needs has evolved.

2.1.2   Retention and Learning Achievement
At the beginning of the project retention was a serious problem in the primary education system in
Rajasthan. Attempt has been made to address the issue. Among others, the measures taken are : increase in
infrastructure facilities, improvement in school and classroom environment, Mid-day Meal, providing free
text-books, active support of the community, separate toilets for the girls etc. The dropout rate was 54.28
in 2003-04 which declined to 44.89 percent in 2005-06. Going by the findings of study conducted by the
SIERT, Udaipur, the drop out rate is 11.60 percent. Apparently, the figures do not give any comfort but
those aware of the social system in the countryside can appreciate the fact that education has not yet
become widespread because of the low age of marriage and involvement of the children in labor activities,
responsibilities for younger siblings, cattle grazing and participation of girls in domestic chores.
Considering these constraints the drop out figure suggests a good break through. The reduction in retention
rate of 55.11 in 2005-06 from 45.72 in 2003-04 is a big improvement and a healthy trend.

In sharp contrast to the urban areas where the parents appreciate the value of education of children in a
competitive society, in the rural areas there is no apparent incentive for the parents and community to care
for the education of their children. Indifference, if not apathy, of the parents and community for education
and school as an institution, has led to declining interest in the teachers in running the schools well and has
led to absenteeism. The induction of SDMC has proved to be an effective institution in running the schools
in an orderly manner and generating the feeling of community ownership. Supported by awareness
campaigns, the SDMCs will be instrumental in enrolling all eligible children and their retention in future. In
15435 schools out of 15566 Upper primary and primary schools, SDMCs have already been formed.



                                                      - 30 -

2.1.3    Civil Works
Broadly speaking, civil works were undertaken at three levels: a)school level, b)BRC level and c)CRC
level. The civil works at school level had a bearing on enrollment and retention. Besides these, the civil
works at the school level made the school and its surroundings functional and attractive for the children.
Coming as they do from the poor backgrounds, the new school surroundings had a subtle and positive
impact on the personality and psychology of the children. Targets and achievements from different
activities are juxtaposed below to bring in sharp focus the fact that the achievements far exceeded the
targets.

S.No.            Activity                            Targets                   Achievements
1               School Building                      262                       793
2               Additional classrooms               1058                       2865
3               Repair                              2336                       6150
4               Hand-pump                            798                       1297
5               Drinking Water                      1113                       1810
6               Toilets                             6000                       7352

One important thing to be mentioned about civil works is that it was need-based and therefore immensely
useful, and the works, done with community involvement, were of high quality and cost-effective.
Reference to a national evaluation study conducted in 2004 merits mention here. By 2003-04, works valued
at Rs. 9000 lacs were carried out and after this works valued at Rs. 35237 (nearly four times), were carried
out. Thus the evaluation refers to an earlier phase when the SDMCs were not established and the ground
for community involvement in design development had not been laid and the targets defined in a time bound
program.

Yearly targets were fixed for activities like the organization of Balmelas, Kalajathas, training of SDMC
members, Mahila meetings, and training of PRIs and the achievement of the targets was satisfactory.
Cummulative effect of these activities was increased participation of the community members and the
stakeholders. Since Indian culture places high value on donation, this encouraged community giving -
donations to the tune of Rs. 5677.55 lacs have been received.

2.1.4    Quality Dimension
Enrollment and Retention are the issues which have been addressed comprehensively in the project and the
efforts made have yielded encouraging results. If this has happened, it was in a big measure owing to the
concerted efforts made for improvement in the quality of education. Even for a casual onlooker, a school
now is not a neglected building but an institution throbbing with activities which have made it a cynosure
for the villagers. Brief comments on the quality aspects are given below:

2.1.5    Curriculum
Hitherto the curriculum included the core subjects and teaching done using obsolete methods which failed
to kindle the urge of learning in the students on a sustainable basis. The SIERT was directed to revise the
curriculum and has done a good job. Earlier the books prescribed were virtually the syllabus, now copies of
the curriculum have been made handy in the schools; books based on curriculum have been prepared and
distributed; recognizing the importance of English in a competitive society, this has been introduced from
Class I, introduction of topics like human rights and right to free and compulsory education have given a
new meaning to education in terms of personality building of students and widening the perspective of
parents.



                                                     - 31 -

2.1.6    Teaching Learning Material
In the pre-project period, provision for this head was conspicuous by its absence. Now a grant of Rs. 500
per teacher is given, and they are also given a 3-day training and guide books. TLM exhibitions are
organized at cluster, block and district level. Findings of the study conducted by SIERT suggests that there
has come about an improvement in the learning process by the use of the TLM in terms of making learning
an enjoyable process resulting in regular attendance.

2.1.7    Teachers' Training
The need for teacher training is evident in the large number of untrained teachers in the system. Now
modules for induction and refresher training courses have been developed which are reviewed periodically.
For effectiveness, a three-tier training system has been developed; subject wise work-books have been
developed; skill development training in an evaluation and question paper setting are given to teachers
every year. The percentage of teachers trained in 2003-04 was 87.3; in 2004-05, 87.1 and in 2005-06,
80.05. The corresponding figures for RGSJP Para Teachers were 77.14, 85.35 and 87.88, respectively.
Similarly, the number of beneficiaries in training of BRCs, CRCs and Resource Persons was 1188 in
2001-02; 1093 in 2002-03; 1327 in 2003-04; and 1068 in 2004-05.

One of the important measures was the strengthening of SIERT, SIEMAT and DIETS. Efforts for
maintaining quality has been made. Formats for reporting of data have thoughtfully evolved at the
headquarters and distributed at the grass-root level with compilation of data at CRC, BRC, District and
State. For sustained interest, review is done on a monthly basis in which the district level officers
participate. Besides this, program officers from the headquarters have been put in charge of one or two
districts and the Master Trainees required to visit the schools periodically for follow up training.

2.1.8    Learning Achievements
The findings of the studies conducted by SIERT, and the Terminal Achievement Scores study carried out in
17 schools of a district suggest improvement in learning achievement of the students. Apart from TAS, in
another small study conducted in the Tonk district done on a sample basis, out of 2702 students an
overwhelming majority of 63.95% students secured more than 71% marks followed by 10.73% between
60-70%; there were 25.31% securing less than 59%. Comparable transition rate data for pre and post
period is not available. However, the transition rate in 1999-2000 for boys was 71.07, for girls 58.08 and
for students 66.41. Transition rate in 2004-05 in Class VI in project districts was 77.32 for boys, 69.72 for
girls and 74.27 for students.

3        Environmental Strengthening
School premises have improved with good and well kept schools and toilets, and the management of
waste-water, plantation and rain water harvesting. These measures have succeeded in generating
environmental awareness among children and in the community.

4        Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
4.1      Need for a Provision for Acclimatization with the Project
DPEP is a comprehensive project with a wide coverage and elaborate objectives demanding participation
from the grass-roots level to the top. The teacher at the grass-root level is the king pin of the Program.
Those placed at higher levels are favorably placed to appreciate the niceties and nitty-gritty of the project,
but the teacher who has to play a major role has not been exposed to these challenges. All along he has
been a withdrawn person working in isolation completing the stereotype courses in a routine manner. The
teacher is circumscribed by his language limitations in English for understanding the complexities of the
program. The problem is aggravated when instruction or project content are in English.


                                                     - 32 -

Except for a few officers placed in administrative positions, practically all the players are teachers or
one-time teachers who were engaged in completing the courses given to them. The project expects from the
players to conform to the project Guidelines. Procurement is somewhat of a difficult matter for them to
handle because whatever little administrative experience they have is to conform to GF&AR (state
guidelines), which is sacrosanct for them. Conforming to IDA guidelines needs a new mindset. Therefore, it
is realized that for a project like DPEP, a period of three to six months, after the availability of credit,
should be earmarked for preparation for the project. Workshops could be organized in this project for
familiarization with IDA Guidelines for acquiring clarity about the objectives and strategy to be adopted
for the project.

4.2      Frequent Changes in the Head of the SPO
There were as many as eleven SPDs in a short period of six years. In a project like this, where the project
period is just five to six years, there should not be any change in the SPD. This will increase
implementation efficiency.

4.3      Solving Legal Issues a Dilatory Process
In a democratic set up, sometimes things get avoidably delayed. Case in point is the recruitment of teachers.
The recruitment got delayed because the matter was subjudice. Since the teachers were not in adequate
number, this was reflected in the unfavorable PTR initially. Since recruitment was done through the State
Public Service Commission, the process was some what delayed but it was satisfying because of the
transparency in the appointment of teachers.

5        Project Sustainability
Sustainability of the project is not in doubt because of the priority accorded by the successive governments
in Rajasthan to expand educational facilities in the State. When the project was negotiated and the
agreement signed with IDA, universalization of elementary education figured in the Directive Principles
enshrined in the constitution of the Indian Republic. Free and compulsory education to children aged 6-14
years after the 86th constitutional amendment in 2002 has become a fundamental right. The 86th
constitutional amendment is indeed a watershed in the education history of India taking care of the
sustainability of the project.

Moreover, the Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan, a flagship program of the GoI, aiming at Universal Elementary
Education is being implemented in the country and will take care of the sustainability of the project beyond
the project period.

6        Bank Performance
Bank performance in project identification, preparation assistance, appraisal and supervision has been
highly satisfactory. At project preparation stage and appraisal, it was difficult for those assigned this work
by the GoR because of the details involved in trying to achieve the simply stated objectives of the project.
However, the Bank officers extended useful cooperation. Visits of the supervision missions were of great
help in expediting the implementation of the project components. The field visits by the mission members
provided objective and useful feed back for remedial measures.

7        Borrowers Performance
Performance of borrower and implementing agencies in preparing and implementing the project has been
satisfactory.

8        Lessons Learned


                                                      - 33 -

DPEP has the distinction of being a large-scale and complex program geared towards educational reform.
During the course of the implementation of the program it was realized that the following would have
enriched the program content or improved the efficacy of implementation:

8.1      Desired Secretariat Status for the SPD
So far as the administration of the project is concerned, it has dual control of the RCPE and the GoR.
Between the two, there is greater accountability for the latter. In the administrative system in Rajasthan, the
SPD is outside the Secretariat and for approvals and sanctions he has to approach the Secretariat. If the
SPD is given the Secretariat status i.e. ex-officio Special Secretary, the decision making process will be
fast.

8.2       Realistic Fixation of Targets
It is clear that while fixing the targets related to enrollment, retention, transition, bridging the gender gap,
and Civil works the ground realities were not fully taken into account. The basic assumption was that if the
students are deprived of the benefit of school education, it was owing to the absence of schools or lack of
teachers. Doubtless these were obvious factors, but equally important was the attitude of the rural society
towards the importance of education as imparted in schools and the utility of education in practical day to
day life. In these conditions, providing schools and teachers did not offer an effective remedy in itself. For
this, mobilization of society was necessary. This entailed a project for a period of seven years.

8.3      Pre-project Preparation
As mentioned there is need for pre-project preparation to familiarize the players in the project with the
project content, strategy and role expectations.

8.4      Statutory Position for the SDMC
The PRIs presently are not institutionally involved in the educational development of the villages of their
respective areas. The SDMC with the Headmaster as Chairman and a Teacher as Secretary does not
command the respect due to it. If the SDMC gets a statutory position in the PRI, community mobilization
will increase and the functioning of schools will improve with PRI overseeing the functioning and solving
problems.

8.5       Rajasthan Education Initiative (REI)
It was in the course of the implementation of the DPEP that the need and importance of REI emerged.
Rajasthan is the first state in India to take this bold step. The REI focuses on improving the delivery of
educational services, particularly promoting equitable access, enrollment and retention of children in
schools, reducing gender disparities, promoting skill development and enhancing learning levels. The REI
will serve as an umbrella under which innovative multi-stakeholder partnerships are catalyzed by engaging
the global and local private sector, foundations and charitable organizations and other grass-roots level
NGOs in support of REI objectives. REI is a bold step in the education sector based on Public Private
Partnership. This will also strengthen the sustainability of the Program beyond the project period.




                                                        - 34 -

- 35 -

