Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
INTERIM FUND CREDIT NUMBER N044-IN
Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement
(Rajasthan District Primary Education Project)
between
INDIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION as Administrator of the 
interim trust fund established with funds contributed by certain 
members of International Development Association pursuant to 
Resolution No. IDA 184 of the Board of Governors of 
International Development Association, as amended
Dated July 6, 1999
INTERIM FUND CREDIT NUMBER N044-IN 
INTERIM FUND DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated  July 6, 1999, between INDIA, acting by its President (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) as administrator 
(the Administrator) of the interim trust fund (Interim Fund) established with funds 
contributed by certain members of the Association pursuant to Resolution No. IDA 184 
(the Interim Fund Resolution) of the Board of Governors of the Association, adopted on 
June 26, 1996, as amended.
WHEREAS (A) by the Interim Fund Resolution the Interim Fund has been 
established, constituted of the funds contributed by certain members of the 
Association and administered by the Association acting as Administrator of the Interim 
Fund, in accordance with the provisions of the Interim Fund Resolution;
(B)
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested 
the Administrator to assist in the financing of the Project through the provision of 
resources from the Interim Fund, and the Administrator has determined that such 
assistance would be in accordance with the provisions of the Interim Fund Resolution;
(C)
the Project will be carried out by the State of Rajasthan (Rajasthan) 
with the assistance of Rajasthan Council of Primary Education (RCPE) and the Borrower 
and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make the proceeds of the credit 
provided for in Article II of this Agreement (the Interim Fund Credit) available to 
RCPE, as set forth in this Agreement; and
Page  2
WHEREAS the Administrator has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the 
foregoing, to extend the Interim Fund Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and 
conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the agreement of even date herewith 
between the Administrator and Rajasthan (the Project Agreement);
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through December 2, 
1997), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
The term “Association”, wherever used in the General Conditions means the 
International Development Association acting as Administrator of the Interim Fund 
referred to in the Preamble to the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement;
(b)
The terms “Development Credit Agreement”, “Credit” and “Credit Account”, 
wherever used in the General Conditions, are amended to read “Interim Fund Development 
Credit Agreement”, “Interim Fund Credit” and “Interim Fund Credit Account”, 
respectively; and
(c)
In Sections 6.02 and 7.01 of the General Conditions, the term 
“Association” shall also mean the International Development Association acting in its 
own capacity.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a)
“BRC” means each Block Resource Center to be established in a Project 
District (as hereinafter defined) and responsible for, inter alia, providing 
professional training and support to CRCs (as hereinafter defined) and overseeing 
micro-planning activities under the Project; 
(b)
“children from socially disadvantaged groups” means children who have 
limited access to educational opportunities, including female, Scheduled Caste (as 
hereinafter defined), Scheduled Tribe (as hereinafter defined), other backward classes 
and working children and children with disabilities; 
(c)
“CRC” means each Cluster Resource Center to be established in a Project 
District and responsible for, inter alia, providing professional training and on-site 
support to teachers, mobilizing community support for schools and data collection 
through micro-planning activities under the Project;
(d)
“DIET” means each District Institute for Education and Training in a 
Project District responsible for, inter alia, developing curricular material and 
training modules and training master trainers who will introduce teachers to the new 
pedagogy developed under the DPEP (as hereinafter defined); 
(e)
“DPEP” means the Borrower’s District Primary Education Program; 
(f)
“DPEP Guidelines” means the statement adopted by the Borrower in April 
1993, as amended from time to time, defining the DPEP; 
(g)
“DPO” means each District Project Office of RCPE (as hereinafter defined) 
in a Project District responsible for, inter alia, carrying out day-to-day Project 
implementation at the district level; 
(h)
“elementary education” means education provided in classes 1 through 8 in 
schools; 
Page  3
(i)
“Eligible Categories” means categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) set forth in 
the table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(j)
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods and services 
referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(k)
“Fiscal Year” or “FY” means the fiscal year of the Borrower, Rajasthan 
(as hereinafter defined) and RCPE, which begins on April 1 of a calendar year and ends 
on March 31 of the following calendar year; 
(l)
“primary education” means education provided in classes 1 through 5 in 
schools; 
(m)
“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Administrator and  
Rajasthan of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and 
such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(n)
“Project District” means each of the following districts in Rajasthan: 
Alwar, Bhilwara, Sriganganagar, Jhalwar, Kota, Nagaur, Sikar, Sirohi, Tonk and 
Jhunjhunu; 
(o)
“Project Implementation Plan” means the Project Implementation Plan of 
the Borrower, Rajasthan and RCPE for the Project, dated April 1999; 
(p)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in accordance  
with Section 3.02 of the Project Agreement; 
(q)
“Rajasthan” means the State of Rajasthan, a State of the Borrower, or any 
successor thereto; 
(r)
“RCPE” means Rajasthan Council of Primary Education, a society 
established and registered under the Societies Registration Act, 1958, as applicable 
to Rajasthan and as amended to date; 
(s)
“RSTB” means the Rajasthan State Textbook Board responsible for, inter 
alia, printing and distribution of textbooks, workbooks and teacher guides; 
(t)
“Scheduled Castes” means the population groups specified as “Scheduled 
Castes” pursuant to Article 341 of the Constitution of India; 
(u)
“Scheduled Tribes” means the population groups specified as “Scheduled 
Tribes” pursuant to Article 342 of the Constitution of India;
(v)
“School Management Committee” means each School Management Committee to 
be established for each school (including a self service school (Swayam Sevi 
Vidyalaya) and an alternative school) in the Project Districts and to perform 
functions of a VEC (as hereinafter defined) at the school level; 
(w)
“SIEMAT” means the State Institute for Educational Management and 
Training in Rajasthan responsible for, inter alia, training educational management 
personnel and providing technical support in educational planning and management; 
(x)
“SIERT” means the State Institute for Educational Research and Training 
in Rajasthan responsible for, inter alia, developing curricular material and training 
modules and training resource persons to train teachers; 
(y)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement; 
(z)
“SPO” means the State Project Office of RCPE responsible for, inter alia, 
supervising and coordinating Project implementation at the state level;
(aa)
“VEC” means each Village Education Committee established for villages 
having at least one school (including a self service school (Swayam Sevi Vidyalaya) 
and an alternative school) in the Project Districts and responsible for, inter alia, 
micro-planning for school and resource mapping, mobilization of community support for 
schools, management of the community construction program, selection of para teachers 
Page  4
and school improvement and management; and
(bb)
“WEC” means each Ward Education Committee established for wards in urban 
areas having at least one school (including a self service school (Swayam Sevi 
Vidyalaya) and an alternative school) in the Project Districts and responsible for, 
inter alia, micro-planning for school and resource mapping, mobilization of community 
support for schools, management of the community construction program, selection of 
para teachers and school improvement and management.
Section 1.03. Each reference in the General Conditions to the Project 
implementation entity shall be deemed to be a reference to each of Rajasthan and RCPE. 
ARTICLE II 
The Interim Fund Credit 
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement, 
an amount in various currencies equivalent to sixty-three million Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 63,000,000). 
Section 2.02. The amount of the Interim Fund Credit may be withdrawn from the 
Interim Fund Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Administrator shall so agree, to be made) 
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2004, or such later date as 
the Administrator shall establish. The Administrator shall promptly notify the 
Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Interim Fund Credit not withdrawn from time to time at 
a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the 
rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Interim Fund Credit Account or canceled; 
and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and 
at such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph 
(a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date 
in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Interim Fund Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on November 1 and May 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Interim Fund Credit in semiannual installments 
payable on each November 1 and May 1 commencing November 1, 2009 and ending May 1, 
2034. Each installment to and including the installment payable on May 1, 2019 shall 
be one and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment 
thereafter shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
Page  5
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Administrator may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by the Administrator of the development of the Borrower’s economy, 
modify the repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the 
Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the 
principal amount of the Interim Fund Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring 
the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal amount of the Interim Fund Credit 
as of the first semiannual payment date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six 
months or more after the date on which the Administrator notifies the Borrower that 
the events set out in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there 
shall be a grace period of a minimum of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Administrator may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Administrator on the principal amount of the Interim Fund Credit 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the 
Administrator, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the 
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Administrator may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other 
obligations under this Agreement, shall cause Rajasthan and RCPE to perform in 
accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of 
Rajasthan and RCPE therein set forth, shall take or cause to be taken all action, 
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary 
or appropriate to enable Rajasthan and RCPE to perform such obligations, and shall not 
take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such 
performance.
(b)
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit available 
on a grant basis to RCPE under a memorandum of understanding to be entered into 
between the Borrower and RCPE satisfactory to the Administrator.
(c)
Without prejudice to any other provision of this Agreement, the Borrower 
shall ensure that RCPE receives adequate funds on a six-monthly basis, in a timely 
manner, for anticipated expenditures under its approved annual work plans.
Section 3.02. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Administrator hereby agree that the 
obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General 
Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, 
records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried 
out by Rajasthan and RCPE pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall cause Rajasthan and RCPE to carry out the DPEP 
in Rajasthan in accordance with the DPEP Guidelines and shall not make any change to 
Page  6
the DPEP or the DPEP Guidelines, including in respect of its financial and 
administrative procedures, which would, in the reasonable opinion of the 
Administrator, materially and adversely affect the ability of Rajasthan or RCPE to 
carry out the Project or to perform any of their obligations under the Project 
Agreement.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with agreed indicators, the carrying out 
of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
carry out with the Administrator, Rajasthan and RCPE a joint in-depth 
review of the Project on two occasions by December 31, 2001 and December 31, 2004, 
such review to include a status report: (i) in both reviews, integrating the results 
of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of 
this Section, and (ii) in the first review, setting forth the measures recommended to 
ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof; and
(c)
after the first review, take all measures required to ensure the 
efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, 
based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the 
Administrator’s views on the matter. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Interim Fund Credit Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports 
or statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with sound 
financial 
management and accounting practices, records and 
separate accounts reflecting 
such expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures are 
retained until at least one 
year after the Administrator has 
received the audit report for the Fiscal Year 
in which the last 
withdrawal from the Interim Fund Credit Account was made; 
and
(iii)
enable the Administrator’s representatives to examine such 
records.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a)(i) of 
this Section 
and those for the Special Account for each Fiscal Year 
audited, in accordance 
with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the 
Administrator;
(ii)
furnish to the Administrator as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such Fiscal Year the 
report of such 
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Administrator 
shall have reasonably requested, 
including a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the Project 
Management Reports or statements of expenditure 
submitted 
during such Fiscal Year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals; and
(iii)
furnish to the Administrator such other information concerning 
said records 
and accounts and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the 
Administrator may from time to time reasonably 
Page  7
request. 
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Association and the Administrator
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02(l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
Rajasthan shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of this 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that Rajasthan will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(c)
Rajasthan shall have reduced the level of its budgetary expenditure for 
elementary education (net of Project expenditures) below the level, in real terms 
(adjusted to reflect a change in the Borrower’s wholesale price index), of such 
expenditure in FY 1997-98. 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the event specified in paragraph 
(a) or (c) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a 
period of sixty (60) days after notice thereof shall have been given by the 
Administrator to the Borrower. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination; 
Designation of Administrator 
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of 
Section 12.01(b) of the General Conditions, namely, that the Borrower and RCPE have 
entered into a memorandum of understanding satisfactory to the Administrator in 
accordance with Section 3.01(b) of this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Administrator, namely, that the Project Agreement 
has been duly authorized or ratified by Rajasthan, and is legally binding upon 
Rajasthan in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. In the event that the Executive Directors of the Association 
decide to terminate the functions of the Association as administrator of the Interim 
Fund pursuant to Section 7 of the Interim Fund Resolution, all of the rights and 
obligations of the Administrator under this Agreement shall be assumed by the 
Association in accordance with the Interim Fund Resolution and such decision of said 
Executive Directors, as of a date to be notified by the Administrator to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint Secretary, Director, 
Deputy Secretary or Under Secretary of the Department of Economic Affairs in the 
Ministry of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower 
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Page  8
Secretary to the Government of India
Department of Economic Affairs
Ministry of Finance
New Delhi, 110001
India
Cable address:
Telex:
ECOFAIRS
953-3166175
New Delhi
For the Association and the Administrator:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
New Delhi, India, as of the day and year first above written.
INDIA
By /s/ V. Govindarajan 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator of the interim trust fund established
with funds contributed by certain members of 
International Development Association pursuant to
Resolution No. IDA 184 of the Board of Governors of
International Development Association, as amended
By /s/ Edwin R. Lim 
Country Director, India
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit 
A.
General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Interim Fund 
Credit to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed 
in each Category:
Amount of the
Interim Fund Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Page  9
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil works
   13,000,000
90%
(2)
Equipment,
    4,200,000
100% of foreign 
furniture, vehicles
expenditures, 100%
and books
of local 
expenditures
(ex-factory cost) 
and
80% of local 
expenditures
for other items 
procured
locally
(3)
Training, workshops,
   19,100,000
100%
fellowships and
consultants’ services
(4)
Incremental operating
   21,600,000
80% until March 31,
and maintenance costs
2001; 60% from April 
1,
2001 until March 31,
2002; 55% from April 
1,
2002 until March 31,
2003; and 25% there-
after
(5)
Unallocated
    5,100,000
   __________
TOTAL
   63,000,000
   ==========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and  
(c)
the term “incremental operating and maintenance costs” means (i) the 
incremental expenses incurred on or after June 1, 1998 on account of Project 
implementation, management and monitoring, including office supplies, operation and 
maintenance of equipment, hiring of vehicles, maintenance of purchased vehicles and 
travel and supervision costs, but excluding salaries of officials of the Borrower’s 
civil service; (ii) salaries paid in respect of posts created for the Project, 
including consulting or contractual services, on or after June 1, 1998; and (iii) 
expenses incurred by schools and teachers for school facility improvement and teaching 
and learning materials pursuant to paragraph 2.27 of the DPEP Guidelines.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 
4,400,000, may be made in respect of Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) set forth in the 
table in Part A.1 of this Schedule on account of payments made for expenditures before 
that date but after June 1, 1998.
4.
The Administrator may require withdrawals from the Interim Fund Credit Account 
to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for:\0b(a) works 
under contracts not exceeding $300,000 equivalent each; (b) goods (except vehicles) 
under contracts not exceeding $300,000 equivalent each; (c) vehicles under contracts 
not exceeding $100,000 equivalent each; (d) services under contracts costing less than 
Page  10
$100,000 equivalent each for employment of consulting firms and $50,000 equivalent 
each for employment of individual consultants, respectively; (e) training, workshops 
and fellowships; and (f) incremental operating and maintenance costs; all under such 
terms and conditions as the Administrator shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
B.
Special Account
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in the 
Reserve Bank of India, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Administrator.
2.
After the Administrator has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
Special Account has been opened, withdrawals from the Interim Fund Credit Account of 
amounts to be deposited into the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
until the Administrator shall have received (i) the first Project 
Management Report referred to in Section 3.02(b) of the Project Agreement and (ii) a 
request from the Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, 
withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this 
Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Administrator of a Project Management Report pursuant 
to Section 3.02(b) of the Project Agreement, accompanied by a request from the 
Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, all further 
withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this 
Schedule 1.
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Administrator shall reasonably request, furnish to 
the Administrator such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Administrator 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if the Administrator determines at any time that any Project Management 
Report does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 
of the Project Agreement;
(b)
if the Administrator determines at any time that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Borrower directly from the Interim Fund Credit Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower, Rajasthan or RCPE shall have failed to furnish to the 
Administrator within the period of time specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of this 
Agreement and Section 3.01(b)(ii) of the Project Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Administrator pursuant to said Sections in respect of 
the audit of (A) the records and accounts for the Special Account or (B) the records, 
accounts and financial statements reflecting expenditures with respect to which 
withdrawals were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure.
5.
The Administrator shall not be required to make further deposits into the 
Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at 
any time, the Administrator shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to 
suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the 
Interim Fund Credit Account pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  Upon 
such notification, the Administrator shall determine, in its sole discretion, whether 
further deposits into the Special Account may be made and what procedures should be 
followed for making such deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of its determination.
6.
(a)
If the Administrator determines at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or 
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Administrator, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Administrator, provide such additional evidence as the 
Administrator may request, or deposit into the Special Account (or, if the 
Administrator shall so request, refund to the Administrator) an amount equal to the 
amount of such payment.  Unless the Administrator shall otherwise agree, no further 
Page  11
deposit by the Administrator into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower 
has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Administrator determines at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible 
Expenditures during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower 
shall, promptly upon notice from the Administrator, refund to the Administrator such 
outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Administrator, refund to the 
Administrator all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Administrator made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or 
(c) of this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Interim Fund Credit Account for 
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of this 
Agreement.
Annex A to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are Not Made 
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
For the purposes of this Annex, the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount 
equivalent to $6,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Interim Fund Credit Account and 
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, 
however, that unless the Administrator shall otherwise agree, the Authorized 
Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $3,000,000 until the aggregate 
amount of withdrawals from the Interim Fund Credit Account, plus the total amount of 
all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Administrator pursuant to 
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal or exceed the equivalent of SDR 
12,000,000.
2.
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish 
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Administrator a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On 
the basis of each such request, the Administrator shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Interim Fund Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Administrator requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as 
the Administrator shall specify. Prior to or at the time of each such request, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Administrator the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in 
respect of which replenishment is requested.  On the basis of each such request, the 
Administrator shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Interim Fund Credit 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence to have 
been paid out of the Special Account for Eligible Expenditures.  Each such deposit 
into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Administrator from the Interim Fund 
Credit Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.
3.
The Administrator shall not be required to make further deposits into the 
Special Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Interim Fund Credit, minus 
the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the 
Administrator pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.  Thereafter, withdrawal 
from the Interim Fund Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the 
Interim Fund Credit shall follow such procedures as the Administrator shall specify by 
notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the 
extent that the Administrator shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
Page  12
Annex B to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are Made 
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Administrator may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all 
withdrawals from the Interim Fund Credit Account shall be deposited by the 
Administrator into the Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement.  Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by 
the Administrator from the Interim Fund Credit Account under one or more of the 
Eligible Categories.
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Interim Fund Credit Account for deposit 
into the Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Interim Fund 
Credit, the Administrator shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Interim 
Fund Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser 
of: (a) the amount so requested; and (b) the amount which the Administrator has 
determined, based on the Project Management Report accompanying said application, is 
required to be deposited in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the 
six-month period following the date of such report; provided, however, that the amount 
so deposited, when added to the amount indicated by said Project Management Report to 
be remaining in the Special Account, shall not exceed the equivalent of $12,500,000.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to assist Rajasthan and RCPE in building and 
strengthening Rajasthan’s state, district and sub-district institutional capacity to 
ensure that more children, especially children from socially disadvantaged groups, 
complete a five-year primary education cycle of appropriate quality in the Project 
Districts.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Administrator may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objective:
Part A:
Access to Primary Education
 Expanding access to primary education in the Project Districts, particularly 
for children from socially disadvantaged groups, by constructing new schools and 
additional classrooms and repairing existing facilities to create approximately 
600,000 new student places; positioning and appointing new para teachers in 
alternative and regular schools; and selectively establishing new and strengthening 
existing early childhood education centers to encourage learning, especially among 
female children from illiterate households.
Part B:
Retention and Learning Achievement
Increasing the retention rate and improving the learning achievements in primary 
schools in the Project Districts by:
1.
Mobilizing school and community organizations and carrying out awareness 
campaigns in support of education.
2.
Establishing a School Management Committee for each  school (including a self 
service school (Swayam Sevi Vidyalaya) and an alternative school) in the Project 
Districts.
3.
Developing and implementing targeted interventions to enhance the delivery of 
Project benefits, particularly to children from socially disadvantaged groups, 
including (i) alternative schooling, (ii) provision of free teaching and learning 
materials, (iii) school facility and curriculum improvement and (iv) preparation of 
teaching aids by teachers.
Page  13
4.
Installing toilets and water facilities in schools.
5.
Establishing BRCs and  CRCs to operate in-service teacher training activities. 
6.
Providing continuous in-service teacher training for teachers already in service 
and para teachers, and supply of instructional materials for such training, including 
(i) training in the first year plus training in consecutive years for teachers already 
in service, (ii) foundational training and remedial training in the first year plus 
foundational training and remedial training in consecutive years for para teachers and 
(iii) establishment of BRCs and CRCs to provide professional training and on-site 
support to teachers.
7.
Developing improved instructional materials by, inter alia: (i) field testing 
them prior to their adoption; (ii) improving the design, illustration, layout and 
durability of instructional materials; and (iii) providing professional training for 
instructional materials agency staff.
8.
Supplying new and improved instructional materials to schools and children in 
the Project Districts in accordance with the DPEP Guidelines.
9.
Carrying out periodic student learning assessments.
10.
Formulating and implementing innovative approaches to improve primary education.
Part C:
State and District Institutional Capacity
Improving state and Project District capacity to manage primary education by:
1.
Establishing and strengthening state and Project District management structures 
to review and supervise the implementation of state and district investment plans and 
annual work plan and budget that are designed to enhance access to and improve the 
quality and efficiency of primary education.
2.
Establishing and strengthening: (i) state and Project District resource 
institutions, such as SIERT, SIEMAT and RSTB at the state level and DIETs or 
equivalent institutions in all Project Districts; and (ii) resource groups at the 
state level and in all Project Districts, to provide technical support in Project 
implementation.
3.
Strengthening the capacity for monitoring, research and evaluation, and carrying 
out related activities.
4.
Developing training modules for micro-planning and VEC/WEC/School Management 
Committee training and training of master trainers.
**
*
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2004.
