Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
INTERIM FUND CREDIT NUMBER N044-IN
Project Agreement
(Rajasthan District Primary Education Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION as Administrator of the 
interim trust fund established with funds contributed by 
certain members of International Development Association pursuant to 
Resolution No. IDA 184 of the Board of Governors of 
International Development Association, as amended
and
STATE OF RAJASTHAN
Dated July 6, 1999
INTERIM FUND CREDIT NUMBER N044-IN
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 6, 1999, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association) as administrator (the Administrator) of the interim trust fund 
(Interim Fund) established with funds contributed by certain members of the 
Association pursuant to Resolution No. IDA 184 (the Interim Fund Resolution) of the 
Board of Governors of the Association, adopted on June 26, 1996, as amended, and the 
STATE OF RAJASTHAN, acting by its Governor (Rajasthan).
WHEREAS (A) by the Interim Fund Resolution the Interim Fund has been 
established, constituted of the funds contributed by certain members of the 
Association and administered by the Association acting as Administrator of the Interim 
Fund, in accordance with the provisions of the Interim Fund Resolution;
(B) 
by the agreement of even date herewith between India (the Borrower) and 
the Administrator (the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement), the Administrator 
has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to sixty-three million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 63,000,000) on the terms 
and conditions set forth in the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement, but only on 
condition that Rajasthan agree to undertake such obligations toward the Administrator 
as are set forth in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS Rajasthan, in consideration of the Administrator’s entering into the 
Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake 
the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and 
the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Rajasthan declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end, shall, and shall cause RCPE to, carry out the Project with 
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, 
financial and educational practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, Rajasthan shall, and shall 
cause RCPE to, carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set 
forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. Rajasthan shall, and shall cause RCPE to, carry out the 
obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General 
Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, 
records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the 
Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) At the request of the Administrator, Rajasthan shall, and 
shall cause RCPE to, exchange views with the Administrator, through the Borrower, with 
regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of their obligations under this 
Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Interim Fund Credit.
(b)
Rajasthan shall, and shall cause RCPE to, promptly inform the 
Administrator, through the Borrower, of any condition which interferes or threatens to 
interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the 
Interim Fund Credit, or the performance by Rajasthan and RCPE of their obligations 
under this Agreement.
Section 2.05. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, Rajasthan shall, and shall cause RCPE to:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Administrator, and 
furnish to the Administrator, through the Borrower,  not later than six (6) months 
after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between 
the Administrator, the Borrower and Rajasthan, a plan as to Rajasthan’s intentions to 
ensure the sustainability of the Project and incorporating the results of the second 
review conducted pursuant to Section 3.05 of the Interim Fund Development Credit 
Agreement and paragraph 11 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and
(b)
afford the Administrator a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
Rajasthan and RCPE, through the Borrower, on said plan.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Page  3
Section 3.01. (a) Rajasthan shall, and shall cause RCPE to, maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in 
a format acceptable to the Administrator, adequate to reflect in accordance with sound 
financial management and accounting practices the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the Project of the departments or agencies of Rajasthan 
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof and of RCPE.
(b)
Rajasthan shall, and shall cause RCPE to:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph 
(a) of this Section for each Fiscal Year audited, in 
accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently 
applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Administrator;
(ii)
furnish to the Administrator as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such Fiscal Year, (A) 
certified copies 
of the financial statements referred to in paragraph 
(a) of this Section for 
such Fiscal Year as so audited, and (B) an 
opinion on such financial 
statements, records and accounts and a 
report of such audit, by said auditors, 
of such scope and in such 
detail as the Administrator shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Administrator such other information concerning 
such records, 
accounts and financial statements, and the audit 
thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Administrator may from 
time to time reasonably request.
Section 3.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, Rajasthan shall, and shall cause RCPE to, carry out a time-bound action 
plan acceptable to the Administrator for the strengthening of the financial management 
system referred to in paragraph (a) of said Section 3.01 in order to enable RCPE, not 
later than\0bJuly 15, 2000, or such later date as the Administrator shall agree, to 
prepare quarterly Project Management Reports, acceptable to the Administrator, each of 
which:
(i)
(A) 
sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, 
both cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, 
and projected 
sources and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period 
following the period covered by 
said report; and (B) shows separately 
expenditures financed out 
of the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit during 
the period covered 
by said report and expenditures proposed to be financed out 
of the 
proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit during the six-month period 
following the period covered by said report;
(ii)
(A)
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and (B) explains 
variances between the actual and 
previously forecast implementation targets; 
and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under 
contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Interim 
Fund Credit, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, Rajasthan shall cause RCPE to prepare, in accordance with the format 
acceptable to the Administrator, and furnish to the Administrator not later than 45 
days after the end of each calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such 
period.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination; 
Cancellation and Suspension; 
Designation of the Administrator
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
Page  4
which the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Administrator and 
Rajasthan thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement 
shall 
terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)
the date twenty (20) years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)
If the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance 
with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the 
Administrator shall promptly notify Rajasthan of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
Section 4.04. In the event that the Executive Directors of the Association 
decide to terminate the functions of the Association as administrator of the Interim 
Fund pursuant to Section 7 of the Interim Fund Resolution, all of the rights and 
obligations of the Administrator under this Agreement shall be assumed by the 
Association in accordance with the Interim Fund Resolution and such decision of said 
Executive Directors, as of a date to be notified by the Administrator to Rajasthan.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request.  The addresses so specified are:
For the Association and the Administrator:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For Rajasthan:
Chief Secretary
Government of Rajasthan
Jaipur
Rajasthan, India
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of Rajasthan may 
be taken or executed by its Chief Secretary or such other person or persons as 
Rajasthan shall designate in writing, and Rajasthan shall furnish to the Administrator 
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each 
such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
Page  5
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
New Delhi, India, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
As Administrator of the Interim Trust Fund established
With funds contributed by certain members of
International Development Association pursuant to
Resolution No. IDA 184 of the Board of Governors of
International Development Association, as amended
By /s/ Edwin R. Lim
Country Director, India
STATE OF RAJASTHAN
By /s/ O. P. Behari
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section I. 
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and to be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
this Part B.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
(a)
Works estimated to cost more than $20,000 equivalent per contract shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 
3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Goods (except vehicles) estimated to cost $300,000 equivalent or less per 
Page  6
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $4,620,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 
and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
Procurement of Small Goods (Except Vehicles)
(a)
Goods (except vehicles) estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent or less per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $2,190,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Goods (except vehicles) estimated to cost $5,000 equivalent or less per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $150,000 equivalent, may be procured 
by direct contracting in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the 
Guidelines.
3.
Vehicles
Vehicles estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or less per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. The 
aggregate amount of contracts for vehicles to be procured pursuant to this paragraph 
shall not exceed $40,000 equivalent.
4.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost $20,000 equivalent or less per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $21,260,000 equivalent, may:
(i)
be procured by direct contracting in accordance with the 
provisions of 
paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed 
$850,000 equivalent;
(ii)
be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the 
basis of 
quotations obtained from three (3) qualified domestic 
contractors in response 
to a written invitation.  The invitation shall 
include a detailed description 
of the works, including basic 
specifications, the required completion date, a 
basic form of 
agreement acceptable to the Administrator, and relevant 
drawings, where applicable.  The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the 
experience and resources to complete the contract successfully;
(iii)
be procured under the unit/piece rate systems through qualified 
contractors or 
registered non-governmental organizations or other 
beneficiary associations; 
or
(iv)
as a last resort, be carried out by force account if they meet the 
requirements of the provisions of paragraph 3.8 of 
the Guidelines, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $1,100,000 
equivalent.
5.
Contracts for Procurement of Teaching Materials, Hiring of Vehicles and 
Maintenance of Equipment
(a)
Contracts for procurement of teaching materials referred to in paragraph 
2 (c) of Part A of Schedule 1 to the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement, 
estimated to cost $20,000 equivalent or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount 
not to exceed $7,950,000 equivalent, may be procured by direct contracting in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Contracts for (i) hiring of vehicles estimated to cost $20,000 equivalent 
or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $2,570,000 equivalent, 
and (ii) operation and maintenance of equipment estimated to cost $20,000 equivalent 
or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $80,000 equivalent, may:
(i)
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $2,350,000 equivalent, be 
Page  7
procured 
under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the 
basis of quotations 
obtained from three (3) qualified 
domestic contractors in response to a 
written invitation.  The 
invitation shall include a detailed description of 
the requirements, 
including basic specifications, the required completion 
date, 
and a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Administrator. The award 
shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the 
required work, and who has the experience and resources to complete the 
contract successfully; or
(ii)
be procured by direct contracting in accordance with the 
provisions of 
paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed 
$300,000 equivalent.
Part D:
Review by the Administrator of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Administrator for its 
review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines.  Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance 
with an annual procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Administrator, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to (a) each contract for works estimated to cost more than the 
equivalent of $300,000, (b) each contract for goods estimated to cost more than the 
equivalent of $300,000, (c) the first contract for works awarded under paragraph 1(a) 
of Part C of this Section I, and (d) the first contract for goods awarded under 
paragraph 1(b) of Part C of this Section I, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 
and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of this Section II. 
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph. 
The short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $200,000 
equivalent per contract may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications or Single Source Selection
Page  8
Services: (a) for publicity, training and workshops; and (b) in the areas of 
information, education, communication, civil works, management information system and 
educational research, estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up 
to an aggregate amount not to exceed $14,750,000 equivalent, may:
(i)
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines; or
(ii)
with the Administrator’s prior agreement (in the case of services 
estimated to 
cost $1,000 equivalent or more per contract), be procured in 
accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for institutional strengthening under Part C of the Project estimated 
to cost $10,000 equivalent or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to 
exceed $9,200,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Administrator of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Administrator for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with an annual selection plan as shall have 
been approved by the Administrator, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Administrator for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall 
be awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
(d)
Without limitation on any other provisions of this paragraph 2, terms of 
reference for all consultants’ services estimated to cost the equivalent of $12,000 or 
more per contract in the case of firms, and the equivalent of $5,000 or more per 
contract in the case of individuals, shall be furnished to the Administrator for its 
prior review and approval, and the contracts for such services shall be awarded only 
after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 2
Page  9
Implementation Program
1.
Rajasthan shall, and shall cause RCPE to, carry out the Project in accordance 
with: (i) the DPEP Guidelines; and (ii) the Project Implementation Plan.
2.
Rajasthan shall, and shall cause RCPE to: (i) by July 31, 1999, complete the 
appointment of individuals with adequate skills, qualifications and experience to the 
positions in SPO and each DPO as specified in the Project Implementation Plan; 
and\0b(ii) at all times maintain SPO, DPOs, DIETs, SIERT and SIEMAT with powers, 
functions, staff, resources and facilities necessary to the effective implementation 
of the Project.
3.
Rajasthan shall cause RCPE to: (i) appoint by July 31, 1999, and thereafter 
maintain, a Financial Controller at SPO with suitable experience; and (ii) appoint by\0b
July 31, 1999, and thereafter maintain, a firm of chartered accountants with terms of 
reference and qualifications satisfactory to the Administrator for auditing the 
records, accounts and financial statements for the Project.
4.
Rajasthan shall ensure that at least 95% of the teachers’ posts in the Project 
Districts, starting July 1, 2000, remain filled with teachers throughout the Project 
implementation period.
5.
Rajasthan shall, and shall cause RCPE to, establish by March 31, 2001, and 
thereafter maintain in all the Project Districts: (i) a VEC/WEC for villages or urban 
areas, as applicable, having at least one school (including a self service school 
(Swayam Sevi Vidyalaya) and an alternative school); and (ii) a School Management 
Committee for each school (including a self service school (Swayam Sevi Vidyalaya) and 
an alternative school) in accordance with the criteria and procedures set forth in the 
Project Implementation Plan.
6.
Rajasthan shall, and shall cause RCPE to, establish by December 31, 1999, and 
thereafter maintain, technical resource groups at the state and Project District 
levels, to assist in the development and implementation of the Project, in accordance 
with the criteria and procedures set forth in the Project Implementation Plan.
7.
By December 31, 2001 and December 31, 2004, Rajasthan shall, and shall cause 
RCPE to, furnish to the Administrator data, as of September 30, 2001 and September 30, 
2004, respectively, for all the Project Districts on: (i) the enrollment of children 
in the age group of 6 to 10 years in primary education; (ii) the primary education 
dropout rates; and (iii) mathematics and language achievement scores of children in 
primary education, all with separate categories for females, Scheduled Castes, 
Scheduled Tribes and other backward classes.
8.
Rajasthan shall, and shall cause RCPE to, ensure that no involuntary 
resettlement arises from any use of land, or change of land use for the Project, 
except to the extent that the Administrator agrees in writing prior to such 
resettlement that the arrangements for such involuntary resettlement are satisfactory 
to the Administrator.
9.
Rajasthan shall, and shall cause RCPE to:
(a)
implement the Project in accordance with strategies for improving primary 
education of female students as set forth in the Project Implementation Plan; and
(b)
implement the Project in all tribal areas (as designated by Rajasthan in 
accordance with applicable state laws) in accordance with procedures and strategies 
for the delivery of the Project benefits to tribal people as set forth in the Project 
Implementation Plan.
10.
With respect to Part C.3 of the Project, Rajasthan shall, and shall cause RCPE 
to, select non-governmental and community organizations participating in the Project 
in accordance with criteria and procedures satisfactory to the Administrator.
11.
With the guidance of the Borrower, Rajasthan shall, and shall cause RCPE to:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with agreed indicators, the carrying out 
Page  10
of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
carry out with the Administrator and the Borrower a joint in-depth review 
of the Project on two occasions by December 31, 2001 and December 31, 2004, such 
review to include a status report: (i) in both reviews, integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to sub-paragraph (a) of this 
paragraph; and (ii) in the first review, setting forth the measures recommended to 
ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof; and
(c)
after the first review, take all measures required to ensure the 
efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, 
based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the 
Administrator’s views on the matter.
