( &                 ('         , -7
I)ocument of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 12405-CD
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
HEALTH AND SAFE MOTHERHOOD PROJECT
MAY 13, 1994
MI CROGRAPHICS
Report No:        12405 TD
Type: SAR
Population and Euman Resources
Operations Division
Sahelian Department
Africa Region
This document has a resbited drb2Hhdon and nmy be used by redpiub oaly in the perfonmanoe of
their officid dutes. Its contents may no othewise be disdosed without Wodd Bank authorzation.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit = CFA Franc (CFAF) I US$1 = 597 CFAF
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AGETIP          Executing Agency for Public Works (Agence dExecution des Travaux dIrnt*rt Public)
ATETIP          Executing Agency for Public Works (Agence Tchadienne dx'&cution des Travatx dVntlrit Public)
BCE             Bureau de Cooperation et Etudes
BELACD          Bureau d 'Etude et de Liaison dAction Caritaive et de DOveloppemenr
BSPE            Bureau de la Sfatistique, PlanlJ;cation et Etudes
CPA             Cen;ral Purchasing Agency (Centrate Pharmaceuuique dAchats)
CMA             Contract Management Agency
CNSF            National Family Health Center
CPAR            Country Procurement Assessment Repert
CPSF            Office for Promotion oi Girls' Education/(Cellule de Promotion de la Scolarisation des FiUes)
CTS             CeUule Technique de Suivi do la Table Rondo SectorieUe
DG              General Directorate of the Ministry of Heilth(Direcion Gneralk de la Sante)
DNPP            National Declaration on Population Pulicy
DPS             D6l6gud prefectoral de la sante
EDF             European Development Fund
EDP             Essential Drugs Program
ENASS           Ecole Nationale des Agents Sociaux et Sanitaires
FED             Fonds Europe'en de Diveloppement
FP              Family Planning
GTZ             German Corporation for Technical Cooperation/(Deasuche Gesellscha_fi fr Technische Zusammenarbeit)
HIEU            Health Information and Education Unit
ICB             Intemational Competitive Bidding
IEC             Information-Education-Communication
KAP             Knowledge, Attitude and Practice
KfW             Bank for Reconstruction/Kreditanstalftr Ufiedraa#brau)
LCB             Local Competitive Bidding
MCH             Maternal and Child Health
MOC             Ministry of Commerce
MOF             Ministry of Finance
MOPC            Ministry of Planning and Cooperation
MOPH            Ministry of Public Health/(Ministere de la Santi Publique
MSF             Midecins sans Frontlires
NRH             National Referral Hospital
NHDP            National Health Development Plan
NDPP            National Declaration of the Population Policy
NGO             Non-Governmental Organization
NDP             National Drug Policy
NHIE            National Health Information and Education Strategy
PADS            Projet d'Actions pour le de Diveloppement Social
PASP            Phannacie dA'pprovisionnemem du Secteur Public
PHC             Primary Health Care
PCT             Project Coordination Team
PHARMAT         Pharmacie Tchadienne
RMO             Regional Medical Officer
SDA             Social Dimensions of Adjustmenit
SECADEV         Secours Cathofique et Diveloppement
SSA             Sub-Saharan Africa
STDs            SexuaUy Transmitted Diseases
TA              Technical Assistance
TFR             Total Fertility Rate
UNAD            Union Nanonale des Associations Diocisaines de Diveloppement
UNICEF          United Nations Chilaren's Fund
USAID           United States Agency for International Development
VNU             Volontaires des Nations Unies (United Nations Volunteers)
WHO             World Health Organization
Fiscal Year                                                                         January 1 - December 31.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
HEALTH AND SAFE MOTHERHOOD PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page N'
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY .............................i
I. INTRODUCTION . ............................ 
II. SECTORAL CONTEXT                     ...................1.........
A.   Background .... ..........1...............
B.   Macro-Economic Context and Medium-Term Prospects ............                                         2
C.      Demographic, Health and Nutrition Sectoral Context .... ......... .                                3
1.      The Demographic Situation  .................................    3
2.      Health and Nutritional Status  ...............................    4
3.      Organizational and Management Structure .......................    5
4.      Cost and Financing  ......................................    7
5.      Sector Development Issues ..................................    8
D.  The Gove.nment's Strategy .....................                                                       11
E.      The Bank Group's Role             ...................             .....................   13
III. THE PROJECT . ...................................... 15
A.      Project Objectives, Scope and Description  ..........                ..................   15
B.   Project Cost and Financing Plan ................................... 25
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION   ....................................   26
A.      Status of Project Preparation and Readiness .........                ..................   26
B.      Project Coordination and Management  .             .............................   2-,'
C.      Monitoring and Evaluation  ......................................   6
D.   Procurement .....................................                                                   27
E.   Disbursements ................................ 31
F.      Accounting, Auditing and Reporting  ...............................    32
V. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS ..............                        .....................   33
A.   Benefits ................................                                                           33
B.   Risks ................................  33
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDAONS   ..................  33
This report is based on the findings of a pre-appraisal mission and an appraisal mission that visited Chad in Januay 1993 and in
November 1993 comprising of MmeslMessrs. Eva larawan, Mission Leader, Anwar Bach-Baouab, Population Specialist, Myrina
Hams, Projects Assistant; (AFSPH); Bemard Abeill6, ArchitectlProcurement Specialist (AFTCB); Etienne Alingue, Program
Offtcer (AF5CD); Michele Lioy, IEC Specialist (AF3PH); Jean Perrot (WHO-Consultant); Marie-Paule Fargier, (Consultant-
Pharmacy Specialist). Report processing was funalized with assistance from Janine Leygonie (Sr. Staff Assistant/AF5PH). Ms.
Katb-zrine Manhall and Mr. Birger Predriksen are the Department Director and Managing Division Chief, respectively, for the
operation; Messrs. R. Bulatao (PHN) and C. Pannenborg (AFIPH) are the peer reviewers.
This document has a restricd distnbution and may be used by ecipients only in the performane afctheir
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Wodd Bak authorizadoti



LLSr OF ANNEXS
Annex 1-1    Basic Data Sheet
Annex 2-1    MOPH New Orgaational Chart
Annex 2-2   Le Syst2Wh  de D  lsit SatTairesThe District Hiealth System
Annex 2-3   Le#v de Politwe de Sant PubliqueALetter of Sector Development Policy
and Quantified Monitoring Indicators
Annex 3-1    Progmwwae de Constcton dt de RabiliaonlConstruion and Rehabilitation
Program
Annex 3-2   Project Cost Estlmates
Amnex 4-1   Project Monitoring and Supervision Plan
Annex 4-2 Procurement Arrangements
Annex 4-3    Disbursement Profile
Annex 4-4    Docments in the Project ile
Note: Detailed worldng papers describing the following project components wil be included In the
bnplementation Manual:
1. The EEC Progm
2. Redeployment and Training of Health Personnel
3. Terms of Reference for the Project Coordination Team
4. District HospitlHealth Centers Flnancing Plan
5. The PharmaceutIcal Sector
Map: IMRD 2SS29
IBRD 2SS30
ILBRD 25531



CHAD
HEALTH AND SAFE MOTHERHOOD PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:          Republic of Chad
Benefidaries:      Ministry of Public Health
Credit Amount:     SDR 13.1 million (US$18.5 Million equivalent)
Terms:             Standard IDA terms with 40 years maturity
Project Objectives   The Government of Chad has developed a National Health Plan (1993-2000) and
and Description:    launched the process of developing a population policy and its associated plan of
action. The central objective of the health program is to increase access of the
population to quality basic health care focusing particularly on the mc,t
vulnerable groups of the population - children and women of child-bearing age.
A number of donors are already supporting, or plan to support this program.
The proposed project would complement these efforts to improve the health status
of the Chadian population, giving particular emphasis to reducing both maternal
and infant/child mortality. Parallel to this project, IDA is preparing a Population
and AIDS Control Project to support implementation of the Government
population policy as well as the development and implementation of an aggressive
AIDS prevention program.
Within the above framework, the present project would support the development
and implementation of policies and investments designed to:
1.    Strengthen capability at thentral level to suopr rgional health
eyrces by: (a) improving the budgetary process at central and regional
levels; (b) developing skills-upgrading modules for regional and district
health personnel; (c) developing and implementing a nationwide IEC
program; and (d) reinforcing Government capacity to plan, coordinate
and implement donor-financed projects.
2.    Provide assistance for health, nutritional and FP services to the
regions of Guira and Tandjilf by: (a) establishing a network of district
health facilities; (b) implementing skills upgrading programs for health
personnel; and (c) promoting community participation in local health
services planning, implementation, and monitoring.
3.    Support the development and implementation of a National Drug
Poliye by: (a) developing the planning and management capacity of the
Division of Pharmacy, and (b) creating a Central Purchasing Agency
(Centrale Pharmaceutique d'achats) for essential and generic drugs.
Benefits & Risks:    By the end of the project, the increased efficiency of the health system would
result in increased access to and improved quality of health, nutrition, and FP
services, even within the framework of existing limited sectoral resources. For
the regions of Guera and Tandjile, the project will intervene directly to extend
the capacity of the health care system, and proposed activities would directly
benefit about 750,000 people (more than 12% of the population), mostly women



ii
and children, who would gain access to basic services. Increased availability of
low-cost essential drugs, together with intensive retraining of health personnel is
expected to enhance the quality of health services throughout the country. Sec-
tor-wide restructuring measures will also help establish a basis for a more
responsive administration and for a more efficient and sustainable program. The
implementation of an EEC strategy is expected to increase community participa-
tion in its own health development. The steps taken to improve access to quality
MCH/FP services would put in place the basic infrastructure necessary for
attaining the increase in family planning service delivery required to implement
the Government's planned population program. This program, to be supported
through the proposed IDA-funded Population and AIDS Control Project, is
expected to contribute to increasing the contraceptive prevalence rate from the
present 1% to 10% in the year 2000.
There are three main risks: First, the implementing capacity of the central
Government is weak. This risk would be minimized by: (a) up-front implemen-
tation of key policy reforms such as personnel redeployment; (b) relying heavily
on stakeholder commitment through local management and community
participation; and (c) obtaining assistance from UNICEF, WHO, and ATETIP
in the implementation of the project. Second, the Government's chronic financial
constraints may affect counterpart funding, as well as salary payments. This risk
would be mitigated through: (a) annual discussions of project and sector perfor-
mance, budgetary allocations, and Public Expenditures Reviews; (b) redeploym-
ent of existing health personnel to staff new infrastructures created through this
and other donor-financed projects; and (c) gradual introduction of cost recovery
to promote increased cost-sharing by the communities. Third, implementation
of the national drug policy focusing on the use of essential and generic drugs may
face opposition from the private pharmaceutical sector. To address this risk, the
private sector will be given a place in the new system, allowing them a profit
margin on essential drugs in generic form higher than on specialty drugs. Also,
through IEC, the public will be taught that inexpensive generic drugs are as
effective and safe as expensive brand name drugs.
.O
Environmental       No environmental risks are foreseen.
Economic Rate       Not applicable
of Return:



iu
ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS AN) FINANCING PLAN
(US$ MILON)'
ESTIMATED  PROJECT COST 2
LOCAL       F-R1EIGN         TOTAL
(US$ MTLLION)
Strengthen capability at the central level
to support regional health services                     0.2            3.4           3.6
2.     Provide assistance for health, nutritional
and 7P services to the Regions
of Guda and Tandjil6                                     1.6          11.8          13.3
3.     Support the development and implementation
of a National Drug Policy                               0.9            3.7           4.6
Total Base Costs                                         u            18.9          21.5
Physical Contingencies                           0.2            1.5           1.7
Price Contingencies                              0.9            1.6           2.5
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                                      Zj2           2Q              7
FINANCING PLAN
(In US$ million)
IDA               18.5
Govenmemnt         1.0
Communities        2.6
UNDP               1.3
UNICEF             2.3
TOTAL             25.7
ESTIMATED CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS (IN USS MILIUON)
ID-A FY              1M            i229           iM             1221          129 22
Annual               1.5            2.0            5.5           6.0            2.0           1.5
Cumulatve            1.5            3.5            9.0           15.0          17.0           18.5
Totals may not add up due to rounding.
2       Net of taxes and duties.



REPUBLIC OF CHAD
HEALTH AND SAFE MOHERHOOD PROJECT
1. IN DUCTION
1.1          The Government of Chad has requested IDA's assistance in financing a project
designed to help implement its National Health Development Plan. The proposed project would assist
Chad in increasing access of the population to quality basic health, nutrition, and FP services,
focusing particularly on the most vulnerable groups of the population - children and women of child-
bearing age. Within this framework, particular emphasis would be given to reducing infant/child
mortality and maternal mortality.
1.2          The project would be IDA's first free-s anding health project in Chad, though the
ongoing Social Development Action ProjectUProjet d 'A ctons pour ke D4eloppement Social - PADS
(Cr.2156-CD) includes a component supporting the improvement of Primary Health Cace and Social
Services (PHCSS) in N'Djamena and to a limited extent in the Tandjile area. The policy measures
and investments included in the project have been developed through dialogue with the Chadian
authorities and are based on the Government Development Plan (Plan d'orientadon: Le Tchad vers
"an 2000), prepared by the Ministry of Plan; the National Health and Social Affairs Alan (January
1993); and extensive discussions during the preparation of the Bank's sector report entitled "Chad
Population, Health and Nutrition: Summary report", The World Bank, December 1992, the
supervision of the health component of the PADS as well as during the course of project preparation.
The interventions under this project would be complemented through a second parallel IDA operation
to support implementation of the Government's population policy as well as development and
implementation of an aggressive AID.3 prevention program. The basic data sheet and comparative
indicators are found in Annex 1-1.
1.3          Total project costs are estimated at US$25.7 million (net of taxes and duties), with
a foreign exchange component of US$22.0 million. Project financing would include US$18.5 million
from IDA, a UNDP contribution of US$1.3 million, a UNICEF contribution of US$2.3 million, a
Government contribution of US$1.0 million, and a community contribution of US$2.6 million. The
project has been developed in close cooperation with the other major donors contributing to the
development of the health sector in Chad (para 2.49).
H. SECTORAL CONTEXT
A.    Background
2.1          Chad is a landlocked country with a population of over 6 million in 1993. It is one
of the poorest countries in the world. Per capita GNP in 1991 was US$210 (compared to the US$635
average for Sub-Saharan Africa (SSA)); life expectancy is 47 years (compared to 52 years); female
adult literacy is 18% (38%); and total adult literacy is 30%  (49%). Chad's most intractable
constraint is non-economic: recurring political instability and domestic strife. Subsistence farming
is the mainstay of the population and generates 35-40% of GDP. The industrial sector (20% of GDP)
includes a large cotton parastatal, public and para-public medium-scale enterprises, and informal
micro-enterprises. The service sector (40-45% of GDP) includes a large informal trading sector.



2
B.    Macro-Economic Context and Medium-Term Prospects
2.2          During most of the 1980s, the Chadian economy faced severe difficulties. These
stemmed from a combination of armed conflicts, civil war, drought, political turmoil, and declining
competitiveness. During 1987-90, there were three annual arrangements with the IMF under the
Structural Adjustment Facility, and IDA approved the Financial Rehabilitation Credit. The
adjustment program focused on improving public resource management and efficiency in the cotton
sector, and also addressed efficiency issues in transport, livestock and trade. Important progress was
made in reviving key sectors of the economy. Substantial growth was recorded in 1988-89, and this
was accompanied by rising fiscal revenues, which permitted investment to double to the still modest
level of 10% of GDP.
2.3          The December 1990 coup led to a renewed period of political and military
uncertainty, with a consequent impact on economic developments. Indeed, until April 1993, and the
completion of an eleven week "National Conference" leading to the creation of a new transitional
government, economic issues took a back seat to pressing military and political reforms. The interim
period saw sharp increases in military spending and declining capacity to collect revenues, and the
fiscal targets of the Third Policy Framework Paper were missed by a wide margin. No new
adjustment programs have been supported by the Bretton Woods institutions since the end of 1990.
The Financial Rehabilitation credit was suspended in June 1991, the undisbursed amount was then
cancelled, and the credit closed in December 1992.
2.4          The Chadian economy tlvrefore alternates between periods of severe instability
associated with economic decline, and periods of serious development efforts to exploit Chad's long
term potential. However, these cycles have had a devastating cumulative effect on both the public
and private sectors. Within the public sector, revenue collection ability has suffered drastically, with
total revenue now only 9% of GDP. This has led to both external and internal payment arrears, and
to the inability of the government to meet its wage and salary bill regularly. This in turn, has led
to strikes of public servants - including in the school and health systems - and to severe loss of
morale, causing further worsening of the performance of the public sector. Economic difficulties and
political uncertainty caused the closure of much of the private sector, and government payment
arrears have caused severe liquidity problems for much of what remains, while the significant
amounts of economic, physical, social and administrative infrastructure destroyed during civil strife
have yet to be rebuilt.
2.5          These domestic problems were compounded by twin external problems. Export
performances have been adversely affected by the fall in world market price for cotton, the main
export crop. The appreciation of the real effective exchange rate generated also major losses for the
cotton sector, and especially for the processing and marketing parastatal, COTONTCHAD. The real
appreciation has had also an impact on livestock and other agricultural exports, as well as on
manufacturing activities. At the same time, the country's inability to stay the course of its economic
reform program led to declining intemational and lower flows of assistance. Domestic investment
fell to below 10%, external arrears have grown, and Chad has exceeded its credit position at the
BEAC, its central bank.
2.6          In the wake of the 50% devaluation of the CFA (in foreign currency terms) on
January 12, 1994, Chad embarked on a stabilization program with the Bank and the IMF to restore
equilibrium in public finances and address some key issues to improve the macroeconomic
framework. Among them, the necessity to restore an operative administration appears paramount.



3
The improvement in Chad's external competitiveness should give economic growth, in particular in
the agriculture s. i-, a renewed impetus. Accompanying measures included i. the program would
provide greater chancps of success to achieve economic growth and inflation control. A specific set
of measures on pric; .sf socially sensitive groups and increased public expenditures in health and
education sectors will contribute to alleviate the adverse effects of the devaluation on the most
vulnerable groups, and provide the basis for durable improvement in standards of living.
2.7          The main focus of Bank's assistance in Chad will continue to be poverty alleviation
through investment in the human resource sectors, including education and health, the promotion of
private sector activities, in particular export-oriented activities, notably through restoration of
transport infrastructures. The proposed health project forms a key element in this Country Assistance
Strategy. The expanded access to health services would contribute to improve standards of liviag
for the most vulnerable groups, such as women and children. The investnrent would be supported
by increased budgetary allocation to the health sector and a restructuring of expenditures in the
Ministry of Public Health in favor of basic health care services.
C.    Demographic, Health and Nutrition Sectoral Context
1.    The Demographic Situation
2.8          Data sources on Chad's population are scarce and unreliable. Although the first
population census was successfully completed in April 1993, data available are preliminary and are
being analyzed further. In the meantime, the mortality and fertility estimat-s derived from partial
demographic surveys done in 1964 and 1968 will continue to provide the basic data for population
projections.
2.9          Chad's population has doubled since 1960. At present, the average annual growth
rate is 2.5% (3% for SSA). The country's crude birth rate has remained at 45 per thousand since
1965, while the crude death rate has decreased from 28 to 19 per thousand (compared to 16 per 1,000
in SSA). Although, the estimated total fertility rate (ITFR) in Chad (5.9 live births per woman) is
very high by world standards, it is among the lowest in the region where the average is 6.6. There
is a seemingly high prevalence of sexually transmitted diseases (STDs) and sterility might explain the
country's lower fertility status. It is expected, however, that improved health and socioeconomic
conditions and the resulting decline in mortality will cause fertility to increase, resulting in a rate of
6.6 TFR by the year 2000.
2.10         Rapid population growth has produced an age structure that is heavily weighted
towards infants, toddlers and women of reproductive ages. The proportion of children aged from 04
years has risen from 9.9% in 1970 to 17.3% in 1990. With more than 50% of the population under
the age of twenty, larger cohorts of women of childbearing age, and a TFR projected to further
increase, there is a built-in momentum of accelerating population growth. Current estimates, based
on Bank standard projection assumptions, suggest that the total population would increase to 7.4
million by the year 2000 and would double over the subsequent twenty years.
2.11         The pressure of the country's demographic expansion is further exacerbated by the
population distribution pattern. Although the average population density is low (an estimated 4.2
inhabitants per km2 in 1988), it is nevertheless high in relation to arable land and water resources.
At the same time, the population is unevenly distributed and varies from 0.2 inhabitants per km2 in
the desert northern provinces, to 42 inhabitants per km2 around Lake Chad and along the rain-fed
south/southeastern parts of the country where nearly 70% of the population live. Pinally, the



4
pressures of drought, war, political instability, and deteriorating economic conditions are rapidly
reinforcing this pattern. Further demographic pressure will place large population segments into food
insecurity. The urban population counts for over 20%, one of the highest rates in the Sahel. While
this trend towards urbanization might result in smaller families due to the classic break with
traditional behavior occurring when people migrate to cities, the impact on the rate of fertility would
remain minimal, given the universality of marriage, polygamy, and continued low literacy among
women.
2.    Health and Nutritional Status
2.12         Available data suggest that the health situation in the country is precarious. Infant
mortality is at 124 per 1,000 live births (106 in SSA). The principal causes of mortality and
morbidity are infectious and parasitic diseases (including most of the tropical diseases), pregnancy-
related conditions, and malnutrition. Fever, usually an indication of infectious or parasitic disease,
cough, muscular and articular pains, traumas, and diarrhea continue to be the principal reasons for
consultations in health facilities. At the age of one year, only 3.3% of children are fully vaccinated.
Total vaccination coverage for 12-23 month old children, has dropped froma 15% in 1990 to 6% in
1992.
2.13         Pregnancy-related Problems. Maternal mortality is the main cause of deaths among
women of reproductive age. It is one of the highest in the world. A study of the N'Djamena
National Referral Hospital (NRH) has reported an average maternal mortality ratio of 811 per
100,000 live births for the years 1986-1989. These are hospital data and do not reflect the real
situation in the country which is likely to be worse. About 1,000 deaths per 100,000 live-births have
been reported in rural areas of the South. The NRH study revealed that among the direct causes of
maternal deaths are hemorrhage/anemia (29%), eclampsia (18%), and post-partum and post-abortum
infections (13%). Many indirect causes contribute to maternal mortality: (i) adolescent pregnancy
is a serious problem in a country where more than 5.5% of pregnant women are less than 15 years
old; (ii) difficult access to antenatal, obstetric and postnatal care: only about 30% of pr-gnant women
have antenatal care, less than 15% of deliveries are attended by trained health personnel, and
postnatal care is almost nonexistent; (iii) lack of child spacing; (iv) clandestine abortions: although
data are not available, anecdotal evidence shows that a large number of pregnancies, both within and
outside a marital union, are unintended; (v) lack of hygiene; and (vi) low literacy among women.
2.14         Female genital mutilation is widespread among many ethnic groups. While it is not
associated with any religious belief, it is deeply rooted in the Chadian culture and traditions and is
considered as a mandatory passage to maturity for 6 to 14 year old girls. Excision, the second most
severe of the three basic types of female genital mutilation, is reported to affect an estimated 20%
of the female population. The most severe type of mutilation originated and is practiced in the
regions bordering Sudan. It is not as widespread as excision. A UNICEF study showed that 77%
of women favor excision; 80% of mothers under 45 in the Moyen-hari said they themselves had
been excised. In rural areas where the procedure is done in unsanitary conditions, the health risks
are serious and could lead to infections, tetanus, hemorrhage, urine retention, sterility, dysmenorrhea,
and difficult childbirth. It was with this in mind that a National Committee was created in 1988-89
to fight against traditional practices which have a negative impact on the health of women and
children. The committee, which was expected to organize public awareness campaigns and elaborate
legal texts to prevent this practice, has been practically inactive.
2.15         Nutrition-related Conditions. Iron deficiency is highly prevalent among pregnant
women with rates at the central hospital reaching 70%. Among children 0-5 years old, malnutrition



(less than 80% weight for height) is highly prevalent especially during the rainy season prior to the
harvest. The prevalence of malnutrition roughly follows a geographic pattern from north to south,
with the lowest rates in the Sudan southern provinces. Rates of severe malnutrition of 5-10% are
routinely recorded in some rural areas even during years of 'normal" rainfall, Increasing to 15% and
higher in years of drought or conflict, such as in 198485, and 1991. Although there is little data
to support this conclusion, the prevalence of chronic, as opposed to severe, malnutriticn among
children is also believed to be high and it is by no means confined to rural areas. In N'DjamEna, the
CNNTA has estimated that 11 % of children between the ages of 6 months to 5 years are malnour-
ished. Vitamin A and iron deficiencies are widespread throughout the country, affecting a significant
number of children and adults. Malnutrition is attributed not only to household food insecurity but
also to conditions that can be readily targeted including poor weaning practices, lack of clean water,
and poor sanitation and hygiene.
2.16         Seoually-transmitted Diseases (STDsa including AIDS. As mentioned before (para
2.9), the total fertility rate of 5.9 is well below the average 6.6 for SSA. While it is suspected that
this is due to the prevalence of STDs, the unavailability of statistics makes it difficult to substantiate
this supposition. AIDS is increasing rapidly, but its widespread impact is largely underestimated by
both Government and the population. The number of AIDS cases has practically doubled each year
from 1986 to 1992. The AIDS program suffers from an overall poor community awareness of the
seriousness of the problem, poor skills among personnel, and a shortage of resources at the level of
health facilities (particularly supplies for blood tests); the program's effectiveness is also hampered
by logistical constraints with respect to follow-up and supervision.  With IDA support, the
Government is undertaking a rapid assessment of the AIDS situation and will be using the results of
the assessment in the preparation of the future IDA-financed Population and AIDS project.
3.    Organizational and Management Structure
2.17         Organization of Health Services. The MOPH is responsible for formulating health
policies and providing most national health services. It underwent in 1991 a major reorganization
allowing it to support decentralized and integrated health, nutritional and FP services (Annex 2-1
presents the new orgarigramme). Although the new organization was officially approved, the
transition has been slow and difficult. It is a three-tiered system (central, intermediate and peripheral)
linked by a referral system such that each health facility provides a minimum package of activities,
the complexity of which increases the higher the level of service delivery. While responsible for
policy-making, health planning and control, as well as resource allocation, the central level does not
execute activities, either centrally or locally. An important feature of the central level is the creation
of a deputy directorate general responsible for overseeing, supervising, and coordinating all the health
regions. Responsibility for the national health budget, procurement, personnel management, and
training remains at the central level. At the regional Cmterrediate or prefeCture) level, the Regional
Medical Officer (RMO) is responsible for overseeing the planning, management, and supervision of
all health activities in the region. Finally, at the peripheral level (district), the District Medical
Officer (DMO) reports to the MOPH through the RMO. His responsibilities include: administration
of the district hospital, management of human and financial resources and health information in the
district, ensuring the supply and distribution of drugs and materials for the district; securing proper
management of funds generated through community participation, and overseeing the proper
implementation of the district-health plan (para 2. 18). Training of personnel is carried out at all
levels, its site being determined by the type of training and the personnel to be trained. Coordination
among divisions throughout the levels is ensured through administrative committees (Conseils de sanuS
et des Affaires sociakes). Legislative instruments including proposed staffing levels, have already
been approved (Decree no. 5191PR/91).



6
2.18          The District Health System. To implement the new heath system, and to improve
access to basic health services, the MOPH has established a district-health plan (Plan de couverture
sanitaire). According to this plan, the 14 administrative regions (Prefecaures sanitaires) remain the
functional administrative units. Based on geographic and demographic criteria, the 14 regions
(prefectures) are divided into 46 health districts which do not necessarily correspond to an existing
administrative-political structure. Each district is expected to cover a population of 100,000 to
250,000 people and to include a district hospital and a social center. Each district hospital is
responsible for the supervision of health centers which, in turn, have a well-defined zone of responsi-
bility. There are 633 responsibility zones, each one comprising a population of about 10,000 to be
served by one health center. The planning and coordination of all health activities in each of the
regions is the domain of the regional team, while district teams focus on the execution and
supervision of health activities in the district. At each level of the pyramid, a baseline and norms for
equipment, personnel, and activities have been defined (Annex 2-2).
2.19          Although the division of the country into health districts is officially effective, not all
districts are functional. Using three minimum criteria namely, the presence of a building for the
district hospital, the presence of at least one physician, and the continuous supply of essential drugs,
one notes that only 24 out of the 46 districts are functional. Of the 22 districts who do not meet
those criteria, 13 do not have a district hospital. The situation is worse at the lower level of the
pyramid where more than half of the "Responsibility Zones" do not have a health center as expected
in the plan de couverture sanitaire. Of the total 431 health facilities currently available throughout
the country, only 31 could be considered referral (9 hospitals and 22 health centers). The rest are
infirmaries, dispensaries, and health posts. About 65% of these infrastructures are operated by the
public sector, 24% by NGOs, and 11% by private organizations, mainly industries. There are also
23 social centers, mostly in urban areas, that are operated by the Ministry of Social Affairs and that
provide nutrition and immunizadon services. However, given Government's strategy which focuses
on integration of services at the level of a health center, the role of these centers is expected to
change and to focus more on community development. Table I shows the distribution of health infra-
structure by type and affiliation.
Table I                            H__fWth Infrastrucwre
Ho_ital    -    -           =    -_O        =O      m       -       _
eC=                 81V                    MM  I Pet"r  -0aI4
Public          6        18       22      206       5      2       -    Is         22
Church-related  3        4        4        72      20              I       S        1
Private                           I -  1   30       2      3       1
UNICEF          -                 -        -        11     - .       .             .
Tota            9        22       27      308      38      S       2       20      23
*S  _ _ 199a. m
2.20          The N'Djamena National Referral Hospital (NRH) of 600-700 beds is presently the
only hospital structure in Chari-Baguirmi. (A Chinese-funded district hospital is in the pipeline, as
are other hospitals to be built by the PADS). Yet, it is expected to play a referral role not only for
the capital city and the region of Chari-Baguirmi, but also nationwide. Currently, the NRH functions
largely as a primary care and outpatient facility, thereby wasting scarce technical and financial
resources. The Government budgetary allocations for operating costs is insufficient, and there is an
acute shortage of basic and essential drugs and supplies. Hospital personnel, like all other civil



7
servants, have not been paid for several months. Recently and with the new organization of the
MOPH, the NRH has been given the status of a National institution and therefore, a certain degree
of administrative and budgetary autonomy. However, it continues to suffer from very poor
management and limited funancial resources. The French Cooperation which has been providing
some technical and financial assistance to the NRH, is now trying to strengthen the management
system. They are continuing to provide financial assistance (drugs and medical supplies) and will
train hospital personnel.
2.21         The private sector is very limited in Chad. A recent survey indicated that there were
only 9 physicians practicing private medicine, all of whom are in N'Djamena. While the role of the
private sector is minor in the delivery of services, it plays a significant role in the distribution of
contraceptives. Traditional practitioners exist in virtually every village and town of Chad. Very little
information exist on their numbers, their availability, or the nature of their services.
2.22         The pharmaceutical sector comprises of: a prosperous private sector and a public
sector which relies almost exclusively on donors. The private sector is represented by the Pharmacie
Tchadienne (PHARMAT) which holds a drug import and distribution monopoly. It does not comply
with the essential drugs list or generic classifications for its procurement. The public sector is
represented by the Phanmnace d'approvisionmementdu secteurpublic (PASP) which, according to the
new organigramme of the MOPH, should be an autonomous national institution. However, given
the weak budgetary allocation to this sector, the role of the PASP has been mininal. The Division
of Pharmacy at the MOPH is being reorganized to fill a policy-making and quality assurance role.
It is currently very weak and ineffective. The public sector relies heavily ou donors who generally
adhere to the essential drugs list and provide drugs for the zones in which they work. The June 1992
National Seminar on essential drugs and the January 1993 Round Table meeting resulted in adopting
a National Drug Policy (NDP) with a general consensus among donors and the Government to
strengthen the Division of Pharmacy at the MOPH and to create a Central Purchasing Agency, la
Centrale pharmaceutique d'achats (CPA), which would have the status of an autonomous, private,
not-for-profit organization. The Government policy clearly states that this CPA would not have a
monopoly on drug imports but would be exempt from taxes. The strategy in the long-run is to
develop a strong, open market involving both the public and private sectors. All donors have agreed
to support this policy. The Government has set up an ad-hoc committee to work, with representatives
from the MOPH, MOPC, Ministry of Finance (MOF), MOC, and bilateral and multilateral agencies,
on the legal status and establishment of the CPA.
4.    Cost and Financing
2.23         Financing of the health sector is characterized by: i) an extreme dependency on
external assistance and, consequently, a relatively small share of financing from the Government; ii)
Government funds favoring curative health services; and iii) actual public health expenditures
consistently lower than budgeted amount (contrary to other Government expenditures).
2.24         While the absence of accurate financial data makes a precise analysis difficult, recent
trends indicate that the share of the Government budget allocated to health has been around 4% over
the past few years. Ihe sharp increase in budgetary allocation to health in 1991 to 5.8% is a
reflection of the fusion of two ministries, Public Health and Social Affairs/Women, into the MOPH
and does not reflect an increase in real allocations to health. It is also attributable to a large increase
in the salary, rather than non-salary expenditures. In 1990, the Government spent about US$1 per
capita on health while allocations from external sources were about US$3.5. The source of almost
all investment in the health sector in Chad is international aid; in 1990, total foreign aid was



8
estimated at 7.07 billion FCFA (US$27 million). Though difficult to estimate, expenditures by
households for the purchase of services, and medications on the private market, are estimated at US$1
per inhabitant. Therefore, Chad spends about US$5.5 per capita on health for recurrent as well as
investment expenditures. This is far below the average $12-13 per capita total cost of a public health
and essential clinical services package recommended both by the Better Health in Africa study and
the 1993 World Development Report.
2.25         The principle of free health care for all is losing ground in Chad. Results of the 1991
household survey for N'Djam6na and of a rapid rural assessment in the region of the Guera,
conducted in 1993 as part of the Bank's Poverty Assessment, confirm the community's willingness
and even financial ability to share health costs. The process of setting up a cost recovery system is
only starting. A decree instituting such a system was enacted in October 1990. This system is
however restricted to projects falling within the national Primary Health Care (PHC) program
(supported by EDF VI, UNICEF/WHO, and PADS); it does not cover the projects of church-
affiliated groups or other NGOs. This decree has now been revised in order to generalize cost
recovery. Experiments are underway in different parts of the country, but the individual approaches
are often different. With the help of Medecins sansfirontires (MSF), pilot public pharmacies have
been set up in the districts of Fianga, Pala, and Mandelia to sell generic medications to patients of
the public health facilities with a certain margin of profit. Preliminary findings show that their prices
are 25% lower than private pharmacies. Other experiments initiated by EDF VI, PADS and church-
affiliated Bureau d'Etudes et de Liaison d'Action Caritative et de Ddveloppement (BELACD) have
shown that no matter what payment system is used, it is possible to recover at the level of the health
center, not only the costs of medications, but also most operating costs excluding personnel and
maintenance of equipment. Costs recovered are expected to replenish stocks of medications and cover
about 45-50% of the operating expenditure (excluding wages). While experiments and individual
approaches are often different, there does seem to be a consensus with respect to pricing and a need
to establish a general and coherent framework for the system being adopted. The Government has
prepared a plan for financing health services for the period 1990-2000. It includes the expected
contributions from both Government and clients and shows that, apart from financing of the private
for-profit sector, the community would finance up to 10.5% of total health expenditures by the year
2000.
5.    Sector Development Issues
a. Weak Institutional Capadty
2.26         The weak managerial capacity generally characterizing the Chadian administration is
particularly acute in the health sector. The MOPH has weak institutional capacity to ensure
implementation of the National Health Plan. Like many SSA countries, Chad has made little progress
in changing the overly centralized administrative structures (both geographically and hierarchically)
of the health system inherited from the colonial regime. Although the MOPH has undergone a major
reorganization (para 2.17), deeply entrenched problems cannot be resolved over-night. The old
organizational lines with rigid partitioning, and a nearly total lack of coordination, between
directorates have not completely disappeared. Furthermore, financial and human resources required
to manage the financing and provision of public health services are depleted. There is a dearth of
skills required to translate policy into implementable projects and programs particularly in planning,
programming and budgeting. At the same time, inter-sectoral cooperation is often neglected despite
the fact that public services for health require interventions that go beyond the reach of the health
sector alone.



9
2.27         Weak capacity is also manifest in the IEC Division which is responsible for the
implementation of the National Information, Education, and Communication Strategy (NIEC). This
unit has been barely operational and has accomplished very little since the strategy was developed.
IEC activities of national health programs such as the FP program or AIDS/STD program are
generally designed to fit the narrow objectives of each vertical project rather than health priorities
of the country. Their messages are fragmented (in some instances contradictory) and of poor quality,
and because of lack of monitoring and evaluation, their impact is unknown. Data on media coverage,
credibility, and acceptability are scarce and their quality difficult to assess. Little research has been
done on the knowledge, attitudes, beliefs, and practices of the target population (particularly in FP
and AIDS). There are practically no IEC activities at the peripheral level and the potential benefits
of IEC programs for change in health-related behavior at the household level are hardly being
exploited.
2.28         Decentralization of decision-making and authority is viewed by many as a viable
means of achieving greater efficiency and equity in health. However, to be successful, decentraliza-
tion requircs definition of the specific objectives sought, a clear delineation of functions at each level,
mechanisms for communication and coordination among the various levels, and sufficient training to
enable full assumption of decentralized responsibilities. According to the new mandate of the MOPH,
central and regional staff have to re-orient their work from exercising control as direct supervisors
to emphasizing policy formulation, strategy development, resource allocation, and technical
backstopping. As mentioned in para 2.17, the region is expected to be the locus of decision-making
and activities coordination. However, in spite of the written mandate of the MOPH and the
government's strategy in favor of decentralization (see para 2.38), there is much work to be done in
order to move the health system in that direction. The regional units have a weak managerial
capacity and do not control the resources necessary to undertake their functions. Even if legal
authorities are assigned to local authorities, the de facto structure of financial incentives and
responsibilities for salaries and careers continue to remain with central ministries. Through training
and technical/financial assistance, donors (the European Union in particular), have been focusing on
reinforcing the skills of the Regional Medical Officer in health services planning and management.
However, the issue of decentralized budgeting and financial regional autonomy has not been
addressed.
b. Limited Access to Basic Health, Nutrition and FP Services
2.29         Limited access is primarily related to the insufficient supply of services and the
inadequate geographical distribution of health facilities throughout the country. Only 30% of the
population has access to a health facility within seven miles. There are about 0.06 referral facilities
per 10,000 inhabitants (compared to the WHO-recommended I per 10,000). A referral facility has
at least one medical doctor, a nurse anesthesiologist, an operating room, and equipment for blood
transfusions. The estimated ratios: 1,316 persons per hospital/health center bed and 16,000 persons
per PHC infrastructure, are the least favorable among Sahelian countries. Even when physically
accessible, most public health facilities, particularly in rural areas, require major repairs: only about
40% are classified as 'in good condition"; only 36% have a water supply within the building; and
only about 9% have electrical power. Equipment is in disrepair at all levels of the system,
particulaily ia PHC facilities where basic equipment such as baby scales, measuring apparatus, and
sterilization equipment is unavailable. In order to address this issue, the Government has undertaken
a systematic analysis of infrastructure needs and presented it to donors for support as part of the
National Health Development Plan (NHDP) (paras 2.18 and 2.37).



10
c. Degradation in the Quality of Basic Health, Nutrition and FP Services
2.30         In addition to this state of disrepair and lack of sanitary conditions, several factors
limit the access to basic services and contribute to the critical degradation in the quality of health
facilities. First, shortage of qualified and motivated personnel is a major constraint to effective
management of the sector. A national study conducted in 1993 shows that insensitivity of medical
and para-medical personnel is an important barrier to women utilizing health facilities. Second,
scarcity and inappropriate use of drugs severely limit adequacy of treatment. Tbird, the low levels
of operating budgets for health facilities limit the supply of essential materials (other than drugs).
Each of these three factors are discussed in more detail in the following paragraphs.
2.31         Health Personnel. According to 1993 MOPH estimates, the public health sector
employs 3,339 persons. While quantitatively the overall number of personnel (4,301 including NGOs
and private) may seem sufficient, it is important to note the following: (a) low health care
worker/population ratios: there is one physician per 35,000 inhabitants (9,000 in SSA), one registered
nurse per 34,000 inhabitants (2,000 in SSA); (b) negative attitude and low qualification of existing
personnel: 35% of present personnel are classified by the MOPH as "non-qualified personnel"; (c)
heavy bias towards central administration as more than 650 persons work at the central MOPH; (d)
severe regional disparities: more than 30% of total health personnel (108 of the 164 physicians (or
66%) and 56 of the 88 midwives (64%)) work in N'Djamena; and finally, (e) quality of training:
most nurses and other auxiliary health personnel are trained at the Ecole Nationale de la Santd
Publique et des Service Sociaux (ENSPSS). While the ENSPSS trains an adequate number of
personnel, the quality of the training is very poor. In preparing the health plan, the MOPH did a
detailed analysis of personnel requirements by administrative level, by prefecture and by category of
personnel. The analysis showed that additional health personnel needed for the implementation of
the plan totals about 500 persons by year 2000, mainly registered nurses, pharmacists, and technicians
(laboratory, dental).
2.32         Absence of low-cost essential druss.  The public pharmaceutical sector is
disorganized, non-operational and impoverished. On paper, the national budget for drugs is FCFA
40 million which represents about 5% of total expenditures on drugs. In reality, even those very
limited resources have never been allocated, and the role of the PASP (para 2.22) in supplying drugs
to the public sector has been minimal. As a result, public hospital pharmacies and health facilities
rely almost entirely on donors for their pharmaceutical supplies and regions where donors do not
intervene suffer from chronic shortages. Despite some institutional strengthening offered by EDF
VI and EDF VI to the PASP, the latter remains very weak. As a result, while using the PASP
facilities for storage, donors continue to manage their own stocks of pharmaceutical and distribute
them to the regions where they intervene. Some have started introducing cost recovery for drugs
with quite encouraging results (para 2.25).
2.33         Specialty drugs that are found in the private market do not meet the health needs of
the population and are financially beyond the reach of the majority of the Chadians particularly in
the rural areas (more than 1,500 brand name drugs sold in Chad are not essential drugs). As
prescriptions are written for brand name medicines, there is no incentive for distributors to shift to
generic equivalents which could be sold at much lower prices. A number of pharmacists however,
are aware of these problems and willing to participate in the development of a National Drug Policy
that will improve financial and geographical accessibility of the population to essential drugs.



11
d. Lack of Integration of Activities and Programs in the PHC System
2.34          Following reorganization of the MOPH in 1991 and the creation of a three-tiered
health system with a district focus, Chad has decided to move from the vertical, project-based
approach to service delivery, towards an integrated approach. Accordingly a health care provider
is expected to link preventive and curative care, and to provide health, nutritional and FP services
at the same facility. With the exception of a few health centers, this transition has been slow and the
integrated approach remains theoretical. In 1992, there were reportedly eight public health facilities
providing contraceptive information and services. All eight facilities are located in urban areas so
the rural population remains unserved. One of these is the National Family Health Center (CNSF)
recently established in N'Djamena, with assistance from United Nations Fund for Population
Activities (UNFPA). The CNSF functions as both a reference clinic and a training site for medical
and para-medical personnel. Nutritional interventions have traditionally taken place at social centers
(para 2.19) rather than at health facilities and consist essentially of food distribjtion and rehabilitation
rather than child growth promotion, nutrition education, and micronut. ent supplementation.
Nutrition programs continue to be operated with a vertical approach. Furtherntore, in the few centers
where FP and nutrition interventions are currently integrated in health centers' activities, they are
given low priority among health workers.
2.35         While Government's policy focusing on integration of basic services at the level of
the health center is sound, it should not be a panacea, i.e. a successful integration of activities is
possible only if the health facility is functional, i.e provides a minimum array of services. For
example, the integration of vaccination activities in the health center is successful in improving
vaccination coverage only if such centers are geographically accessible and acceptable to potential
users, namely women and children.
e. Heavy Reliance on External Aid
2.36         External aid represents about 80% of the country's total (recurrent and investment)
health and social affairs expenditures which places Chad in a situation of extreme dependency. In
1990 external aid to health-related operating expenses was estimated to be more than three times
greater than Government outlays for this purpose. The source of almost all investment in Chad's
health and social affairs sector is international aid. Apart from investment support to renovate and
equip facilities, donors are financing essential drugs, operating needs, and training. Some of them
are also providing assistance in management and operation of health facilities. Given the serious
resource constraints and the unmet demand for services, donors are expected to play a major role in
the health sector in Chad for some time to come.
D.    The Government's Strategy
2.37         Government's focus on the social sectors is indicated in the Development Plan (para
1.2) where priority is given to: (a) education and prevention activities as well as strengthening basic
curative services; (b) establishment and operation of a health system based on health districts; and
(c) decentralization of decision-making to the regional level. The plan aims to ensure widespread
availability of services, especially for the most vulnerable groups, particularly mothers and children.
Priorities in the health sector for the 1995-2000 period are spelled out in a "Letter of Health Sector
Development Policy" including quantitative performance indicators (attached as Annex2-1). The
Government, through a January 1993 UNDP-led Round Table has defined policy measures and set
operational targets to the end of the century. The document presented at the Round Table meeting
was revised to take into consideration donors' comments and an action plan was prepared that



12
includes an assessment of budgetary needs for investment and recurrent costs. It represents an
important milestone in the sector, and is spelled out in two volumes: Vol.1 Diagnostic et Strate'gie
and Vol. 11 Programmes d'actions which constitute the National Health Development Plan (NHDP).
An overall donors' commitment to support this plan was obtained at the January 1993 Round Table
and the Government has set-up a UNDP-financed technical unit (Celliue Technique de suivi de la
Table Ronde Sectorielle) at the MOPH to follow-up on the recommendations of the Round Table
meeting.
2.38         The thrust of Government's current health strategy as spelled out in detail in Annex
2-3, is to improve significantly the coverage, accessibility and quality of basic health services.
Accordingly the key objectives of the health strategy are: (a) developing and strengthening the three-
tiered health care pyramid by promoting decentralization and integrating activities and programs; (b)
carrying-out the district health plan (plan de couverture sanitaire); (c) ensuring accessibility to low-
cost essential drugs; and (d) increasing community participation in the management and financing of
primary health services.
2.39          With respect to developing and strengthening the three-tiered health care pyramid,
the Government has reorganized the MOPH along a system characterized by three levels of
responsibility and a referral system (para 2.17). The cornerstone of this restructuring is the
establishment of functioning health districts and a clear definition of responsibilities at each level.
Accordingly, the central level is supposed to specialize in policy development, the intermediate level
is expected to adapt those policies to the region and to coordinate all activities in the districts under
its jurisdiction, and the peripheral level is required to coordinate all activities in all of its zones of
responsibility. A minimum package of health services is delivered at each level of the system. At
the health center, the package includes curative consultations, vaccinations, nutritional information,
pre-natal consultations and normal deliveries, dealing with chronic diseases, family planning and
outreach community services. Back-up for more complicated problems and overall supervision are
provided by the district hospital where the package of services is catled a complementary package,
including referral from the health centers as well as medico-surgical emergencies, complicated
deliveries, and diagnostic services. Under this strategy, the N'Djamena National Referral Hospital
(NRH) is expected to provide technical back-up, perform rarer interventions, and support for training
health personnel. With the help of the French Government, the Government is exploring ways to
enforce the referral system at the level of the NRH.
2.40          Reorganization of the health system will require the upgrading and construction of
health facilities, the training and redeployment of health personnel, and the implementation of an
appropriate policy for the supply and distribution of low-cost essential drugs. For two years, a team
of Government officials with technical assistance financed by the Africa Development Bank, have
proceeded with regional teams to the development of the district health plan, including detailed
information on the number of infrastructures, their site and architectural norms, as well as personnel
norms. With respect to health personnel, the Government has prepared a national training plan and
a redeployment plan that take into consideration the needs at each level of the system. As elaborated,
the district health plan serves as the basis for orienting any external aid to the sector.
2.41         The constraints of the country in personnel as well as in material and financial
resources have been taken into account in the preparation of the district health plan. Despite its
limited resources, the Government has stated its commitment to spend about 10% of its budget on
health by the year 2000. This seems ambitious given the economic constraints facing the country at
this point in time. The Government concedes that it will not be able to meet its obligations in the
health sector without the assistance of donors. The Government has stated also its intention to work



13
towards an improved coordination with all organizations and agencies that intervene in the sector.
Particular attention would be given to the promotion of private medicine.
2.42         The pharmaceutical policy developed to support the health strategy advocates the
promotion of generic essential drugs, which must be made geographically accessible as well as
affordable. Accordingly, in consultation with all donors, the Government has chosen to create a
Central Purchasing Agency (CPA) for essential drugs for the public as well as the non-profit sectors.
This not-for-profit CPA would have financial autonomy with an external audit system, would be
privately managed and would have significant participation of community representatives and donors
on its management board. Chad has adopted an official list of essential drugs with necessary
mechanisms for periodic revision. These measures will be accompanied by the strengthening of the
Division of Pharmacy at the MOPH to enable it to fulfill its mandate of policy-making and quality
assurance, and by approved legislation that generalizes cost recovery to allow health centers to retain
the funds they collect from the sale of drugs and provision of health services. These funds would
enable them to establish revolving funds for essential and generic drugs.
E.    The Bank Group's Role
2.43         Lessons Learned from Previous Projects. This would be the first free-standing,
IDA-financed health project in Chad. The Social Action Development Project (PADS), effective
April 17, 1991, and scheduled to close June 30, 1996, has a health component which aims at
improving health and living conditions of disadvantaged groups in N'Djamena and the Tandjil6.
Operationally, the project has been successful as a pilot test by studying various cost recovery
schemes and sensitizing the population to the importance of community participation and cost sharing.
While the component aimed at providing credit and technical assistance to small and micro-enterprises
has been a success, the infrastructure and health components have experienced difficulties mainly in
the design of civil works to be executed, lack of adequate supervision, and procurement delays.
Timely implementation has been a serious problem, and PADS along with other projects in Chad and
the Africa region have offered several lessons pertaining mainly to project implementation and
supervision.
2.44         The most important lesson learned in Chad and other African countries pertains to
the insufficient capacity of the concerned Government agencies, including the Project Coordination
Team (PCT), to carry out ambitious projects. In the case of PADS, weak managerial capacity has
led to serious start-up delays in execution, particularly for the civil works component. To address
such deficiencies, the Health and Safe Motherhood project would incorporate the following measures:
(a) the use of the ATETIP as the executing agency for the complex civil works component; (b)
training and capacity building would be at the center of all components; and (c) frequent supervision
would be planned.
2.45         Another lesson learned is that policy reforms need to be addressed up front, prior to
negotiations. Emphasis on securing an adequate health infrastructure would accomplish little if
complementary changes in health care policy are not torthcoming. Under this project, difficult
issues, such as drug procurement, cost recovery, development of district health plans and plans for
redeployment of health personnel have been addressed during project preparation and agreed upon
before appraisal.
2.46         Another lesson learned from Sahelian projects is that, to improve utilization rates of
existing health infrastructure, the quality of services needs to improve. In turn, this requires
availability of affordable drugs. This is addressed in this project through creation of the Central



14
Purchasing Agency (para 3.30). Finally, to have an impact, a health and safe motherhood project
should respond to the needs and the demand of the community. Beneficiary assessment have been
done as part of the preparatory work for this proposed project to ensure pertinence of proposed
activities to the needs as expressed by the community.
2.47         Rationale for IDA involvement. IDA's Country Assistance Strategy was presented
to the Board on May 25, 1993 and is fully explained in the Memorandum of the President for the
Chad Basic Education Project (Cr. 2501-CD). The strategy supports the objectives of alleviating
poverty and improving the prospects for long-term growth by: (i) increasing the accessibility and
quality of basic social services; (ii) increasing incomes through productivity increases and improved
services (including transpornation) to the agricultural sector where the majority of the population lives
and works; (iii) improving basic infrastructure which serves to increase competitiveness and improve
welfare; (iv) promoting employment generation and entrepreneurship by encouraging the provision
of services by the private sector; (v) supporting the reallocation of public expenditures towards
development purposes; and (vi) promoting a coherent strategy for tapping the potential of the energy
sector. The assistance strategy is flexible and designed to build on Chad's positive attributes, to
continue the policy dialogue and to adjust rapidly to an improvement in country conditions. IDA is
implementing a Core Program of support to alleviate poverty, to place minimum demands on
Government administration and finances, to make maximum use of non-Government capabilities and
to improve the prospects for long-term growth.
2.48         This project constitutes an important element of the above strategy, especially with
respect to objectives (i), (iii) and (v). From the sector work preparation stage and throughout the
ensuing dialogue with Government and donors, the Bank has been a key partner in the development
of the National Health Plan. The project reflects the importance given by IDA to safe motherhood
and to the decline of maternal mortality and infant and child mortality. IDA would be the lead
partner to support the much needed health reforms to improve the quality of health services, specially
through training of health personnel and restructuring of the pharmaceutical sector.
2.49         Donor Assistance and Coordination. The health sector is supported by many donors
(para 2.36) who until very recently, have not coordinated their efforts in an effective way. The
Round Table meetings and the resulting National Health Development Plan supported by the Bank,
has provided a framework for coherent policy commitment and interventions. This permitted for the
first time a coordinated donor support to the sector. The EDF VI program took the initiative,
providing technical assistance, annual national training seminars for the regional health directors, and
technical training for selected members of regional staff. Ihe EDF VII is continuing this role and
supporting the development of MOPH services at the regional level in 8 Sahelian regions (about 36%
of the total population). The Swiss Development Corporation is providing similar support in the peri-
urban areas of N'Djarn6na and Chari-Baguirmi (about 22% of the ta population). Other donors
are providing (or plan to provide) such assistance in the remaining regions. The African
Development Bank has provided much needed support to the cental level of the MOPH and would
be supporting three regions (about 25% of dhe total population). In regions where more than one
donor are present, their interventions are complementary. Apart from IDA, support to the sector is
provided by France (FAC), Germany (GTZ and KfNW), UNFPA, UNICEF, USAID and WHO. The
non-governmental community is quite active in service delivery and includes the Belgian Medecins
sans frontieres, Union Nauonale des Associatons Dioc&saines de DSveloppement (UNAD),
BELACD, Secours Catholique et Developpement (SECADEV), and other NGOs.



15
M. THE PROJECT
A.    Project Objectives. Scope and Description
3.1            Obiectives. The project would assist the Government in implementing its long-term
strategy for increased access of the population to quality basic health, nutritional, and Family
Planning services. It would support Government's efforts to: (a) enhance capability at the central
level to support regional health services; (b) improve access to basic health services in the regions
of Guera and Tandjile; and (c) ensure accessibility of the population to low-cost essentW drugs. The
Government's health policies and programs are defined in a pelicy report which includes a five-year
action plan with quantitative targets for years 1995-2000. It is summarized in a Sector Development
Policy Letter which was finalized during negotiations and adopted by Government as a condition of
Board presentation. Progress made towards the project objectives would be measured according
to a set of monitoring indicators and annual targets agreed upon during negotiations and annexed to
the letter of Sector Development Policy (Annex 2-3).
3.2            Project Scoe. The project would provide support for the strengthening of the health
sector by increasing accessibility to basic health, nutritional and FP services, particularly for the most
vulnerable groups. Within this framework, particular emphasis would be given to reducing
infant/child mortality and maternal mortality. The scope of some investments (components 1 and 3
in the table below) would be nation-wide, i.e their impact is not limited to particular geographical
regions of the country. Other investments (component 2) would specifically targ. - wo of Chad's 14
regions, selected for support through this project because no other donor has been forthcoming to
provide urgently needed assistance to develop two regions' health system.
PROJECT SUACMMY
(TOTAL COST US$25.7 MILHON)
1.     Strengthen Capability at the Central Level to Support Regional Health Saees (US$4.2 Mlon) al
(a)    improving the budgetary process at central and regional levels (US$0.2 Million)
(b)    developing skills upgrading modules programs for regional and district health personnel (US$1.1
Million)
(c)    developing and implementing a nationwide ImC program (US$1.6 Million)
(d)    reinforcung Government capacity to plan, coordinate, and implement donors-financed projects
(US$1.3 Million)
2.     Provide Assistance for Health, Nutrional and EP Services to the Reglons of Guera and Tandjil
(US$16.2 Million) a/
(a)    establishing a network of district healh facilities (US$7.2 Milion)
(b) implementing skills upgrading programs for heallh personnel (US$1.0 MilLion)
(C)    promoting conununity pafricipation in local health services planning, implementation, and monitor-
ing (US$8.0 Million)
3.     Support the Development and Implementation of a National Drug Policy (US$5.3 Million) a/
(a)    developing the planning and management capacity of the division of phanracy (US$0.6 MiUion)
(b)    creating a central purchasing agency (Centrake d'achats) for essential and generic drugs (US$ 4.8
Million)
Note: a/ Includes base costs and contingencies. Totals may not add up due to rounding.



16
3.3          Pro3ect Description. The proposed project would support the development and
implementation of policies and investments designed to:
t.    Strengthen Capability at the Central Level to Support Regional Health Services
(US$4.2 Million)
(a)   improving the budgetary promess at central and regional levels (US$0.2
Million)
3.4          Scope and Obiectives. The objective of this component is to support Government's
efforts to decentralize decision-making and management authority in the health sector to achieve
greater efficiency and equity in the provision of health services. Although a cornerstone of the
Government's health strategy, successful decentralization is however conditional on factors some of
which are beyond the scope of this project. Activities envisaged in this component are not sufficient
to ensure successful decentralization but they are necessary initial steps in that direction. They are
designed to reinforce the roles of regional medical officers. These roles have been redefined to give
them responsibility for regional health planning and program monitoring, coordination of public and
non-governmental regional health activities, monitoring of public sector health personnel, supervision
of district health teams, and provision of logistical support to district health teams. Accordingly in
many regions of the country, a number of important activities are expected to be done regionally,
particularly coordination of external aid, and definition of priority interventions. There is clearly a
need to put in place a financial and budgetary management system in the regions with two parts: (a)
budgetary preparation enabling each region to propose a budget grouping the estimated needs of all
health infrastructures of the region. These budgets would adopt a "functional" presentation that
allows the identification of all activities, and a "consolidated" presentation showing the contributions
of all donors. These budget proposals would be the basis for discussions with the Ministry of
Finance; and (b) budgetary implementation: each region would be responsible for implementing its
own budget as voted. This functional and consolidated presentation of the budget would also have
to be adopted at the central level to replace the current presentation which is done according to the
nature of the expenditure and does not allow an - .ialysis of the activities of the sector.
3.5          Project Support. To assist Government in the implementation of this component, the
project would finance: (a) six man-months of specialist services in accounting and financial manage-
ment (international). In the first year of the project, the TA (1'echnical Assistance) would assist the
MOPH at the central level to: (i) revise/adapt its budgetary nomenclature, in conformity with other
ministries; (ii) establish procedures of budgetary follow-up to the regions; and (iii) train personnel
in the MOPH and MOF on the new measures. In the second year of the project, the TA would train
regional and district medical officers in the elaboration, execution, and follow-up of budgets.
Subsequently, each region would organize a meeting grouping the District Medical Officers to prepare
the region's health budget which would be presented to the MOPH central level; and (b) office
equipment (computer and printer). Separate budget entries for drugs and other recurrent expenditures
for the 14 health regions would be entered in the Government's budget. During negotiations, the
Government gave assurances that it would maintain a separate budgetary chapter for two separate
categories - drugs and operating costs (excluding personnel) for each of the 14 health regions through
the end of the Project.



17
(b)    developing skills-upgrading modules for regional and district health
personnel (US$1.1 Million)
3.6          Scope and Objectives. The objectives of this component are: (i) to support the
development (nation-wide) of managerial and technical training programs for district health personnel
(In addition to this nation-wide developmental activity, the project supports the implementation of
training programs in the two regions of the project (para 3.20)). In addition to upgrading the skills
of health personnel, the project would help consolidate various donor-supported training activities.
A standard set of modules would be developed for use in all district-training activities throughout the
country and would build on ongoing training activities, particularly those supported by EDF VII,
IDA/(PADS), UNICEF, and USAID; and (ii) to support the use of already developed modules for
updating curricula in basic training courses at the ENASS (Ecole Nationale des Agents Soclaux et
Sanitaires).
3.7          The new modules would focus on pre- and post-natal care, deliveries, referral of high-
risk pregnancies, FP, child nutrition, and communicable disease control. Particular emphasis would
be given to STD/AIDS prevention. In accordance with Government's policy, FP education and
contraceptive services, as well as nutrition monitoring and management of nutritional problems,
would be fully integrated into the public health facility. Health staff would provide iron and Vitamin
A supplement at both clinical sites and at district locations where local authorities have identified
serious nutritional problems. While some initial testing of communicable diseases would be done at
the health center, other more complicated or confirmatory tests would be done at the district hospital.
Special attention would be given to staff supervision, task management and work routines. IEC would
be at center stage of these activities and training modules would be designed accordingly. Given the
increased responsibility of the district level and the establishment of a cost recovery system, a radical
change in the customary behavior of health personnel would be required, particularly in: (a)
managemnent: managing the money collected at the health facility, forecasting the needed drug
supplies, estimating expenditures; (b) communication: all cost recovery programs stress the need for
joint management by health workers and the people's representatives; and (c) essential drugs and
diagnostic/treatment strategy: health workers would need to be trained not only in the use of
essential drugs but also in diagnostic and treatment schemes which would result in a more controlled
pattern of prescribed drug consumption. Accordingly, a guide on the proper use of drugs (stategies
plaintes - d6cisions) would be elaborated and would serve as the basis for the training of district
health personnel on strategies to follow in problem resolution.
3 R          Background. During the January 1993 Round Table meetings, both Government and
donors expressed concern with the concentration of personnel at the central level and with the low
quality of, and serious disparity among, training programs for health personnel. It was unanimously
agreed to prepare National Plans for redeployment and training of health personnel, and in its
mandate the Round Table follow-up Task Force (Cellule Technique de Suivi de la Table Ronde
Sectorielle) (CTS) at the MOPH has been asked to give the preparation of the two plans a top
priority. Preliminary plans were discussed during appraisal and Government is working on a revised
version based on a conceptual framework which shows the link between planning, management, initial
training, continuous training and redeployment of health personnel. Both plans were discussed
further during negotiations and the adoption of such time-bound action plans, agreeable to IDA, is
a condition of credit effectiveness. As discussed during appraisal, the time-bound plan for the
redeployment of health personnel would include practical incent, 'es as well as necessary regulatory
measures. During negotiations, the Government gave arances that the training and redeployment
plans would be implemented according to time-tables agreed upon during negotiations.



18
3.9          Uroject Sppo. As described in para 3.7, this component would support the
development of a series of short-term training programs and would facilitate the transfer of
competencies to local trainers at the ENASS and at the regional level. Once developed, the modules
would be piloted, as a project activity, in Guera and Tandjild. The project would finance: (i)
specialist services (5 person-months local and 10 person-months international to develop training
modules, to train the regional trainers and teachers from the ENASS on the utilization of modules,
and to evaluate the training activities; (ii) production of training materials and operational guidelines;
(iii) cost of participation in in-country training seminars; (iv) short-term local training of 20 teachers
of the ENASS in the utilization of modules; and (v) a two-year training for one person in the
pedagogy of health sciences. The Government has requested the assistance of the WHO for the
implementation of this component. According to the agreement, WHO would senrv as the executing
agency and would work closely with the Training Division of the MOPH. Before negotiations, the
Government submitted to IDA a draft convention with the WHO for the management of this
component. A signed convention, satisfactory to IDA, would be a condition of credit effectiveness.
The objectives, organization plan, and implementation calendar for this component are detailed in the
implementation manual.
(c)    developing and implementing a nationwide IEC program  (US$1.6
Million)
3.10         Scope and Qbjective. The objective of this component is to strengthen the capacity
of MOPH and its IEC Division to develop and implement IEC programs with respect to improving
health and contraceptive behaviors of the Chadian population and to support district, health, nutrition
and FP services. To this end, the project would: (a) reinforce the MOPH capacity to plan,
coordinate, and control the quality of IEC activities; (b) conduct training programs in IEC,
interpersonal communication, and social mobilization; and (c) conduct quantitative and qualitative
studies on the basis of which the IEC strategies and messages would be developed.
3.11         Background. Although IEC techniques have been recognized by G. .,ament as
important tools to empower the population to take charge of its own health, efforts in this regard have
been limited to uncoordinated actions in donor-financed vertical health programs (para 2.27). The
NHIE Strategy developed in 1987 needs to be updated to reflect realities and health priorities as
established in the context of the new National Health Plan. With the help of an international
consultant (IEC), the Government has reorganized the Health, Information, and Education Unit
(HIEU) into a Division of IEC and the National IEC Task Force has prepared an action plan on
which the IEC subcomponent of this project is based. According to the plan, the Division of IEC
would be strengthened and staffed to carry out a well-defined role of coordination, conceptualization,
and supervision/control of quality. Its activities would focus on key messages developed on the basis
of the research results and focusing on nutrition, FP, maternal and child health problems, genital
mutilation, AIDS/STDs prevention, and other communicable diseases. It would also look at the
possibility of integrating the traditional sector in primary care delivery. Project activities to
strengthen IEC activities are determined on the basis of this plan and described in the implementation
manual. During negotiations, the Government gave assurance that the Division of EEC would
operate with the terms of reference agreed upon with IDA during appraisal.
3.12         Prject Suppon. The project would finance: (a) training of personnel at the central
level for the national IEC staff, in order to develop the IEC unit's capability to develop and
implement IEC activities and to train regional staff. This includes: a two-year training external in
IEC for one person from the IEC unit; and short-term training outside Chad, preferably in Africa (13



19
person-months); (b) KAP and qualitative studies that would be used for IEC strategy and message
development. In addition, the KAP survey would provide baseline data for the evaluation of the IEC
sub-component; (c) the production and dissemination of IEC materials to target communities; (d) a
minimum of audio-visual equipment to be used to inform/educate decision- and policy-makers as well
as for training activities; (e) vehicles (two cars and seven small motorcycles) to make it possible for
the EEC specialist of the Central IEC Unit to supervise IEC activities and carry out training; (f) some
IEC activities for priority areas that are not financed by other donors; (g) two years of a resident
specialist services (UNDP financing of a UN Volunteer): past experience shows that the success of
IEC activities depends crucially on the support of well-trained IEC specialists. At present there are
no IEC specialists in Chad. Therefore, this position would initially be filled at the international level
while a Chadian is being trained under the project to assume these responsibilities, and (h) short-term
technical assistance for specific tasks for which no Chadian expertise exists.
(d)   reinforce Government's capacity to plan, coordinate and implement
donors' financed projects (US$ 1.3 Million)
3.13         Backgrnd. The MOPH's coordination office (Bureau de Cooperation et Etudes -
BCE) is under the MOPH Director General (Annex 2-1). A Project Coordination Team (PCT)
within the BCE has been responsible for coordinating the preparation of the proposed project. This
team would be strengthened to enable it to coordinate implementation of the proposed project. This
is a functional way to group under the Director General, the Round Table Follow-up Task Force (
(CTS, see para 3.8)) with the coordination functions related to implementation of this proposed
project. Coordinators of respectively the CTS and the PCT report directly to the Director General.
The two teams have collaborated closely during the project preparation phase and are expected to
continue to do so throughout the implementation phase, particularly with respect to ensuring that
inputs provided by donors contribute to the MOPH's development objectives.
3.14         Proiect Coordination Team.  With responsibility for managing all construction
contracts delegated to an agency such as the ATETIP, the PCT would focus on: (i) overall
coordination of project activities; (ii) facilitating implementation; (iii) providing professional guidance
to implementation agencies; and (iv) monitoring and evaluating project outcomes. The PCT currently
staffed with a Coordinator and necessary support staff (secretariat, driver, watchmen), would be
reinforced with an administrator in charge of coordinating the preparation and the follow-up of annual
programs and budgets for all components, an accountant and a procurement officer. The accountant
and procurement officer would be recruited locally from the private sector. All staff would be
recruited on a competitive basis, under terms of reference satisfactory to IDA and would be appointed
subject to IDA's approval. Agreed upon terms of reference for the key positions in the PCT are in
the implementation manual. As a condition of credit effectiveness the PCT would be fully
established, with the Coordinator and the three senior professional staff in post. The Government
gave assurance during negotiations, that it would operate the PCT under the, agreed terms of reference
(including staffing) and that these key staff persons would not be replaced without IDA's prior
consent.
3.15         PrQi1ect Spport. The project would finance the investment costs associated with the
strengthening of the BCE to coordinate project implementation, including office rehabilitation,
equipment, vehicles, and furniture, supplies and incremental operating expenditures, salaries of local
staff recruited for this project, including an administrator, an accountant, (2) secretaries, an
administrative assistant and a chauffeur, and about 22 person-months of short-term professional
assist&a;.e in the areas of accounting, auditing, preparation of procurement documents and other



20
technical areas if necessary, under service contracts subject to IDA's review and approval. Civil
servants seconded to the PCT would be financed by the Government.
2.    Provide Assistance for Health, Nutritional, and FP Services to the Regions of
Guera and the Tandjil6 (US$16.2 Million)
3.16         Following discussions with Government and major donors, the regions of Guera (total
population 295,000) and Tandjile (total population 452,000) were selected as focal areas for this
project because of (i) the particular low status of health services delivery in these two regions; and
(ii) the fact that no other donor has been forthcoming to provide urgently needed assistance. One
reason explaining this lack of donor interest is the fact that these two regions are less accessible than
most other regions, particularly during the rainy season. The only donor-activity in Guera is EDF
VII and its support is limited to training and technical assistance for the regional medical officer and
support of health care services in one central district of the region. Two other districts remain
completely unserved. A rapid appraisal (done in the context of field work on Poverty Assessment)
confirms the seriousness of health services delivery problems and the beneficiaries' unmet demand
for basic health services. Similarly, while the Tandjile had been identified by the PADS team as a
target area, only technical assistance to the Regional Medical Officer (RMO) (one administrator and
one physician) is provided through the PADS. Due to shortage of funds, UNICEF has limited its
interventions (rehabilitation of infrastructure, health personnel training, and introduction of cost
recovery) to the district of Kelo (in Tandjild) but has expressed interest in collaborating with IDA to
expand coverage of services to other districts. Together, these two regions comprise 12% of the total
population.
(a)    establishing a network of district health facilities (US$7.2 Million)
3.17         Scope and Objectives. The objective of this component is to provide assistance for
the establishment of a network of health facilities in the regions of Guera and the Tandjile. The
needs of the two regions in infrastructure rehabilitation, construction, equipment and supplies, and
maintenance have been determined in accordance with the national norms for coverage and services
as specified in the "plan de couverture sanitaire" (Annex 2-2). According to this plan, the health
center is the entry point to the health system. There should be one center per responsibility zone
(about 10,000 inhabitants). The district hospital would be responsible for supervision of district
health centers (about 30 to 50 per district) and is expected to serve as a referral facility. The
objective of the component would be to restore those facilities that are currently in poor physical
condition. There would also be construction and equipment of new health facilities. Sites have been
sclected according to the national norms of coverage and have been agreed upon during appraisal.
3.18         Staffing of the newly-constructed or renovated health facilities would be done
according to norms defined in the National Health Development Plan; a health center would have a
total of 3 staff (1 nurse, 1 orderly and 1 maintenance staff) while a district hospital would be staffed
by 22 people (2 medical doctors, 4 registered nurses, 4 technicians, 3 midwives and other technical
and administrative staff). Information on actual number of health personnel by category and health
infrastructure shows a gap in both regions. At the Tandjil6, there is an additional need for 2
physicians, one midwife, 37 nurses and 37 paramedical personnel. Available information for the
Guera shows an estimated additional need for 4 physicians, 34 nurses, and 38 paramedical personnel.
The gap in personnel would be filled through redeployment from one region to another or within the
same region, from the central district to the periphery. Prior to negotiations, the Government
presented a time-bound plan for redeployment of personnel. As mentioned in para 3.8, adoption of



21
a plan agreeable to IDA is a condition of effectiveness. Assurances regarding the implementation of
the personnel redeployment plan were given by the Government during negotiations (para 3.8).
3.19          Ur ject Suppor. The project would finance the rehabilitation of 14 health centers and
three district hospitals and the construction of 44 health centers and one district hospital, and related
facilities. Facilities for the regional and district health teams would also be rehabilitated or
constructed. In Tandjile, the project would finance the construction of a regional office and one
district office, and the rehabilitation of a district office. In Guera, the project would finance the
rehabilitation of two district offices. Equipment and related professional activities are included in all
construction and rehabilitation. The proposed civil works program is described in Annex 3-1.
Staffing of all constructed/rehabilitated facilities would be ensured through redeployment of health
personnel according to a time-bound action plan (para 3.18). Construction management would be
delegated to a Construction Management Agency (such as ATETIP). The Government submitted a
draft contract with a CMA which was discussed during negotiations. Signature of a contract,
satisfactory to IDA, with a CMA would be a condition of effectiveness.
(b)   implementing sldlls-upgrading programs for district health personnel
(US$1.0 Million)
3.20         Scope and Objectives. The objective of this component is to upgrade the skills of
health personnel who would be deployed in health centers and district hospitals, and enable them to
deliver adequately the minimum package of health, nutrition, and FP services. Training needs have
been identified and the content, scope, and time-schedule of the training programs were discussed in
detail during appraisal and were reviewed during negotiations. Several types of training are
envisaged: (i) a two-year training in public health for one physician per region in an African country;
(ii) short-term clinical training in Cameroon or Ivory Coast for physicians (in surgery, internal
medicine, ob-gyn) and paramedical technical staff (anesthesia, radiology, etc.,), and for every region,
one person from the regional health team who is responsible for IEC activities in that region; and (iii)
local regional training for health personnel. Local training is expected to start in Project Year 2
following the development of training modules (para 3.6) and would be coordinated by the Division
of Human Resources in the Regional Health Team in close collaboration with the EDF VII in one
district of Guera, and UNICEF for all other districts of Gudra and the Tandjile (para 3.23). A
revised version of a training plan was transmitted to IDA as a condition of negotiations. The plan
was discussed during negotiations and its adoption will be a condition of effectiveness (para 3.8).
3.21         Troject Supoort. The project would support: (i) training activities: seminars (36 one-
week sessions), 3-months abroad clinical training (training sessions for 14 medical and pararnedical
personnel), one month training abroad in IEC for the 2 IEC regional focal persons, and 2-year
training in public health (one physician per region); and (ii) means to coordinate and supervise
training activities in the regions. This would include providing training materials and funds for
training sessions.
(c)    ..amoting community participation in local health services planning,
implementation, and monitoring. (US$8.0 Million)
3.22         Scope and Objectives. A major objective of this project would be to contribute to
an improved health system sustainable over the long-run. As mentioned earlier (para 2.25), medical
cost recovery schemes have been introduced in different parts of the country with considerable
success. A cost recovery system organized and managed through local health committees would be
implemented in the Gu6ra and the Tandjile. These committees are composed of elected community



22
representatives and health personnel. In health centers, the system is expected to recover the cost of
all essential drugs and most operating expenditures with the exception of wages, which will be
covered by the Government. The experience of the MSF in the Mayo-Kebi shows that between 45-
50% of all non-wage recurrent costs can be recovered. Prior to negotiations, the Government signed
a decree generalizing cost recovery to the whole country. It also adopted regulations providing for
the creation of health committees.
3.23         The cost recovery system would be introduced gradually in concert with the
infrastructure construction-rehabilitation program and the essential drug program. Given the weak
capacity of the local government in social mobilization and in the creation and support of health
committees (at the level of districts and health centers), the Government has decided to request the
assistance of UNICEF in the overall management of this component, thus benefiting from UNICEF's
extensive experience in social mobilization and the introduci;.on of cost recovery. Accordingly,
UNICEF would be asked to play a key role in mobilizing the community to form health committees,
training district-level health personnel in coordination with the regional health authorities, supporting
the day-to-day management of the health facilities, and conducting operational research. Given its
wide experience in monitoring cost recovery efforts, UNICEF would also be asked to play a key role
in establishing a monitoring system as of the first year of the project and to assess the results of cost
recovery efforts during the mid-term review. Throughout this process, UNICEF would be paying
particular attention to building the capacity of regional and district health teams who in turn would
continue to be in charge of planning, coordinating, and managing all health activities in their regions.
Prior to negotiations, the Government transmitted to IDA a draft convention with UNICEF. During
negotiations, this convention was discussed and UNICEF parallel co-financing confirmed. As a
condition of effectiveness the Government would submit a signed contract with UNICEF satisfactory
to IDA.
3.24         The financing plan of district hospitals and health centers in the two regions of the
project shows a sharing of estimated costs among Government, the comnmunity and M)A in order to
ensure that resources needed to adequately operate health infrastructures are available at all levels.
The human resources required would be secured through redeployment (para 3.18). There is no need
for additional long-term TA at the level of the region as it is provided in the Guera, through the EDF
VII and in the Tandjile, through PADS. UNDP has agreed to finance one United Nations Volunteer
per district in the four districts which require technical assistance while health personnel to be
redeployed there, are being trained. As te incremental operating costs, they are shared by
Government, IDA and the community for the duration of the project with IDA's support decreasing
with time and Government's and community's contribution increasing with time.
3.25            ject Sumpp: The project would finance: (a) an initial stock of essential drugs and
supplies for the two regions. This would help establish the revolving fund for drugs at the level of
each health infrastructure. In addition, as the utilization of health facilities is expected to increase,
there would be a need for supplemental stocks of drugs throughout the duration of the project.
Micronutrients for the duration of the project are also including in the pharmaceuticals; (b)
incremental non-wages recurrenc costs; and (c) one motorcycle per health center. As the executing
agency, UNICEF would manage the funds and materials allocated to this component. UNICEF
cofinancing was finalized during negotiations.



23
3.    Support the Development and Implementation of a National Drug Policy (US$5.3
Million)
3.26         This component would support Government's efforts to implement its newly adopted
National Drug Policy (NDP) (para 2.22) to ensure overall geographical as well as financial
accessibility of the population to essential drugs as a prerequisite to the successful implementation of
cost recovery. The NDP is based on the introduction of an Essential Drug Program (EDP) as a
means of reducing the high cost of basic treatment due to the very high prices charged for brand-
name drugs. It is also based on the selection of the drugs essential for dealing effectively with at
least 90% of the curative and prophylactic needs of the majority of the population. An essential
drugs list has been officially adopted and is being used in several projects. Before negotiations, the
Government revised the existing list to include drugs such as vaccines and STD medications, used
in national programs.
3.27         The project would assist the MOPH in defining its plan of action with respect to
planning and management of pharmaceutical programs, drug procurement and logistics, drug quality
assurance, and rational use of drugs. These efforts would be coordinated with existing donor-
financed projects. There are two subcomponents which require IDA's assistance: (a) develop the
planning and management capacity of the Division of Pharmacy; and (b) create and support the
operations of a Central Purchasing Agency (CPA). A detailed description of this component,
including the terms of reference for the technical assistance, costs, timetable, and monitoring
indicators is given in the implementation manual.
(a)    developing the planning and management capacity of the division of
pharmacy (US$0.6 Milion).
3.28         Scope and Objectives. The objective of this component is to develop the capacity of
the MOPH Pharmacy Division to elaborate a strategy and a program of action in order to
operationalize its NDP and to adequately supervise the pharmaceutical sector. To this end, the
project would help: (a) develop a Pharmaceutical Plan (Plan Directeur Pharmaceudque) that defines
a strategy for the next three years in the pharmaceutical sector as well as the detailed plan of action
and budget. It would represent the terms of reference for the Division of Pharmacy. During
negotiations, the Government gave assurances that a three-year pharmaceutical plan, agreeable to
IDA, would be adopted no later than January 3   -96. The plan will be transmitted to IDA one
month before the annual review meeting (para 4.. tnd would be discussed during the meeting; (b)
conduct a review of the pharmaceutical regulatory framework in order to ensure that it is in line with
the new policy; (c) establish a system of drug registry to ensure adaptation of the drug market to
actual epidemiological conditions. This implies taking stock of all drugs that are in the market Oegal)
for pharmaceutical, and defininig the criteria for allowing drugs into the market: pharmacological,
therapeutic, economic, epidemiologic, and quality assurance criteria; (d) undertake a revision every
two years of the list of essential drugs according to the minimum package of services for health
centers and district hospitals; (e) strengthen the Pharmacy inspection and quality assurance
procedures; and (f) creation of an information system on appropriate utilization and promotion of
Essential Drugs. Time-bound plans for the completion and implementation of each of these activities
are in the implementation manual.
3.29           oectSup . To assist Government in implementing this component, the project
would finance: (a) specialist services to assist in reviewing the regulatory framework and in the
pre-aration of the pharmaceutical plan (14.5 months, international; 16 months, local); (b) training



24
and workshops; (c) office rehabilitation and equipment; and (d) incremental operating cost including
office supplies. The Government has requested assistance of the Drug Action Program of
WHO/Geneva to provide assistance in the implementation of this component. A draft contract
between this organization and the Chadian Government has been prepared and was discussed during
negotiations. The signature of said contract, acceptable to IDA, is a condition of effectiveness.
Long-term TA would be provided outside the framework of this project by the French Government
who has agreed to reorient its current long-term TA from drug procurement to planning and
management. It was also agreed that the assistant's letter of mission presented by the French
Government to the GOC, will specify that the assistant would work within the framework defined in
this proposed project.
(b)   creating a central purchasing agency (Centmie phannaceuaque d'achats)
for essential and generic drugs (US$4.8 Million)
3.30         Scope and Objectives. This component would support Government efforts to ensure
adequate and timely supply of essential drugs and medical supplies to all health facilities (public and
NGOs) at prices the commnunities can afford, through the establishment of a Central Purchasing
Agency (CPA). The CPA would be developed as an autonomous, not-for-profit institution, for the
whole country. It would ensure economies of scale and bulk purchases of essential drugs in generic
forms to be sold to health facilities (public and NGOs). The Government has established an ad-hoc
committee to work on the operational status of the CPA to promote management and financial
autonomy. The CPA would meet the following criteria: (i) be responsible for purchasing all national
list essential drugs requested by authorized health facilities; (ii) purchase high quality essential drugs
at the lowest possible price through competitive bids on the international market (possible long-term
contracts with annual deliveries advised); (iii) have a small staff and enjoy full management and
financial autonomy; (iv) be not-for-profit; (v) be completely self-financed (including salaries) by
applying a fixed wholesale margin (maximum of 20%) on the orders it processes; and (vi) keep
operating costs at a miinimum. The CPA would not be granted a monopoly on public health facility
drug purchases (i.e health facilities are not under the obligation to get their supply of drugs through
the CPA. They would choose to do that because the CPA would have competitive prices). Prior to
negotiations, the Government submitted to IDA a draft document describing the operational status of
the CPA which was discussed and agreed upon during negotiations. As a condition of effectiveness
the Government would establish the CPA with operational procedures satisfactory to IDA.
3.31         Under the project, the following functions of the CPA would be developed:
(a) purchasing and supply aimed at getting the lowest price through international competition; (b)
inventory management to ensure continuous availability and avoid losses due to expired drugs; (c)
financial and administrative management necessary to guarantee sound pricing and minimum costs.
An accounting system would be put in place with regular bi-annual financial audits; (d) distribution:
this function would be minimal as the CPA would not be responsible for distributing drugs, and
health facilities would make arrangements to receive their specific orders. This function would be
reviewed after two years of operation; and (e) quality control: given the unavailability of laboratory
controls in the country, a simple system for ensuring high quality of purchased drugs, such as WHO
certification, would be adopted.
3.32         Given the importance to project success as well as the complexity of this component,
important safeguards need to be introduced to ensure successful implementation: (i) given the heavy
reliance on donors for the provision of drugs, their support and participation in the CPA is essential.
At the January 1993 Round Table meeting, donors confirmed their willingness to purchase drugs
through the CPA (para 2.22). Their commitment was again renewed during a meeting on this sector



25
organized during project appraisal; (ii) a close monitoring of the CPA's activities is key to successful
implementation. A Management Board would oversee the establishment of the CPA and its
operations. It would comprise representatives from the MOPH and other relevant ministries.
"Clients" of the CPA, particularly the regional and district health committees would be largely
represented; and (iii) during negotiations, Government gave assurances that semi-annual management
audits of the CPA would be done by the management audit firm selected according to IDA's
procedures. This audit would look at the cost and selling prices of essential drugs and compare them
to an international average. It would also examine operating costs, availability and quality of drugs,
and assess efficiency of CPA management. Details of activities, timetable, and monitoring indicators
are described in the implementation manual.
3.33         The project would support the operations of the CPA during the first three years
because it is estimated that it would take three years for the CPA to be fully financially viable on its
own. During those first three years, the project would finance: (a) rehabilitation of a building to
house the CPA. Prior to negotiations, IDA received Government's commitment to provide the CPA
with the physical space currently occupied by the PHARMAT and the PASP (para 2.22). As a
condition of effectiveness the Government will provide the CPA with sufficient facilities for the start-
up phase of its operations and adopt a facilities expansion plan for the CPA, each satisfactory to IDA.
During negotiations the Government gave assurances that the CPA will occupy, not later than June
30, 1995, the facilities discussed and agreed upon with IDA; (b) equipment and 3 vehicles; (c) an
initial supply of essential drugs and medical supplies. This initial stock would be sold to the district
health teams in the first year and would constitute the revolving fund for the CPA; (d) specialist
services: a long-term pharmacist administrator (3 years), 18 person-months of short term technical
assistant (commercial law, data processing, accounting audit, procurement specialist). While donors'
support for the CPA is essential, it is important for the CPA to keep its autonomy not only vis-a-vis
Government but also vis a vis donors. Accordingly, the recommended long-term TA for the agency
would not be sponsored and recruited by any particular donor but rather would be recruited through
a competitive process following IDA procedures. Terms of reference for the TA and a description
of proposed training are in the implementation manual. The recruitment of the TA is a condition of
effectiveness; (e) training: in computers and management information systems for the CPA staff, and
a 9 month training in management for the national director of the CPA; and (f) salaries for the CPA
staff which includes the national director, accountant/administrator, assistant accountant, secretary,
pharmacy technicians (3), stock room clerks (3), drivers (2), guards and cleaning staff.
B.    Project Cost and Flnancing Plan
3.34         The total cost of the project, net of taxes, is estimated at about US$25.7 million, with
a base cost of US$21.5 million, and a foreign exchange component of US$22 million. Price
contingencies, estimated at US$2.5 million, assume an annual domestic inflation rate of 30% in
Project Year 1, 6% in Project Year 2 and 2% for the remainder of project's years. A Foreign
inflation rate of 2.5% is assumed for the total duration of the project. Physical contingencies are
estimated at US$1.7 million (7% of base costs). IDA would finance about 72% of total project costs
(US$18.5 million). UNDP and UNICEF would contribute US$1.3 and US$2.3 million respectively.
Government would contribute about US$1.0 million equivalent, including budgetary allocations for
drugs, materials, and incremental sectoral management. Communities would contribute through
participation in the management of health facilities and cost-sharing of health services (US$2.6
million). Detailed project cost estimates are given in Annex 3-2.
3.35         Incremental Recurrent Costs and  Project Sustainability.   Considering
Government's severe budget constraints, the project is designed to have minimal recurrent cost



26
implications. As personnel would be redeployed from the central to the regional levels, incremental
personnel costs would be minimal. The major part of incremental costs of the project would go to
activities which would stop or slow down after the project period, including development of health,
nutrition, and FP training materials, and initial stocks of medications, and medical supplies. The
successful introduction of cost recovery in the two regions of the project would result in increased
cost-sharing by the community and project sustainability. However, despite the increased community
participation and Government efforts and stated intention to devote 10% of the budget to health, Chad
is likely to remain heavily dependent on foreign aid in the health sector in the foreseeable future.
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A.    Status of Project Preparation and Readiness
4.1          Throughout project preparation, discussionas were regularly held with the Chadian
preparation committee, the technical staff of the MOPC and the MOPH (including regional staff) to
agree on priorities within the health sector strategy. IDA has actively worked with Government and
donors in the preparation of the UNDP-led Round Table meeting that resulted in the adoption of a
National Health Development Plan, and the ensuing framework for policy commitment and
interventions. Working papers for all project components have been prepared. Site selection and
architectural standards and designs for basic health centers and referral services and a procurement
schedule were developed by pre-appraisal and updated during appraisal; to the extent possible, the
remaining documentation for civil works, including draft bid documents, were prepared after the
appraisal mission and reviewed and agreed upon during negotiations. All preliminary procurement
actions for the first year of operation would be completed at the time of credit effectiveness (para
4.15).
4.2          Training needs have been identified and the content, scope and time-schedule of the
training programs were discussed in detail during appraisal and finalized during negotiations.
B.    Project Coordination and Management
4.3          Day-to-day management and implementation of each project component would be the
responsibility of the concerned unit at the Ministry of Public Health, as follows: the component on
strengthening capability at the central level to support regional health services would be the
responsibility of corresponding technical units of the MOPH; assistance to the regions of Guera and
Tandji}l would be the responsibility of the regional health teams under the direction of the RMOs;
and the NDP component would be implemented by the Division of Pharmacy at the MOPH for the
first subcomponent and the ad-hoc committee (para 3.30) for the CPA. The PCT would be
responsible for project monitoring and evaluation and would also coordinate procurement and
distribution.
4.4          The Bureau de Cooperation et Etudes (para 3.13), which includes the Project
Coordination Team (PCI), would be strengthened and would coordinate implementation of the
proposed project. The PCT would: (a) coordinate the preparation of annual work programs and
budgets for all components; (b) procure goods and services and recruit consultants when needed; (c)
review implementation progress reports prepared by the coordinator of components; (d) maintain and
consolidate all project accounts including special accounts and accounts kept by the Construction
Management Agency (para 3.19) with the assistance of a private accountant; (e) prepare the necessary
documentation for withdrawal of proceeds from the IDA Credit; (f) make arrangements for the audit
of project accounts, and SOEs; (g) prepare, as required, semi-annual and annual progress reports for



27
IDA, the Government, and cofinanciers; (h) organize annual and mid-term reviews of project
implementation; and (i) maintain an effective dialogue with key donors and agencies in the health
sector.
C.    Monitoring and Evaluation
4.5          Monitoring and evaluation of project performance - including investments and
policies - would be carried out by the respective implementing units and coordinated by the PCT.
Special efforts would be made to measure the impact of project investments on qualitative
improvements by assessing key indicators that were identified and agreed upon during negotiations.
4.6          To effectively coordinate project monitoring, the PCT would: (a) transmit to IDA
progress reports on project implementation and outcomes twice a year (in April and October), starting
in 1995, using the format developed in the ongoing Chad education projects (Cr. 1950-CD and 2501-
CD); (b) organize, no later than November 30 of each year, starting in 1995, a joint IDA/Govern-
ment review of project implementation, based on the progress reports, annual work programs, and
budgets for the next year; and (c) carry out a mid-term review of project implementation-based on
financial and technical audits-jointly with IDA, no later than May 1997. Details of IDA's
supervision plan and of annual and mid-term reviews are provided in Annex 4_-. Within six months
of the Credit closing date, the PCT would also transmit to IDA a completion report, prepared in
accordance with terms of reference satisfactory to IDA. The Government gave assurances during
negotiations that these requirements would be met.
D.    Procurement
4.7          Table 2 below summarizes the project elements by category, estimated costs, and
proposed procurement methods. No special exemptions, permits or licenses need to be specified in
Credit documents for International Competitive Bidding (ICB) as Chad's procurement practices allow
IDA procedures to take precedence over any contrary provisions in local regulations. However, a
note on procurement was discussed during negotiations to draw the attention of implementers to
procurement advance precautions for ICB such as: (a) to refrain from using restricted lists of
suppliers and contractors; (b) to leave the choice of insurance company to the suppliers or
contractors; (c) to ensure sufficient advertising; and (d) to discontinue the use of the two-envelopes
system for submission of bids. Procurement schedules and the packaging of works and goods are
given in Annex 4-2.



28
Table 2: Sumrary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent including Contingencies)
Methods of IDA financing
CATEGORY OF EXPENDITURES                               ICe       LCB       Other      *.S.F.   Total Cost
1. CIVIL MOKS
1.1  Construction/Rehabilitation (Hospitals)          1.4       -          -          -            1.4
(Excluding Parts A and C) /c                   (1.4)      -         -                      (1.4)
1.2  Construction/rehabilitation                     -           3.4 Ia   -            0.6  /b    4.0
(Excluding Part A)                             -          (3.4)     -          (--         (3.4)
2. wOaDS
2.1  Vehicles                                          0.3      -          -                       0.3
(0.3)     -          -          -           (0.3)
2.2  Equipment                                        3.4        0.2        0.1       -            3.7
(3.4)     (0.2)      (0.1)                  (3.7)
2.3  Furniture                                                   0.1                  *            0.1
(0.1)                -           (0.1)
2.4  Pharmeceuticals                                  3.2       -          -           2.8  /c    6.0
(Excluding Part A)                             (3.2)      -                    ()          (3.2)
3.  CrSULTAKCIES
3.1  Professional Fees                                -         -           1.0 /d   -             1.0
(ExcLuding Part A)                                        -         (.0)       - -1.0)
3.2  Specialist Services (Short Term)                 -         -           1.2       -            1.2
-         -          (1.2)      -           (1.2)
3.3  Specialist Services (Long Temn)                  -         -           0.7        2.3 /e      3.0
~ -       (0.7)      -           (0.7)
S.  TRAINING AND TRAINING hATERIAL
4.1  Fellowships                                      -         -           0.8       -            0.8
-         -*(0.8)                           (0.8)
4.2  Local Seminars                                   -         -           0.4       -            0.4
-         -          (0.4)                  (0.4)
S.  NISCELLANEMXS
5.1  Operation & Maintenance                          -         -           1.3        1.5 /f      2.8
-         -          (1.3)      0..)        (1.3)
5.2  Salaries                                                   -           0.4       -            0.4
-         -          (0.4)      -           (0.4)
5.3  TraveL Allowances                                -                     0.6       -            0.6
-    ~     ~     ~~- 0.6     -06
Total Costs                           8.3        3.7        6.5        7.2        25.7
Total Financed by the IDA credit                (8.3)      (3.7)      (6.5)     (-)        (18.5)
NWte     * Figur  In parenthese  re th respectve amounxs financd by the IDA edit.  NS.F.: Not Sank-Financed.
'Footnotes with smal letrs Indicate amount financed by Government nd other donon proured unds thW  procedures:
te:      Snmall Contract not excoeding USf260,000           I Tho follow    capital ltters show the projet components:
(bl:    Land & Building Acquisition by Governenwt           Part A Capaoity Building at centr  voel.
(a):     Pharmacwutioas purchased  by beneficanes  and      Pert 8: Assistance to Heath. Nutiton and FP In two rgions.
UNICEF.                                            Part C: Ntoinal Drug policy.
(dl:    Design/Supervislonandconstruction contracts maage-
ment.                                              Figurte mny not add-up due to rounding
tel:     VNUs finnrerd by UNWP and UNICEF.
if):    Finanocd by UNCEF, Government and benfidaries.
4.8               Civil works. The proposed civil works program (totaling US$4.8 million net of taxes
and duties and including contingencies) includes in two regions (Guera and Tandjil6): (a) construction
of about 44 health centers and one hospital for referral services and related facilities (US$3.4
million); and (b) rehabilitation of 14 health centers and three hospitals for referral servic.s (totaling
US$1.4 million). Of the civil works component of the Project, IDA credit would finance 100% of
the construction costs net of taxes and duties. Through the introduction of cost recovery, communities
would finance operating costs and maintenance of health centers. The Government would finance
the operating costs for the referral services.
4.9               Construction and rehabilHtation. Construction management would be delegated to
a Contract Management Agency (CMA) such as ATETIP, a non-governmental Chadian Construction
Management Agency that was ertablished with support from  the successfil Faso Baara project in
Burkina Faso. Civil work contracts financed by IDA for the remodeling of three district hospitals
and the construction of one district hospitals, including offices and staff housing (totaling US$1.4
million) would be awarded through ICB in accordance with the Bank's GIwdein:for Procurem



29
under JRD Loans and lDA Credits (May 1992). Standard bidding and contract documents developed
by the Bank would be used.
4.10         The remaning civil works contracts financed by IDA for rehabilitation and
construction of 58 basic health centers which would not exceed US$100,000 each (totaling US$3.0
million) and for the remodeling of the warehouse for the CPA (totaling US$0.4) would be awarded
through LCB in accordance with procedures acceptable to IDA and described in an implementation
manual (similar to that introduced for the basic education project in Chad), as agreed with
Government during appraisal. The CMA would maintain a roster of registered contractors eligible
for Local Competitive Bidding (LCB), would permit additional applications at any time, and would
not preclude large or foreign firms from participating. No preferential margin would be given to
domestic contractors when LCB is used. Standard bidding documents would propose a reference
price and indicate unit prices and quantities. Contractors would be invited to bid by way of discounts
either on the total or on the unit prices. Contracts would be awarded to the lowest evaluated bid
based on criteria specified In bidding documents. The contract award committee of CMA would open
bids in public and have full authority to contract. I would justify, however, in writing and prior to
signing the contract and with reference to the bidding documents' criteria, any decision not to select
the lowest evaluated bid. For conacts with fewer than five bidders, for contracts greater than or
equal to US$250,000 equivalent, or for rejection of the lowest bid, the award committee would
request IDA approval prior to signing the contract. Where necessary, particularly in remote areas,
the CMA would be allowed to select qualified NGOs as contractors for carrying out construction
programs. These NGOs would be selected through prudent international and local shopping, based
upon price quotations (not to exceed US$65,000 per basic health center) obtained from at least three
reliable NGOs, provided that the aggregate amount does not exceed US$500,000.
4.11         Goods. Goods financed by IDA (totaling US$7.3 Million), including equipment,
office supplies, vehicles, and pharmaceuticals, would be grouped into packages of at least
US$250,000 each and procured through IC  in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for
Procuemnent wider IBJR Loans and MA Credits (May 1992). Standard bidding and contract
documents developed by the Bank would be used. A preferential margin of 15%, or the applicable
customs duty, whichever is less, over the c.i.f. prices of competing goods for all ICB procurement
would be given to domestic firms, if any. Furniture and goods would be procured through LCB,
provided that the aggregate amount of such procurement does not exceed US$0.3 million.
Procurement of small items (e.g. office supplies and spare parts) which cannot be grouped into bid
packages of at least US$30,000, will be done on the basis of prudent international and local shopping,
based upon price quotations obtained from at least three reliable suppliers, provided that the aggregate
amount of such procurement does not exceed US$200,000.
4.12         Consultants' services. International and local consultants' services financed by IDA
(JS$2.9 million equivalent) would be contracted in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for the
Use of Consultan (August 1981). The standard form of contract for appointment of consultants as
developed by the Bank would be used. The services include training, technical assistance, contract
management services, architectr  services for the design and supervision of the construction
program, and specialist services in the area of procurement, auditing and accounting. The
construction management services would be contracted to a CMA such as an ATETIP on a sole-
source basis provided the price, terms and conditions of contract are acceptable to IDA. In the event
that negotiations with ATETIP are not satisfactory to IDA and the government, a firm would be
selected from a short-list in accordance with The Bank's Guidelines for the Use of Consultants
(August 1981). The CMA would contract design and supervision of construction to private firms



30
selected in accordance with 7he Bark's Guidelwnes for the Use of Consultans (August 1981).
Technical assistance for the preparation of training modules would be contracted to WHO on a sole
source basis. Also, the capacity building in the two regions of the project would be contracted on
a sole source basis to UNICEF. Thesw two institutions have a comparative advantage because of the
unique expertise they built in developing countries (since the Bamako Initiative) in the area of cost-
recovery and use of essential drugs in basic health care. They also combine this advantage with the
fact that part of the costs of their services would be a grant from their insttutions and UNDP
representing their contribudon to the project.
4.13         Prom ment staus of ongoing projects in Chad.  A Country Procurement
Assessment Report (CPAR) was completed in August 1993. For this project, findings of the CPAR
remain valid. In general, Chad's current procurement laws and regulations do not conflict with IDA
Guidelines. The disbursement lag under certain ongoing IDA-funded projects in Chad is partly the
result of Insufficient procurement skills and poor procurement practices (i.e., poor planning and slow
progress in civil works due to inadequate management capability). 'he capacity of project units to
plan and closely supervise IDA-financed procurement has been a major constraint to the tinely
execution of project activities. However, recenty, due to closer supervision and the emphasis on
project implementation, substantial improvements have been observed in Chad.
4.14         Procurement arraents under the proposed project. For the proposed project
a number of activities are planned in order to establish local capacity in the area of project
coordination and implementation:
(a)    One project coordinator has already be recruited. Past experience in project manage-
ment and procurement was taken into consideration in the selection process, and the
project coordinator has already demonstrated his capacity.
(b)    A detailed implementation schedule for works, goods and services to be procured
under the project was prepared at time of appraisal; it was reviewed and updated,
where necessary, during negotiations. This schedule would contribute to ensuring
timely processing of all required actions. During implementation, all bid evaluation
reports transmitted to IDA for review would contain an updated copy of the
implementation schedule and a Form 384; and
(c)    Based on the scope of the construction program agreed at appraisal, schematic
designs and specific accommodation requirements have been submitted to IDA for
review and found acceptable at negotiations. Design, preparation of bidding docu-
ments, and supervision of civil works have been contracted out to a consulting firm
selected in accordance with IDA Guidelines before negoiati  and all design and
bidding documents necessary for the first year of project implementation for the
health centers would be ready before credk eftiv_nes;
4.15         The project coordination Team would be responsible for procurement. However, in
addition to the fill-time procurement specialist position, it would have access to support from
independent procurement specialists (consultant), as required (estimated at two man-months per year
during the first year of the project and one man-months per year during the rest of the project). The
coordination team would ensure that bid documents for civil works, goods, and drugs required under
the Project for the health centers be prepared and found acceptable to IDA gtir tocredit
effectiveness.



31
4.16         The coordination team, with assistance from the futl-time procurement specialist,
would also collect and record procurement information as follows: (a) Prompt reporting of contract
award information; (b) Comprehensive monitoring of reports to IDA (on a semiannual basis and at
time of submissionto IDA of each bid evaluation), indicating: (a) revised cost estimates for individual
contracts and the total project, including best estimates of allowances for physical and price
contingencies; (b) revised timing of procurement actions, including advertising, bidding, contract
award, and completion time for individual contracts; and (c) compliance with aggregate limits on
specified methods of procurement.
4.17         Review by  :A. IDA-financed contracts for works and for goods above a threshold
of US$250,000 equivalent each would be subject to IDA's prior review procedures. The review
process would cover about 38% of the total value of the amount contracted for works, and about 95%
of the total value of the amount contracted for goods financed by IDA (Annex 4-2 page 2 of 5).
Selective post-review of awarded contracts below the threshold levels would apply to about one in
three goods contracts. In the case of consultants, prior review by IDA would be required for all
consultancy contracts for individuals above US$50,000 and for firms above 100,000. However, this
exception would not appply to the terms of reference for such contracts, single source hiring of firms,
assignments of critical nature as determined by IDA, and to amendments of contracts raising the
contract value to US$100,000 equivalent for firms and US$50,000 equivalent for individuals,
respectively.
4.18         During negotiations agreement was reached on the proper monitoring of the
procurement, as well as the use of Bank Standard Bidding Documents for ICB, and standard
procurement documents for LCB to be developed and reviewed by and agreed with IDA. At
negotiations, the Goverment furnished IDA with: (a) an updated procurement plan; (b) a procedural
manual for management and procurement; and (c) draft bidding documents for the ( istruction
program and major equipment as well as draft letter of invitation for consultant set,   . The
Government also gave assurance at negotiations that it would apply the procurement procedures and
arangements outlined above.
E.    Disbusements
4.19         The project is expected to be completed over a five-year period; the IDA credit would
be disbursed over 6 years (according to the categories shown in Table3 below). The estimated
disbursement profile is shown in Annex 43. Disbursement of the Credit would be fully documented
except for contracts and expenditures valued less than US$20,000 equivalent which would be made
against Statements of Expenditure (SOEs). Documentation for withdrawals under SOEs would be
retained at the PCT for review by IDA supervision missions and for semiannual audits. To facilitate
disbursement, the Government would open a Special Account (SA) in a commercial bank to cover
IDA's share of eligible expenditures managed by the PCT. The authorized allocation for the Special
Account would be US$500,000 and would be only for making payments against contracts estimated
less than US$250,000. At the request of the Borrower, IDA would make an initial deposit of that
amount from the proposed Credit upon credit effectiveness and would replenish the SA upon receipt
of satisfactory proof of incurred eligible expendiures. Replenishment requests would be accompanied
by up-to-date bank statements and reconciliations of the SA. Given the availability of the special
Account, the minimum application for direct payments, reimbursement or requests for special
commitments would normally be for the equivalent of US$20,000 equivalent. The amov ss to be
financed by IDA under each category are shown below.



32
Tablg3                Allocaion and Disbursement of the IDA Credit
(IJS$ million)
Category of expenditure            Proposed IDA            % of Expenditure
Allgoaign          Financed by IQDA
1. Civil Works                               4.3                     100%
2. Goods                                      4.0                    100%
3. Pharmaceuticals                            2.9                    100%
4. Consultants" services                      2.4                    100%
5. Training and training miaterial            1.0                    100%
6. Incremental Operating Costs                1.9                    100%
7. Unallocated                                Z&                         -
Total                                        18.5
* Except pharmaceuticals and training material
F.    Accounting, Auditing and Reporting
4.20         The PCT would be responsible for the financial management of the project and would
maintain, with the assistance of a private accountant, consolidated project accounts in accordance with
International Accounting Standards (lASs). Project accounts, including the SA, would be audited
annually in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (ISAs) by auditors acceptable to
IDA. The project accounting system should be capable of producing, on a timely basis, information
used by management to plan, evaluate and control within the project use of, and accountability for,
its resources. This should include the regular production of financing situations for all loans and
credits, showing funds utilized, committed and available by category of expenditure and project
component, in the currency of the respective agreement. It should also include information to enable
management to compare and control costs with appraisal estimates. SOEs would be accepted as basis
of disbursements only if the intenal control and accounting system and auditing arrangements are
satisfactory. If the absence of auditors absolutely precludes this practice, then disbursements under
SOEs would be audited semiannually. The annual audit report would be submitted to IDA within six
months of the end of each fiscal year; the semi-annual audit reports would be submitted to IDA
within three months of each period; the Government would submit a short-list of independent
auditors, including the related draft contract and terms of reference. The Government gave
assurances during negotiations that it would submit to IDA audit reports of reasonable scope and
details within: (a) six months of the end of each fiscal year in the case of the annual audit report; (b)
and three months of the end of each semester in the case of the SOEs. The appointment of an
independent auditor under a multi-year contact acceptable to IDA would be a condition of credit
effectiveness. The auditor should be appointed under an 'open' contract and his mandate re-
confirmed each year. Project management should be encouraged to prepare the financial statements
for audit as early as possible in each year so as to advance the date of the audit and permit early re-
confirmation of the auditor in time for him to carry out the interim audit of the current year. As a
condition of L Atveness the accounting and financial management system will be operational. The
system will have been developed with the help of an internationally recognized accounting firm.



33
V. FPO.ECT BEINEl i- ANI  IS
A.    Benefits
5.1          By the end of the project, the increased efficiency of the health system would result
in increased access to and improved quality of health, nutrition, and FP services, even within the
framework of existing limited sectoral resources. For the regions of Gudra and Tandjile, the project
will intervene direcdy to extend the capacity of the health care system, and proposed activities would
directly benefit about 750,000 people (more than 12% of the population), mosdy women and
children, who would gain access to basic services. Increased availability of low-cost essential drugs,
together with intensive retraining of health personnel is expected to enhance the quality of health ser-
vices throughout the country. Sector-wide restructuring measures will also help establish a basis for
a more responsive administration and for a more efficient and sustainable program. The implementa-
tion of an IEC strategy is expected to increase community participation in its own health
development. The steps taken to improve access to quality MCH/FP services would put in place the
basic infrastructure necessary for attaining the increase in family planning service delivery required
to implement the Government's planned populatior. program. This program, to be supported through
the proposed IDA-funded Population and AIDS Control Project, is expected to contribute to
increasing the contraceptive prevalence rate from the present I % to 10% in the year 2000.
B.    Risks
5.2          There are three main risks:  Eimr  the implementing capacity of the central
Government is weak. TMis risk would be minimized by: (a) up-front implementation of key policy
reforms such as personnel redeployment; (0) relying heavily on stakeholder commitment through local
management and community participation; and (c) obtaining assistance from UNICEF, WHO, and
ATETIP in the implementation of the project. Secon, the Government's chronic financial constraints
may affect counterpart funding, as well as salary payments. This risk would be mitigated through:
(a) annual discussions of project and sector performance, budgetary allocations, and Public
Expenditures Reviews; (b) redeployment of existing health personnel to staff new infrastructures
created through this and other donor-financed projects; and (c) gradual introduction of cost recovery
to promote increased cost-sharing by the communities. Ihird, implementation of the national drug
policy focusing on the use of essential and generic drugs may face opposition from the private
pharmaceutical sector. To address this risk, the private sector will be given a place in the new
system, allowing them a profit margin on essential drugs in generic form higher than on specialty
drugs. Also, through EEC, the public will be taught that inexpensive generic drugs are as effective
and safe as expensive brand name drugs.
VI. AGREEMENTS REAC   AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.1          The Government met the conditions of negotiations and furnished the following
documents for discussion and finalization at negotiations:
a.    A draft letter of health sector development policy and an accompanying action plan;
b.    A National Plan for training of health personnel;
c.    A National Redeployment Plan for health personnel;



34
d.    Draft contract agreements between the Govement of Chad and: (i) the WHO for
the technical assistance in training at the central level; (ii) UNICEF for the
management of health activities in the regions of the project; and (iii) the WHO/Gen-
eva for technical assistance to the Division des Pharmacies;
e.    Ministerial decrees (arre&S ministEriel) regarding: (i) the organization and staffing of
the IEC Division; (ii) the amendment to the composition of the Task Force on IEC
f.    A shortlist of internationally-recognized institutions in the field of IEC research; and
a draft contract and terms of reference defining a proposed twinning arrangement
between the MOPH and the institution.
g.    A ministerial decree on cost recovery and one on the bylaws of the 'comitds de
gestion' for the health facilities;
h.    A written commitment of the Government to put at the disposal of the CPA the
buildings occupied now by the PASP and the PHARMAT;
i.    A ministerial decree establishing the list of Essential Drugs;
j.     A ministerial decree fixing the 'droits de visa' of pharmaceutical specialties, and the
right of the Division des Pharmacies to keep the revenues;
k.    A draft document regarding the operational status of the CPA;
1.    CVs and drafts of negotiated contract for the recruitment of procurement specalists
for the preparation of bidding documents for drugs and for other goods;
M.    An implementation plan and a procurement plan;
n.    The confimtion that an agency (such as ATETIP) has been selected for the
management of the construction/rehabilitation component;
o.    A document indicating the choice of construction/rehabilitation sites for the health
centers and district hospitals;
p.    Signed contracts with consulting finns who would be in charge of preparing technical
documents for civil works and equipments;
q.    Letters of invitation regarding: (i) key posts in the PCT-coordinator, adminir,
procurement specialist, accountant; (i) the auditor for the duration of the project; (iii)
installation of the accounting and financial management systems.
6.2          During negotiations, the Government gave assurances that it would:
a.    Maintain a separate budgetary chapter for two categories - drugs and operating cost
(excluding personnel) for each of the 13 health regions (pr6fecures sankares)
through the end of the project (para 3.5);



35
b.    Implement the National Plan of Redeployment of health personnel and the National
Plan for training of health personnel according to the timetable agreed upon during
negotiations (para 3.8);
c.    Operate the Division of IEC with terms of reference (including staffing) acceptable
to IDA (para 3. 11);
d.    Operate the PCT under terms of reference (including staffing) acceptable to IDA and
would not replace any key staff without IDA's prior consent (para 3.14);
e.    Adopt, following consultation with IDA, a three-year Pharmaceutical Plan not later
than January 31, 1996 (para 3.28);
f.    Conduct semi-annual management audits of the CPA as stated in para 3.32;
g.    Ensure that the CPA would occupy, not later than June 30, 1995, the designated
facilities as agreed upon with IDA (para 3.33);
h.    Submit to IDA progress reports on project implementation and outcomes twice a year
(in April and October), using the format developed in the on-going education project;
organize no later than November 30 of each year, starting in 1995, a joint
IDA/Government review of project implementation; Carry out a mid-term review of
project implementation-including financial and technical audits-jointly with IDA, no
later than May 1997 (para 4.6);
i.    Apply the procurement procedures and arrangements agreed upon at negotiations
(para 4.18); and
j.    Submit to IDA annual audit reports of all project accounts within six months of the
end of Government's fiscal year and, semiannual audit reports of the SOEs within
three months after the end of each audit period (para 4.20);
6.3          As a condition of Board presentation, the Government would give IDA a signed
version of the letter of Health Sector Development Policy (para 3.1).
6.4          As conditions of credit effectiveness, the Government would:
a.    Adopt by ministerial decree, a time-bound National Plan for redeployment of health
personnel and a time-bound National Plan for the training of health personnel,
satisfactory to IDA (para 3.8);
b.    Have entered into two agreements with WHO, each in form  and substance
satisfactory to the Association, for carrying out activities in the Training component
tpara 3.9) and the Pharmacy Component (para 3.29);
c.    Establish the PCT, under terms of reference satisfactory to IDA, with the Coordina-
tor and the three senior professionals in post (para 3.14), and the accounting and
financial management system in place (para 4.20);



36
d.    Enter into an agreement with UNICEF and a construction management agency such
as the ATETIP, satisfactory to IDA (paras 3.19 and 3.23);
e.    Establish the CPA with operational procedures, satisfactory to IDA (para 3.30);
f.    Recruit long-term technical assistance for the CPA (para 3.33);
g.    Provide to the CPA sufficient facilities for the start-up phase of its preparation and
adopt a facilities expansion plan for the CPA, each satisfactory to IDA (para 3.33);
h.    Prepare bidding documents satisfactory to IDA, for the procurement of the list of
major civil works and goods agreed upon with IDA (para 4.15); and
i.    Employ an independent auditor under a multi-year contract acceptable to IDA (para
4.20).
6.5          Recommendation. Subject to the above terms and conditions, the proposed project
would be suitable for an IDA credit of US$18.5 million to the Republic of Chad on standard IDA
terms.
amReL4



37
Annex 1-1
Page 1 of 1
REPU8LIC OF CIUO
HEALTH AND SAFE MOTHERHOOD PROJECt
BASIC DATA SEEEET                            sum  RegiaWlncomgrom
'~~~o            -- - -s------------------------_-____
2-30       15-20    recent      Ssh-                 Next
Unit of          7eat       yeR*     etimt.   Sakeran   Lou-          biter
mhasure          age          oe      (We)    Africa    Inr    icm   grow
HUWI RESOURCES
Size growth. structwe of pm3utatii
Total population (wre a 1993)             miliwts              3-33       4.03       6.28       4.f      MM           629
14 and under                            X of pop.            40.8       41.7       41.9                35.3        37.3
tS-64                                                        55.5       54.7       54.5                60.3        57.8
Age dependency ratio                       uilt               0.8       0.83       0.84                0.66        0.72
Percentage in urban areas               X of pop.             8.9         16       29.5                38.7        58.6
Females per 100 males
Urban                                     rsber                            -
Rural                                        I-
Population growth rate                     annul    X            t.8         2        2.5          3        2           2
Urban                                        -                6.1        8.1        5.2        4.9       5.4        3.2
urban/rural growth differential           difference            4.8        7.2        3.8        2.6       5.9        2.4
Projected population 2000                  dIll one                -                 7.42       6.69    3672          769
Stationary population                          "                  -                 27.91           -
oeterminArts of poptation growth
Fertility
Crude birth rate                       per thou.pop.         45.3       44.3       43.7       45.9    29.4         29.5
Contraceptive prevalence             births per woman        6.03       5.93       5.96       6.46      3.72       3.74
Child (0-4) /woman (15-49) ratf0       X of women 15-49                                5-           -      6.2
Urban                                 per 100 women
Rural                                        U
Mortality
Crude death rate                       per thou.pop.         27.6       23.8       18.5        15.6      9.?        8.5
Infant mortality rate             per thou. tive births       183      158.8      124.6      107.3    66.9         49.5
UInder S mortality rate                      U                   -          -     209.8       166.8   166.6         79.5
Life expectancy at birth: overall         years              36.4       40.2         47       S0.6    62.1         65.3
femtle                               38       41.8       49.2       52.4    62.8         67.9
Labor force (15-64)
Total labor force                          millions            1.28        1.5       1.97         198     1413        238
Agriculture                         X of labor force         92.2       86.7
Industry                                     U                2.8          4
Female                                       a               23.2        22.7      21.1       37.6    35.6         32.3
Females per 100 males
Urban                                     number
Rural                                                                                                              40.6
Participation rate: overall            X of labor force        38.4       37.1       34.8         41      49.4       40.6
female                    *               17.5        16.6      14.5         30    34.6         25.6
Educational attairment of labor force
School years completed: overall              years                            -         -
male                   u
NATURAL RESOURCES
Area                                      thou.sq.kmn          1,254      1,284      1,284     23,066   37,780      22.765
Density                                  pop.per sq.bn             3          3         4          21       79          27
Agricultural land                       Z of land area         37.3        37.4      37.5        38.3    38.5         40.9
Agricultural density                     pop.per sq.km             7          8         11         54      206          66
Forests and woodland                      thou.sq.km             149        139       128      6,677    8,944       6.174
Oeforestation rate (net)                   annual 2             .0.7       -0.7       -0.6       -0.4    -0.3         -0.5
Access to safe water                       X of pop.               -         26          -       36.2    67.8
Urban                                        a                   -         43          -       7S.5    64.5         78.2
Rural n                                                                    23                  24.1    79.5         46.9
Rurt1



HOPH NEW ORGANIZATIONAL CHART . CENTRAL LEVEL
CONSEIL NATIONAL SANTE                                    L      TERE
........... ...... ..........
| CABNET
CONSEIl OE CABINET ION
DIRECTION GENERALE
BUREAU OES I                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SECRETARtIAT
NATIONALES                                                                                                          BUREAU OE COOP.
ETUOES
CCMITE DE EIRECTION
I~~~~~~~ 
DI41RECATIO  PAFCTON    NOIRECIONETABLISSENENTSI  DIRECTION DES ACTIVITESJ
SANITAIRES                 SAFNITAtIRES
.2..                                                                       I          .:                          w
CONITE DE DIRECTION           CONITE DE DIRECTION ICOITE DE DIRECTION                                          B CONITE DE DIRECTION
DIVISION PLANIFICATION       DIV. RESSUCES HUAIN.
DIVISION FORM ATION          DIV. RESSCCES FtNA.                              DIVISION fORNATIONS          DIVISION SMI/YEFNUTRITEION                          3Qj
SANI ITAIRES
DIV. RESSOURCES INFRM                                                         DIVISION MALADiES TAANSMISS.
DIVISION LASORTOIRES
DIV. LEGISLATIVE                                                              DIVISION O  LITE DIES SOINS
DIVISION RECHERCHES                                                              p
S10-NEDICALES               DIVISION ASSAINISS. El
HYGIENE DU MILIEU
DIVISION DE PHARIACIE
DIVISION DE MEDECINE SCOLAIRE
UNIVERSITAIRE ET TRAVAIL
PREFECtJRES SANITAIRES



MOPH NEW ORGANIZATIONAI CHART - PREFECTURES LEVEL
CONSEIL PREFECTORAL                                       PREFECTURES SANITAIRES
DE LA SANTE
CONITE DE DIRECTIONj
DIV.PLANIFIC.PROGRAMMATION
CONSEIL DE DISTRICT                    DISTRICTS SANITAIRES                          DISTRICTS SANITAIRES               HOPITAL PREFECTORAL
SAUTE                                                                                                         EO
COMITE DE DIRECTION:]
- DIVISION RESSOURCES/
|PROGRAYVATIONI
CONSEIL SANITAIRE
ZONES DE RESPONSASILITE
.......................
r
CHEFFERIE ZONES DE RESPONSABILPIE                                                                                             TAL DE DISTRICT
ZONES DE          ZONES DE          ZONES DE          ZONES DE
RESPONSABILITE   RESPONSABILITE   RESPONSASILITE   RESPONSA8ILITE
'r,
aq 
o N)
MY
I-



Annex 2-2
Page 1 of 6
40
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
HEALTH AND SAFE MOTHERHOOD PROJECT
THE DISTRICT HEALTH SYSTEM
PYRAMIDE SANITAIRE
ADMINISTRATION ET FORMATIONS SANITAIRES
*
* *
** **
**   **
**     **
**       **
**          **
**            **
**              **
**                *
**     NINISTRE    *
** SECRETAIRE 0'ETAT **
.*                       **
**                         **
DIRECTION
**          GENERALE
IVE                                        **                                **
QIIRL                                      **                                  *
**             DIRECTION              **
**          GENERALE ADJOINTE
**                                        **
a*                                          **
D-*  IRECTIONS                  INSTITUTIONS *
C CENTRALES                          RATIONALES *
_ *                                                **
IVEU                            **                                                      **
INTERWEDIAIRE                   ** DIRECTIONS                                   HOPITAUX **
*  PREFECTORALES                             PREFECTORAUX **
** (14)                                                       **
**                                                                **
**                                                                  **
NIVEW                    ** DIRECTIONS                                                HOPITAUX **
PifIPHERltE              ** DISTRICTS                                                  **
** (46)
**                                                                            **
** RESPONSABLES                                      ZONES DE RESPONSABILITE **
*  ZONES DE RESPONSABILITE                                 (CENTRES SANITAIRES) --
** (633)                                                                            **
ADMINISTRATION                                                                     FORMATIONS
SANITAIRE                                                                        SANITAIRES



41
Annex 2-2
Page 2 of 6
LE PLAN DE COUVERTURE SANITAIRE
1.     Dans le cadre de l'adoption par le MSP/AS du "Scenario en trois phases" de developpement de
ses services sanitaires, il a etd procede a l'elaboration d'un plan de couverture sanitaire. Ce plan a ete
rdalise par une dquipe composee du BSPE et du PERI/BAD. Pendant deux ans, cette equipe s'est
deplacee sur le terrain et a procede, avec les equipes prefectorales de la sante et les autorites
administratives et traditionnelles locales, au decoupage des Prefectures en 46 districts sanitaires. Les
equipes prefectorales ont ensuite procede au decoupage des districts en 633 zones de responsabilitd.
*      Les Prefectures sanitaires. Les 14 prefectures sanitaires du pays reposent Sur les 14 prefectures
administratives du Tchad. Outre l'administration prdfectorale de la sante et des affaires sociales,
chaque Prefecture doit posseder un hopital prefectoral de reference et un Centre Social.
*      Le niveau peripherique est compose de Districts et de Zones de responsabilite.
*      Le district regroupe une population comprise entre 100.000 et 250.000 habitants. Son aire
geographique correspond generalement a la sous-prefecture administrative. Le district comprend
les locaux administratifs du district, I'hopital de district, et dans certains cas, un centre social ou
un jardin d'enfants.
*      La zone de responsabilite regroupe une population d'environ 10.000 habitants.  Son aire
gEographique correspond a un rayon de 10 km ou de deux heures de marche (sauf dans leg
rEgions a faible densite de population). Cette zone doit etre equipde d'un centre sanitaire. Les
details de ce plan de couverture peuvent Wtre consultes pour chacune des zones et les
renseignements ont ,te reportes sur des cartes geographiques pour l1ensemble du pays. Le
tableau suivant en e nne la synthese:
Infrastructures sanitaires - Niveaux intermddiaire et pfriph6rique
A CONSTRUIRE       A REHABILITER          TOTAL
Directions prdfectorales                   6                  8                   14
HMpitaux prefectoraux                      1                  12                  13
Centres sociaux                            37                 15                  52
Jardins d'enfants                          16                 8                   24
Directions de district                     26                 10                  46
Hopitaux de district                       10                 24                  34
Centres sanitaires                        279                 174                453
Ensetnble                                 375                 251                626
Afin d'atteindre la realisation complete de ce plan de couverture sanitaire, des prioritds sont dtablies pour:
rendre operationnels des districts sanitaires ainsi que les directions prefectorales;
donner la priorite a la rEhabilitation des structures existantes avant d'en construire de nouvelles.



42
Annex 2-2
Page 3 of 6
Afin de realiser ce plan au niveau intermediaire et peripherique, il faut donner au niveau central les
moyens de coordonner la mise en application de ce plan: cellule d'appui aux constructions et
rehabilitation, et service de maintenance des equipements.
LE PLAN D'EFFECTIFS
2.    Le plan d'effectifs permet de chiffrer les besoins en personnels au bon fonctionnement des
structures de santd prevues dans le plan de couverture sanitaire. L'approche qui a ete adopt6e est
normative: elle s'appuie sur les tAches et activites menees par chacune de ces structures. Le tableau
suivant donne les besoins optimaux pour chacune des structures.
j                                  |  Par entite geographique     Ensemble du pays
|       NIVEAU CENTRAL             1                                    120 personnels
NIVEAU ENTERMEDAIRE
(14 Prefectures)
- Direction prefectorale                       19 personnels            266 personnels
- H6pital prefectoral                          50 personnels            700 personnels
- Centres sociaux et jardins d'enfants  comptabilises au niveau
district
- Total                                                                 966 personnels
NIVEAU PERIPHERIQUE
District
- Direction du district                         7 personnels            322 personnels
- H6pital du district                          22 personnels          1 012 personnels
- Centre social                                 8 personnels            368 personnels
- Jardin d'enfants                              6 personnels            276 personnels
Sous-total                                    43 personnels          1 978 personnels
Zone de responsabilite
- Centre sanitaire                              4 personnels          2 532 personnels
-Total                                                                4 510 personels
I TOTAL                                                                5.596 personnels
LES ACIIVIIES AU NIVEAU PERIPHERIQUE
3.    L'adoption des soins de sant6 primaires et son execution par les districts sanitaires, mais aussi
la prise en compte des ressources limitdes qui pouvaient Wre mobilises I cet efet (faibles ressources
financieres, faible qualifications des personnels de sant6), ont conduit le Tchad I definir les activitds
minimales qui devraient Wtre mises en oeuvre au niveau des services de sant du district sanitire. Le



43
Annex 2-2
Page 4 of 6
district sanitaire est compose de deux echelons complementaires qui doivent chacun garder leurs
speciftcites pour constituer les deux premiers echelons du systeme de r0fdrence. Pour ce faire, il fallait
definir les activites qui doivent Otre realisees A chacun de ces Echelons.
-      Le Paquet Minimum d'Activit_s (PMA) definit les activites des Centres sanitaires presents
dans les zones de responsabilite;
-      Le Paquet Complementaire d'Activites (PCA) definit les activites des H6pitaux de
districts.
A. LE PAQUEr MINIMUM D'ACTIVITTs
4.     Le PMA est l'ensemble des activites curatives etprAventives offertes a une population definie dans
des conditions telles que chaque activite, dotee d'une efficacite satisfaisante, est delivree a un individu
qui en a besoin A un moment approprie. 11 est un ensemble standard d'activites attendu dans tous les
Centres sanitaires du pays. lt suppose des soins globaux, contniws et inz6grgs. 11 s'agit du PMA du
Centre Sanitaire, c'est-adire:
-      il comprend a la fois des activites sanitaires et des activites sociales;
-      il est execute par des personnels sanitaires et des personnels sociaux;
Si le PMA est bien developpe au niveau du Centre sanitaire, il doit resoudre 90% des problimes
de sante des populations. II ne s'adresse pas seulement aux personnes malades qui se pr6sentent I la
consultation, mais a l'ensemble de la population.
5.     Le PMA comprend les activitds suivantes:
*      Consultation curative primaire
*      Depistage des pathologies sociales
*      Consultation des enfants sains de 0-4 ans, y compris:
-      Vaccinations
-      Depistages des malnutris
*      Prise en charge des femmes enceintes et en Age de procreer, soit:
-      Consultations prenatales
Accouchements TMnormaux"
-      Bien-tre familial
*      Prise en charge des malades chroniques, malmntris, tuberculeux et lEpreux
*      Education sanitaire intgree aux autres activites et communication avec les populations



44
Annex 2-2
Page 5 of 6
Activites de d6veloppement communautaire
SystQme de reference/contre reference pour lea malades ne pouvant pas 8tre pris en
charge au ler echelon.
6.    n s'agit des activit6s mlnimales dans la mesure oli un centre sanitaire assure completement ces
activites, U peut en inclure de nouvelles s'il y a les capacites (par exemple, activites de laboratoire).
B. LE PAQUEr COMIPLg MNAIRE D'AcrTIVIS
7.    Le Paquet Compldmentaire des H6pitaux de District. Le PCA de Hopitaux de District est
1'ensemble des activitEs devant Wtre offertes par les services du 2eme echelon, k savoir l'H6pital de
District. Ces activit6s sont complementaires a celles du ler echelon qui ne peut pas les offrir pour des
raisons d'ordre technique et economique. L'H8pital de District regoit les malades referes par les Centres
sanitaires. II ne doit par consequent plus exercer les fonctions des services de la zone de responsabilite
oti il est implante. 11 est prevu qu'il regoive entre 7% et 10% des consultations curatives du ler echelon.
8.    Le Paquet Complementaires d'Activites des H6pitaux de District se compose de:
3     Prise en charge des urgences mEdico-chirurgicales
*     Prise en charge des accouchements compliques
*     Hospitalisation
*     Fonction diagnostic de laboratoire
*     Fonction diagnostic de radiologie
*     Consultation de reference.
9.    Ce n'est que dans un tres petit nombre de cas que les malades doivent Ote rds i I'H6pital
prefectoral. Le Paouet Complementaire des Activites des Centres Sociaux. L'analyse des activirEs
actuelles des Centres Sociaux fait ressortir que les activitds purement sociales ne representent que 47%
alors que les activitds medicales representent 53% des activites. Or l'esprit du nouveau modele de
fonctionnement et d'organisation du Minist're de la Sante Publique et des Affaires Sociales veut que les
fonctions et/ou les activitds de m0me nature soient int6grees dans une meme strucure sanitaire. Cela
implique que les Centres Sociaux vont progressivement se dessaisir des activitds de santd et dEvelopper
les activites purement sociales.
10.   Le Paquet d'ActivitEs des Centres Soclaux se compose de:
DeEveloppement communautaire
Promotion famuliale
*     AAlphWaS isation



45
Page 6 of 6
*      Enseignement mdnager
*      Protection familiale et rbglement des conflits conjugaux
RAinsertion sociale de:
*      Personmes handicapdes
*     Jeunes ddlinquants
*      Alcooliques
*      Personnes du 3eme Age abandonnes
Reference des Centres Sanitaires et des HOpitaux de District



46
Page I of 10
REPUBLIC OF CPAD
HEALTH AND SAFE MOTHERHOOD PROJECT
LEITER OF SECTOR DEVELOPMENT POLICY
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
Ministry of Planning and Cooperadon
Division Chief,
Population and Human Resources Operations,
Sahelian Devartment
The World Bank,
Washington, D.C.
Public Health Policy Saement
1.    The objective of this Statement is to describe the Governmen of Chad's health policy; its
plans, projects, and development saegies for the health sector.
I.  CQNTI
2.    the Transition Charter of the Republic of Chad, product of the National Sovereign
Conference held in January 1993, guartees the right to good health.
3.    Tne Government's health policy adheres to the broad principles advocated by the World
Health Or,anization, of which Chad is a member, and is consistent with the country's
socioeconomic and cultural realities. It is based on the principle of universality which recognizes
health to be a fundamental right of every Chadian and on the precept that health programs are
instances of social action arising from the united efforts of the cental government, the local
government, and the individual.
4.    The state of public health in Chad continues to be characteized by:
persistan high morbidity and mortality rates, especially of pregnant women and
infants; and
-     a high incidence of infectious, parasitic, and nutritional diseases.
5.    These conditions are exacerbated by:
poor health coverage;
lack of equipment In health care facilities;
lack of medicines and medical supplies;
lack of management skills with regard to human resources, supplies, and finances;
inadequate integration of activities;



47
Annex 2-3
Page 2 of 10
cutbacks in public health expenditure; and
-     insufficient, unqualified, unmotivated, and geographically unbalanced staff.
II. FOCUS
6.    Chad's National Development Plan (plan d'orientation) states that its top priority is to
ensure the development of the population towards an adaptation to the cultural, social, economic,
and technological changes the country will inevitably face. Tbis is an absolute prerequisite for
development.
7.    Health, like the Social Services, is an essential contributing factor to the welfare of the
nation. Therefore, priority is placed on preventing pain and suffering. The role of public
agencies in resolving health problems is a major one in a country where the majority of the
population has no means of access to private services (themselves still under development). The
welfare of the people also depends on preventive family health care. Accordingly, this policy
aims at providing the population with the means of living in a healthy environment: with clean
water, sanitation, and control of the main vectors of disease and epidemics.
8.    Where development is concerned, health is sine qua non. Social sectors such as education
and health must be considered as factors of development and be allocated the necessary resources.
9.    Good health is one way to ensure balanced and harmonious development in Chad. An
equitable distribution of health services can help create a balance between urban and rural areas
by providing rural communities with necessary health services, thus enabling them to remain in
their villages and be gainfully employed there, instead of swelling the ranks of the urban
disadvantaged.
10.   The policy herein described focusses on resolving a twofold problem: the present health
level of the Chadian population is very low, and access to public health services, which are of
poor quality, is very limited.
11.   Implementing this policy priority comes down to establishing and developing public health
districts in which first-level public health centers deliver a minimum package of health care
services (vaquet minimum d'act1vltis-MPA), and district hospitals deliver a complementary
package (vaquet complbnentaire d'acdvltds-PCA) of health care services.
IM. HALTH OlIJY BEClMl
12.   The key objective of Chad's health policy is to provide the population with quality basic
health services, as espoused by the WHO goal of Health-for-All as soon as possible.
13.   The accomplishment of this objective will depend on the implementation of the following
intermediate programs:
(a)    Maternal and child health measures and blmunzation agains major iWfeatous
diseases
to reduce the infant mortality rate from 180 to 120 per thousand;
to increase the detection of risk-prone pregnancies;



46
Annex 2-3
Page 3 of 10
to reduce the maternal mortality rate;
to increase vaccination coverage to 60% per annum by the year 2000 and
80% by the year 2005;
to use oral rehydration therapy (ORT) to treat 90% of all diarrhea cases.
(b)    Nutrition promotion measures
-     to reduce the number of infants with a birth weight of less than 2.5 kg;
-     to increase growth monitoring of infants up to age 5 and treaunent of
malnutrition cases.
(c)    Availability of essential drugs
-     to ensure that essential drugs are available in all public health facilities on
a not-for-profit basis.
(d)    aean water and sanitation
-     to provide 50% of the population with clean water by the year 2005 and
70% by the year 2015;
-     to increase the number of households and public facilities (schools,
dispensaries) equipped with latrines.
(e)    Prevention and control of local endemic diseases
to reduce mortality and morbidity from malaria, leprosy, tuberculosis,
onchocerciasis, trypanosomiasis, dracontiasis, SlDs/AIDS.
(f)    Family well-being
-     to increase the contraceptive prevalence rate from 1% to 10% by the year
2000 and to 30% by the year 2015.
IV.  NATIONAL HEALTH DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY
14.   Chad's health development strategy is based on the concept of primary health care
adopted by the Alma-Ata World Conference in 1978.
15.   In order to accelerate the establishment of primary health care, a five-part strategy has
been instituted-
(a)    Development of the three-tier health system proposed by WHO was adopted by Chad in
1988 (to be developed in three phases). Ibis system moves the concept of the health pyramid
from a hierarchical and administrative one to a multi-level one, differeniating between
operational, support, and directional levels. The health district constites the operational level
and is responsible for putting policies into effect. The regional level, where national policies are
adapted to the regions, suppors the districts in technical matters. The central level (responsible



'49
Annex 2-3
Page 4 of 10
for policy formulation, monitoring, and evaluation) makes decisions regarding investments and
functions of the sector. It prescribes standards based on principles of effectiveness, efficiency,
equity, and workability. And finally, it endeavors to mobilize fiscal revenue at home and
resources from donors abroad for the financing of quality health care, accessible to all.
(b)    The second part of the strategy involves the introduction of a public health coverage plan
for the entire country based on norms derived from a selected model concerning drugs and
financing, and on the analysis of existing resources. Non-public entities (NGOs, denominational
groups, cooperatives) play a crucial part in the coverage plan and have the same responsibility as
the departments of the Ministry of Public Health.
(c)    Where pharmaceutical goods are concerned, Chad has adopted an essential drugs policy
and has produced a national list of pharmaceutical products. Accessibility to such essential
products depends on a series of measures including reform of the Pharmaceutical Supplies
Authority (a public-sector entity), reorganization of the supply system, and cost recovery of
drugs.
(d)    Community participation in the management of the system is to be strengthened so that
individuals, households, and communities will take responsibility for their own health. Despite
their limited purchasing power, communities can contribute gready to the survival of their
children and reduce the incidence of disease. To further ensure accessibility to health care and to
information on health improvement, beneficiaries will be associated with the administration of
health services at the operational level (district and service zones).
(e)    The final part of the strategy is based on a new mode of operation for the national health
system characterized by decentralization in planning, accountability, participation, and integration.
This strategy has been prepared in collaboration with the country's partners-in-
development, who are committed to supporting it.
Implementation of the National Health Development Strategy
16.   In order to improve the health status of the population in general and the maternal and
infant population in particular, the Government's future strategy is to: (i) improve access to health
services, i.e. increase care delivery coverage and utilization rates; (ii) improve the quality of
health services; and (iii) enhance the development of health districts through rational and efficient
use of resources (staff, medicines, funding, etc.); and (iv) through an ongoing
information/education/comrmunications campaign, organize and elicit community participation in
the financing of the health sector.
17.   Improving accessibility: In order to increase coverage and utiization of health care
services, the Government will emphasize the development of health districts through a process of
decentralized planning, organization, and management centered around the following principles:
(a)    The administratve delineation of the country has already been accomplished: the
regions have been divided into 46 health districts, and those health districts have
been divided into 633 service zones (zones de responsabiIk), according to the
concentration of population in the respective areas.



30
Annex 2-3
Page 5 of 10
(b)    Specialization at each level of the system between first-level facilities and the
district hospital to which those facilities refer users.
(c)    Rehabilitation or construction of a simply-built, first-level health center (with
maternity ward) in each service zone, and a second-level facility (the district
hospital) affording a wider range of technical capabilities (emergency, radiology,
laboratory, matemity, in-patient, referral consultation).
(d)    Organization of community participation in the management of the health centers
through: (i) the creation of health committees; and (ii) the use of an
information/education/communication campaign focused on community
participation.
18.   Improved quality: The Government has defined "packages' of health care services to be
provided at each level of the system, for both basic and referral care. Particular attention will be
given to training and supervision of staff and to ensuring availability of essential drugs at
affordable prices throughout the nation.
19.   Management: The health committees will be responsible for, and ensure the management
of, the health facilities. These commitees will guarantee basic health care for the target
communities, provided the communities agree to share some of the responsibility for meeting the
operating costs of their health centers.
20.   Finacing: In addition to the community's participation, the Government's strategy in this
arena is aimed at (i) reorganizing the funding of the public health sector so that maximum
advantage is taken of all possible economies; and (ii) increasing available funding in general.
21.   Community participatiou in health costs: The Government will ensure that the costs of
community participation will not hinder its access to health care or interfere with the development
of health services. The health policy framework, plans, and strategies, designed to this end, shall
focus on the mobilization of external resources. Efficient use of such resources depends on their
being coordinated with those of the government and the community. Coordination of external aid
will therefore be the subject of joint annual consultations between the Government and donors.
22.   Government funding of health care: It is recognized that budget expenditure on health
ought to increase by 10% annually. Given Chad's annual population growth rate of 2.3%, this is
equivalent to an increase in real terms of 7.7% per annum -    an ambitious goal, since health
expenditure would have to rise from 4.2% of the budget to 10.4% within ten years. These
figures give the full measure of the test: the Government alone, however great an effort is made,
will not be in a position to guarantee health for all by the year 2000.
23.   External aid with health expenditure: Despite a substantial effort in the health sector,
then, Chad will be unable to meet even the most basic health needs of its population by the end of
the decade if it has to do so alone. Thus the Public Investment Program is based on the
assumption that external aid should not only continue but be expanded, also at an annual.rate of
10%. The Government, fiuly cognizant of its financial weakness, recognizes that it must rely on
external donors to meet a substantial proportion of its health system funding needs -    not that



51
Annex 2-
Page 6 of 10
donors should be regarded as replacing the Government temporarily, but rather as providing a
necessary supplement to enable the population to reach an acceptable health status.
24.   Personnel: Th.e implementation of both the training and redeployment plans are of top
priority to the Government. A program to place personnel in health centers, based on these
plans, will be carried out according to a carefully scheduled calendar.
25.   Pharmaceuticia: To ensure the availability of essential and usable drugs in the health
centers, the Government has begun the process of setting up a central agency to purchase essential
and generic medicines. The agency will be autonomous and not-for-profit. The process includes:
(a)   the adoption of statutory instruments embodying the articles of incorporation of
the central purchasing agency and the list of essential medicines, which are to be
exempt from Customs duties and charges;
(b)   the establishment of official arrangements for monitoring the quality of essential
medicines and inspecting pharmacies.
26.   Health sector assets: The health infrastructure strategy emphasizes extension of health
care coverage through, on one hand, the rational development of health centers based on the
subdivision of the country into health districts and service zones and, on the other, the integration
of treatment and prevention activities and the formulation of building/equipment standards and
staffing norms.
27.   Private health sector: Convinced that health care coverage and the efficacy and quality of
health services can be increased by opening the public health field to private enterprise, the
Government has taken steps to promote development of the private secor. It has endowed Non
Governmental Organizations (NGOs) with the responsibility of coordinating the health activities in
certain districts, and is encouraging the creation of private health centers.
28.   Family well-being: Although several ministries intervene in this arena, the Ministry of
Public Health is responsible for family welfare matters. Here, the Government's strategy is to
pursue an integrated development of family planning services, family welfare activities, and
promotion of women's affairs, through:
-     formulation and implementation of a full-scale policy on women's development;
-     information campaigns to create awareness and changes of attitude that will lead to
improved conditions for women.
CONCLUSION
29.   This health strategy is presented in fill in the Health Development Plan (January 1993)
and certain elements of it have already been implemented. Full implementation of its measures
can be expected to enable the health sector to obtain a higher yield from its services and to
achieve the major objective of the Government's health policy as soon as possible.



32
Annex 2-3
Page 7 of 10
30.   The health policy set out in this Statement can be expected to lead to such specific results
as a general renewal of confidence in the country's health services, mobilization of the population,
general participation in operation of the health care delivery system, an improved availability of
essential drugs, increased utilization of health and family welfare services, and broader public
health service coverage.
31.   The Government's health strategy is part of a long-term health develop- ment process. It
will provide a frame of reference for all domestic and external interventions whose aim is
achievement of the ultimate objective of health for all.
GIVEN in NDJAMENA on the ..... day of ..., 19
For the GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF CHAD
Ibni Oumar Mahamat Saleh
Minister of Planning and Cooperation



QUANTIFIED MONITORING; INDICATORS
QUANTIFIEI) IND)ICATORS PER YEAR
Objetive             Itndiatos                1995                            ,9
1. Strengthen capability at Central level to
support regional health services through:
(a) inproving        PFnctional and con-    Budgdary nomencla-    Regional health       Regional and      Regional and       Regional and
budgetary process at    solidated presentation  tur revised; proce-  budget presented   central heakh     central health    central healh
central and regional  of Govenment bud-   durs of budgeary        according to the new   budgets prsented    budgets presented   budgds presented
level                 get as descibed in    follow"up to the regions   nomenclature     according to the  according to the    according to the
the Implentation     established; Staff from                     new nomencature   new nomenclature  new nomenclature
Manual               the MOP nd MOPH                                                country).
wsined.
(b) developing skls.    Number and dute of   20 peron trined in    Testing of moduls    Modus rvised
upgrading modules for   seminan held; num-   modules deveopment;   achieved;           folowing
regional and district  ber of paticipants in                      trainer from ENASS    evaluation
heath personnel      tJe seminan; Train-   20 modules developed;   sent on training;
ing material                                20 regional trainers
developed;                                  trained in utilization
of modules
(c) developing and    Studies completed;   Contractual for the     Results of KAP tudy   One qualitative  One qualitative   One qualiative
implemaeting a                             ICAP study recruited;  available;            study complted    study compteed    study competed
nationwide IEC        technical asistants    one person in LT     one person in LT                                                                     U'
program               recmited;            training;              training;             Three persons in    Three perons in   Three perons in   
two qualitative studies                     trining (shoa-    training (short-    training (short4erm
traning achieved;    completed              Two qualitative      term outside      term outside       outside country).
studies completed.   coury).
appite EC            VNU reuiited
material produced.
Thre penm in           Three persons in
training (sbortterm    taining (short4Irm
outide country).       outside country)_
(d) reinforing       Annual program of    Annual program of       Annual program of    Annual program of  Annual program    Annual program of
Govermen's capacity  action; Semi-annual    action; Semi-annual and   action; Semi-nnal    action;         of action; Semi-   action; Semi-annual
to plan, coordinate,  and annual; audit    annual audit reports st-  and annual audit   Semi-annul and     annual and annual  and annual audit     s 3
and inplement donors'  reports satisfatory    isfactory; Pogress   repots satisfactory;    annual audit   audit reports     reponts satisfactory;  o
finanoed projects.    Pgress reports;      repors; Annual review    Progress repors;    rpor               satisfactory;     Progress repots; 
Annual teview        meeing rports; Audit    Annual review       satisfatory;       Progrss reports;   Annual review
meetings-reports;    reports.               meeting reports;     Progress repors;    Annual review    meetings-reponts;     o
Audi reports.                               Audit reports.       Annual rview       mcetings-reports;   Audit reports.
mecdng reports;   Atudit rports. 
Audkt reports.



ObjectIves     I      Indicnanor               1995                   1996                1997               1996               1999
2. Provide assastance for Health, Nutritional
and FP Services h the Regions of Gudra and
TandjiM by:
(a) estabhng a         piee of one          Ahtctl studis for  Half the                  Al oonstucion-
netwok of district     hea  cenler per one   health inftastut       constuctionlrbabilk   rehabiliation
heallh fiiies;         IFIsmilyn            compleod;               ation psrm           program  omplised
and one hospta per                           coompld               nd all
dbUK,                                                             inf are
AN completd          saffed.
Halh facilis                                 infrastruf are
affd accding to                             fully  d
peronnd noms.
(b)implemen sdillss   Wo*rwp by district
upgading programs      and by peromel
for distict health     calgpo;
pesonne                Number of people in
each ciica
worhhop;
Number of people in
training.                                                                                                                            4'
(c) premoting          Availability of dmgs;  Order of dgs reeived   Drugs available in at   Drugs available in   Drugs available in   Dmgs available in
comm-nW                                                             health infinstucur.   all health        all healfth        all health
paicipatin in local    Pr oete of centers   Treant schedules                               *astructe.       i       .          infanstute
healh services         supevised at let     prepared                One supervision per
Planning,              once during the                              month for exing      Treatment          Treatment          Tremnt
iniplementaton, and    pmvius month.        50% of staff in place.    health ceners.     schedules          schedules          scebduls available.
monioing                                                                                 avilabbe.          availabl.
Avaiabiliy of                                Teamt sceodules                                            100% of staff in
treatm    schedules                          available.           70% of staff in    80% of staff in    plac.
for spcifi diseaes.                                               place.             place.
60% of doff in plce.                                       100% of HC have a
Staff peece.                                                      40% of heath       60% HC have a    managamnt 
All diri hospo       oaters bve a       maootomuninee.                                x
manaeento                                    have a an_agmet    ma_nagent            committee                                     .
I commitee in pce.  _                        commitwt              ommittee.
0



_           .      ' 5                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Annex 2-3
01 | L ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Page 10 of 10
I   I                        _
tS~~~~~~~ a
a 1.  1iIii    1
tS~~Ljp



56
ANNEX 3-1
Page 1 of 13
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
HEALTH AND SAFE MOTHERHOOD PROJECT
PROGRAMME DE CONSTRUCTION Er DE REHABILrlATION
1.    Le projet prevoit dans les deux r6gions du projet (Tandjile et Guera) un programme
de construction et de rehabilitation qui vise a completer les programmes d6ji en cours ou
acquis sur d'autres sources de financement. Le programme comporte la rehabilitation de
trois h6pitaux de district (Kelo, Lai et Melfi), et la construction de celui de Bitkine, ainsi que
leurs infrastructures administratives et le logement des medecins chefs. Concernant les CSS,
le programme intervient sur 58 zones de responsabilite, comportant la rehabilitation de 14
CSS et la construction de 44, dont 8 CSS du secteur priv6 dans le district de Bere pour
pallier le deficit actuel en CSS -- voir le tableau intituld programme des infrastructures
sanitaires.
2.    Les normes des locaux et des equipements repondant au paquet minimum de soins ont
ete elaborees en concertation avec les divers acteurs - spdcialistes de sant6 publique du
ministere, bailleurs de fonds operant au Tchad et membres de la mission d'evaluation de la
Banque mondiale. Ceux qui ont participe a cet exercice ont manifest6 d'ailleurs leur int6ret
A voir ces normes connaitre une large diffusion au Tchad. Ces normes sont assez analogues
A celles recemment definies pour des projets similaires dans la sous-region - notamment au
Mali et au Senegal.
3.    L'estimation de ce programme est basee sur les normes ainsi d6finies, ainsi que sur
des coets constates dans de recents r6sultats d'appel d'offres pour des realisations de nature
similaire au Tchad ou dans la sous-region.
4.    Le calendrier des actions a ete etabli en tenant compte que la selection des bureaux
d'etudes et la preparation d'un contrat de delegation de maltrise d'ouvrage I passer avec un
Agence d'execution chargee de la gestion des contrats (du type ATETIP) seront suffisamment
avances au moment des negociations pour permettre de disposer de dossiers d'appels d'offres
avant la mise en vigueur du credit.
5.    Les tableaux ci-dessous donnent les details necessaires pour la rdaLisation des etudes
et la mise en oeuvre du projet. Ces tableaux comprennent:
(a)   Les normes
(b)   Le programme de construction
(c)   La liste des equipements
(d)   Liste des infrastructures par district



ANNEX 3-1
Page 2 of 13
CHAD - PROGRAMME INFRASTRUCTURES SAUITAIRES (NORMES)
TYPE D'INFRASTRUCTURES:  CENTRE SOCIO-SANITAIRE TYPE 1 (ZONES RURALES) SURFACES ET UTILISATION DES LOCAUX
PROGRAMME ARCHITECTURAL
125      280
ACTIVITES                   PERSONNEL                                                            LOCAUX
...........................    .......................................... ...... .......... _................................... .. ....... .......... _.............   ... ...  _  ............................................... .. __ .....
SURFACES NETTES                 SURFACES  COUTS BASE N'DJAMENA
CAPACITE       NOUBRE              TYPE           NOMBRE    12;/PLACE   2/UNITE   TOTAL       BRUTE           EN
DESCRIPTION            PROFESSIONNELLE  PERSONNEL             LOCAL            UNITE         142            le2          12       FCFA X1000    USS
............ .... ........   ...............  ................................. ..........................  ........................................... _....... ...................... .......... ...............................___...._.._
ACTIVITES NIINIMALES (A)
...........................
CONSULTATION CURATIVE                  IDE               I  SALLE DE CONSULTATION            1          16        16        16          20         2,500   58,929
D&PISTAGE/PROVENTIF            INFIRIIER DIPLOME
CONSULTATIONS 0-4 ANS               O'ETAT
CONSULTATIONS PRtENATALES
EDUCAtION SOCJO-SAITAIRE
CONSEILS
SOINS/PANSEMENTS                       IA                 1  SALLE DE SOINS                  1           6         6         6           8           938   53,348
REHYDRATATION (ISOLEHENT)           IINFIRIIIER              COIN ISOLENENT                  1           4         4         4           5           625   $2:232
VACCINATION/PIQORES               AUXILIAIRE                 SALLE VACCINATION PICU          1           6         6         6           8           938   $3,348
CONSERVATION VACCINS (FRIG. PETROLE                          EMPLACENENT ISOLE               1           4         4         4           5           625   52,232
AVEC VARIANTE SOLAIRE)
ACCOUCHENEWTS/REPOS ;                                        SALLE ACCOWCHEIEENT             1          12        12        12          15         1,875   56,696
DEP6r PHARNACIE                (CONITt GEStION)           -  OVWPt PAIMACEUT14UE             I           -         8         8          tO         1,250   54,464
+ GUICHET                               '                 -  GUICHET                         1           -         4         4           5           625   S2,232
ATTENTE                                 -                 -  VERANDA                         1           -        18        18          23         2.813  510,045
RESERVE PETIT NATERIEL         PERSONNEL ENTRETIEN          I  NAGASIN                       1           -         4         4           5           625   52,232
SANITAIRES                              n                 -  LATRINE/DOUCHE                  1           -         4         4           5           625   S2,232
(TRADITIONNELS AVEC FOSSE VENTILEE)               .... ----                                      .........           ....... -              .....................
3                                 11          29                  86         108        13,438  547,991
..........----s.:.s=.-=a ............. =======                                                   =========e=
NOTE:  LOGEIENT INFIRMIER (COPORTANT DEUX PIECES) a 32 1H2 SOIT                                            LOGENENT INFIRNIER:                     4,000  t14,286



ANNEX 3-1
Page 3 of 13
CHAD - PROGRAJNE INFRASTRUCTURES SANITAIRES
TYPE D'INFRASTRUCTURES:   CENTRE SOCIO-SANITAIRE TYPE 2 (ZONES URBAINES)
ACTIVITES                 PERSONNEL                                                       LOCAUX
..,., ........................  ..................... ........................................ .....  ........ ,............ ....................... .................... ............................... .... _.......... .
SURFACES NETTES              SURFACES  COUTS BASE M'DJANENA
CAPACITE      NOMBRE            TYPE          NOY8RE    N./PLACE           ../UNITE   TOTAL  BRUTE   EN        EN
DESCRIPTION          PROFESSIONNELLf PERSONNEL          LOCAL           UNITE       M2       le       H'         No      FCFA XIODO    USS
_,........................... .....................................................  ............................. ............................................... .......... ........................... ...... .......... ... .................
ACTIVITES ELARGIES (B)
...........................
CONSULTATION CURATIVE               IDE              I SALLE DE CONSULTATION          1 (A      16       16       16         20        2,500   $8,929
OtPISTAGE/PREVENTIF          INFIRMIER DIPLNE-
CONSULTATIONS 0-4 ANS            D'ETAT
EDUCATION SOCIO SANITAIRE
CONSULTATIONS PRiNATALES
CONSEILS
ACTIVITES PREVENTIVES PROGRAMNE    '                - SALLE POLtYVALENTE             1          -       12       12         15         1,875   $6,696
SOINS/PANSEMENTS                    IA               I SALLE DE SOINS                1          6        6        6          8          938   $3,348
RtHYDRATATION (ISOLEMEHT)        INFIRNIER              COIN ISOLEMENT               1          -        4        4          5          625  52,232
VACCINATIONS/PIQORES           AUXILIAIRE               SALLE VACCINATION            I          -        6        6          8          938   $3,348
CONSERVATION VACCINS                                    EMPLACENENT ISOLE            I          -        4        4          5          625   52,232
DtPOT PHARNACIE             (COHITE GESTION)         - DEPOT PHAANACEUTIOUE           I                   a 8      8         10         1,250   54,464
*GUICHET                                             - GUCHET                         1          -        4        4          5          625   S2,232
ATTENTE                              -               - VERAHDA                        1          -       20       20         25        3,125  S11,161
RESERVE PETIT NATERIEL      PERSONNEL D'ENTRE        I MAGASIN                        I                   4        4          5          625   52,232
SANITAIRES                           -                  LATRtNE/DOUCHE                1                   4        4          5          625   S2,232
3                              11         29                88         110       13.750  549,107
..A) .AVE  O       SAL ECOSLAIO ILN.....U....X.IN. SAL cEa CONSUTIO  SI, LA ZONE DesRE ASSe-1.0HAIAT
(A): AVEC DEW MEO SALLE DE CONSULTATtON St LA ZONE DESSERVIE OEPASSER 12.500 HA8tTANTS



ANNEX-1 
Page 4 of 13
TYPE D'INFRASTRUCTURES:    NOPITAL DE DISTRICT (REFERENCE 1ER *CHELON)
ACTIVITES                 PERSONNEL                                                       LOCAWX
._......................,._.    ..........................    .............................................................................................
SURFACES NETTES              SURFACES        COUTS
QUALIfICATION                                              ---------------------------    ----  -------------
PERSONNEL     NOISRE            TYPE           NOWSRE      PLACE    UNITE    TOTAL     BRUTE          EN        EN
DESCRIPTION            RESPONSABLE   PERSONNEL          LOCAL           UNITE       le       N2       N2         m2      FCFA xIOOO   USS
_. . ... .. .. .. .. .. .. . . ........   ........................... . . .... .... ... .. .. _.. .. .. .. . .....    .................... .. .. . ..   . . ._.......   ................... . ... .........................,..... ._.....................
ADNtNISTRATION
_      _ .  .................................. _ ..
BUREAU ItOECIN CHEF              IEDECIN             I BUREAU                         1         20       20       20         25        3,125  S11,161
GESTION/CONPTABILISt        GESTIONNAIRE/CONP        2  BUREAU GEST./CONPT.           1          6       12       12         15         1,875   $6,696
SECRtTARIAT                    SECRtTAIRE            2  BUREAU SECRtTAIRE             1          6       12       12         15         1,875  56,696
AFFAIRES SOCIALES             ASSIST. SOC.           1 BUREAU ASSIST. SOCIALE         1         12       12       12         15         1,875   S6,696
NYGINEt                         IDE SPEC.            I BUREAU HYGIENE                 1         12       12       12         15         1.875   S6,696
ARCHIVES/STATISTIaUES                -                  SALLE DES ARCHIVES            1          -        9        9         11         1,406  $5,022
RtUNION/DOCUMENTATION                -                  SALLE DE RMUNION              1                  20       20         25        3,125  511,161
STOCKAGE FOURNITURES                 -               - MAGASIN                        1                   6        6          8          938   S3,348
SANITAIRES                                           - BLOC SANITAIRE                 1                  12       12         15         1,875   T6,696
CONSULTATION
. .... ...... __.... . _.. _..
TRIAGE                       INFIRNIER AUKIL.        I SALLE ATTENTE/TRI              1                  20       20         25        3,125  S11,161
ENTitES                                              . FICHIER/CAISSE                 1          -       10       10         13         1,563   $5,580
CONSULTATION NED. GEN.            NEDECIN            I  SALLE DE CONSULTATION         1         16       16       16         20        2.500  S8,929
CONSULTATION GYNECO/OIST.                            - SALLE DE CONSULTATION          1         16       16       16         20        2.500   S8,929
SOINS                               IDE              1 SALLE DE SOINS                 t          -       24       24         30        3.750 $13,393
ORTHOPtDIE                                           * SALLE INTtGRitE AUX SOI        1                   9        9         11         1,406   *5,022                un
RtHYDRAT./R9CUPER. NUTRITION                         - SALLE D'ISOLENENT              1          -       12       12         15         1,875   56,696               ID
BLOC TECHNIOUE
.     ... _.. .. . ..   _....
URGENCES                            IDE              - SALLE SEPTIOUE a                          *       12       12          15        1,875   S6,696
RADIOGRAPHIE + LABO DiVELOP.       bDECIN            - SALLE RADIOGRAPHIE             1         26       24       24         30         3,750  S13,393
PRtPARATION SCOPIE                   -               . VESTIAIRE                      1          *        3        3          4          469   S1,674
CHIRURCIE                          ft0ECIN           - SALLE D'OPtRATION              1          -       28       28         35        4,375  $15,625
STABILISATION                INFIRNIER AUXIL.        I SALLE DE STABILISATION         1          *        9        9         II         1,406   $5,022
PREPARATION                                          - SALLE DE PREPARATION           1                   9        9         11         1,406   $5,022
RtVEIL/POST OPtRATOIRE               a               - SALLE POSTOPtRATOIRE           1          -        9        9         11         1,406   55,022
ACCOUCHEMENTS DIFFICILES          "wDECIN            * SALLE D'ACCOUCHENENT           1                  20       20         25         3,125 511,161
TRAVAIL/ATTENTE                 SAGE FENNE           1 SALLE DE TRAVAIL               1          *        9        9         11         1,406  $5,022
DOUCHES/SANITAIRES          -        -                  B BLOC SANITAIRE              1          -       12       12         15         1,875  56,696
PHARNACIE/LABORATOIRE
- ..... .......... ............
TRAVAIL ADNINISTRATIF         TECN. PNARNACIE        I BUREAU                         1          *        9        9         11         1,406  $5,022
PRgLkENENET                                          -  ZONE PRtLtVENENTS             1                   6        6          8           938   $3,348
ANALYSES                                             - LABORATOIRE                    1          -        6        6          8           938   S3,34a
PREPARATION/STOCK. FRtOD             a               - SALLE PREPARATION              1          -        6        6          8          938  S3,348
STOCKASE IbECANET                                                 P - NASAN (NOPITAL + OIS  1   -       12       24         30        3,750 $13,393



ANNEX-3-1l
Page 5 of 13
TYK D INFRASTRUCTURES:    NPITAI DE DISTRICT (REFERENCE tER tCNELON)
ACTIVITES                    PERSONNEL                                                             EOCAJX
........................... ........................................ .......................... ..................................................... ......................................................................  .__.  
SURFACES NETTES                 SRFACES           COWTS
GUALIFICATPON                                                    .--_------- *---.
PERSONEL       NISRE                TYPE            NNRE         PLCE    UNITE    TOTAL          RRITE          Es         EN
DESCRIPTtON               RESPONSASE   PERSONNEL              LOCAL             UNITE         N2       l2        N           N2       FCFA X1OOO    usS
........................... .......................... ...........................................  ........................................ ..................... ........................................................ ............_.
NIOSPITALtSATION (CAPACITt 33 LITS)
.............................................
HOSPITALISATION NMDECINE (FE                               .  SALLES DE 6 LITS                 1                    36        36          45          5,625  S20,089
NOSPITALISATION MDECINE (NO              -                    SALLES DE 6 LITS                 I                    36        36          45          5,625  520,089
OSPITALISATION PeDIATRIE                                   -  SALLES DE 6 LITS                 I           -        36        36          45          5,625  $20,089
lOSPITALISATION CHIRRGIE                 -                    SALLES DE 4 LtTS                 2                    32        64so                   10,000  $35,714
ISOLEMENT/SOINS INTEWSIFS               -                     SALLES 2 LITS                   2            -        12        24          30         3,750  $13,393
REm      ACCDUCNtE                       -                 -  CIAI DRE  EREPOS                 1                     9         9           11         1,406   $5,022
NOSPITALISATION ACC0UCNtE                                      SALLE DE 6 LITS                 1           -        36        36          45          5,625  $20,089
GARDE                                    -                 2  SALLE DE GARE                    2           6         6        12           15         1,875   $6,696
LOCAtIX ANNEXES
.............. ....................      ......._
CUISINE (PAR FANILLES)                                     -  ABR                                          -        20        20           25         3,125  $11,161
STOCKAGE VIVRES                          -                 -  MAGASIN                          1                     9         9           11         1,406   $5,022
RIPARATION/ENTRETIEN            PERSONNEL ENTRETI          2  ATELIER ENTRETIEN                I                    12        12           1$         1,675 s   6,696
LAVAGE/ISUDERIE                          '                 -  IUANERIE                         i           -        12        12           15         1,875   $6,696
STOCKP.GE LINGERIE                                         -  LINGERIE                         I           -         9         9           11         1,406   S5,022
Nt8ERGEMENT DES FAMILLES                                   *  ABRI (NORS PROGRAOE)                    -              -         -                          -         -
SANITAIRES/OOUCRES                                            B LOC SAMITAIREMOUCHES           2           -        10        20           25         3,125  $11,161
INCtN6RATION                            U                  .  INCINtRATEUR                     I           -         6         6           8            938   %3,348
OSPOT ODURES                                                  ABRI                             I           -         6         6            8           938   $3,348
YORCUE (LAVAGE/HABILLAGE)                                  -  MORGUE                           I           -        10        10           13         1,563   S5,580
GROUPE ELECTROGENE                                         I  ASRI GROUPE                      1                   10        10           13         1,563   .,,580
STOCKAGE CARSUR^ANT                                        .  LOCAL CARMURANTS                 1           -         9         9           11         1,406   S5,022
RESERVE EAUA                                               -  CNATEAU D'EAU                    1           - I                  .           -           600   $2,143
LOGENENT
...........................
LOGENENT HtDECIN CHEF                    -                 -  NAISON NED. CNEF                 I           -        90        80          100        12,500  $44,643
LOGEWEJT GARDIEN                                           -  LOGE  ARDtEEN                    I                    20        20          25          3,125  S11,161
.........                           .........  .........            ......... .......... ......... ............
la                                  ST         120                 884       1,10S        138,72S K ff,446
...........................5=   _,5rSgA    2S2==  5wX=5m5=5555=



A1NEX 3-1
Page 6 of 13
SLUREA     PIFECnt (ME   ICALE
. . ...................... ..... ...... ............ .................... ... ... .. .. ... .. . . . ..          . ........................... .. ... .... ............
ACTIVITES                       PERSONECL                                                                   LOCAX
....................... ................................ .................................... ......... ................. ...... .......... ................................ ..................................................__.__._
SURFACES NETTES                    SURFACES            COUTS
CAPACtTE         NONURE                TYPE             NONBUE       N/PLACE N'/;W3E    tOTAL            BRUTE            Es EN
DESCRIPTION               POFlESSIONNELLE  PERSONNEL                 LOCAL               tWITE          N2        N2         Ne           N'        FCf  KItOO       USS
........................... ........................  ..........................................     ..........
ACTIVITES NINIIALES (A)
..........................
SANTt PUSL[GUE                       NEDECIN CHEF               1  8UREAU                               1           20         20         20            25          3,125  S11.161
SECRtTARIAT                           SECNETAIRE                2  SECRETAtIAT                          1            6         12         12            IS          1,875   f6,696
RiUNION-                                                        -  SALLE DE RiUNION/FORNA               I                      16         16            20          2,500    f8,929
PLANIFI CATIGN/PROGRAMNATION
..........................
PLANIFICATION                     PLANIFICATEIM               I   UREMA                                1           12         12         12            15          1,875   f6,696
GESTION DE LA FORATION            ADM. COORD.                  I    tUREAU                              1            8          8          a            10          1,250   $4.464
STATISTICUES                     STATISTICIEN                 I  UREAU                                 1            8          8          8            10          1,250   S4,464
DIVISION RESSOURCES
_         _ .. .. ..    .... . _. .
GESTION DU PERSONNEL              ADNINISTRATEUR                1  BUREAU                               1            8          8          a            10          1,250   S4,464
GESTION FINANCIERE                ADNINISTRATEUR                I  BUREAU                               I            a          a          a            10          1,250   54,464
RESERV E   AtRIEL                 PERS. ENTRETIEN               1  NAGASIN                              1           20         20          4             5            625   S2,232
SANITAIRES                                                      -  BLOC SANITAIRE                       I            -          8          8            10          1,250   54,464                     0'
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. .. _.....                                                                     ...... .. .  . .......              ......... ... ___.. ___....  ...........
9                                     10            12                   104          130         16,250  558,036
......................... .................... 



ANNEX -1
Page 7 of 13
CHDO  - PROAIE  INFRASTRIJCTUJRES SANITAIRES
280                              OMRENU  PREf           HOP. PREf                      BUIEAUX DISTRICT NOP. DISTRICT                        CSS RUAL                         CSS UIRlAIN
........ ...~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..........                                                                            ........ ................ ................._..........................
SURFACES N':  130                                                                                                           log 1,200 112  144 112  961 HI  108    110 se    (CAXIIM)
FCFAXIOO/N2                   ESTIMATION  El NILLI01S DE FCFA
...............                ............................ ............................................................. ......................... ...................................................................................... .....................
158 CONSTi.                C:    20                        190                          23                      tSZ                            17                                t1
63 RENABIL.               R:      8                        76                           9                       61                             7                                   7
EOUIPT.              EC:      5                        60                           5                       45                            4                                   3
NIlRE                 N:
PREFECTURES                                                         DISTRICTS         ZONES DE RESPONSABILITE
SUREAUX                   lOPtTAJUX                  BUREAUX                   HOpITAUX REF                 CSS
PREFECTURES/   POPULATION. ----------------                                                   ----- .--------------- ---
DISTRICTS                       HA81t41TS        M    C    R    E         tt    C      R       E3 0         C    R    E0       N       C   R    E       Z 11        C      R   EO
TAODJILE             EXIST          458,240        1    -       -           0    -            -               -                   3         -      -    53  26         .        .     .
PRIVE
PUBLIC                                  1      .            .                                 .                                                   .
3E3E   EXIST            61,072                                                            I0                               -    -          11    3             -        -
PRIYE                                                                                                                                    3    7 -8
PUBtLIC--.
KELO  EXIST           222,148        -         -     -                                     0 0        -             1                      18   9         -        -     -
PRIVE.5                                                                                                                                           .    .    .
PUBLIC- -                                                  -                                                                                     9    4    9
LAI  EXIST            75,020                                                                                           -  -  1 -   - -    *   - 24   14  - .
PRIVE                        -10                                                                                                                  -    -    -  CO0JTS DE BASE EN HILtIONS
ptlc                                 .-                                            --11                     -   -   1  I                  -   10  3 18               --------------------
,  ............ ................  -.....................                 ----------------      ..............................                                    C R     EQ       tOTAL
TOTAL 1                   458,240              1    0    1              0       0       0           1    1    2                0    2    2                  26         8    35    ----.--- .----.-- --- ----
FCFA NILLIONS                 u=Sumu                 20    0    5               0       0       0          23    9   10                0 121   90                  469  56 105         512    186       210        909
US  X  1000                                       73    0   18              0       0       0          81   33   36                0 434 321                 1,676199 375   1,830    665            750    S3,245
Z: NO1113E DE ZONES DE RESP01NSABILITE
1: 110118OE DE CSS EXISTANITS



ANNEX 3-1
Page 8 of 13
CKAD - PROGAME INFRASTRUCTURES SANITAIRES
280         SUREA    PREF N    3               PRE0 NBtREAUX DISTRICT HOP. "ISTRICT                          CSS RURAL                 CSS LtRIH
SURFACES W.: 130 M            1,200 C                 144  '961 W                               log ml                      110 N  (MAXIMUM)
FCFAXIOOQIN2                     ESTIMATION EN MILLIONS DE FCFA
158 CONSTR.           C:   20                 190                    23                 1S2                     17                           17
63 RENABIL.          R:    8                  76                     9                  61                      7                            7
EQUIPT.         EO:    5                   60                     5                  45                      4                           3
NOHBRE           N:
PREFECTURES                                          DISTRICTS              ZONES
UREAUX              HOPITAUX              BUREAUX             NOPITAUX REF           CSS
PREFECTURES/             POPULATION
DISTRICTS                  X1OOO       N   C   R  EQ           C    R      EQ    N  C  R    EQ    N       C  R    EQ   Z  N      C    R  EQ
GUERA            EXIST          229      I  -        -      1-         -     -    3---                2      - -3013 -1
PRIVE                  -   - FED FED           -  FED   FED      -
PUBLIC              .   . .                          -
BITKINE  EXIST            76    -    -    -                                1---                     ---         10   6      -   -   -
PRIVE                  '4                                                                                              -   -
PUBLIC.                                                        -     -   1   1       -    1   -   1    -   -      4   2   6
NELFI EXIST             41    -    -    -    -                  -        1-                 1    -             7 2        -   -   -
PRIVE..1'-
PUBLIC                                                      . -           t   1           -      1      -   -     5   1  6
NOGO  EXtST            111    -    -    -    -               -     -                 -          ED)  -   -   13   5       -    -
'PIVE                                                                                                        1         -   -         COtUTS DE BASE
PUBLIC       ......                                                                                               8   3  11
TOTAL 1                  228         0   0   0           0     0     0         0  22 2                  1   2              I?   6  23
FCFA MILLIONS                              0  0  0             0     0      0        018  10            152  61 90              290 41  92    442   102    200         744
US  X 1000                              0   0   0           0     0      0        0  65  36          542 217 321           1,036 146 329  1,578   363    715    2,656
u.u.uuuuu.ua                           Uwagt.s-gu.Cm        uon                      =umawcum          Buwcm                 = a===                     ==        =======
Z: NOMBRE OE ZONES DE RESPONSABILITE
N: NOMBRE OE CSS EXISTANTS



64
Page 9 G' 13
LISTE DES EQUIPEHENTS POUR UN CSS            QUANTITES
DEFINITION                     20NE RURALE ZONE URBAINE
PARAVENT                                       I           1
LIT STANDARO METAL                            4           2
TABLE CHEVET MfTAL                            4           2
TABLE EXAMEN STANDARD                          1         1-2
TABLE SOINS/EXAMEN                             1           t
MARCHE PIED                                    2           t
TABLE INSTRUMENTS 60X40                        2           1
CHARIOT SOINS                                  I           1
ETAGERES MURALES STOCKAGE MEDICAMERT          12         12
ARMOIRE MtDICAI4ENTS 2 PORTES (120X40          3           2
BRANCARD                                       1           1
POTENCE PERFUSION                              2           1
BUREAU 120X80 METAL                            1         1-2
TABLE 120X60 METAL                             I1
ARMOIRE 2 PORTES MtTAL                         1         1-2
CLASSEUR 2 TIROIRS NtTAL                       1           1
TABOURET FIXE                                 3            4
TABOURET AJUSTABLE                             1           1
SANC (PREVOIR SUR LOT GERIE CIVIL)            PM          PR
CHAISE OROITE MtTAL                            6         6-9
ETAGERE KIOULAIRE NMTAL C12OX2OM)              3           3
ARMOIRE VESTIAIRE (40X40X180)                  1         1-2
PATERE FIXE                                    3         3-4
PESE PERSORNES                                 2           2
PESE EBEtS                                     2           2
NtTRE RUBAM                                    2         2-3
ST&tHOSCOPE                                    2         1-2
TENSIOMEtRE                                    1         1-2
STETHOSCOPE (OBSTtTRIQUE)                      1           1
TABLE ACCOUCHEMENT                             1           -
SEAU DECHETS                                   4         4-5
OTOSCOPE                                       1           1
SPECULUM (REGLABLE) AVEC BOITE NMTAL           2           2
MICROSCOPE MORO                                1           -
ENSEMBLE COLORATION                            1           -
JEU VERRERIE LABO                              I           -
CENTRIFUGEUSE                                  1 I
STERIL.VAPEUR 6L                               1           I
RtCHAUD PETROLE                                I           I
ARTICLES NETTOYAGE                             1           1
TROUSSE A OUTILS                               1           I
CORBEILLE BUREAU                               1         1-2
POUBELLE A COUVERCLE                           3           3
LAMPE TEMPETE                                  2           2
TORCHE tLECTRIQUE                              2           2
BASSIN LIT                                     1           0
BASSIN RENIFORME                               2           2
URINAL                                         I           I
PORTE THEROMtTRE                               2           2
PLATEAU INSTRUMENTS                            3         2-3
BOITE INSTRUMENTS                              3         2-3
BOITE SERINGUES                                2         2-3
BOITE AIGUILLES                                2         2-3
BOITES INSTRUMENTS                             I           I
PISSETTE                                       3           3
BROSSE A ONGLES                                2           2
ACCESSOIRES BUREAU (KIT)                       1           1
BROSSE A INSTRUMENTS                           2           2
BOITE INSTRUMENTS PANSEMENTS                   3           3
CISEAUX PANSEMENTS                             2           2
BOITE PETITE CHIRURGIE                         2           2
PINCE A TAMONS                                 2         2-3
CUPULES                                        2           2
BOITES A COMPRESSES                            4           3
INSTRUMENTS DIACCOUCHEMENTS                    1           -
AfAISSE LANGUE NtTAL                           1           1
TOILE CIRCE                                    7           6
GARROTS                                        2           2



6"j
ANNEX 3-1
Page 10 of 13
HOPITAL DE DISTRICTS/LISTE DES IQUIPEMENTS LOCAL PAR LOCAL
SALLES DES URENCES                                              LABRATOE
TABLE D'EXAMENS        I                                       C1NTRIFUGEUSE&LECTRtQUE  I
tAmpE OPARAT. MOBILE   I                                       CENTRIFPUEUSEMANUFLLR   I
BOlT PEI CHIRURGIE     I                                       CENTRIFUGEUSE  MICROHE-
E5CABEAU               I                                       MATOCRtTE 
DMN-MARIE              I
SALLE DWACCOUCHEMENTS                                          MICROSCOPE BINOCiUJ
LAIRB+1BLOCK LUMIERE   I
TABLE D'ACCOUCHEMENT/                                           BALANCE                I
RAANIMATION PRiNATALE    I                                     ETUVE UNtVERSELLE30 1    1
LAMPS OPERATOIRE MOBILE   I                                    AG1TATEUR VIBREUR VORTEX  I
PEss-BtE5             I                                       COMPTEUR A TOUCHES MONO-
VENTOUsE OBasTCOMPLIkr   i                                     TOUCHE                  I
sTtrHoscOPE DE PINARD  I                                        COMFTEUR A TOUCHE5 MUL-
BOITE ACCOUCHEMENTS    I                                       TITOUCHE                I
BOTE CURETAsE          I                                       APPAREILWESTERGREN(vr.s&)I-
BOhr FORCEPS           I                                       MENT.)                  I
DtECWTEUR DE POULS FORTAL I                                    HAEMOLOIBINOMfrTRE (COLORI1
AMBU NOUVEAUX.NtS      1                                        aou PHor. A PRkCI)     I
THtSUSCOPR             I
SALLE WOPERATIONS                                               MiNUTERIE              I
CoLoRIMfIRE(A PRWa1lE)   I
TABLE D-OPEQATIONS     I                                       LAMPE A ALCOOL          I
LAMPe OPERATOIRE TYPE                                          FITREA EAU 
plAFONNIER             I                                       PRODUTS RENOUVELABLe    1
ASPIRATEUR CHIRUROICAL
(&ECTRIQUEET A PEDALE)   I                                     SALLE D'EXAMV RADIOL
BISTOURI kLECTRIQUe    I
CONCENTRATEURD'OXYGENE I                                        uNrTB DR RADIOLOIE DR BASE I
TABLE A INSTRUMENTS (GRAND                                     PARAVENT EN PLOMB       I
MODBU3)                I                                        LOT D'ARTICL1S EN  PLOMB
TABLE A INSTRUMENTS (PErmf                                      (TABLER.OANTS,CACHIU)    1
moDkE)                 I                                       SUPPORT TABLIER
TABLE A HAUTEUR VARiABLE  I                                     JEU DE CASSEIrrS       I
SCEAU A PANSEMENTS (SANS                                        JEU DR CADRES
COUVERCL)              I                                        FaMS Tr PRODUITS R&ACM   I
BOITE ABDONMNALE       I
BOtTE AMPUTATION       I                                        CHIMBRE NOIRE
eOITE CtsARIENNE       I
BOtTE OPERATOIRE  UYN*CO                                        UNITt DE DVELOPPEMMENT
BASSE                  I                                        MANUEL                 I
BOTTe HERNIE           I                                        ENSEMBLE &IAURAOE CHAMBRE
TAMBOUR 314 1          1                                        NOIRE                  I
TAMBOUR6               I                                        MEUBLEDE CHsANC ENT    I
PORTE-S&RUM            I
CHARIOT PORTE-CIVI1RERCl-                                      LOCAL h1rERJRESERVE
VIE.RE                 1
BotTE CYSTOSTOMIE      I                                        TABLE DE TRAVAIL       I
BOUGIE URTRALE (BENIQUfS  I                                    CHAISs
NtOATOSCOPE            I
STERILISATION                                                   ARMOIRE DE RANGEMENT    I
AUTOCLAVE VERTICAL MIX   I
POUPINEL
ARMOIRE MtTALUQUE



66
ANMX3-1
Page 11 of 13
PltFECTE pU cthRA
DSCTICr De MONCO. CHEF UEU DE PREFE=URE
NOM              | APPARTENANCE             STATUT        |   APPtI EWCERJEUR
H6PtTAL DE MONGO                MIN. S.P.            CIS'FANT                   FED
Z.R. MONGO OUEST                 MN. S.P.           I SEUL CS A CREER
FED
ZR. MONGO EST                   MIN. S.P.           EN THORS EL'OPN.
LZR. N1EROUI                     MN. S.P.           EXSTANT                     Fl51,_      t
Z.R. EREF                        MN. $.P. SEOANT                                IED
iZ. MANOALME                     MIN. S.P.          EXISTAIW                    FED
7.R. BARDANGAL                   MN. S.P.           A CREER
Z.R. ABRECHE                    bMN. S.P.           A CREER
Z.. DIOUKOICO KOU                MIN. SP.           A CR_E_
ZR. KATALGO                      WN. S.P.           A CRBER
2R. AMaARKOYE                   MNN. S.P.           A C3_E_R
Zi. BDITCHOTCI                   MN. S.P.           AC3EER
ZR. KOUBSA                      IWN. S.P.         A_                      __
ZR. BARO                         CATHOtlQUE         EDaSrNT
DiTSRicT DP BllXU
jl _           NOM                APPARTENACE       |        rSTATUT         AifPtI WTIRLIR
H6PMTALDERIIKINE                 MIN. S.P.        |EANSTt?                     PROIE
ZL. BITIJNE                   biN. S.P.             EXISTANT                 FED - PROlEr
Z.R. ABrOUYOUR                 |WMN. S.P.           EXISTANT                 FEM . FPaol
Li. KOUI AADOUOOUL              hem. I.P.           A CRMR                     PROW
!R. SARA-ABASE                   MIN. S.P.          A CREgR13 PROW
Z.L. DIIMI                       MIN. S.P.          A CREfE                    PRO
ZL. GASSAitA                     hN. S.P.           A CRn                      PROW
ZR. BITXINE                      MoB. M.           ImaISTAfN
ZJL. DADOtAR                     CATHOUJQUE         WSTANT
LR. MOUKOULOU                    MID. B.M.          UGZTANT
LR. KOR3                        MID. M.K           BUANT
DISIRICT OH MELa
NOM             A|PPARTEENCE                 STATUT           APPUI ENfEJEUR
H6FFAL DE MEIMI                  MIN. SaS. TESANT                              PRWOff
ZL MElfl                         MN. 5.p.           WANT                     FM- PROT
ZL. MOFI                         baN. &5. Ap ClER                               ROJ
LR. SNINOL                       MIN. 5.P.          A CR.                      PROIT
ZL. MANAM                        MIN. SLP.          A CRIM                      POiT
ZL. DIANA                        MIN. S.P.          AdE                        PROJBI
ZL. SAMICAROUM                   MN. &P.            A CRrER                       rn
ZL 0o0M!                         AL C.T             ISUMAr



'7
ANNEX 3-1
Page 12 of 13
PREFECTURE DU GUERA
PROJET    EVENTUEL.EENT.   EVeNELLENT.
EN COMPLEMENT    EN COMPLEMENT DU
DU FED         SECrEUR PRIVE
- 9OPITAUX:
* A REHABIUTER/CONS-      2
TRUIRE                    2 
* APPUI AU FONC(MONNE-
MVENT
- CErNTRES DE SANTE-
* A REHABIUTER            3              4                 5
* A CONSTRUIRE            9              7
* APPUI AU FONCFIONNe-    12             .
MENT
PREFEOURE DE LA TANWILE
DISTRICT DE LAW CHEF LIEU DE LA PREFECTURE
NOM            APPARTENANCE     j      rAT tF r       APPt EXTIEURM
HOPITAL De LAi          MIN. S.P.          EWSTANT                 PROJET
Z.R. LAI VERS HOPITAL   MIN. S.P.          A CREER                 PROJET
ZR. LAI AVION           MIN. S.P.          A CREER                 PROJET
ZR. LL NOUNOOU           MIN. S.P.         A CREER                 PROJEF
7ZR. DOMOUOOU           ,UN. S.P.          EXUSIANT                PROWT
ZR. DONO.MANOA          MEN. S.P.          EaSTANT                 PROJET
ZR. MOUROUM-TOULOU      NON. S.P.          EXISTANT                pRoJEF
Z.R. sOUMOU             NUN. S.P.          A CREER                 PR08T
ZR. NDAM                WDN. S.P.          A CREeR                 PROJBT
aR. DORMOU              MIN. S.P.          A CReER                 PROJEF
ZR DARBE                MIN. &XP.          A CRsE                 IPROIET
Z.R. NxAMANaO           hON. S.P.          A CREER                 PROST
ZR. MANGA0ouDoU         bMN. S.P.          A CReER                 PROIET
ZR. OABRI-NOOLO         MIN. S.P.          EXaSTANT                PROMST
ZR. _UIDAI       _      CATHOUQUE          EXISTANT
ZR. DERESSIA            AS. C.T.           EXISTANT
Z.R. KOBIAGUE            MJS. LU.          EXISTANT
ZR. KIMRE               MIS. MU.           eXsTANT
ZR. MRBIUE Ur NINGA     MIS. LU.           EISTANTS
ZR. k ISIRE             AS. C.T.           EXISTANT
ZR. TCHA KANDnLI        AS. CT.            EXISTANT
ZR. TCHAGUILENOOLO     MIS. E.U.         EWaSTANT
ZR. TER                 MIS. LU.           EXSTANT
ZR. GANA                PRIve              EXISTANT



60
MmNE 3-1
Page 13 of 13
DISTRICT DH K-LOZ
E      ~~~NOM        |APPARTNMANCE      |     StATU      | APPU MIUil   |
HOPITAI - D8 KE         NON. S.P.         E)CSTANT                PROtou
ZR. MONoaoYE            MN. S.P.         EMSTANT                  PROJET
2.R. DOOU               MIWN. S.P.        EXISTANT                PROE?r
?.R. BOLOOO             bDN. S.P.         EXISTANT                PRO1
2.R. M'SAIA             EB.T              8IaSTANT
ZR.BAKTCHORO          ;BMACD             EXIStANT
Z.R. KROUMLA            AS.C.T.           EDaSTANT
7.R. MBTIKIM8 E.B.T.                      EXISTANT
ZR. NANOASSOU          BUEACD             EXISTANT
Z.R. BAYAKA             MIN. S.P.         EXISTANT                PROJT
|ZR. DAFRA              NAN. S.P.         A CRIER                 PROJEr
Z.R. BERTE              NON. S.P.         ACREER                  PRO
Z.R. BEtO NORINDIM      MIN. &P.          A CREER                 PRO1I
ZR. MABABOU             NUN. S.P.         A CREER                 PROIE
hZR. MANOSE BEMBOH      bNN. S.P.         A CREE                 PmOIE
ZR. KELO A (DJENORENQ)  MIN. &P.          A CRIER                 PRO;IB
ZR. KELO B (BONOMBYOV)  MIN. S&P.         A CREER                 PROI
ZR. KELO C OMNDINNA     MUN. S.P.         A CREER                 PR1KT
2R. KELO D (BARDADJE 1)  MIN. S&P.       A CRI                   P1t
D*-RCT DE BERE
NOM          | APPARTUNAIE     [      STATUT         A  IYUIrERER
HOPMTAL DE RERB         ADVENSTS            STANTr
Z.L KOLON               &ON. S.P.         8XISTANt
ZR. amB                 aE:r.             EXISTANT
ZR. DEL81AN             tE T.             8XISANT__ ' _
ZL BER18R1              MIN. S.P.         A CRIER
ZR.MANDI                WUN. S.P.         A CRIER
ZR. KOLON I             WN. &P.           A CRA
ZR. S_HDOU5-DADn        aE.T.             EISTA1IT
ZR. KOUMk               WN. S.P.          A CRR
ZR. ORINGA              WUN. S.P.         ACRER
ZR. TAMYO.NOOLO         NUN. S.P.         A CREER
ZR. DALI                he4m. S.P.        A CR_
A.M..6



SANTE ET NATERI4ITE SAMS RISQUES
3aMeaditaxe "Counet.smed
(US$ '0000)
Cant.
Rase      Plus
Costs +   Price
ease Cost               Physical Conting"nc ies           Price Contingencies              Total  cIne. cont.         Pr ice    Cant.
Local  Duties                   Local  Duti.s                   Local  Duties                   Local  Duties           Cont.        on
For.  (Exci.   a                1For.  (lxcl.   &               for.  (Exad.   6                Foe.  (Fxal.   a              on Base  Physical
Exch.  Taxes) lTaxes  To-tal  Each.  Taxes) Taxes  Total  Each.  Taxes) Taxes  Total  Exch.  Taxes) Taxes  Total   CO.sts    Cant.
A. wtwool. CL,l1
Consstruction                          2,041  1,161         -  3.202    204       67       -    271    176    409          -    585  2.421  1,637              4.058     3,747       313
Rehabilitation                           833    272        -  1.105       83      27       -    I1I       62    103        -    166    979    403          -1,382    1,256           126
Subtotal toao. Civil                      2.874 -1,43-4         -i,3-09    287   -94            -   383      239   -512        -    751  3.400  7;0             - 5,,-440   -5,003    -4 3
B. Vehicules/Equipment                    3,404        -       .  3,404    318             -         318    263        -  -         263  3,985             -      3,985     3,644        341
C. Nobilier                                   32       1       -      33       3       0       -       3       1       0       -       2      37       2       -      39        35         4
D. Nedicanents                            5,073        -       -   ,073    S07         -       -     507    443        -       -    443  6,023         -          6,023    5,476         548
X. Seavlse  do Bwaolal.te.
1. esloess intesuatloeaw
International-LT                   2,618        -       -2,618        131       -       -     131    230        -       -    230  2,978         -       -2,978    2,837           142
International-CT                     877      32        -    909      44        2       -     45      63       11      -      75    99        45       -  1,029        980         49
Albtotal SesLVo.. lntesaatlomssm i?4s             3_2      -  3-52-7   -175   -2            -   176   -293   -11            - 304 1  39-63   -45           -4,007    3.816           191
2. National                              136       -       -    136        7       -       -       7       9       -       -       9    151        -       -    151        144          7
3. Nonoraires professionnels         _  464      365       -    028       23      18s             41      35    129        -     164    522    512         -  1.034        985        49
Suetota  Sa"loe  do Vpoialat.    4,094   -397                    4-4,91   -205   -20            -   225   -337    14           -    T    4,636    557          -  5,193   -4,94 6        247
Vr. 110901tion,
Locale                                   236      85s            321      12       4       -      16      21      32       -      53    269    221         -    390        372         19
laterne                                  607    104              III1    30        5       -      36      44      37              at8   681    147         -    827        788         39
S*btetaRIftmasm                              043_   189        -  1,032   -42   -9              -    52   -65   -69            -134         950    260         -  1,218    1.160          s8
tota  Ioweemnt Costa                          16,32   2,021         -  84   13-63    123             - 1, 486  1T,3-48  7_22         0-70F 19,031  2,866           - 21,897   20,264    12,634
St. Beauggeat coats
A. 06)4 veh. & Equip.                     2,132    246         -2.377    113          12       -     125    211       97       -     309  Z,455    355         -  2,820    2,670         140
S. Salaires personnel                        204     129       -     332      10       6       -      17      19      47       -      66    233    182         -    416        196        20
C. Vrias de deplacements                     225    224        -     449      11      11       -      22      22      83       -     105    259    318         -    576        549        21
lota  seoezemat coat.                          2,561     5980             5    -134   -30            -   164   -252 --227            -   47'9            eS47 85                              AS,02 36  8
tota                                           18,88-01  2,6-19      -  1511,49          -153         - 1,650  1,599  99              5-4I  2197   37-21             -  569 23,878  -1,821
Thu May 05 15:25:02 1994
00 :3
o    (*
m,
-j
1-1 Expenditure Aceounte Breakdo~m



CHAD
SANTE ET MATERNITE SANS RISQUES
Project cost 8=nry
*     * Total
(FCFA '000)                   1US$ '000)        Foreign    Base
Local     Forelgn     Total      Local  Foeign  Total  Exchange  Costs
A.  nftorceent capacity au miAenw emntral
pour qUpept mmn niveanx regLonmax
1. Decentralisation budgetaire                                            2,735      75,544     78,278        5     127     131       97         1
2. Developpement production modules                                      63,018    503,601    566,618       106     844     949       89         4
3. HisO en place programme IEC                                           20,575    822,546    843,122        34   1,370   1,412        90        7
4. Renforcer capaclte de qestion et coordination du projet               34,432    620,497    654,929        58   1,039   1,097        95        5
tubatal Penforcement capacity an nivean central
pocr eqppert am nimeiax regionaux                                         120,759  2,022,187  2,142,947      202   3,387   3,590        94       17
*. AsJdstance anx retons pmr seavloes
sante, nutrition et NW
1. Mlse en place reseau sanitaire niveaux districts                     748,417  2,686,662  3,435,079   1,254   4,500   5,754          78       27
2. Programme formation pour personnel sante                              84,809    404,352    489,161       142     677     819        83        4
3. Promotion de la Participation Communautaire                           98,392  3,934,512  4,032,.904      165   6r590   6,755        98       31
ubtetal Assistance aux regions pour ervices
ante, nutritlon et UW                                                    931,618  7,025,526  7,957,144   1,560  11,768  13,329          88       62
C. A  stance aise on place F@lltique Nationale Ptarmaceutiqu,
1. Division Pharmacie                                                     3,545    312,761    316,305         6     524     530        99        2
2. Centrale d'Achat                                                     507.746  1,911,678  2.419,424       850   3,202   4,053        79       19
Snbtotal Assistance dise en place Poltique )#ationale Pharmaceutique    511,291  2,224,439  2 735,730          856   3,726   4,582        81       21
total NAB#  COStI                                                         -1i,563,660 11,272,152 12,835,820   2,619  18,881  21,501        88       100
Physical Contingencies                                                     91,472    893,752    985,224       153   1,497   1,650        91        8
Price Contingencies                                                       566 560    954,809  1,521.369       949   1 599   2,548        63       12
ttal  CNSNO  COS"                                                          2,221,701 13,120,713 15,342,413   3,721  21,978  25,699         86       120
Mon May 02 1545:07 1994
C.
N)
IxA
o   1
7-1 Project Coat sumary



CHAD
SANTE CT MATERNITE SAMS RISQUES
Coopeneta by 1lnazclas
(USS *000)
The
IDA   UNICEF UNDP  Government Cormmunautes Total
Amount Amount Amount   Amount      Amount    Amount
&. Reneeemet e paeotty Wu nuvet eenttal
pour support aux niveaux    ietalum
1. Decentrallsation budgetaire                                    146      -       -          _            -    146
2. Deveiloppement production modules                            1,129      -                               -  1,128
3. Mine en place programne IEC                                  1,541      -      67          -            -  1,608
4. Rentorcer capacite de gestion et coordination du projet   1,275         -       -          7               1,275
S    ebtota  Pnnforent aapacIty au nlvo"u eentala
pour eUppO euX nivaumx  eglonaum                                 4,090       -     67          -            -  4,157
. AsatetaCn  aux regaon* pout sevteas
sante, nutrltion et DM1
1. Mise en place reseau sanitaire niveaux districts             7,173      -       -          -            -  7,173
2. Programme formation pour personnel sante                       993      -       -          -            -    993
3. Promotion do la Participation Communautaire                  1,503  2,331  1,250         305       2,632  8,021
subtotal A"IStanc*e mmX geglao pour e vlces
ante, nutrItion et NW?                                           9,669  2,331  1,250         305        2,632 16,186
C. Assistance mie an place Plltiq.e Nationale, ltazmaoeutlque
1. Division Pharmacie                                             592      -       -          -            -    592
2. Centrale d'Achat                                             4,126      -       -        637            -  4,763
Total DOSburueot                                                   18,477  2,331  1,316          942       2,632 25,699
"on may 02 15:44:32 1994
_.
mm
0Q 
o C
2-1 Coaponents by Financiero



CHAD
SANTE ET HATERNITE SANS RISQUES
froject Coqonents by Year -- imnest ntjt/urent Costs
(US$ '000)
Totals Including Contingencies
1995   1996   1997    Q968  1999  Total
A. UAnfoe_ ent capuaty ao niveaw entral
pow support awX nivaux  teglaiu
1. Deontralieati   budgetair
Investment Costs                                                      74     68       0      0      0    143
Recurrent Costs                                                        1       I      0      0      0       3
Subtotal Decentnsiation budgetaise                                       75      69      1      1       1    146
a. vmlqpomnt proeatcWAn m31.s
Investment Costs                                                     251    190    202    16S      69    898
Recurrent Costs                                                       16      99     65     24     25    231
Subtotal Dewlqppent preodction modules                                  260    209    267    209       94  1,128
3. We* o  plae psegeasu  Yr3
Investment costs                                                     see    259    107    174    106  1,236
Recurrent Costs                                                       69      74     73     78     77    372
Subtotal Vte en p_ac  prcgo    t23                                      656    334    10    252    105  1,608
4 *Anforew eapacite de jotlen et cooodinaUtin de projet
Investment Costs                                                     251     85    191      61     63    652
Recurrent Costs                                                      112    132    118    136    124    623
Subtoa  lfores  capacite de gestien et coordination do projet           363    217    309    199    166  1,275
Refore_et capecity a  nveam centra
per suppot aux Aviaux  r         xeglO ux                               1,364    909    757    662    466  4,157
D. Asistance ax  eoons pour servsces
$Mte, nAtrtIOn Ot NW
2. Wise an plae resea  sanitaire niveaux dietrlets
Investment Costs                                                     175  3,397  3,601       -       -  7,173
Recurrent Costs                                                                       -
Subtotal Was an place r esea sanitar  nlveunx districts                  175  3,397  3,6301      -       - 7,173 
2. Programmo  feo  tin pour personnel saute o
Investment Costs                                                     224    224    159    224       64    895
Recurrent Costs                                                        4      23     23     24      24     97
Subtota  Psogram  fermation pour peronnel sante                         228    247    182    248    68    993
3. Promatin dn d s a rtictipaten Commnatatre
Investment Costs                                                     651  1,245  1,355  1,421  1,547  6,224
Recurrent Costs                                                      122    365    386    421    503  1,797
Subtotal Promotion de la Participation Communautalre                     779  1,610 -T.74  1  84   2,050  80021
Subtotl Assistance aw  regons pour sorvice
sante, nutrition *t B33                                                 1,181  5,254  5,524  2,090  2,138 16,186
e. Assitanoe alse en place toliLtque Vationale Pharmacoutique
1. Division  bazaac
Investment Costs                                                     303    177      51       -      -    530
Recurrent Costs                                                       25      19     18       -      -     62
Subtotal Divsiodn EtUrnal.                                               320    195      69      -      -    592
2. cetralel d'tAuat
Investment Costs                                                   3,636    254    256        -      -  4,146                                          m x
Recurrent Costs                                                      199    206    212        -      -    617                                          w
*ubtotal Centralo d'Achat                                              38835    461    468       -       -  4,763                                     O  W
Subtotal  ssistance Vlie en place Polltique Iationale 9harmaceutiqu   4,163    656o         537 _   -      -  5,355                                      "^ 
Total PRDGBOC  coeT                                                        6,700  6,816  6,617  2,751  2,604 25,699
Total Investment Costs                                                   6,159  5,900  5,921  2,066  1,851 21,897
Total Recurrent Costs                                                      550    918    696    686    753  3,802
Hon May 02 5s4ss27 1994
9-1 Project components by Year -- Investment/Recurrent Costs



CHAD
SANTE ET MATERNITE SANS RISQUES
E2xendeture Accounte by Components - Totals lncluding Contingencies
tUss '000)
Assistance aux regions pour
services
Renforcement capacity au niveau central                  sante, nutrition et BEF         Assistance mise
pour support aux niveaux regionaux                Mise en                                   en place
Renforcer      place   Programme                      Politique
Mise en  capacite de   reseau   formation Promotion de           Nationale
Developpement   place    gestion et  sanitaire   pour               la          Pharnaceutigue
Decentrallsation  production   prograime coordination  niveaux  personnel Part Iipation Division  Centrale
budaetaire        modules         IEC     du proiet   districts   sante   Conmuinautaire Pharmacie d'Actiat  Total
S. UnVetMent Costs
A. Genie Civil
Construction                                         -              -          -             -      3,421          -               -         -       637  4,058
Rehabilltation                                       -              -          -             -      1,114          -              -          -       267  1,382
Subtotal Genie Civil                                    -              -          -              -     4,536           -              -          -      904  5,440
8. Vehicules/Equipment                                  6            470        669             98     2,044        426              21        103      148  3,985
C. Mobilier                                             -              -          -             11          -          -              -         1         16     39
D. Medicaments                                          -              -          -              -          -         -           3,870          -    2,154  6,023
3. Bezviaes de Bpecialistes
1. Services lnternationaux
International-LT                                 -               -        67              -          -          -          2,198          -      713  2,979
International-CT                               134            205        207            117        117          _              -        249         -  1,029
Subtotal $ewvican internationaux                   134            205        274           117        117          -          2,19-        249       713  4,007
2. National                                          -              8          -             -          -          -            135          8         -    151
3. Honoralres professionnels                         -              -          -           367        475          -              -          -       192  1,034
subtotal services de 8peaialite.                      134            213        274            494       592           -         2,334         257      906  5,193
I. WomotAon
Locale                                               4             42         46             -          -        251              -         45         2    390
Externe                                              -            172        249            60          -        219              -        114        16    827
subtotia Veauation                                      4            215        294             60          -       469               -        159       17  1,218    *U
Total Investment Costs                                    143             8989-   1,236            652      7,173        895          6,224        530    4,146 21,897
II. Recrret coats
A. OM veh. 6 Equip.                                    -            200        125            302          -         34          1,797         62      289  2,810
B. Salaires personnel                                   -             19          -           269           -          -              -          -      127    416
C. Frais de deplacements                                3             11        246             51          -        64               -          -      201    576
Total  Aecurrent COsta                                       3            231        372           623          -         97 1*797                  62       617  3.802
total VDJ)XCT COSTS                                         146          1,128      1,608         1,275      7,173        993          8,021        592    4,763 25,699
Taxes
Foreign Exchange                                         140            978      1,559          1,193      5,327        789          7,781        584    3,628 21,979
Thu May 05 15:28:36 1994
E  o
to 
-I t
1-1 ExpendIture Accounts by Components - Totals Including Contingencies



CHAD
SATE ET MATERNITE SAMS RISQUES
Jro3Jot Coet sumar
I     8 Total
(FCF'A '000)                  (US$ '00O0         Foreign    ease
_ Local   Foreian      Total      Local  Forelgn  Total  Exchange  Costs
I *umatmnt costs
A.  eosl  Cvii
Construction                          693,346  1,219,430  1,911,776   1,161   2,041   3,202           64        16
Rehabilitation                        162,470    497,450    659,920       272      833   1,105        75        S
Subtotal Smile Clvil                     855,816  1,115,880  2,571,696   1,434   2,074   4,300           67        20
B. Vehicules/Egqipment                          -  2,032,231  2,032,237         -   3,404   3,404       100        16
C. Mobilier                                   760     19,198      19,958        1      32       33       96         -
D. Medicaments                                  -  3,028,572  3,028,572         -   5,073   5,073       100        24
S. Suawla.. de Sgialalate,
1. sewloes lutenati naux
Internatlonal-LT                         -  1,562,984  1,562,984         -   2,618   2,618        100       12
International-CT                    18,990   _523,542    542,532        32      877  _  909        96        4
fubtotal sezvtloe  intea.atlaaux       10,990  2,006,526  2,105,516         32   3,495   3,521        99        16
2. National                                  -     81,039      81,039        -     136     136       100         1
3. Honoraires professionnels          217 858    276,731    494,588       365      464     828        56        4
Subtotal Sezvica  d  Speldste            236,840 -2,444,296  2,661 144        397   4,094   4,491        91        21
r. rogmaten
Locale                                 50,857    140,733    191,591        85      236     321        73         1
Externe                                62,190    362,368    424 558        104     607     711        85         3
Subtotal lezmatten                       113,047    503,101    616,148        189     843      032       82         5
tOtWl Iest ent Costs                        1,206,471  9,743,285 10,949,755   2,021  16,320  18,341           89       85
It. Aoeuzwnt Costs
A. O4 veh. G Equip.                      146,651  1,272,695  1,419,341       246   2,132   2,377         90       11
S. Salaires personnel                      76,009    121,671    198,480       129     204      332       61         2
C' Frain de deplacements                  133,737    134,502    268,239       224     225      449       50         2
D. Per Diem                            _      ____                              _       _        _         ___
total Se-uraent costs                         357.198  1,528,868  1, 886 065      5798  2. 561  3  159        81       15
Total RAhoLINa  COSn                        1,563,666 11,272,152 12,835,820   2,619  18,881  21,501           88      100
Physical Contingencies                        91,472    893,752    905,224       153   1,497   1,650         91        8
Price Contingencies                          566 2560    954 809  1,521,369      949   1,599   2,548         63       12
Total "ROOaC=  COBSS                         2,221,701 13,120 713 15,342,413   3,721        978  25,699        86       120
Mon May 02 15:45:17 1994
00
e-I Project Cost Summary



CHAD
SANTE CT taTERN?IT  SANS RISus
ko_z6mat JAaow"t. b y ltanckers
WS '000w
The
IDA   UNICEF  UNDP  Government co^munautes Total
Amount Mount 1ount    aount        Aount    Mun-E
A. On" Civil
06nstractlon                     3.421       -      -         637           -  4,059
Rebabilitation                   1.382       -            -           -         1,382
ubteos s1o "Civl                     4.603      -       -        63754
5. Um
Vbhicules                          269       -      -           -                 269
Equipment                        4,169      21      -           -            _  4,169
obiliter                             11      -      -           -            -     11
Nedicaments                      3 231 1.148        -           -       1 636  6,023
ubteeal   7                                 1,169 mo_              - T         36 10,492
C. Etude-                                       -         -                     -      -
D. saviem" de qrmaial.te
1. Honoradm  prote.sIoenelo        779       -      -           -           -    779
2. Notional                      1,233       -      -           -            -  1.233
3. ZabomaWima
Intezntienal-L                  135    949  10316            -           -  2,401
Inteunational-                  760       -      -                              6
_ *vb     d_emA"S                            949 ,1.-- 16
*. Vite
Localo                              534      -      -           -            -    536
temn.                               31       -                   -                391
1. Va* 4  _m           _
am Voh. 4 BeNl                    1,144    214       -        305          996  2,659
Selaitz  peranmml                   416      -      -           -            -    416
real* de deplac_t                  572       -      -           -           -    572
~o lftai. de O.W.g.imt  M1111    31                -*F1U.-434
got"l                                la,477  2,33   13        -   9402   --2- B31fr
Nob  NeM 02 15:44:53 1994
5-1 fto_ment Accounts by naanciers



76
At 4:1
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
HEALTH AND SAFE MOTHERHOOD PROJECT
PROJECT' MONrTORING AND SUPERVISION PLAN
1.1   IDA sunervision ingut.  Reguar supervision needs are descried in Table 1 of this
Annex. In addition, specific tasks such as review of progress reports, terms of reference, anmnal
plans and audits, and procurement and disburement actions are estimated to require 8 staff weeks
of various specialist inputs a year which are not included In Table 1.
Borower's Contribution to Supervision
(a)           L     would be submitted twice a year, In October and April. They would
include a summary of implementation under each project component, financial
statements on project expenditures, updated project implementation and procurement
schedules, as well as the stats of contract advertising, bidding, awards and
completion dates and compliance with aggregate limits on specified methods of
procurement. ThePCF would collect inputs frm each responsible MSP D at
and prepare the reports.
(b)   Joint annual reviews. Once a year, no earlier than October and no later dt
November 30, the PCr will organize a joint IMA/Govement review of project
implementaton based on: (i) the progress report in the above paragraph which, for
the purposes of the anua review, would also include: (n) an annaal work program
and budget for the next project year, (ili) a draft budget for the health sector for the
next year; and (iv) the staus of policy and project monitoring indicators.
(c)    Mid-term rde. In addition, the PCr would canr out, jointly with IDA, and, to
the extent available with other donors affiliated with the project, not earlier than
April 1 and not later thanMay 31, 1997, a mid-term review of the progress made
in carrying out the project. The review would cover all aspects of the project, and
will be made on thebasisof a report prepared 90 days earlier by the PCT. Based
on the review, the MSP shall promptly prepare an action plan, accepable to IDA,
for the further implementation of the project and the program, and shall thereafter
implement such action plan.
(d)   Ihe PCr would be responsible for coordinating IDA supervision missions and
participating in them.
(e)    Prolect conmletion rep=rm   Within six monts of the Credit clin  date, a
completion report, prepared in accordance with terms of refrence sasfactory to
IDA, would be transmitted to IDA.



77
Annex 4I
Page 2 of 2
ThliLL 
SUPERVISION PLAAN
IDA FISCAL             ACTIVITY                     SKILL           STAFF
YEAR (FY)                                       REQUIREMENTS       WEEKS
AND APPROX.
DATES    ___ .
FY95     PREPARATION FOR AND IMPLEMENTA-   CIVIL wORKS, PROCURE-   6
NOV-DEC   TMON OF PROJECT LAUNCH WORKSHOP    MENT, DISBURSEMENT.
1994    AND FIRST SUPERVISION MISSION TO RE-  HEALTH. AND PROJECT
VIEW PROJECT START-UP AND PROCURE-  MANAGEMENT.
MENT.
APR-MAY    SUPERVISION MISSION              CIML WORKS/IMPLEMEN-     6
1995                                      TATtON, HEALTH, PRO-
JECT MANAGEMENT.
FY96     1ST JOINT ANNUAL REVIEW MISSION: RE- PUBLIC HEALTHPFRAINING  6
OCT-NOV    VIEW PROGRESS OF PAST YEAR PLAN  CIVIL WORKS SPECS.
1995    AND BUDGET FOR THE NEXT YEAR.     PROCUREMENT
PHARMACEUTICALS
SPECtALIST
APR-MAY    SUPERVISION MISSION             SAME AS ABOVE             4
1995
FY97     2ND JOINT ANNUAL REVIEW MISSION  SAME AS ABOVE            4
OCT-NOV
1996
APR-MAY    MID-TERM REVIEW: COMPREHENSIE RE- SAME AS ABOVE + FI-     6
1997     VIEW OF PROJECT INPUTS, OPERATIONS   NANCIAL ANALYST
AND OUTCOMES AND RESTRUCTURE
PROJECT IF NECESSARY.
FY98     3RD JOINT ANNUAL REVIEW MISSION  SAME AS ABOVE             6
OCT-NOV
1997
APR-MAY    SUPERVISION MISSION              SAME AS ABOVE            4
1998
FY99     4TH JOINT ANNUAL REVIEW MISSION  SAME AS ABOVE             6
OCT-NOV
1998
APR-MAY    SUPERVISION MISSION              SAME AS ABOVE            4
FY2000    PROJECT COMPLEIION MISSION       TO BE DETERMINED         6
NOV-DEC
20 00    _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _



-----------  ----------------------                                             - -    -----------   -   ----    -      ---------------    --     -- --    --    --     -    --     --     -    --     --     -- --     --        -- 
* .t
,   I.- _ t o                                             -------------
- 1.
^ @ r-----____--____----------------------_-_-_----_-_--_-----_-_-_---_-_---_-_-_-_---_-_- 
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~iW
*!                                   4-4-                        0              t                 4 -_
o  D             @   ~*                                Y                                                                             Y,
8~~~~~~ Ec                                                                                        a   ,"<S.        
g~~ ~~ ~ ~                                                           *   -0* _'_=_______        
S~~~~~                                                              zuc   .3*.tzoq  
-                                            -- -------------- - - 
W  ;  s n  . g    8 8 ^  *  R          p                                           3                             5 I
::    ,                                                                                     _________-_____-_--------------------             --
-                          g=:  .              ' .        .      z.g
~ ~~  ~~~~                      *         *: :"m                * ,                      ear                      asaaesag          a< Eo    t @  
L iS 0 ,  .   .    .                                                                                                     R i
w                       **   .4.~~~~~~~tow     
~~~~~~~: ~ ~     ~       ~       3  .     
0         :--.~~--.l  .! -                                                                                                                 '6
*  S                                                                                                     6~~~~~~
*  C     *                        .       5*5                        ,               ..
1-'  I   S      I &~~~~                         S                    ? a Is-as            0i       .     I        .
*   -  S  *5-.s        3        .       S .L                3.~~~~~~!:: L n.@   I L a S*6
*   0  5   ,        ,.-  w~~~~~A o   4.              SO                       ..        u     o          I.      4
*  ~          *       ~      W         U                 SLL         ~       U ~go.



79
Annex 4-2
Page 2 of 5
PRICK RIEW TRESHOU
C4TRACf PROfILE UT VALEIUEMUAER
Estimated            cumulatfv             Percentage
Range of          value (no.) of        value (no.)           of totat
contract values      contracts within         abov.              value (no.)
dinct. Contingencies)   each range            threshold                above
(USS thousand)       (USS million)         (USS million)         threshold
Cl)                 (2)                   (3)                   (6)
Value  Ih.aber       yalu   Number         Valu    mumr
1,000 and bovb          3.2        3          3.2        3           43X      13X
500 to 999         2.9        7          6.1       10           8t1      42X
=250 to 499          0.3        1          6.        i t          86X      46
30 to 249          1.0       4          7.4       1S           971      63X
0 to 29          0.2        9          7.6       24          1001      1001
Duration of procurement is about threo yeans
woRK
vatue   IudJ r          n    l.            v lue    u r
1000 and abov           0.0        0          0.0        0            0       OX
500 to999           t.4       2          1.6        2           302       11X
i0 to 49           9A         JL         1l        - Im                  1in
30 to 249         3.0       Is          4.68      1           1001    lOX
0 to 29           0.0       0          4.8       1S           1001     1001
Ouration of procurement is about four years
Note: Threshold selection corresponds to a dsirable perctag coverg of contract vatue: (aron 86X for
goods Xd 0t for works), which rquir  a reasonable individel woktloa  for the tak   wger, given th
project design an the use of a contrct mnagmit entity. (Any lor threhold for goods  ould rpuire
aditional staff ir,ut, ,Aich would not be reaistic ad desirable.



t   LETTlE NORITAT.                               I t
TESn NEEEIE                                       1
SNORT LISTE    LANWINJIT                PSIT
ESTI IlTlllETUES           /         I                       ITRTI  ITION
TYP E D  CONTRATS             EN IN IIIN4.ASSATN. AmUl OSOFFNE    Arm. 0o           KEs  mTWIis A oui aITRT siGoAUME  ACIEVWBENT
Wu f1f1111   3E         UINSIER           @1I      EESE  fOE COTaT  ENNI
ET   WlmUITS           EllS   'COI T  KTANSNI A ID                     OFFUE      OFFUES        ID'    FM LO' ISDW CONTRA? W  W      lT
OEBISE      (A)           MIE   DATE               DATE      ATE (S)   DSATE (C) D1T4 (0) 1OAE (E)
.                                               .... .._._.... .............._ _. .._     .._.
1.    _Ea      u                                       I-- -                                                                    ; -  -  -
ImIQ-E   OlsrIc                                  I C 
1.1. Etdbtir t. disgustic des trav  (PADS)       NA       TORs: 08.93                              NA N AA u   u          NA 
Finalisec to programee TOOs,
reperew   lettre d'lnvItetlon p                    I                                                             3           1
selection dum 1ET.                                                 f                                                          0
Fim liser tes Ilstes des eq|pi                                                                                                        i
des Rbpitaux et Cs.
1.2.  reprer rDES guide d         entretNe NA                                 NA                                                           I NA  N  NA  03.94
1.3. Etudes et dossler A.O. pour          12S   coMs         11.93          12.9S    |1.94        02.94   t03.94        04.94      10.94
traveas at qyp  ewnts.                     flNN m                                                     I
1.4. Prepwration dun guidde               20   C COs   I TOs: 03.94                                N A  A    O.         03.f       06.
entretien                                  IIDIV  T               T
1.S. Nael deo Procedures.                 12   CONS  'ATETIP. ACETtP          NA         NA        N A       02         03.93      03.94
1.6. VID (Appuls TedineWs            UNICEF      NA           TM |            NA         NA       0 03.94   1 06.94     08.94   t 06.981
Prefectur at Districts)                              tIICEP        t                                  I
Total A.1                            15?                                                  1           I ii
2.  FlIlUES ET BIBIEL                         t                                                                                                              OD
(towtn c_ustes,                                   ;                   I I                                                                               CD
1   le Is. umitim. oS et qzX             I                         I                       I N  10            1
2.1. Ffnalilsr toute  les lists.           9   CONS        TOM: 02.93         NA         NA       02.94      02.94      02.94      06.94
d'eq  ip ent                               INDtV                                          1           1          1       |O6.9 
2.2. Prep. A.o. at mrde.                  36   COS         TON: 02.94         NA     I  NA        03.94      03.94      03.94      10. 94 
Id' eWfpen                               I -mI 0                                                                            It ss 
Total 4.2                            45                                                   'i
S. laICP                                    .;                                                           I I
IIV]ISIZ Pll_CIEtI                                                  iI                        
3.1. EtabtlenPtanDireeteur tCIS   COMS                    ToR: 11.93         NA     j             03.94   J 03.94      04.94   1 10.94   |
lAvisfen Leoleatfon                     I               GislI
ICENITRAL O'ilAl4T            1
3.2. ElboratIon de Statut                  12| CoNS        TO: 11.93          NA         NA        02.94     03.94      04.94      10.94   1
(Conflls JuArldique)                      NIDIV          :                      1         1 I1094
3.1. stoe Informtiqe 4xx15J              0.02   CN TS         O: 06.94        N          NA        09.94   109.94   109.94   31094   1                   >
23I FINA        10:293N                                                                     0~;sw
3.4. Stage Cestion Centrale Actaat              CONlS     TNOR: 12.9A i                  N         0194   T03.94        03.94      t0.94 
(pirecteur pendant 9 mcit)               INSTITUt        O N1                            w1x
3.5. Etuds  Genie CIil (RENAl)            4s   COnS         OR: 12.93         NA         NA        02.94      03.94     04.94       10.94   1
at prepration di OA.                       FIR"         1            0             0
3.6. Appul Protean" et Profile             11   CONS         12.9           03.94       04.94       S 0.94    0 6.94    06.94  tters phmme 
ldo postes +  C sells on                 FIRMt1  a                                                                         09.94
recrut_ent persorem  et AT                                         I 502eMe phps*e
# Elaboration do guide des                                                                                                    0 1  09.98  :
ePredores * Audit TecbniqAe. ;                                                  1         f              4                    t0
3.? Ispecialiste Acquisition Nediael      54!  CONS        TOR: 12.93   j      A         NA        03.94     04.94      04.94   j 09.
tiotal  I.3                   1            16!STITI                 a                                                                 a
i7otat A.3                           162[___1....____i........t___                                                                    a



LETTRE IWVITAT.II 
1ESTINATIJETUODES SNORT LISTE   I LAMKZIE              PROPOITtO waNTTO.   AT MTION 
I    DE UNTRATS        1E1~~ ISNOOO1ASSAIDE     APPL DO EES I  PP  D                 DEES  NTRAT I GwEN 
TYPE DE COOMTS    N tOSSM   PASSAT       APPEL                                TROAFSNEIS A OfU ICfTRT SBATlER JACNEVEINUT)
ETCNPOSANTES                 f 0351      03STT 1TRAhSf1S A IDA  joFFtERs    OFFRES  jILO IDA   IPAM  #IOA 'fl CoNTRAT 10U OUTRATI
DE O  CA)DATEDATEDATE                                   TE(Cs)   DT   C          AE()DT  E
.   ......................... .. ..... ---------   ---------        -------     -----    ------    --------~*--  ------    ------
.1. Assistance a 10Organksation           366CN             O:0.3 1           N           A0.3                08.93      0893       119
de t('IEC au niveau centrat.               I iDIV                                                     It1
:2: jSminuf re                             7    NA            NA             NA         NA         N.9'      03.94N                11.93
:3Etude et preparatfon DA0pour           9     cCONSI    11.93              NA         NA029                0394 t 03.94   106.94
*rmnovation Locaux de Suresux.      ~        FIRM                                                                 ItI
.4.a Travaux de Renwvation Locaux j       95     LOC         07.94          08.94    109.94        10.94        NA       10.93      06.95
.5. Enquete                   ~~~~~47    CON    TOR* 03.93         NA         NA03.94              039        044        045
I                                    IND~~~~~~~~~~IIVa 
.6. Formtfan                      a arsMairm4    ICNSTI    TOR: 09.93   112.93    101.94           02.94      03.94      0.9        125
A4 TOTAL PRPARATION         6031                                                               
JPROGRANIE CONSTRCT ION CgsS
.1. Travaux Hopi tow              I      17      ice         11.94          12.94       02.95      03.95        NA   4,04.95        06.97
Travaux CSSJ   2.9231   LCD                              11.94      112 94          02.95      03.951    NA   1,04.95112.97:
.2. Equlpements Hopitaux et CSS        1.7321   Ice          10.94      101:95    103.95           04.95        M A      06.95      06.96   1
.3. Supervision Travaux & Equipt.        127 ICONS.FIRNJ    11.93.9         12.93       01.94      02.94   I03 94   a04.94          12.97                         C
.4. Gestion de Contrats           1       83 MCNS          TOR: 12.9;         NA         MA        02.94   103:94        04.94      12.97
.5. Assistance asx dfstrfcts         UNWICEF    NATNETA0IP                                                     694       0.4         69
Total 3.1                          6,036aI
DIVISION PHARNACIEaaa
11Aenseoeents deBureau                   40     LD a        11.94          12.94       01.95      02.95        NA    a04.95        03.96
:2  EquipeumLnt                   1      112:   CB01.95                 106.95          09.95  ,10.95           MA       04.95      04.96
.3.Acquisition Documesntation             4 a   CD           01.95          06.95       09.951   10.95   1 NA            049   ~04.96
.4. ~AssistSlo Ptanif./Administr .1       34    CONS       TOR: 03.94         M A        MNA       03.94      03.94   106.94        06.96
INSTIT                   a            aS
.5.INise a jour tiste medicmnents                                                        MAA099
a                              I~~~~~~~~~~~~~INSTtTI  OMS$1                                   
,6. 10ours.. atw r                            
a*Inspection Pharmncie                37                TO:O394MS-  MA                         03.94      0.             94      a69                     ~:
IRocumentation                          8 I INSTSIT        OHUS                   I         I           a                                                   t
,7. Stages Informatique (Local)   I        4    CONS       TOR: 0694          M A        NAM                    MA       a29        a3 9
s.aFIRM diFntomeet-aNAN                                                                             A       1.9         39
A.lFrals, de fontionnement    72   ATtE1           NA             M A        M A        M A         NA         MiA        MA                     -I
,9. ICENTEALE P'ACNAT                                                   a            a                                                                        t
jRtetsb. tureaa IL Nagslins           2201   LCD          10.94      a  12 94    ' 02.9         03.95   1    A        0.9        016 1
lOEqaIpemmnt  Nebular        145~U   i ce        12.94          049         0695       07.95        MA       08.95      12.95
,111,Acquihittan Docuw btation            2 5  AUTRE  I       3NA4            NA    ~06.951    NA               NA    108.95  1, 12.95
*t2lPrmwlection N.E.                   M A 2 PREQIA          0.94           06.94       08.94  109.94           M A        NA        M A
13a'Adsat N.E. A Contrwceptifs        1,900     lCD         10.94.94       12.94       02.95      03.95   a NA    105.95           12.95 1
:14,A.1.                                810 ICONS.ID       TOR: 03.9         OHVS        NA        03.94      0.4 106.94   a12.97
.1S Personnael Centrale Achat     J      30.-  ICN.D       TOR: 03.94   1     NA    N     A094                04.95      06.95   112.97 



I                              '         5          LETTRE IWYITAT. I                      I          I          t
|                1          55        ~~~~~~~~TOMN  IEfERE4rX                            II     
SOT LISTE    LANCEIENT               UOPOSITICN5
!ELsTENATIONIIETHODES       /         ONISULTATION          I-TTREUUHN            t
TWPE DE aNNUAlS  lE  S pAS I OEDOSSIER    cU       REISE  :OE O0TRAT 1 EXAJEU
T PE DE 004TRATS             JEH UESMMJOOPASSA%Tlh  APPEL D'OFFRES   APPEL 0',    DES   TRAMSRNS A tWD CONTRAT SIGATURE IACNEVENEWTI
ET CoMATES                      CMffS   I atNAT   T MaNIS A IDA        OSFftES    O oFFRES      L'IDA  I'PA L'IDA ',u aCItAT'WU CONTRATI
I  DI B SE NW  (A)         DATE           DATE       DATE     ATE (S)   DATE (C)  DATE () 3DATE CE)
._.  ..... _..........._...... ...... _.... ..... .... ......                            ------- ........... ------ .._.. ,_ ..*.. .... ._
3.                          X                                            I           i
3. .Renovatlon atiment                PADS         .                          .                            t -  -
3.2.1Equipei nt                                                                                     A 110.94   t A  iA  01.95      04.95
3 3: Naterlel IEC                         201   ICB          06.94          09.94       10.94       M NA   i MA         01.95   104.95   t
3:4bA. T.                                2431  CONS   1    03.94              N NA       MA        09.94   1 tO.94    1 12.94      12.96   t
|                             t t"~~~~~~~~~~ISTIT        tUNICEFt:t5t
3.6. I prlawerle Nwmts IEC                45 5  LC    j        MZA      |  09.94    t10.945   MA               M NA    t12.94    03.95
3.7.fFormation                             22   CONS           NA       508.94    110.94            MA         MA       01.95      12.95
jTotal 3.3                           520 |
4:1 Et abcwatlon du                   PA 1DS    c              MA             MA         MA         NA     }              NA       03.94
Ofbnaue  des Procedwees5ttt
4.2 Rise mn place ystem               PADS      CONS       TOR: 02.94       03.94       04.94      05.94   1 05.94   t 06.94   5 09.94
gestion cowptable *t f inenci*rl           INOIV                                                      tOtt
* Appul coptable durant                                            ;            ;                                             06.98   t
I'execution di prolet.       t                                     I            I         t
4.3  Audit dck  ccaptes du projet        235    CONS         02.94          03.94    :04.94:   05.94   t 05.94          06.94   5 06.98   t
4.5  Spci tfo  arches                     60    COAS TDR: 03.94               K  MA                MA        06.94   t 09.94   5 06.97
4.6  SpecilIste. (testion1Coepte)         123   CONS       TMO: 03.94   |    NA          NA    5             06.94      09.94      12.98
s~ ~~~~~13 cmo I TOO:t 0394 te                                              *  lt
4.? equipment et VehIcules               10?                            1                                  1
TOTAL 3.4                                  "  S   5                                                   1         1 5
TOTAL 8140240S33             lJ..L814                                                                                                - _   !  ! _  
NAs Non applicabe; IDIsV  Consultant I.ivi&duel; TR: Terus de reference.
(a): IUTaInt.rnatfonul; LOCuLocal; QUOT3 quotations; CONSwConsultants
(b): 60 jour. apr.. to date lifitt d'ouverture des otffres
Cc): aewlimnt pou les contrats de consultnts
(d): 60 jourw  minimum qre  I telex de non-objection do l'IOA
e): 3-6 sols pour tea equipaments et 6    U1 mios pour los travaux.                                                                                   b
A:114-2
Unl



CHAD
HEALTH AND SAFE MOTHERHOOD PROJECT
DI smen Ptofbraofl de D.eboISernIt
MA   i9wuwe  ntu             P           ofduI
_ fulws                                         9 9s  _
IDA    h- fRe ye- -~ iui                                                                   H@h ed Sif MctheAaodPrajct  R            AeglndSec. rof 
_.~~9 OUitU    ci tv               Cueit    Sector
Au    _     h &a4Wi*e                               ra                              100.00%                                                                                       a
ID,4 a   ouewms  hWtd n*s,   cC           C,e*      om&b 
(US ndlkonl  (US$         tSkIn 1%1  Ml
1995       1             0.4         0.4    2.03%     0.00%                          90.00%
2            0.4         0.a    4.056%    1.00%                      s;r
3            0.4         1.1    6.08%     2.00%                      Z
4            0.4         1.6    8.1S%   3.00%                          80.OO%
II)"        I            0.5         2.0   10.81%     7.00%
2            0.5         2.6   13.51%   10.00%
3            0.5         3.0   16.22%    16.00%                          7O.0%
4            0.5         3.6   18.92%    18.00%                                                                                       r
1997        1            1.4         4.9  2B.35%    22.00%                       i f
2            1.4         6.3   33.78%    27.00%
3            1.4         7.6  41.22%   30.00%                                                                                    f
4            1 A         9.0   48.65%   34.00%
1998        1            1.6        10A   58.78%    38.00%                       *                                                       <
2            1.5        12.0   64.88%   42.00%
3            1.5        13.5   72.97%   46.00%                           4 4000%
4            1.5        15.0   81.0%   50.00%                        t
tunO       1             0.5        15.6   83.78%    54.00%
2            0.5        16.0   80.49%    58.00%                          30.0S 
3            0.5        16.5   B9.19S   64.00%                       19 ' 0%
4            0.6        17.0  91.89%    70.00%
2000        1            0.8        17.8   95.95%    70.00%                          20.00%
2            0.6        18.6  100.00%    82.00%
a~~~~~~                                                                  D
10.00%
0.00%
-      -                 hal~~~~b4  Yewr (Ezarcicel
___                 Y "'~~~~~~~~~~~~___
2 |
a-D



84
Annex 44
Page I of 2
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
HEALTH AND SAFE MOTHERHOOD PROJECT
Documents in the Project File
1.    "Plan d'Orientation, le Tchad vers l'an 2000", Ministere du Plan et de la
Cooperation.
2.    "Population, Health, and Nutrition", Africa Regional Series, December 1992, Report
No. IDP-122.
3.    'Seminaire Preparatoire Sante/Affaires Sociales - Table Ronde", MSPIAS,
N'Djamena 17-20 Juin 1992.
4.    "Table Ronde Sectorielle, Reunion de Suivi de la Conference de Geneve Im -
Diagnostic et Strategie, Tome I", MPC, N'Djamena, Janvier 1993.
5.    "Table Ronde Sectorielle, Reunion de suivi de la conference de Geneve Im -
Programmes d'action, Tome II", MPC, N'Djam6na, Janvier 1993.
6.    "Annuaire de staistiques sanitaires du Tchad", 1988-92, MSP, Dicvision du systeme
d'information sanitaire.
7.    "Plans nationaux de formation initiale et de formation continue des resources
humanies pour la sante, 1994-2000", MSP/Cellule technique de suivi de la table ronde
sectorielle, Fevrier 1994.
8.    "Rapport sur le redeploiement du personnel de santE", MSP/Cellule technique de suivi
de la table ronde sectorielle, mars 1994.
9.    "Renforcement et rdorganisation des Activites en matiere IEC pour la SantE,"
Programme Information, educadon et communication (IEC) pour la Sante, Consultant
Report, 1994.
10.   "Plan de financement des h6pitaux de district et des CSS", Consultant Report, 1994.
11.   "Le secteur pharmaceutique," Consultant Report, 1994.
12.   "Plan de financement du secteur de la sante 1990-2000 et des affaires sociales",
Consultant Report, 1994.
13.   "Cellule de Coordination projet sante et population," Dossier de consultation, Dec.,
1993.
14.   "Programme National SMI/BEF", MSP/Direction des activites de sante, 1993



85
Annex44
Page 2 of 2
15.   *Assistance aux deux pr6fectures du Guera et de la Tandjile-, janvier 1994, rapport
prepare par J. Perrot, WHOIICO, Geneva.
16.   *Liste nationale des medicaments essentiels genkriques", MSP/Direction des
etablissemnts sanitaires, Avril 1994.
17.   "Etat d'avancement des travaux du groupe national de preparation et de suivi de la
table ronde sante et affaires sociales", WHO Njamena, mars 1992.
18.   "Extension de I'Ecole nationale de santE publique et de securite sociale - rapport de
mission", 1992.
19.   'Etude sur la Couverture Hospitaliere de la vile de N'Djamena, PNUD, 1993.
20.   "Conference nationale de reflexion sur les soins de sante primaires - rapport final"
MSP/Direction des soins de sant6 primaires, 1991.
21.   "Poverty Alleviation: a Necessary Means to Growth in Chad - Country Assessment
and Policy Issues", UNDP, 1989.
22.   'Etude du secteur de la sante, vols. 1-10", CHEMA and SCET-TUNISE, MSP,
1989.
23.   "Analyse economique et financiere du secteur de la santE au Tchad", J.Perrot,
OMS/1CO, 1992.
24.   "Contribution a la reflexion sur la mise en place d'un recouvrement des couts dams
les structures sanitaires au Tchad", SECADEV, 1991.
25.   *Recouvrement des coets", MSPlPrefecture Socio-sanitaire du Mayo-Kebi, 1992.
26.   "La mise en place d'un systeme de recouvrement des coOts de la sante-, MSP1DG,
projet Vleme FED, 1988.
27.   "Etude du secteur sante au Tchad", F.Orivel, IRBDU - CNRS, 1991.
28.   'Apercu Nutritionnel", FAO, Tchad, 1991.
29. "Atelier de sante publique", MSP, VfIltae FED, 1990.
30.   "Projet de smuts des comitds de santE", MSP/Cellule medico-sociale/PADS



IBRD 25529
_._  *s %. s                           21                          bThe bo..dem.- coIors,
othew Wnoooho,, shown
CHAD                                                                                                  o i,  oo do
TCHAD                                                                                                 Sof on  dOsri
TCHAD  I                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LIBYA  a -Zh
HEALTH AND SAFE
MOTHERHOOD
SANTE ET MATERNITE
SANS RISQUE
PROJECT REGIONS                                                                                   N
REGIONS DU PROJET                                                                                            N              r 20-
Project Regions                      Main Roads                                                                       r
Project Regions                      Routes Primaires
Distric Hospitals to be built        Secondarv Roads
'   H6pithl de District a Construire       Routes Secondoires
E]  Hospital Center                       Rivers
Hopital Centrol                      Rivieres
Exisfing Regional Hospitals          Prefecture Boundaries                                                            !
Hopital de Prefecture Existanfts     limites des prefectures
Existing District Hospitals          International Boundaries
Q H5opit7l de Distrid Exist nts      Frontieres Intemabonale
rLOmTM      0 o    so   loo  ISO  200  250
S   '    '    I    '    '                                                                                                   1'' 
OllES O    50     100     5 
,/                                                                                              ,_'
iS                   /                                                                                    '        '   It;1
.1                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0~
,oNkou
IN I G E RX\        n@tO,
Maussoro ~    ~       ordn
0
Chad ;<9Muss3k    ~   %                                                                       <   SUDAN
f / __^ > T ; h \  
a                                 "Di~~~~~~~~~~Oebrene -
ii-        /         Ot ikam                     \
(             ~o~00x~KoSltwo                                   0
*-                                                   MOISSO Utbo    /  \CENTRAL AFRICAN
y    ,*z./t3:R XN                                                                          REPUBLIC
544104    mc |     p2p3p4cxx    pu35TR   F



16-                                                                                  17                                    LIBYA         *REPOF
CHAD / TCHAD                                                                                                                                                              EGYPT
REGION OF TANDJILE                                                                                                                                   NIGr
REGION DU TANDJILE                                                                                                                                                            '
HOSPITALS AND HEALTH CENTERS                                                                 o  10  20  30  40  50                                               / CHAD   '
HOPITAUX ET CENTRES SANITAIRES                                                                              KILOMETERS                                     ----                      SUDAN
NIGERIA P*S
EXISTING REGIONAL HOSPITAL                                                                                                                   f
HOPITAI PREFECTURE EXISTANT
*      EXISTING DISTR'ZT HOSPITALS                                                                                                                 .5,                    '
HOPITAL DE DISTRICT EXISTANT                                                                                                                              CE,TIAL/ _
EXISTING HEALTH CENTERS                                                                              CHARIAFRCAN REPUBC
~    HEALTH CENTERS TO BE CONSTRUCTED I
CHESLE DA CO ISTRICU OIOSNTIRE                                                                    BAGUIRM I/
o3     SOCIO-SANITARY DISTRICT HEADQUARTERS
CHEF-LIEU DE DISTRICT SOCIO-SANITAIRE::
O      ZONE OF RESPONSIBIUTY HEADQUARTERS                                                                                                                               I
CHEF-LIEU DE ZONE DE RESPONSABILWTE                      AO         Golo         'e                                                                             I
SOCIO-SANITARY DISTRICT BOUNDARIES                  /   A
UM(TE DE DISTRICT SOCIO-SANITAIRE                                                                       /
10-                     PREFECTURE BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                                        /        10
LIMITE DE PREFECTURE
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                  /                                                                                                               /
.MITES DE PAYS 
MAYO            -                             *~*            ~        Deress                                 AO Koblogtu,                             0Ndam
KEBBI                 .   mbolo   \                Miss&r                                           AODonogou
\            _ Newmo
/                   I                      N    A . Tchdkondji                                                                                                    /
/               0lnktchoro )G Tingo^chirou. \D      ,A          Ningo                                 0oMAbigut                            '    '       
, pMOnao            Kroumlal                                                                                                                      MOYEN \
AO goMonogoy  0  /    KdEolon         8$4Noungou                                                                                M O   YEN
Au oln I                                                      pODarba
KboAo,Bovka I                                ftKirbCHARI
* Berth              L8L&  /      Mangsi Bemboh           B6rA  KimrJ
,,   86Bero-Guidi- i      )                                   \                   Dormon Guidari       OGama
~~Biro-Guidi'                                     \~~~~~~~~~~ GPobri Ngolo  'L A~plat A
t    f                                             |  Dale           Tamio-NgoioO      J0A                                                                                   The boundories, colors,
OA                          A       ~               Mouroums TouilouLm       Tzo    Do  Mag                              denons,nat,nn and any
*         Nanga uT                  BiollimeO                    DOlbion                                                    A0         ango                           other information shown
>                                                               .60 onassu                                                                                                n this mop do not
al;Atou                     /                       AAGOmngo                                                  I                 imply, on the part of
zr  loooo           AO,:;!-.                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~The WorI*.Bankc Group, 
i  |   Dafro                               wot                          I   _,.                                      Mango                               any jurnent on the legal    w
0 D                                                                                                                            .,ouao'                      stus o?ayterritory,
/ Or aG ONE O CIDnTLLGNNorse
oraccptanetof snutch
-   C~~~~~~~~~CfJr,cKJTAI ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~boundaries.
LOGONE-ORIENTAL    1



18                                        191                                                                     LIBYA
The boundorses. colonrs,                                                                                                                                                 RLP-  t
denominations and any                                                B  A    T  H    A                                                            \                      tYn
other informotion shown                                                                                                   /
on this mop do not                                                                                                         K...
imply on the part of                                                                                                             *-       -    NIGER i      r
The World Bank Group                                                                                                                                          F j    e.. *gmoI
rany judIIment on the leo/                           -{                                                                                         
status ot any territory,                                                                                        Amgorkoe
or any endorsement                                                   Abrc                                                                                 CHA D
or acceptance of such                                                AbSUcAN
boundaries, .-,                                                                                                                                                        SUDAN
/ \ Ss>EreF  A     MongoIme  .  ..... 1>        NIGERIA,
\Djoukoulkouli                                   /
'N  ONGO~~~~n ~~Boro                                                               /-
'N MONGO                                                                    -2CENTRAL 
C H A R I  -          *             Soro.Arob2,  Kviorbro _EAE R O O                                                                                      AFRICAN REPUBLIC  "
B A G U I R M  I   /               AbIouyour0          iiKoubo Adougoul                           /                     t    i
-12^                                          `               /t  e            Niergui                                      '*                                                12
MoukouIouo              Bordongol
0f                                          log)                                CHAD /TCHAD
j                                                  -_ /Djimj-Woia                                                        REGION OF GUERA
*  QMokofi           /_  \*--->    !REGION DU GUERA
* !Maqnam                                                                 I    SALAMAT                            HOSPITALS AND HEALTH CENTERS
f                                                     Magnam            \>g                                       HOPITAUX ET CENTRES SANITAIRES
Ea Ggi'EXISTING REGIONAt HOSPITAt
Gogmi                                                   s) .... f                                         EXISTING   DISTRICT  HOSPITAL
Ipo                                ,y4Amkorouma                                                             HOPITAL DE DISTRICT EXISTANT
*   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~jina    ~       tefi                                                                                  o     DISTRICT HOSPITALS TO BE CONSTRUCTED
~~~~~Djona                                                                   0 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~HOPITAL DE DISTRICT A COtNS TRUIRE
EXISTING HEALTH CENTERS
; \  .... ^CSS EXISTANTS        1      1
A   3  ....HEALTH CENTERS TO BE CONSTRUCTED
A  CSS A CONSTRUIRE
*             5000~~SCI-SANITARY DISTRICT HEADQUARTERS
1              ~~~~CHEF-LIEU GE DISTRICT SOCIO-SANITAIRE
ZONE OF RESPONSIBIUTY HEADQUARTERS
0     CHEF-LIEU GE ZONE DE RESPONSABILITE
I'*\ | ....... _ _ SOCIO-SANITARY DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
Sphingul                                           L UMITE DE DISTRICT SOCIO-SANITAIRE
**   ,_                           /8OShingil                   /  1         .......    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PREFECTURE BOUNDARIES
r  \. _                                         ,. _   I                           Z. r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LLIE DE PREfECTURE
* -'-''  /  (                 '   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
MOYEN  -  CHARI'i*        ___I**/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*  / ~~LIMITESDE PAYS10
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O I, ,.                                                               I
MOYEN  -CHARI                                                                                                       K  ItOMETERS
X        1                         1~       ~        ~       ~        ~       ~~~~~~~~~~~8   19^                         20O' 



