Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2626 CD
Development Credit Agreement
(Health and Safe Motherhood Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated June 30, 1994
CREDIT NUMBER 2626 CD
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 30, 1994, between REPUBLIC OF CHAD (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS the Association has received a letter dated May 14, 1994, from the 
Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
strengthen the management and operation of the Borrower's health sector (hereinafter 
called the Program), and declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the 
Program;
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Page  2
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of 
Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"CFA Franc" and "CFAF" mean the currency of the Borrower; 
 
(b)
"CMA" means a construction management agency, satisfactory to the 
Association, employed by the Borrower to manage the construction activities under Part 
B.1 of the Project;
(c)
"CPA" means the central pharmaceutical purchasing agency (Centrale 
pharmaceutique d'achats), established by the Borrower under Part C.2 of the Project 
for the purchase and sale of essential drugs;
(d)
"District" means the health administrative districts established by MOPH 
to manage the delivery of health services;
(e)
"IEC" means health information, education and communication activities;
 
(f)
"IEC Division" means the Division de l'Information, Education et 
Communication within MOPH;
(g)
"MOPH" means the Borrower's ministry responsible for public health, the 
Ministry of Public Health;
(h)
"National Drug Policy" means the Borrower's national drug policy 
(Politique Nationale Pharmaceutique), adopted October 2, 1992;
(i)
"National Redeployment Plan" means the plan regarding the deployment of 
health personnel adopted by the Borrower in accordance with Section 6.01(a) of this 
Agreement;
(j)
"National Training Plan" means the plan regarding the training of health 
personnel adopted by the Borrower in accordance with Section 6.01(a) of this 
Agreement;
(k)
"PCT" means the Project Coordination Team, established in accordance with 
Section 6.01 (b) of this agreement to implement the Project;
(l)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(m)
"UNICEF" means the United Nations Children's Fund; and
 
(n)
"WHO" means the World Health Organization.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to thirteen million one hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 13,100,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Page  3
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
CFA Francs a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2000 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other 
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment date in 
that  year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each 
June 1 and December 1 commencing December 1, 2004 and ending June 1, 2034. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on June 1, 2014 shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years, and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by 
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments 
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each 
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification 
to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such 
installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on 
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, 
provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the 
grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Page  4
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial and public health practices, and with due regard to 
ecological and environmental factors, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For each fiscal year beginning before the Closing Date, the 
Borrower: (a) shall adopt an annual budget for the health sector which shall include a 
specific budgetary chapter for drugs and regional operating costs for health services 
(excluding personnel), and (b) shall thereafter implement such budget in a timely 
manner.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall implement, in accordance with the schedule 
agreed upon with the Association, the National Redeployment Plan and the National 
Training Plan (as such plans may be modified from time to time with the consent of the 
Association), including the deployment of staff
to the facilities constructed and/or rehabilitated under Part B.1 of the Project.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall, following consultation with the Association, 
adopt not later than January 31, 1996 a three-year pharmaceutical plan, satisfactory 
to the Association, setting forth, inter alia, an action plan for the operation of 
MOPH's pharmacy division, budget requirements, and training programs for personnel.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall carry out, jointly with the Association, 
not earlier than October 1 and not later than November 30 of each year, a review of 
the progress made in carrying out the Project and the Program, including a review of: 
(i) progress reports, annual work programs, and budgets for the next year, (ii) 
training provided under the Project, (iii) procurement under the Project, (iv) the 
three-year pharmaceutical plan referred to in Section 3.05 of this Agreement, and (v) 
the status of Project monitoring indicators agreed upon with the Association.
(b)
The PCT shall transmit to the Association, at least 30 days prior to the 
review described in paragraph (a) above, a report, in scope and detail satisfactory to 
the Association, describing the status of the items listed in such paragraph.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower shall carry out, jointly with the Association, 
not earlier than April 1, 1997 and not later than May 31, 1997, a mid-term review of 
the progress made in carrying out the Project and the Program. This review shall 
cover, among other things: (i) progress reports, annual work programs, and budgets for 
the next year, (ii) training provided under the Project, (iii) procurement under the 
Project, (iv) the operation of the CPA, including its potential capacity to support 
the distribution of pharmaceuticals to health facilities, and (v) the status of 
Project
monitoring indicators agreed upon with the Association.
(b)
The PCT shall transmit to the Association, at least 90 days prior to the 
mid-term review described in paragraph (a) above, a report, in scope and detail 
satisfactory to the Association, describing the status of the items listed in such 
paragraph and of Project and Program implementation generally. In this connection, the 
Page  5
PCT shall employ independent auditors, satisfactory to the Association, to conduct a 
financial and technical audit of the Project under terms of reference satisfactory to 
the Association.
(c)
Based on such review, the Borrower shall promptly prepare an action plan, 
acceptable to the Association, for the further implementation of the Project and the 
Program, and shall thereafter implement such action plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance 
with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to 
the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than 
six months after the end of each such year, a 
certified copy of the report of such 
audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts 
and the audit thereof as the Association shall from 
time to time reasonably 
request.
 
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit Account or payment 
out of the Special Account was made, all 
records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to 
in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report 
of such audit contains a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of expenditure 
submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the
related withdrawals. 
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that a situation has arisen which 
shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be 
carried out.
Page  6
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
MOPH has issued instruments setting forth a national plan for the 
redeployment of health personnel and a national plan for the training of health 
personnel, each in form and substance satisfactory to the Association;
(b)
the Borrower (i) has established the PCT with terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Association, (ii) has established an accounting system and a 
financial management system for the PCT satisfactory to the Association, and (iii) has 
employed in the PCT a coordinator, an administrator, an accountant and a procurement 
officer, each with qualifications and experience and under terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Association;
(c)
the Borrower has entered into two agreements with WHO, each in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association, for carrying out Parts A.2 and C.1 of the 
Project, respectively;
(d)
the Borrower shall have employed an independent auditor satisfactory to 
the Association, under terms and conditions (including a multi-year period of service) 
satisfactory to the Association;
(e)
the Borrower has prepared bidding documents, satisfactory to the 
Association, for the procurement of the list of major civil works and goods agreed 
upon with the Association;
(f)
the Borrower and the CMA have entered into an agreement, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association, regarding the management of the 
construction and rehabilitation activities under Part B.1 of the Project;
(g)
the Borrower has entered into an agreement with UNICEF, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association, to assist in the execution of Part B.3 of 
the Project;
(h)
the Borrower has established the CPA by instruments satisfactory to the 
Association;
(i)
the Borrower has procured technical assistance to support the operations 
of the CPA, under procedures and terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association; 
and
(j)
the Borrower has provided to the CPA sufficient facilities for the 
start-up phase of its operations and adopted a facilities expansion plan for the CPA, 
each satisfactory to the Association.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister for Planning and Cooperation of the Borrower is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Page  7
Ministry of Planning and Cooperation
BP 286
N'Djamena
Republic of Chad
Cable address:
Telex:
 
MINPLAN
5329 KD
N'Djamena
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
By /s/ Favitsou Boulandi
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                                 Amount of the
                                Credit Allocated     % of
                                 (Expressed in     Expenditures
Category                         SDR Equivalent)  to be Financed
(1)       Civil Works               3,050,000       100%
Page  8
(2)       Pharmaceuticals           2,050,000       100%
(3)       Goods (other than         2,830,000       100%
          pharmaceuticals
          and training
          materials)
(4)       Consultants'              1,700,000       100%
          Services
(5)       Training and                710,000       100%
          Training Materials
(6)       Incremental               1,350,000       100%
          Operating Costs
(7)       Unallocated                1,410,000
                                    __________
          TOTAL                     13,100,000
                                    ==========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "incremental operating costs" means 
the cost of equipment and vehicle maintenance, office supplies, salaries for contract 
staff and other operating expenses incurred by the PCT, the IEC Division, the District 
health centers and the District hospitals in carrying out the Project.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for goods, 
works and services not exceeding $20,000 equivalent, under such terms and conditions 
as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in increasing access to 
quality basic health, nutritional, and family planning services, and reducing infant, 
child and maternal mortality, and to improve the Borrower's management of the health 
sector.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Health Sector Management
 
1.
Implementation of the Borrower's program to decentralize health planning and 
management activities to the regions, including: (a) the development of mechanisms to 
ensure actual expenditure of budget allocations at the regional level, (b) the 
establishment of a standardized and simplified accounting system at the regional 
level, (c) the preparation of long-term financing plans for the regions, and (d) 
related training of MOPH and regional staff, and the staff of the Borrower's Ministry 
of Finance and Computerization.
2.
Strengthening the quality of training of District health personnel through (a) 
the development and implementation of standardized modules for managerial and 
technical training programs addressing, inter alia, pre and post-natal care and child 
nutrition, and (b) strengthening the curricula of basic training courses at the Ecole 
Nationale des Agents Sociaux et Sanitaires.
3.
Strengthening the institutional capacity of MOPH to develop and implement a 
nationwide health information, education and communication (IEC) campaign, and 
improving the implementation of IEC campaigns, including: (i) strengthening the design 
Page  9
and operational capacities of the IEC Division to 
design and implement IEC campaigns, (ii) training MOPH staff, (iii) conducting 
workshops, (iv) conducting studies to be used to design IEC campaigns, and (v) 
acquiring equipment to support  implementation of IEC campaigns.
4.
Strengthening the institutional capacity of MOPH's Bureau de Cooperation et 
Etudes to coordinate and manage donor assistance to the health sector. 
Part B:
Guera and Tandjile Assistance
 
1.
Rehabilitation, construction and equipping of health facilities in the Guera and 
Tandjile regions, including: (a) rehabilitation of about 14 health centers, (b) 
rehabilitation of three District hospitals, (c) construction of about 44 health 
centers, (d) construction of one District hospital and related facilities, (e) 
rehabilitation and construction of facilities for District health teams, and (f) the 
provision and maintenance of medical equipment and vehicles.
2.
Implementation of a skills-upgrading program for District health personnel to be 
deployed in health centers and hospitals in the Guera and Tandjile regions.
3.
Improving the management and delivery of health services in the Guera and 
Tandjile regions, and strengthening community participation therein, through: (a) 
implementation of a community financing program (including cost-recovery) for the 
provision of health services and drugs, to be managed through local health committees, 
and (b) the provision to District health centers and hospitals of drugs, medical 
supplies and micronutrients. 
Part C:
National Drug Policy
 
1.
Strengthening the capacity of MOPH's pharmacy division to plan and manage 
pharmaceutical programs in support of the National Drug Policy, including (a) the 
development of a pharmaceutical plan, (b) establishment of a drug registry reflecting 
existing pathological conditions, (c) analyzing the regulatory framework in light of 
the goals of the National Drug Policy, (d) periodic review of the list of essential 
drugs in light of demand, (e) strengthening the pharmaceutical inspection and quality  
control mechanisms, and (f) establishment of an information program regarding the use 
of essential drugs.
2.
Improving the efficiency of the procurement and distribution to health 
facilities of essential drugs and medical supplies through the establishment and 
operation of a central pharmaceutical purchasing agency (CPA), including (a) the 
rehabilitation of office facilities, (b) the acquisition of
equipment, an initial supply of essential drugs and medical supplies, and (c) training 
of staff.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1999.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in 
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
(a)
For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid referred to in paragraph 
2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract award is delayed beyond the 
original bid validity period, the successful bidder's bid price will be increased for 
each week of delay by two predisclosed correction factors acceptable to the 
Association, one to be applied to all foreign currency components and the other to the 
Page  10
local currency component of the bid price. Such an increase shall not be taken into 
account in the bid evaluation.
(b)
In the procurement of goods and works in accordance with this Part A, the 
Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding documents issued by the Bank, with 
such modifications thereto as the Association shall have agreed to be necessary for 
the purposes of the Project. Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been 
issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding documents based on other 
internationally recognized standard forms agreed with the Association.
2.
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped into bid 
packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or more.
3.
Goods procured under this Part A shall be exempted from pre-shipment price 
inspection by a third party inspection firm.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Chad may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Preference for Domestic Contractors
 
In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.1 hereof, the Borrower may grant a margin of preference to domestic contractors in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Items or groups of items (i) for works (except for the rehabilitation of three 
District hospitals and the construction of one District hospital) estimated to cost 
the equivalent of $100,000 or less per contract, and for the rehabilitation of CPA's 
facilities, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $3,400,000, or (ii) for goods, up 
to an aggregate amount equivalent to $300,000, may be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Association.
2.
Items or groups of items for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $30,000 
or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $200,000, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations 
obtained from at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance 
with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part E:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts: 
 
(a)
With respect to each contract for goods and works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $250,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be 
made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the 
two conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Association 
pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association prior to the 
making
of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the 
Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part 
of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
Page  11
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Credit Account are to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
1.
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall 
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of 
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be 
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association 
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and 
by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the 
Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, the Borrower shall employ 
such consultants under contracts using the standard form of contract for consultants' 
services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the 
Association. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the 
Bank, the Borrower shall use other standard forms agreed with the Association.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association review or approval of budgets, 
short lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation 
reports and contracts shall not apply to (a) contracts for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each or (b) contracts 
for the employment of individuals estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each. 
However, said exceptions to prior Association review shall not apply to (a) the terms 
of reference for such contracts, (b) single-source selection of consulting firms, (c) 
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Association, (d) 
amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract 
value to $100,000 equivalent or above, or (e) amendments to contracts for the 
employment of individual consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent 
or above.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
The Borrower shall operate the PCT under terms of reference, and with staffing 
(including their qualifications and experience) satisfactory to the Association, and 
shall not replace the PCT's coordinator, administrator, accountant or procurement 
officer without the prior consent of the Association. The PCT shall be responsible 
for, inter alia: (i) the transmission to the Association in April and October of each 
calendar year of progress reports on project implementation, in detail satisfactory to 
the Association; and (ii) the organization of the annual project implementation 
reviews and the mid-term review referred to in Sections 3.06 and 3.07 of this 
Agreement.
2.
In carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall adopt not later than October 30 
of each year, and thereafter implement, an annual training program for the subsequent 
calendar year, satisfactory to the Association, which shall conform to the 
requirements of the National Training Plan (as such plan may be modified from time to 
time with the consent of the Association). For purposes of Part A.2 of the Project, 
the Borrower shall provide training in IEC subjects, resource and expenditure 
management, diagnostics and essential drugs treatment schemes.
3.
The Borrower shall carry out Part A.1 of the Project in accordance with an 
implementation plan satisfactory to the Association, which shall provide, inter alia, 
for the participation of the District chief medical officers in the preparation of 
regional health budgets under the responsibility of the
Delegue Prefectorial de la Sante.
4.
In carrying out Part A.3 of the Project, the Borrower: (a) shall operate the IEC 
Division under terms of reference and with staffing (including their qualifications 
and experience) satisfactory to the Association; and
Page  12
(b)
shall carry out Part A.3 of the Project in accordance with the 
operational plan developed by the IEC Division.
5.
The Borrower shall operate the community financing program (including 
cost-recovery) under Part B.3 of the Project under terms of reference satisfactory to 
the Association, which shall provide for, inter alia: (a) phased introduction of the 
cost recovery program in coordination with the rehabilitation and construction 
activities under Part B.1 of the Project and the drug distribution activities under 
Part C of the Project, (b) representation on local health committees of community 
representatives and
health personnel, (c) implementation of a monitoring program, and (d) UNICEF 
assistance for the execution of the program.
6.
In carrying out Part C.1 (c) of the Project, MOPH shall prepare, not later than 
two years after the Effective Date, a report, in scope and detail satisfactory to the 
Association, reviewing the regulatory framework affecting pharmaceutical products and 
recommending modifications thereto to support the implementation of the National Drug 
Policy.
7.
In carrying out Part C.2 of the Project, the Borrower shall:
 
(a)
operate the CPA in accordance with detailed operational procedures 
acceptable to the Association, which shall provide, inter alia, for (i) the CPA to be 
responsible for centralizing the purchase of essential drugs, (ii) the CPA to employ 
competitive procedures for the purchase of essential drugs, (iii) the CPA to enjoy 
operational autonomy, promote its financial autonomy, employ a limited staff and 
otherwise reduce operational costs, (iv) the CPA to be operated on a not-for-profit 
basis, (v) the CPA to establish a computerized inventory management system, 
appropriate accounting practices, and adequate quality control systems, and (vi) the 
CPA to sell solely to public sector health centers and not-for-profit health centers;
(b)
operate the CPA with staffing satisfactory to the Association, and, in 
this regard, employ a director and accountant within CPA, beginning not later than 
three months after the Effective Date, each with qualifications and experience and 
under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association and shall not replace such 
director or accountant without the prior consent of the Association;
(c)
not modify, repeal or suspend the instruments establishing the CPA 
without the prior consent of the Association;
(d)
subject the CPA to semiannual financial and management audits, in scope 
and detail satisfactory to the Association, by independent auditors satisfactory to 
the Association;
(e)
establish a management board to oversee the activities of the CPA; such 
board shall operate under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, which 
shall provide, inter alia, for representation thereon of MOPH, regional and District 
health committees, donor agencies and non-
governmental organizations;
(f)
adopt not later than June 30 of each year, and thereafter implement, a 
training program for CPA's staff for the subsequent academic year satisfactory to the 
Association; and
(g)
the CPA shall occupy, not later than June 30, 1995, the facilities agreed 
upon with the Association.
8.
The Borrower shall comply with its obligations, and shall cause WHO, UNICEF, and 
the CMA to comply with their respective obligations, under the agreements referred to 
in Section 6.01 of this Agreement. The Borrower shall not amend, waive or otherwise 
modify any provisions of any such agreements
without the prior consent of the Association.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
Page  13
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (6) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $500,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed 
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower 
shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the 
Special Account at such intervals as the 
Association shall specify.
 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by 
said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitmententered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
Page  14
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that 
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
