Document of             ILE
The World Bank                         CliP Y
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3134-COM
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
FEDERAL ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF THE COMOROS
FOR A
SECOND HIGHWAY (MAINTENANCE) PROJECT
October 20, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Comorian Franc (CF)
(The CF is fully convertible into the French Franc at CF 50 = FF 1 )
Calendar 1980                 September 1981
US$          =  CF211.3               CF 292
CF1,000      =  US$4.74               US$3.42
CF1,000,000  =  US$4,740              US$3,425
(The Staff Appraisal Report is based on US$1=CF250)
Government FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
COMOROS
SECOND HIGHWAY (MAINTENANCE) PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:       Federal Islamic Republic of the Comoros
Beneficiary:   Ministry of Equipment and the Environment
Amount:         SDR 5.6 million (US$6.3 million equivalent)
Terms:          Standard
Co-lender:      African Development Fund (US$5.8 million equivalent)
Project
Description: a)  Objectives:  To continue improving the condition of the
existing road network, thereby reducing transport costs and
increasing accessibility to isolated areas, and to increase
the road maintenance capability of the Ministry of Equipment
and the Environment through on-the-job and formal training
of local road maintenance personnel at all levels.
b) Major Components: (a) 3-year road maintenance and improve-
ment program to: (i) upgrade about 186 km of earth
roads to an all-weather gravel standard; (ii) reseal about
240 km of paved roads; (iii) maintain gravel roads and
patch on a regular basis the existing paved road network;
(b) technical assistance and training; (c) study to
ascertain the potential for the use of labor-intensive
techniques in road maintenance and improvement operations.
c) Benefits: Increased accessibility of the rural population
to social facilities; reduced transport costs; better
road conditions resulting in lower maintenance costs;
institution building in road administration and maintenance.
d) Risks: Government's possible inability to provide local
funds, and possible delays in project implementation. However,
adequate measures (including the creation of the Road Fund)
have been taken to ensure availability of Government funds
for the project.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Project Costs:
US$ million
Local Cost      Foreign Cost      Total Cost
Road maintenance equipment                    0.01             0.88             0.89
Road improvement and maintenance
operating costs                            2.00              6.16             8.16
Technical assistance (186 man-months)         0.23             2.09             2.32
Fellowships (60 man-months)                   0.03             0.29             0.32
Study (6 man-months)                          0.01             0.07             0.08
Subtotal                                2.28             9.49            11.77
Contingencies:
Physical                                    0.23             0.95             1.18
Price                                       0.39             1.36             1.75
Total Project Costs                     2.90            11.80             14.70
Total Project Costs, net of taxes       1.70            11.80             13.50
Financing Plan:
US$ million                      Percent of
Local     Foreign      Total                 Total
IDA Credit                  0.29        6.01         6.30                 47
African Development
Fund Loan                 0.01        5.79         5.80                43
Government                   1.40        -           1.40                 10
Total                  1.70       11.80        13.50               100
Estimated                                            US$ million
Disbursements:       IDA FY            1982      1983      1984    1985
Annual            1.20      2.20     2.10    0.80
Cumulative        1.20     3.40      5.50    6.30
Rate of Return:        17 percent (for those project costs for which benefits
have been quantified).
Staff Appraisal
Report:              3450-COM, dated June 3, 1981.
Maps: IBRD 15583
15584
15585



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE
FEDERAL ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF THE COMOROS
FOR A SECOND HIGHWAY (MAINTENANCE) PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Federal Islamic Republic of the Comoros 1/ for the
equivalent of US$6.3 million on standard IDA terms to help finance a second
highway (maintenance) project. The project would be cofinanced on a parallel
basis with a loan of US$5.8 million equivalent from the African Development
Fund for a period of 50 years including 10 years grace, with an administrative
charge of 0.75 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
Background and Economic Structure
2.        A report entitled "The Economy of Comoros":  (Report No. 1626a-COM)
was distributed to the Executive Directors on July 26, 1977. An updated
version was published in red cover in July 1979 under the title: "The Comoros-
Problems and Prospects of a Small Island Economy." A country economic memo-
randum, reflecting the findings of an economic mission which visited the
Comoros in December 1980, is under preparation. The following summary is
based on the findings of that mission. Country data sheets are provided in
Annex I to this report.
3.        The Comoros archipelago consists of four main islands stretching
over a distance of 270 km at the northern end of the Mozambique channel; the
distance between islands ranges from 50 km to 90 km. With a per capita income
of US$260 in 1979, the Federal Islamic Republic of the Comoros is among the
poorest countries in the world and is considered by the United Nations to be
one of the least developed countries. The archipelago is heavily populated
with 400,000 iPhabitants in an area of 2,166 km . The population density (185
inhabitants/km ) is among the highest in the Eastern Africa Region, parti- 2
cularly when the ratio of population to cultivable land (325 inhabitants/km )
1/   The Comoros Archipelago consists of four islands:  Grande Comore, Anjouan,
Moheli and Mayotte. The Government of the Federal Islamic Republic of the
Comoros has effective control over the first three islands. Mayotte is
still under French administration. Unless otherwise indicated, future
references to the Comoros in this report exclude Mayotte.



is taken into account. The islands are volcanic in origin, fairly rugged, and
covered with lush vegetation. They have a marine, tropical climate and
receive over 2 meters of rain in the rainy season. Their topography creates
several microclimates as a result of which a variety of crops can be cultivated.
4.        Agriculture occupies the vast majority of the people, and over 80
percent of the population live in rural areas. Most cultivation is of food-
stuffs for local consumption, the main food crops being coconut, rice, cassava
and pulses. However, about 10 percent of the cultivated area is planted with
high-value cash crops, the most important being ylang-ylang, coconut, vanilla,
and cloves. These cash crops and copra account for virtually all export
earnings. Farming methods are inefficient and yields are low. As a conse-
quence, food production is insufficient and food imports absorb almost the
entire export revenue. Protein foods, especially meat and fish, form a
small part of the diet and malnutrition is common.
5.        Non-agricultural activities in the Comoros are limited.  The very
small processing and manufacturing sector consists mainly of ylang-ylang
distillation into perfume essences, a small soft drinks bottling plant, a
sawmill and a soap factory. The social sectors, notably education and health,
were adversely affected by the economic difficulties of the country during the
1975-78 period, but recently the situation has started to improve, partly on
account of substantial external assistance. Education had already started
expanding rapidly before independence, and by 1978-79 enrollments in primary
schools exceeded 80 percent of the population in the 7-12 age group. However,
the system lacks relevance to the Comoros needs and the quality of education
remains poor. There is also a severe shortage of qualified Comorian teaching
staff, and a large number of teachers are being provided by the Arab League
and France.
6.        Population pressure is a serious problem in the Comoros.  It has
led to extensive deforestation and erosion by inducing farmers to extend
cultivation to higher slopes of the hills. Between 1968 and 1974, forest
areas declined by 44 percent. In the most densely populated island, Anjouan,
the decline was 69 percent. Erosion is aggravated by the farming methods
employed, particularly the lack of terracing. Population growth has also
increased the demand for firewood, imposing more strain on the forests. The
Government has recently undertaken a census with assistance from the United
Nations Fund for Population Activities. However, more active steps regarding
the control of population growth will require overcoming political and
religious obstacles. At present, there is no official family planning policy
or program.  The population is currently estimated to be growing by about
3.5 percent annually which, if continued at the same rate, would imply a
doubling of the population and the man/land ratio by the year 2000.
7.        Although statistical data are scanty, the available information
indicates that nutritional and health conditions are extremely poor. It is
estimated that one-half of all children die before reaching the age of four.
Most children suffer from malnutrition and intestinal parasites. About 80
percent of the adult population suffer from malaria, and a high incidence of



- 3 -
tuberculosis and leprosy is also reported. The Ministry of Health is unable
to cope with the situation because of its limited facilities and supplies of
drugs as well as the shortage of middle-level qualified personnel to carry out
health improvement programs.
8.        Transport, both internal and external, has always been a problem
for the Comoros. International sea transport is rendered costly and irregular
by the smallness and isolation of the islands. This situation is aggravated
by the absence of a deep water port and the lack of a natural site for port
development. Hence, large ships are reluctant to call at Comorian ports and
cargo has to be transshipped through the ports of neighboring countries, with
more costs and delays. Given the Comoros dependence on foreign trade, this
is a heavy economic burden, mitigated only in part by the use of air freight
for high-value export items. Sea transport between the islands depends mostly
on small steamers and dhows and is also hampered by the lack of adequate port
infrastructure. Within the islands, transport is limited by the lack of
reliable road connections between the coast and the hinterland. Because of
this, farmers have difficulty in bringing perishable crops to markets. Recent
assistance from several multilateral and bilateral agencies, including IDA,
is helping to improve the road transport situation.
Recent Developments and Near-Term Prospects
9.        The immediate post-independence period was marked by an acute
recession which was halted only in 1977 when new foreign assistance became
available to replace French financial and administrative assistance which was
suddenly terminated after independence. During 1977-78, GDP grew about 3.5
percent per annum, which meant a slight decline in per capita income, given
the high rate of natural population growth and the repatriation of about
20,000 Comorians expelled from Madagascar. The economy recovered in 1979
(with GDP growing by 9.5 percent) mainly as a consequence of the resumption of
budgetary support from France, the reconstitution of the administrative
services (which provided employment and stimulated internal demand), favorable
world prices for Comoros major export commodities, and the implementation of
a number of investment projects initiated by the previous Government.
10.       The performance in 1980 was less buoyant.  GDP growth is estimated
to have slowed to about 4 percent. The decline was mainly due to a fall in
exports of goods and services of about 30 percent in real terms over 1979 (to
about the 1978 level), caused by a virtual stoppage in vanilla exports. The
Government had encouraged exporters not to export vanilla, in an unsuccessful
attempt to keep prices at the unprecedentedly high level of 1979. A main
source of economic growth was the substantial rise in public investment, which
increased by an estimated 50 percent above the 1979 level in real terms.
11.       With respect to the balance of payments, the current account balance
turned from slightly positive in 1978 to a large deficit of US$13 million
(12.7 percent of GDP) in 1979; the deficit is estimated to have nearly doubled
to US$24 million in 1980. These deficits were financed by increases in capital
inflow from offical sources. After stagnating at around US$8-10 million over



- 4 -
the 1976-78 period, merchandise exports increased to US$18 million in 1979
(aided by vanilla exports which nearly trebled in value) but fell by 40 percent
in 1980 to a current level of about US$11 million. Customs records for the
first 10 months of 1980 indicate that there was a substantial setback in 1980
export earnings with all exports declining, except for cloves which are reported
to have picked up in the last two months of the year.
12.       Food and consumer goods account for about 70 percent of Comoros'
merchandise imports. Rice has traditionally represented a large share of
imports, accounting for more than 20 percent of total imports over the last
decade. Rice imports declined in volume under the Soilih administration, when
foreign exchange was scarce, but increased by about 16 percent in 1979. The
low share of intermediate goods imports reflects the small scale of Comoros'
industrial sector and the low level of investment in machinery and equipment.
A large increase in capital goods imports in 1980 reflected mainly investment
in road construction and maintenance financed by external aid agencies.
13.       Because of lack of data, it is not possible to analyze Government
finances before 1979. When the Soilih administration dismissed 70 per-
cent of the civil servants, budgets were no longer prepared and expenditures
were decreased periodically. Therefore, the first true budget was only
adopted in mid-1979, a year after the present Government came to power. All
archives and official records having been destroyed by the previous government,
it is not possible to reconstruct receipts and expenditures for the period
between independence and the beginning of 1979.
14.       Although total government outlays have been curtailed since inde-
pendence, in 1979 they were still almost three times the level of Government
domestic revenues, and the deficit was covered by a large inflow of external
assistance for both capital and current expenditures. Foreign aid disburse-
ments (grants and loans) amounted to almost twice the level of capital
expenditures. Government tax revenues are only a small share of GDP (11
percent) and depend mainly on indirect taxes on foreign trade. The heavy
reliance on indirect taxation on foreign trade is partly due to the low level
of taxable domestic production and income but it also results from the low
recovery rate of direct taxes which ranges from 74 percent for the tax on
profits to 7 percent for the general turnover tax. The Government has asked
for IMF technical assistance to implement improved tax collection procedures.
15.       Public enterprises suffer from inadequate organizational structure
and a lack of managerial skills. At present, their financial accounts are
sparse and unreliable. Available evidence indicates that there is a com-
plicated network of unpaid debts within the public sector. The Government,
therefore, needs to undertake immediate action to improve the financial
performance of the public sector. In particular, the accounting services of
public enterprises need to be strengthened and financial controls established.
16.       The Comoros have potential for development.  Improvement of agri-
cultural techniques should increase yields by a multiple. There is scope
for small-scale enterprises processing agricultural products and for some



import substitution. A possibility exists of attracting a quality tourist
trade. A prerequisite for progress in agriculture is suitable training and
an effective system of price stabilization that gives farmers remunerative
prices for their crops. Tourism will require a large investment in infra-
structure. The variety of crops cultivable in the Comoros is also a valuable
asset, since this means that new export opportunities are available to
the enterprising exporter and that export earnings will not be entirely
subject to the market for a single product. This is illustrated by the
experience of recent years when a depression in the ylang-ylang market was
offset by a rise in the price of cloves, after which vanilla prices rose
when the market for cloves declined.
17.       Several aid agencies are currently extending financial and technical
assistance to the Comoros. France resumed her assistance in 1978 and aid from
other sources has also been growing. Major donors include the African
Development Bank Group, IDA, Arab Funds, the United Nations Development
Program (UNDP), the European Development Fund and France. The Bank is
Executing Agency for a Planning Assistance Project being financed by the UNDP
and the implementation of the project started in January 1981. The external
debt of the Comoros remains relatively small and concessionary in its terms
owing to the predominance of ODA transfers and the absence of commercial bank
lending.
18.       The Comoros will have to continue to rely on foreign financial
and technical assistance, on terms as concessionary as possible. Current
revenues are still insufficient to run Government services and it will take
some time before an adequate administrative base can be built up and Government
revenues increased. In the medium term, external assistance from Arab sources
and France, maintained in real terms at its present level, would be critical to
allow a modest growth of about 4.5 percent per annum. Growth prospects will
also depend on the Government-s ability to design and implement appropriate
development programs, mobilize domestic resources and strengthen the institu-
tions and improve their administrative capacity. The administration experiences
severe shortages of qualified staff and has a very limited capacity for project
preparation and implementation. Given the Comoros extreme poverty and limited
budgetary resources, donors should be prepared to accept a high cost-sharing
ratio in project financing, including the financing of local costs.
PART II - WORLD BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN COMOROS
19.       Comoros joined the Bank in December 1976 and the Association in
December 1977. To date, Bank Group operations in the Comoros include a
first IDA highway credit of US$5.0 million and a coconut rehabilitation
project for which IDA approved a US$5.2 million credit in 1980. Project
implementation in both cases is proceeding well. An EEC Special Action Credit
of US$700,000, signed in January 1980, helped finance additional road mainten-
ance needs and more technical assistance for the first highway project.



- 6 -
Government project preparation and implementation capability should gradually
improve with the recent start-up of a Planning Assistance Project financed by
the UNDP with the Bank as Executing Agency.
20.       Future lending to the Comoros will concentrate principally on agri-
culture and infrastructure, emphasizing institution building and technical
assistance. Possible projects in agriculture include a rural development
scheme and a reforestation program to provide fuelwood. An education project
to support primary education and vocational and paramedical training was
appraised in February 1981. The Government has decided to establish a develop-
ment bank and has sought Bank Group assistance in evaluating its economic and
financial justification.
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
21.       The transport infrastructure in Comoros comprises two seaports,
four airports (including one international airport) and about 762 km of roads.
There are no railways or navigable rivers. Comoros' long distances to foreign
markets, its small islands, the absence of a harbor for large ocean-going
vessels, and the rugged terrain create special transport problems and make
transport expensive.
22.       The islands  port infrastructure is rudimentary.  Only small vessels
can approach the existing quays at Mutsamudu in Anjouan, and Moroni in Grande
Comore. Other ships must lie offshore and be unloaded by dhows; during the
cyclone season (November to April), this procedure is dangerous and ships are
reluctant to call at the islands. Because Moheli has no port, small boats must
be handled at the beach near Fomboni. Most of the freight is shipped to the
ports of Mahajanga (Madagascar) or Mombassa (Kenya), from where it is trans-
shipped to Comoros. There is an inter-island shipping company, used mainly for
inter-island freight traffic and, to a limited degree, for passenger transport.
The Government is considering the construction of a deep-water harbor on
Anjouan, with financial assistance from BADEA.
23.       An airport capable of accommodating Boeing 707/300 type aircraft
has been recently constructed at Hahaya on Grande Comore. In addition, each
island has an airport suitable for DC4s. Although the number of airports is
adequate, all need some upgrading. Air Comores, operating three DC4s, serves
the inter-island traffic, which is the most important means of passenger
transport, given the lack of adequate passenger shipping services. Because of
difficulties in unloading ships through lighterage operations, high value
imports and exports are carried by air. There are weekly Air France flights
between Paris and Grande Comore.
24.       The road network comprises about 377 km of paved roads and 385 km
of gravel and earth roads and tracks. The length of the paved network is
adequate and its condition ranges from fair to good. Large portions of the
country are served only by tracks which become impassable during the 6-month
rainy season because of torrential rains. The vehicle fleet comprises about



- 7 -
1,800 units, mostly small and medium size cars. Traffic volume is low, and
road axes around the towns have higher traffic volumes, with 300 vehicles per
day in the vicinity of Moroni, the capital city, and on the road between Moroni
and the international airport at Hahaya. Before the start of the first
IDA-assisted highway project in 1979, road maintenance was carried out only
sporadically, as Government lacked an efficient administrative organization,
equipment and funds to adequately maintain and improve its road network. The
first highway project (US$5.0 million credit No 852-COM of October 13, 1978)
aimed to (i) establish a road maintenance organization and procedures; (ii)
implement a three-year road improvement and maintenance program; (iii)
improve the existing road network to reduce transport costs, prevent further
road deterioration and increase accessibility of isolated areas; and (iv)
create a local road maintenance capacity through technical assistance and
training.
Progress under the First Highway Project
25.       To achieve the above objectives, the first highway project provided
for the acquisition of substantial equipment for establishing one road
improvement and maintenance unit, two patching units and one resealing unit,
and the financing of part of the units operating costs over a three-year
period. The project is in its last year of implementation and is progressing
satisfactorily. The 3-year road maintenance program has already met most of
its initial objectives of establishing the basic administrative structure,
defining a work program and creating the necessary equipment repair facilities.
Other physical assets created under the project include rehabilitation of each
island's public works workshop and a soils laboratory. The Government has
also reorganized its public works administration since May 1979 and the new
structure appears to be functioning well. However, during project implementa-
tion, the shortage of local counterpart funds for local wages emerged as a
major constraint. To alleviate the problem, the Association agreed to assume a
higher proportion of local cost financing than originally anticipated.
26.       Works executed by the project include:  20.4 km of road construction
on Anjouan island, financed on a parallel basis by the African Development
Fund; reconstruction of 700 m of road, also in Anjouan; patching of the entire
paved network, resealing of about 55 km of paved roads (30 percent of target)
and improvement of 85 km of gravel roads (70 percent of target). The lower-
than-expected performance of the resealing and improvement units is attribut-
able to considerable delays in acquiring the equipment and technical expertise
needed to carry out these road operations. The delays were due essentially
to Government's unfamiliarity with Bank Group procurement procedures, and
the time required by the technical assistance team to settle in and commence
effective operations. Progress on the non-physical components of the
project has also been satisfactory. The reorganization of the highway
administration has been completed and the new structure is operating well.
About 150 Comorian staff at different levels have been trained and a feasibi-
lity study for the 20-km Miringoni-Nioumachoua road on Moheli island com-
pleted. The study unfortunately showed only a marginal rate of return (6



- 8 -
percent) for the proposed road, thereby making it unwarranted to pursue the
road's detailed engineering studies originally included in the project.
Road Transport, Industry and Regulation
27.       Passenger transport service is provided by owner-operated small
vehicles often with Renault 4 type vehicles or 1-ton pick-up trucks for
longer distance trips.  Freight is also carried on pick-up trucks.  There
are no public transport buses.  The Government has introduced since 1979 an
axle load limit of 8 tons; this limit is being enforced by the Ministry of
Equipment and the Environment.  A vehicle registration and inspection system
has also been put into effect.  While passenger fares are set and revised from
time to time by the Government, freight tariffs remain under the control of
the operators.  However, entry into road transport is subject to license at a
nominal fee, although no restrictions are imposed as to routing and the type
of freight to be carried.
28.       The present highway organization follows recommendations of a
consultants' study financed under the first highway project. The Government,
with technical assistance from consultants, has introduced procedures for
programming, budgeting, cost accounting, vehicle registration, and traffic
counts as well as guidelines for procurement, storage and maintenance of
equipment. Nevertheless implementation of the new procedures is still at an
early stage and limited technical assistance would still be required to
achieve full efficiency.
Transport Planning and Financing
29.       In Comoros, the responsibility for overall planning rests with the
Ministry of Finance and Planning. To compensate for the lack of experienced
and trained planning staff in that Ministry, a UNDP-financed Planning Assist-
ance Project, with IBRD as Executing Agency, has been under implementation
since January 1981. The Planning Assistance team is expected, inter alia, to
coordinate the planning activities of all technical ministries, including
those of Ministry of Equipment and the Environment. As regards the highway
sector, the Planning team would be responsible for drawing up a road
development program based on data and technical information and advice
supplied by the Ministry of Equipment and the Environment.
30.       Owing to the budgetary deficits of the Government and Comoros
balance of payments problems, road development and maintenance are financed by
external sources. The pace and level of investments in roads have been high
in relation to the country s overall budgetary resources. Expenditures in
road construction for the period 1974-1982 will total about US$35 million and
road maintenance operations will cost an estimated US$2.8 million in 1981. Of
the latter amount, Government will contribute only US$360,000, or 13 percent
of the total amount. Bilateral and multilateral aid donors for road develop-
ment include Kuwait, Saudi Arabia, France (technical assistance), AfDF, IDA,
OPEC Fund and FED.
31.       The Association has discussed with the Government two issues in the
transport sector: the high level of investments in road construction (which



- 9 -
generally show only marginal rates of return) which are mostly financed
from grant aid and other concessional sources and the Government's continuing
dependence on external sources for financing recurrent road expenditures. The
Government has agreed to exchange views with the Association, before undertak-
ing any capital investment in the highway sector during the next few years
(Section 4.03 of the draft Developmment Credit Agreement). As in the past,
our overall sector policy dialogue with the Government will continue to
stress (i) the need to shift emphasis from trunk road construction to mainten-
ance to avert further deterioration of the road network and to construction of
feeder roads; (ii) the desirability of a gradual reduction in road investments
with a view to achieving a better balance in resource allocation between the
different sectors of the economy; and (iii) the need for greater domestic
resource mobilization in the highway sector through periodic adjustments of
fuel taxes earmarked for the Road Fund, with the ultimate goal of getting the
Government to assume the full cost of road maintenance with its own domestic
resources. This policy dialogue would be pursued in the context of the second
highway project.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
32.       A report entitled "Federal Islamic Republic of the Comoros -
Second Highway (Maintenance) Project - Staff Appraisal Report", (No. 3450-COM)
dated June 3, 1981, is being distributed separately. A supplementary project
data sheet is provided in Annex III. The project was appraised by an IDA
mission in December 1980. Negotiations were held in Washington D.C. from
August 11, to 13, 1981. The Comorian delegation was led by Mr. Abdou
Moustakim, Minister of Equipment and Environment and included Mr. Faissoil,
Director of Equipment and Environment.
Objectives
33.       The objectives of the proposed project are to continue improving the
condition of the existing road network, thereby reducing transport costs and
increasing accessibility to isolated areas, and to increase the road maintenance
capability of the Ministry of Equipment and the Environment through on-the-job
and formal training of local road maintenance personnel at all levels.
Description
34.       The proposed project comprises:
(i) a three-year program (1981-1984) for improvement of earth
roads to all-weather gravel standard, resealing of paved
roads, and maintenance of all gravel roads; and regular
patching of the entire paved road network. To this end, the
project would provide additional road maintenance equipment,
spare parts and tires, and materials including fuel, lubri-
cants, bitumen, cement, steel, wood and gravel;



- 10 -
(ii)  technical assistance for improving highway maintenance and
for implementing the above-mentioned road improvement and main-
tenance program, and on-the-job training of local staff;
(iii)  fellowships; and
(iv)  a study to assess the potential for the use of labor-intensive
techniques in road maintenance and improvement operations.
(i) Three-year Road Improvement and Maintenance Program
35.       The program would include (a) the improvement of about 186 km
of earth roads; (b) the resealing of about 240 km of paved roads and the
regular patching of the entire paved road network, and (c) the subsequent
maintenance of the gravel roads in (a) above as well as those constructed
under the first highway project. The proposed improvement works on the earth
roads would include reshaping with or without roadbed widening, gravelling and
building, repairing and reinforcing drainage structures. To upgrade the earth
roads to gravel standards, two units will be needed: one will be assigned to
Grande Comore; the other to Anjouan. A lighter, multipurpose unit (road
improvement and resealing) will be assigned to Moheli island. Maintenance
would include reshaping, filling potholes, removal of pronounced ridges, and
clearing ditches, drains and drainage structures. Three maintenance units,
one for each island, will carry out routine maintenace of the entire gravel
road network. The design standards for gravel roads under the project were
agreed upon with the Government during negotiations (Section 3.08 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement). Furthermore, agreement was reached that, during
project implementation, the Government will furnish for the Association's
review and approval, three months before the beginning of eacn fiscal year
(i) an updated annual road improvement and maintenance program, and (ii) the
proposed budgetary allocation for the program (Section 3.07 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).
36.       The proposed works on paved roads will consist of resealing, filling
potholes, repairing pavement edges, surface sections and shoulders, and, where
critical, minor improvements of the alignment and widening of the pavement.
In line with a six-year resealing cycle, about 240 km of paved roads are
expected to be resealed during the project period. To carry out these works,
the following maintenance units will be needed: (a) two resealing units, one
assigned to Grande Comore and one to Anjouan. Moheli would have a multipurpose
unit (road improvement and resealing). Other units would include: (b) three
patching units, one for each island; (c) two shoulder reconstruction units,
one assigned to Grande Comore and one to Anjouan; and (d) five drainage units
whose main function will be to line ditches with stone masonry and to build
and improve culverts; two of these units will be assigned to Grande Comore,
two to Anjouan and one to Moheli. The number and composition of the patching
and resealing units were agreed upon at negotiations.



- 11 -
37.       It was originally intended that one improvement unit, one resealing
unit and two patching units set up under the first highway project could be
shared among the three islands as needed. However, our experience under that
project has shown that at least two improvement units, two resealing units and
three patching units, besides other ancillary units, are needed to carry out
the work effectively. Further, the first highway project was our first
involvement in Comoros and at that time the exact equipment needs of the
Comoros were not known. Under the proposed project, the composition of the
existing units needs to be modified in some cases to reflect experience to
date. Consequently the proposed project will provide the additional equipment
needed to modify and strengthen the units. The list of equipment to be
procured under the project was agreed upon with the Government at negotiations.
38.       The proposed project will also finance the purchase of materials
including fuel, lubricants, spare parts, bitumen, cement, steel, gravel and
wood as well as wages of local personnel.
(ii) Technical Assistance
39.       While the first highway project has trained a significant number
of Comorian staff, continued technical assistance will be required to properly
organize and implement road improvement and maintenance operations and conso-
lidate the gains made during the first project. The proposed project provides
186 man-months of technical assistance to assist the Government in continuing
to build the Ministry of Equipment and the Environment's road improvement and
maintenance capability through formal and on-the-job training of local staff.
The technical assistance will comprise the following personnel:
(a) a highway engineer (for 36 months) to head the consultants'
team and to assist the Ministry of Equipment and the Environment
in planning, coordinating and implementing the road improvement
and maintenance program and in training local staff in these areas;
(b)  three assistant workshop managers (for 36 months each) to assist
the workshop managers in organizing and supervising the mainte-
nance and repair of equipment and in training workshop staff;
(c) a mechanical engineer (for a total of 6 months) for short term
advisory services to the consultants' team leader; and
(d) two road foremen (for 18 months each) to be attached to the road
improvement units to help organize and execute road improvement
works and to aid the paved road units as necessary.
Technical assistance personnel will devote about half their time to formal
and on-the-job training of local staff. Local staff to be trained include
about 10 road engineers and technicians, 30 road foremen and 100 mechanics and
equipment operators. The terms of reference of the experts, their qualifica-
tions and schedule of assignment were agreed upon with the Government at
negotiations.



- 12 -
(iii) Fellowships
40.       The project provides 60 months of fellowships for overseas training
of local staff as follows:
(a) three foremen of mechanized road maintenance units (for
7 months each);
(b) three workshop managers (for 7 months each);
(c) three surveyors (for 3 months each); and
(d) three laboratory technicians (for 3 months each).
(iv) Labor-intensive method study
41.       The proposed project includes provision for a consultant study (6
man-months) to ascertain the potential for the use of labor-intensive tech-
niques in road maintenance and improvement operations. The study would seek
to identify the opportunities, estimate their financial and employment
implications and recommend an action program for implementation in future
road projects (Section 3.09 of the draft Development Credit Agreement). The
possibility of utilizing such methods under the first project was considered
but on efficiency grounds it was decided to use equipment-intensive methods to
avert further deterioration of the road network.
Cost Estimates
42.       Total project costs are estimated at US$14.7 million, including
US$1.2 million of taxes, and a foreign exchange component of US$11.8 million.
Cost estimates for equipment, spare parts, materials and supplies are based on
recent bid prices and quotations in the Comoros. Operating costs of equipment
are based on experience to date with the existing maintenance brigades. The
cost of wages and salaries reflect current Government pay scales. The cost of
technical assistance, assumed to be provided by a foreign consulting firm, is
estimated at US$12,500 per month including salaries, overhead, and profits, as
well as housing, travel and local subsistence. The cost of fellowships is
based on the current cost of overseas training in Europe and includes tuition,
subsistence, travel and insurance.
Financing Plan
43.       The financing of the proposed project would be shared by IDA, the
African Development Fund, and the Government. The IDA credit of US$6.3 mil-
lion, representing about 47 percent of total net of tax project cost, would
be used for purchasing spare parts, cement, steel, gravel and wood; and for
financing technical assistance, a declining share of wages for temporary local
staff, fellowships and a study of labor-intensive methods in road operations.
The African Development Fund would cofinance the project on a parallel basis
with a loan of US$5.8 million equivalent on terms including 50 years amortiza-
tion, 10 years grace and a commission of 0.75 percent per annum. The African



- 13 -
Development Fund loan would finance the procurement of road maintenance
equipment, tires, fuel, lubricants and bitumen. Fulfillment of all conditions
precedent to disbursement of the African Development Fund loan is a condition
of effectiveness of the proposed IDA credit (Section 6.01, (a) of the draft
Development Credit Agreement). Contributions by IDA and the African Develop-
ment Fund would cover the full foreign costs of US$11.80 million plus about
US$0.3 million of local costs. The balance, mainly local costs estimated at
US$1.4 million, representing 10 percent of total project cost, would be
financed by Government.
44.       Local funds for road improvement consist essentially of revenues
from tax on gasoline and other fuels which are allocated to a Road Fund
set up for that purpose. Although Comoros will continue to depend on foreign
financing for highway construction, the long-term financial objective of the
proposed project is to enable the Government to carry the full cost of road
maintenance with its own resources. Accordingly, the Association requested and
the Government agreed to increase Road Fund revenue over the next few years, so
that by the end of the project enough revenue would be generated to finance the
entire cost of local personnel for road maintenance.
45.       As a result, the Government has taken the following measures:  (i)
an increase in the Road Fund tax on gasoline from 10 Comorian Francs (CF) to
13 Comorian Francs (CF) per liter; (ii) introduction of a new tax on diesel
fuel for automotive use of CF 5 per liter. The latter tax is to be increased
to CF 10 per liter in 1982 and to CF 15 per liter in 1983. These measures
would enable the Government to finance the entire cost of local personnel out
of its own resources by the end of 1984 when the proposed project is completed.
46.       Because of the anticipated difficulty that the Government may have
in financing its increasing share of wages for the temporary local staff
employed in maintenance and improvement operations, an advance account would
be established by the Government at the Treasury for the purpose of meeting
the Government's share of project temporary wages and operated under terms and
conditions acceptable to IDA. The account will receive Government s agreed
contributions to meet its quarterly local wage expenditures. The opening of
such an account and the deposit of an initial payment of US$40,000 equivalent
would be a condition of effectiveness of the IDA credit (Section 6.01(b) of
the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Project Implementation and Procurement
47.       The Ministry of Equipment and the Environment, through its Depart-
ment of Public Works, will be responsible for project execution and, in par-
ticular, will be in charge of overall planning and budgeting for road improve-
ment and maintenance operations as well as maintenance and repair of equipment.
The technical assistance team under the project will operate in an advisory
capacity within the Department; its team leader will assist the Public Works
Department in supervising the implementation of the road improvement and
maintenance program. Project implementation and procurement will be as
follows:



- 14 -
(a) Road improvement and maintenance will be carried out by exist-
ing mechanized brigades on force account, which would be strengthened under
the proposed project. Work will follow a work program to be prepared by the
Public Works Department including inter alia, drawings and engineering surveys
for the works to be executed. The Department's soils laboratory will perform
the necessary site investigations and testing of soil and materials. The
improvement, resealing and maintenance units assigned to the three Regional
Public Works Departments will execute the work program on the islands. Moheli
island will have one multipurpose unit (road improvement/resealing unit)
since the limited workload for this type of operation does not warrant a
separate unit being assigned to that island. The program will be reviewed
annually and submitted for the Association's approval three months before the
start of each year (Section 3.07 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
The program would start in July 1981 (following completion of the first
highway project). The technical assistance team will help execute and
supervise the works, and will ensure cost control and efficiency of the units-
operations. Upon completion of the three-year program, the units will con-
tinue to be used by Government for road improvement and maintenance work.
(b) Equipment (US$0.89 million) and materials including tires, fuel,
lubricants and bitumen (US$3.8 million) to be financed by the African Develop-
ment Fund will be procured in accordance with African Development Fund
procurement guidelines. Spare parts (US$1.36 million) to be financed with
the IDA credit would be procured through international competitive bidding
with a possible exception for proprietary spare parts costing up to a total
of US$500,000 which may be procured directly from original manufacturers or
their agents.  Cement (US$0.42 million) to be financed with the proceeds of
the IDA credit would be procured following international competitive bidding
in accordance with Bank Group guidelines. Steel (US$0.06 million) would be
procured on the basis of limited international tendering in line with Bank
Group guidelines. All items will be bulked to the extent possible to make
them attractive to international manufacturers and dealers. Gravel and wood
(US$0.5 million) would be acquired locally under local competitive bidding
procedures which are acceptable to the Association. The list of road
maintenance equipment and materials to be procured under the project were
agreed upon with Government during negotiations. The Ministry of Equipment
and the Environment, with assistance from consultants under the project,
would be in charge of procurement.
(c) Technical assistance would be provided by a consultant firm at
an average total cost of US$12,500 per man-month. The Government would employ
consultants on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association (Section
3.03 of the draft Development Credit Agreement). Consultants BCEOM of France
who are assisting the Comoros in the implementation of the first highway
project are likely to be requested by the Government to continue work under
the second project.
(d) Fellowships. The Government would furnish to the Association
by March 31, 1982 for approval a detailed program for overseas training of
local staff. The program should include the names and qualifications of the



- 15 -
candidates, the type and cost of training as well as the training institutions
and an indication of assignments to be given to the trainees on return to the
Comoros (Section 3.10 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
(e) The labor intensive-method study for road maintenance operations
would be carried out by consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment are acceptable to the Association (Section 3.03
of the draft Development Credit Agreement). The study is expected to start
around September 1982.
Disbursement
48.       The IDA credit would be disbursed against 100 percent of foreign
costs for consultants services and 100 percent of foreign costs of imported
spare parts, cement, steel, gravel and wood or 90 percent of local expenditures
if procured locally; and against 100 percent of total expenditures for fellow-
ships. With regard to local temporary wages, IDA would finance a declining
share over the period of project implementation while the Government would
assume an' increasingly larger percentage, namely for IDA 75 percent in 1981,
50 percent in 1982, 25 percent in 1983, and 0 percent thereafter. Retroactive
financing of up to US$200,000 is recommended for expenditures made during the
period before approval of the credit for this project but after June 30, 1981.
This is to ensure continuity of the maintenance operations since funds under
the first highway credit ran out on June 30, 1981 (Schedule 1, para 4, draft
Development Credit Agreement).
49.       Disbursements for spare parts, materials and other expenditures for
project operating costs would be fully documented. Disbursements for local
operating expenditures would be made against statements of expenditure certi-
fied by the head of the Department of Public Works and the Ministry of Finance.
The statements would be retained by the Borrower and made available for
inspection by IDA in the course of project supervision and each fiscal year
would be audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Association in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles, and the Borrower will furnish
to the Association not later than six months after the end of each fiscal year
the auditor-s report and certified statements of project accounts (Section
4.01(c) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Benefits and Justification
50.       The proposed project is expected to yield benefits in several areas.
First, it would assist in strengthening the road administration established
under the first highway project through continued provision of technical
assistance and on-the-job and formal training of local staff, so that
gradually fewer foreign experts should be necessary. The institution building
component accounts for about 13 percent of the project cost, for which no
economic rate of return calculation has been attempted. Second, the project
will provide the road administration with the means to carry out its tasks,
through the financing of additional road maintenance equipment and a stock of
spare parts, fuel and other imported materials for a three-year road
maintenance and improvement program. This project component accounts for



- 16 -
about 87 percent of total cost, and is expected to yield an overall economic
rate of return of 17 percent (resulting from rates of 16 percent for the
resealing and patching units and 18 percent for the improvement units) through
reduction in vehicle operating costs and the provision of all-weather gravel
roads to some areas with only dry-weather access at present. The labor-
intensive method study would permit the introduction of techniques designed to
increase employment opportunities in road maintenance operations. Social
benefits to be derived from the roads cannot be quantified but are expected to
be considerable. Among these are road user time savings and better access to
social facilities.
Risks
51.       There are no major technical risks involved in the proposed project,
and enough experience has been gained under the first highway project to
minimize subsequent project implementation delays which would increase costs
and postpone benefits. Sensitivity analyses have been carried out, consider-
ing the risks of lower-than-expected benefits, and the results are still
satisfactory. If 50 percent of the benefits expected from generated traffic
are not taken into account, equipment operating costs increased by 30 percent
or vehicle operating cost savings are reduced by 15 percent, the rate of
return for road improvement would be reduced from 18 percent to 13 percent.
Should lower vehicle operating cost savings reduce benefits by 15 percent, the
rate of return of the resealing and patching component would be reduced from
16 percent to 11 percent. Increasing equipment operating costs by 30 percent
or assuming an annual growth rate of traffic of 4 percent rather than 8
percent would reduce the return to 10 percent.
52.       The possible shortage of local funds for financing even the small
portion of local costs required under the project is also a risk. However,
adequate measures have been taken to help ensure that Government collects and
contributes to the project its agreed share of project costs. Risks of
delays in project implementation are minimal but cannot be totally ruled out.
However, project preparation has been satisfactory, and the implementation
schedule adopted appears to be realistic. Close supervision during project
implementation will be undertaken to ensure adherence to agreed work schedule
and availability of local counterpart funds for the project.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
53.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Federal Islamic
Republic of the Comoros and the Association and the Report of the Committee
provided for in Article V, Section l(d), of the Articles of Agreement of
the Association are being distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
Features of the draft Development Credit Agreement of special interest are
mentioned in the text and referred to in Section III of Annex III to this
Report. Special conditions of credit effectiveness would be fulfillment of



- 17 --
all conditions precedent to disbursement of the African Development Fund loan,
the opening by the Borrower of a special account to receive advances from the
IDA credit account and an initial deposit of funds (US$40,000 equivalent) by
the Government into an advance account to be used for financing local wages
(Section 6.01, draft Development Credit Agreement).
54.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
55.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
by E. Stern
Attachments
October 20, 1981






- 18 -                                                   ANNEX I
Page 1
TABLE 3A
COMOROS - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
COMOROS                         REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE5AGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                           - HOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL               2.2
AGRICULTURAL        1.1                                   HOST RECENT            LOW INCOME              MIDDLE INCOHE
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                    90.0        160.0      220.0                 238.3                     794.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PXR CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)        22.9         44.0       51.3                  70.5                    707.5
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)   205.0          282.0     394.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)  5.1            7.7       11.0                  17.5                      27.7
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                          0.58
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                             1.38
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACRED                    2135
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                         93.2        128.2     179.1                   27.7                     55.0
PEE SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    205.0          270.0     366.7                   73.7                    130.7
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YES.                           45.0         45.3      43.7                   44.8                     46.0
15-64 YRS.                           52.3        52.0       54.1                   52.4                     51.2
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                     2.7          2.7       2.2                    2.9                      2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                3.0/c        3.2/c     3.7/c                  2.6                      2.8
URBAN                                7.3          7.4       7.6                    6.5                      5.1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       48.2         46.9      44.7                   46.9                     46.9
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       21.4         19.8      17.6                   19.3                     15.8
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                3.2          3.0        2.5                   3.1                       3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)         ..           ..
USERS (PERCENT OF nARRIED WOMEN)    ..             ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)              ..       100.0       99.0                  89.5                      89.9
PER CAPITA SUPPLY DF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                     90.0        96.0       81.0                  90.2                      92.3
PRDTEINS (GRAMS P'R DAY)            36.0        39.0       33.0                   52.7                     52.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          9.0         9.0        9.0                   17.8                     16.1
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE       31.6         28.7      25.4                   27.3                     20.2
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    42.6           44.6      46.9                   45.8                     50.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                               ..           ..
ACCESS TI SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..           ..      50.0                  23.9                      27.4
URBAN                                 ..          ..       53.0                  55.0                      74.3
RURAL                                 ..          ..       20.0                   18.5                     12.6
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL. (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..          ..       50.0                  26.2
URBAN                                 ..          ..         ..                  63.5
RURAL                                 ..          ..         ..                  20.3
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           18636.4     14842.1         ..                31911.8                  13844.1
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON       5317.0/d    2410.3          ,                 3674.9                   2898.6
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                              497.6       504.5         ..                 1238.8                   1028.4
URBAN                                 .          61.3        ..                  272.8                    423.0
RURAL                                 .       1281.7         ..                 1745.2                   3543.2
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..         17.8        ..
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL
URBAN                                 ..           ..
RURAL                                 ..          ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                 ..           ..
URBAN                                 ..           ..
RURAL                                 ..           ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                 ..           ..      20.0/e
URBAN                                 ..           ..
RURAL                                 ..           ..
* Provisional data; to be revised according to recent economic mission estimates.



- 19 -                                             ANNEX I
Pass 2
TABLE 3A
CONDROS - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
COMOROS                      REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVENGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE-
MOST RECENT           LOW INCOME             KIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:    TOTAL                 14.0        33.0      85.0                  56.4                    73.7
MALE                 23.0        46.0      99.0                  70.7                    96.8
FEMALE                4.0        21.0      71.0                  50.1                    79.0
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 1.0         3.0       8.7                  10.0                    16.2
MALE                  2.0         4.0        ..                  13.6                    25.3
FEMALE                0.2         1.0        ..                   6.6                    14.8
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (1 OF SECONDARY)    ..         2.0        *.                   8.0                     5.3
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                           41.0        42.0      54.0                  46.5                    36.2
SECONDARY                         17.0        20.0      25.0/g                25.5                    23.6
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         ..        58.4/f       ..                 25.5
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          ..          ..        ..                   2.9                    32.3
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         2.4        85.1    104.7                   32.8                    69.0
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          ..          ..        ..                   1.9                     8.0
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   ..          ..        ..                   2.8                    20.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.1         0.4        ..                   1.2                     0.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       80.6       103.3      140.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  36.5        35.6      34.8                  34.1                    36.7
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             70.0        67.0      64.4                  80.0                    56.6
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                19.0        21.0      22.8                   8.6                    17.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               39.3        36.6       35.5                 41.7                    37.2
MALE                                50.6        47.7       47.1                 54.3                    47.1
FEMALE                              28.4        25.8      24.3                  29.2                    27.5
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.2         1.3        1.3                  1.2                     1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..                 136.0                   381.2
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..                  84.5                   156.2
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..                  99.1                   334.3
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..                  61.2                   137.6
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..                  39.7
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..                  68.8
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c  Due to Immigration population growth rate is higher than rate of natural increase;  /d 1962;  /e Percentage
of population;  /f 1966;  /g 1973.
May, 1981



- 20 -
Pee. 3
iiEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL IIlICATIoR
Notes   Although the dat  ar  drece feee  -o -ce   ottorai1yd(dged the mee  oubrcteed rial                             it should else be oted that they may moo he itee-
,,tIoI,, ycoparble be--e  of the lock of etd-rdieed dfieitot-   -d   ret  u-d by dillt--t  -oItiles to  eileettec  the data.  The data see. eons-
Ihbsuea  h   ei h  ode   iegetd,llcaoted,ad  dhrceteotl   a  r1ff_ .r.e.. rse.tucoe
The eviaretoI  gr-opa ev  (I) the        ' same cI--ry leec   of the  -abjoet  Ieeto  and (21 etnor     -otn  uth aer htbigher  -te-ge  oem   heth   eer                        ra
0f  hesu3et    itry   Oto-t tt  Cyti  tuy o l EPt-prtr" groP inher  "Mitddle Itet...  oNe h AcicaedI                    idoEs'i   hoe.ecs   fsrne
afo'h-iu...r.. efitoe..I.he.foote  ri  dat  the  .....ge   a p peyoltlo- melgt9 d e-lt-rttc  Ioat s  each loditeto  cod eh-o  only ehee
Ia-reyofthecetee   it ai'1        gooe th e Ioafeta  adetr    itetetnrgoo   ootroeogted Meadoes dEpe`   It th0                                             c laiiy   fdt
amdisnotaetor,  ceeeemot h  eerteo   tortatng   coege  o  ot  idlaeee  cetthr.    het  verga  at  oly  ceeliteeprio   te o_a  e
LANDh AREd (ohouced sq1L).ccuio  yt ieytol ted - tota, -bam, atd Corel - Peynletiee  (total,
Tona  - Ttalsoehee  re  copllgle'ramdilm    eeo                                                   ra,edrrl   ile    y ihiec ro -cive nanhr of hospital beds
feelenteaPl-   Eieceo  ogtatrlo-au- eytriyo   ee ttly                                                   cilahle  It ycblit cod ptrioct  geoeel end eleetelitd hopital  eIdre
fo rp.Pa-tre, marhet end hirthem  gerdeen or to lit  felice; 1978 data.                        hahitioat tieeore-.  fomyicolt are ostbtishm-tt  ye.-metly staffed
-t" It --It                               d~~~~~bot   la    n   hyiim       atbibet  yroodlty, peiipelly to.eto-
1FF PER   by15  -II -,-i- e   eteotmtea   utm  morkt plie, clW.ialtor  ac  ouAtllodd.    ura  beepiele,  onecI,  olods health
ealee  hynm   eori              ehda cd IOah.hla    (9 77-7   hat) 960,                                etd eadtue  omotoc  -et Pe-eeently mteffed by a pybyitti-  (hot by 
1970, nod 1979 date.                                                          me~~~~~.dical as.letaet,  torso   mideifo, tto.l ohteb offer tm-ett.m.a.o
ENERGY LONSRTTION FERCAP.ITA - A ... 1  - .. pti.  Ifdefier end ypoodt a liticed reign of medica   fettts    For tsteef-
ElfERI  CONBRQTIOOfEe CIITO -donolcoremyrton  f comercialenerg   (coa                     ecti   yr-1  r  urban hisyitals itlajdeWPO  PrireipallR ...te b1ehpitnIs,
eel ltge it , Peeteie, net-e  get ted hydto-, t-leac  -d geothermal oee                                eel 1ue h  pietia1g loca  or ree1 hoevitels end -edl-l aed   --sroty
teIlolt   iors          f coal,eqivaire  yt  tmyI.ite; 1960, 1970  ad99                               cetre       poelierd h-syita1e or   -lelded only ieder itetl.
deomi.tyddmtenioeie.  e- Hospital Bed - Total eambor of  dmiasi.ns 0  or diteobeoge
frets beyitlsl  eidtode  by the nmbee of beds.
POPULATION ANPI VITAL 71.'TATIlCl
Toaml fepaatt m. id-Year 7boed) - hA. of July 1; 1960, 1970. aed 1979                              HOUIeNGl
dmte....ottef                                                                                      Site, uf Hoseol  frros  e   oseod  -atl ibn  adm
lithe   mueio.orrt  fttl   -  atlo of utbam to tott1 onvcir                                               hueedcrlnno      ee  o   ril l                         oh.,aat  lintmg quaters
differn   eli-       oei rba   ra  e.oy eYffrct  -ome-btlity of dato                                 end iheir mae  onc   todd                    9 e lede  may or may toe be intoded in
amocutriea; 1961, 1970, -ed 17   aa                                                             h   osht   c   ttelo    uyc
Foetale Projeeti-b   ,                                 o o m1   190b                                          Poeg  cambe ofyrooro   omrt      te,ad total- Ar-egens
f'eitio-  in year-211-   Crec  pylte   y                Ijethe   te  btd  on tM 199_oco _roe.e  roo   iiD! al  u -a, aed corelotyo   toetea
octalpe7oorierby eo oi  son"    -t bi  mraiyee   ot  iyrts                                  doell.... r.eycrily.   loltitga.iobdroml               ~     eisoiara
toe,elfml  ItIe myoct-ny noabiltelg at 77.5 yearn   The pc-                             Cmeeoa   oitg    iheeotiyI   iigqanr   serefg
meters for feIrtility  .tot  elsehi   he   leesat.icgdtle    eo    Itoi  ore d cclg rualiteel-liieg toyot icely~.%qr.
Each ce.etey to then aaatgnid on  of time  cit  Pohccose    oraiy                             fiCTI
end frtitlity treeds for yrojocttoio  yorp__aea.                                   ,           DLAllttdIelantre
the birth rote im equa.     erodahrt,elao   h   g    rut                    ucr-m ectmn  o   i   gea   heptay_oo                                        Istronegso.          oeer
mth to  ..s.no   Th-ia in aelird  -jly after frrttiryttsdolim    n                                    emayec_tag    oplOlt;ciml    ncee   chldoom   sEld 6-li
ltheepl_ceorlee  If ntit net reyredoiti-  tar,  h,ro oah   ....re...                                yrer  but odju-td for differeer lergths of ytfotey ode...tiom; for
meatmrd en the b.iat  or the   tjce    binteeceIf cbs ypelcri_e                                    si... nose puyilc ar  belen nr _ain  the off ie11 aeheol age.
leteya   100, end the  ie   fdt h.Jim   of f-reitt   it   o  eae                            Seroedarysho  -Ioa,  aeed Female - Ceepiord me chin; ...n.edar
memo toiot.                                                           rlacarioe requIres ui beer~~~~~~t..   fear- years of approve.d prtiary te mte
Sear tatiuary peclatoc isreached - Th. year oboe mot ttery yepoleaiom                          preties. ge...eel,coa m,orteac her trairtog iteseriri..s  foe Ppnpl
stee hit bee  teehed.                                                                                _-vlly of 12 to 17 years of age; cropeoc    ere   r0 Rgeeselly
Pmr_Aci. h. - Old-year poyal--to  yp-  tqoro kilommeetc  7110 haertes) ofOeatalcrien (semeoarege    -fttialettume
total area; 19600  1970 eel 1979 deta.                                                               inelade tochoial, icdmrli, or ether programs nhn                peh  e  tedopnd-
y.r so. km. aricultural laed _ Computd on oe-  foe egete-lt-l Iced                                     ently em am dopatemeeta of eseemdcoy ietitatieoe.
only; 1961, 1970 and 1978 data.                                             .Frltebret    ytay   n   sele                                                Tot Irtodeets enrolled in
PenamAss Smotot.s foorcet) - Child---  5 0-14 yoas...r. oga~   (15-                                primay aed esendery level  dicidad by  ncora of te...hera ic the
640. yorc),..ad ertired (65 yours. ee  -ior) on perc-rgos of mId-y-r PIPyc-                            reeepondieg level.
l.tice; 1960, 1920, and 1979 dare.                                                                   Mo~lt literacy rm   fsce          -Literams adults (eble on red sin1 wham)
Porotetoc heeeb lte ipeceet -octal- Acu-el gret  mtes- of torl eta-                           nsperr...eege of tee..d  adultpee               aged 15 years eel i-st.
year pepolatio- for 1950-6i, 1960-70, and 1971-79.
Feruleriom  Groeth Rate (      -rcc       - ora -hena   goeth rtee. of arhet popo-                 CONSUffP'TIOf
letiems for 1950-60, 1960-70, acd 1970-79.                                                        Paano   aelertosn   euarol-Psaeerar  ineprsemer
Crude Birth Ruts Iee   .h..soel  - At-Ia  Ire- birth0 per thousad If mtd-yar                           rosscigls hee eight prosceldcalaneos * hease  and
populeoc  160, 1970, end 1979 data.                                                                  cilireryoe'h IIIee
Crude lecob Pare: ftre  oh.....d) - Annual deaths pee thbe..eda of elf-year                          Radio ER-evet bee thuocard  -nabticl    Pal typec of reinefar radio
poymlotiem; 1960, 1970, ced 1979 date.                                                               broedree.e on t serea-Ipublic per thneol..   of.pPUlamtn; oclus.me
Cron Rerodetim lRte-herago  eomhr of deoghteeseoamill hear ic                                     licensed roaI.ns in onetis  e  Is yesre obergh                  teieo  radin
her ..-Ia reproduetie yprtid if  hbstareriem-a..             ou  agel,101-eicotfi  for-              seen ens i:,effet; date for eseent years may met he temparshie cim
tlim   etee;  _sealy fivo-yoae amrages eedteg ic 160, 1970  ccl. 1979                            moor   -teinoe   abolished lrnlg
Family Plaecie-letsrters. arial (oheoccodl - Actual raher of eccepame       TV Reestres  leer thou.audi-oulertoelh-TV T eoein-ee  Fr breadiecett
of htrob-cenree  devicem  omlotauayiroc of ma Icafmily P      Rmnc  prgr-1snea   pabtlr yeo th ....ed populattee; secldes aelii....TVreciver
Feebly yeceimg-seee lorcert e  marete  ocean)- Fer-tcoge of married                      ii oeiscd im years eh..mgiesee    f TV eec ac  te ieffeot.
Iie   f ohild-b-eiog ego (i5-h4 yoe-    eke et  birth-ceIrorl d-ri-m   on                      io-op_ep   C!ecubaiten ler ehtuased perultiee) - th-o  the average tie-
nIl carrid   -mc  is tam   ego grouP.                                                                cultiaf-"dinly ge...rul iteeme            ..e..Peper". defined Aeneperindiief
Fublinri-n        ,.ree  prls-ily to re-idingtgeera  mos, to is ecaidered
FOOl AND NUTrRITION                                                                                       te be "daiy if it appemes atlease  fia  rice    ek
Inls of  ood  eedctiu  roeCapia (9b9-1i01   - idne of pet eoytoeua                    Cicema kemua1 Atreedeee por Cepite err Seas - aced on the mashe  of
in e  eabrda  yea  baic.  Co-dltire  covr primary goode (oRg. sugarcaman.ab..ehs
instead  of sugerl ohtch cr0   ditle and c..uteim   ur r  (eg           -ofe    d
tla ore- aecbled).  Aggregate. yrdutoio  of I.hbI_outry iehoe  uu                                ABOR PIeCE
rnie...Ien-rage  producr pter. -ights; 1961-65, I,      . 1971,  9l    t dar.t..est1 Lebor Fin    (thoaacl) - ec.... icelly stivep-                                 ea  iceldieg
FoP  are  coolly ofIceluira(pore of rouirmrt)- Computd   - rumarmd fer_s  end 2oalysd hue.. secluieg hausti-e, etudes. sIr.,
meety eqivalch o  er  fond eptie  eVeitehbe ie coutry Pee- topita                            creeig pIp.latioc of all cges.  Dfi.icti... In various. cIutie at
per day.   r-i.babb   supplies  -eprilu  dometo predactior  isporte lena                           nor Iamparchim; 196i,I19701 mmd 19179 da.
empeete, cod chongee In nick.  lot napplscoolde animal fred, tends,                             PenIs lmee.ts)   _- Fml  eborIforseeperrtoage oftotal labor Beers.
queeriknee used i- feud  Fueelg,ad access In dieteibootom. isqutre-                             AerI.teatrs (--eet) - Labor ferie im  farming, f-etey, hamming an
meets cre r.etitmad hy FAR b-nd 00 phyciel.igtcl uIede for -oea  "cti-                             fishing ce peemaeIf total lebr forts; 1960, 1970 cmd 1979 dim..
vity cod health eoesid-rlcieovi--trcra  tenperem-r, bod y esigh-, Age                            ndes   rocet  - Labr ferro  In mintg, Ieen...               tm,   anfeeta-im
cod see diteibutiem  of popuieriom, ned ib1oi.g 1    _orse  fur eases at                           nod else"itiity, eater eed gas as plecetag  of tret1 tahue terre; 196B,
homeeheldlevel; 191-6,  1570  co  1977 data.17, 19                                                     17   ota.
For Iait.sreyo   rteim  cam   a   dee) -                         _Po tin    m tr of yet _Pit.      Partiriectica Rat           ..er tm    - total male, ad femal  - FarstiiPatte or
oaepply nIf feed per day.  lee onpply of foud In detleed as ebiv.  Rs-                           -civity ratesor  eepaed as total, male, am1 female labor force c
quite-tf  f or allI.. tenries estabbihed hy USDA pr-vids for etet-u                                peretages of total, mal eel femal  pepuletiem  of el     gee reePeomilsip;
Illue...o cf 60 greet of  -ir1 ptehe pint Icy em1 20 grams of arimal and                           1960, 1970, cml 197 9 data.  These are base.d on  ILOn  Pae tieiPationeaitoe
raa    to Irof ohieh 10 gram   ehcutd be  -iela ecrt.These sNeel-                         tefleemtea ee.-oem  .tracnr. of the eapulete-. and 1cc mime trend.A&
aima  prtih    eanueag   e  ohm s d,  priF..od by FIG  Ia the Thied                            iroci eroendry~; Raio- Rato. of peymetiem  ceder 15 and 65 eel  -.er
Sleold Foil Survey; I961-65, 1970 and 1977 data,                                                   to ob  totllbrfts
Pee coies prtenenyy fri   animal end Prlss--Frooie  aupply of fond de-
rivettd from animals rd pulses it gims Per- Icy; 1961-65, 1970 cod 1977 data. INCOtfDISTRIBU'TION
Chil leae 1hf iommlityRar (pe  Ohasami -gr.veufal .. deth ed- Obopieu  to              FreiakfPiael                      hr   ocm   o    ind) - Reneiv-d hy rithect
Ogegrap  -4yers,00ebbdeo  t tu   go  rop;foriner  svletngcon-               5 Peter-,, riches  20 pecn, p..eene 21 pe-e, cmd Peerem    40 peersn
toice data derhi-d item  life  tables; 1960, 1970 eel 1979 dora.                                     of hounehilda.
RI2.ATh                                                                                             FPOVERTY TARGET RSOUPS
Li;fe Eceecea-n  or Eheob (ye         - hieage ember of veers of life e-eiuieg                       The fe11oi"   -iots-  ar  vry epF-ootca    e-amure  of povety Ilevl,
t-Niet; 1960, 1970 eel   9d9 tee.                                                                   eethudh   mepee  so    medrbeeote
Infmefarebt  Rate leer th         An)       - mu1 deaths uf iefnts oiler 005 yea                     esimtd kheelut FuvIrpty lod e leeith                e   elal-ubnan   oe
kies   n   as  atr(ptso  o   oplrtel  otl2uha,coors1 -NBm-..tarrir alyedeqosoe  diepll                                              e emela  mefeel req.iheema i C  net
bee o.f pocple  (total, -bhee, cod ....I ofoh....hl   ccs  to saferdl
octt reupply (iecludes t-otld  -f.sowtor  mectreed bar -netomecheted                                 afrdh
h:,.r,    asthat feom  protected barehebe, seriege, anRantrysls)itiae Relative Fpve.rty                                       eot level 11-1i.   t irer caoe) -nb   and mooe   -
fuerica  etholpr -lpottd netpcove the         2R  co ber   from     hos  maybe                 peva....  iIon o.- f the rIn..ory.  lrhe levelis drived frau she  uree
ioe.. rodst eda I      th Inr Isonb   acces  of. 200 t hue.-  hn-urlnoses                            lee       hi djuetmeon  for higher roet of liviog in neha  era..
blin   i  hi   bl.   -...   ~~~f tht  h...                   .EmimredP-rlto   etaaslute P--err   Incoe Level (-rer.ent) -  uebme
reasonsbletcaaoad  imply   1. thoc  ho...-cile.o    rehc  of the ho...hoId                           cml ru1   Peccat of pepuai_e-  (rhbe eel rural) eh. see nbelts
domthour it ePrendiaryeto ePeer of the day Ie f-rhieg the                                            por'.
pecmae   fthair respective   oaaron    E-pet  disp_1 may inctlude
th Iclc insd diapocet, itoh it ~irho-  ors"cat, of human                                                                                    ..emoreSra1              rDii
cud ...to-o_tar by octetbore  system    or the ace If eit prtivic sod siie                                                                  Preced   cm.ly. fod   Be.ta ...oisites
J.r                                                                                                                            19 1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~iootratlse n rjcIuseprmm
PeruIetiue esr FPv-iciee  - Fapu1atice dIide1d by mushe.r if preotioteg phyci-                                                                                MY
rIces qaslified free a matd   so1 boe0It _nivo_ity leve.
PcrujlaeieartBrie   osn-Pyaat dinidod by umber of practtin Jg
cab  cml femal  greldurtuea--  pr-ti..1 nuss,ad ...eit-teuun



- 21 -
Annex I
Page 4
COMOROS - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1979                              ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH C%, constant prices)
US$ Mln.         x                1976-79            1979
GNP at Market Prices                   92.4          100.0               3.9               3.6
Gross Domestic Investment              24.8           26.8              16.3              27.1
Gross Domestic Saving                  11.5           12.4              20.5              47.5
Current Account Balance               -12.8         -13.8
Exports of Goods, NFS                  19.8           21.4              -0.1              34.2
Imports of Goods, NFS                  33.1           35.8               4.4              25.1
OUTPUT IN 1979
Value added
US$ Mln.        x
Agriculture                            42.3           42.1
Industry                               13.4          13.3
Services                               44.8          44.6
Total                 100.5          100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Central Government
CF Mln.      X of GDP
1979          1979
Current Receipt                        2563          12.0
Current Expenditures                   5308          24.8
Current Deficit                      -2745          -12.8
Capital Expenditure                    2989           14.0
External Assistance                    5761           26.
MONEY, CREDIT and PRICES
1978          1979           1980
(June)
(Million of CF outstanding end period)
Money and Quasi Money                   2424           3548          4016
Bank Credit to the Government             86            174           732
Bank Credit to Private Sector           2203          2254           3234
(Percentage or Index Numbers)
Money and Ouasi Money as % of GDP    14.3            16.6           16.3
GDP Price Deflator (1979 = 100)        86.9          100.0         110.8
Annual percentage changes in
GDP Price Deflator                     15.6          15.1           10.8
Bank Credit to the Government        -77            102            320
Bank Credit to Private Sector          10              2            43
Note:  All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the
period covered.
Not applicable
June 11, 1981



- 22 -
Annex I
Page 5
COMOROS - TRADE PAYMENT AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                    MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1977-79)
1978   1979   1980 e/                                  US$ mln.      X
(US$ Milion)
Ylang-Ylang essences               2.8       23.5
Vanilla                            6.1       51.3
Exports of Goods, NFS           12.2   19.7   12.8    Copra                               0.9        7.6
Imports of Goods, NFS          21.3   32.3   44.8    Cloves                               1.8       15.1
Resource Gap (deficit -)       -9.1  -12.6  -32.0    Other commodities                    0.3        2.5
Interest Payments (net)        -0.1      ..      ..          Total                       11.9      100.0
Other Factor Payments (net)   -1.5   -1.2   -1.6
Net Transfers                   11.1    1.0    9.2
Balance on Current Account       0.4  -12.8  -24.4
EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1979
Net MLT Borrowing                3.3   15.2   24.5
Disbursements                    3.9   15.2   24.5                                     US$ Mln.
Amortization                     0.6    -      -
Others 1/                        0.5   -0.2   -0.1    Public Debt, incl. guaranteed   38.7
Change in Reserves             -4.2   -2.2    0.0    Non-Guaranteed Private Debt           ..
(- = increase)                                         Total Outstanding & Disbursed   38.7
DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1979 2/
Memo item
Public Debt, incl. guaranteed    1.3
Imports of Petroleum Products  1.9    1.8    4.3    Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Total outstanding & Disbursed   ,1.3
IBRD/IDA LENDING, (March 31, 1981) (US$ Mln.)
IBRD       IDA
Outstanding & Disbursed             .         4.8
RATE OF EXCHANGE      197%        ln7n        noq      TTnAiSursqA                         .         5.4
Outstanding incl. Undisbursed       .        10.2
USSl.0O  = CF        225.64      212.72    211.30
CF    1 = US$          0.0044      0.0047      .0047
e/ Estimates
1/ Including errors and omissions
2/ Ratio of Debt Service Payments to Exports of
Goods and Non-Factor Services
not available
not applicable
June 11, 1981



- 23 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN COMOROS
A. Statement of IDA Credits (as of September 30, 1981)
Amount US$ million
Credit No.             Fiscal Year   Borrower   Purpose         IDA    Undisbursed
852-COM 1/                 1979       Comoros    Highway        5.0          0.7
1035-COM                  1981        Comoros    Agricul-
ture      5.2          4.7
Total      10.2         5.4
B. Statement of IFC Investments (as of September 30, 1981)
none
1/   The IDA credit was complemented by an EEC Special Action Credit of
US$0.7 million.



- 24 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
C.   Projects in Execution as of September 1, 1981 1/
Credit No. 852-COM:  First Highway Project:  US$5.0 million Credit of
October 13, 1978: Date of Effectiveness: January 15,
1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
EEC Special Action
Credit No. 30-COM:   First Highway Project:  US$0.7 million Credit January 23,
1980; Date of Effectiveness: June 23, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982.
The project is in its last year of implementation and is progressing
satisfactorily. The 3-year road maintenance program has already met most of
its initial objectives of establishing the basic administrative structure,
defining a work program and creating the necessary equipment repair facilities.
Procurement of equipment, spare parts and soils laboratory equipment is
completed but the scope of maintenance and road improvement works has reached
only about 70 percent of appraisal targets due to substantial delays in the
delivery of maintenance equipment and initial difficulties in securing local
materials (gravel and wood). Construction of the Nioumakele road financed on
a parallel basis by the African Development Fund is nearing completion. The
feasibility study for the Miringoni-Nioumachoua road showed only a marginal
rate of return (6 percent) thereby making it unwarranted to undertake the
detailed engineering studies, originally included in the project. Shortage of
local counterpart funds to finance local wages emerged as a major constraint
for project implementation. To alleviate the problem, the Association agreed
to assume a higher proportion of local cost financing than originally
anticipated.
Credit No. 1035-COM: Coconut Rehabilitation and Rodent Control Project:
US$5.2 million Credit of June 30, 1980; Date of
Effectiveness: October 8, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1986.
The project, to be implemented over five years, will improve and
extend coconut and copra production in the three islands of Grande Comore,
Anjouan and Moheli through rodent control, increased productivity of existing
stands and new planting and improvement of copra processing and marketing. It
includes a component for technical assistance to the Government to strengthen
the financial management of agriculture development projects.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



- 25 -
ANNEX III
COMOROS
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project                 one year
(b)  Preparation                                   Government and consultants
(c)  Initial discussions with IDA                  May 1980
(d)  Appraisal mission                             December 1980
(e)  Negotiations                                  August 1981
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness                 December 1981
Section II:  Special Implementation Action
The proposed project will be subject to close supervision during
implementation.
Section III: Special Conditions of the project
(i) The Government will furnish to the Association for review
and approval not later than September 30 each year an
updated annual work plan and the proposed budgetary alloca-
tion for that work program (para. 35).
(ii) The Government will furnish to IDA not later than March
31, 1982 a detailed overseas training program for review
and approval which will include information on the
candidates selected and their qualifications, the proposed
training programs (and their cost) and the positions to
be held by the trainees upon return to the Comoros (para.
47(d)).
Special conditions of credit effectiveness are:
(i) Fulfillment of all conditions precedent to initial
disbursement under the African Development Fund loan
(para. 43).
(ii) An initial deposit by the Government of US$40,000 equiva-
lent into an advance account out of which an increasing
share of local wages would be paid (para. 46).
(iii) The opening by the Government of a special account to
receive advances from the IDA credit account (para. 53).



.E 2      D' =    . S  = f1''                             v*                                   v   J'
<,-W~~~~~~~~~~~~hr
~~~~~~~~~~~~e~~~~~~~~~ei
lrae  3  g0  g    )  0;X;G r I L L f  sjnJ;  9  -    Iais  =   j LI :z t    AntJ,
:  :=;  =  ;:  f =  1 1   )   \   Q   5   ig   <   d)     =  Li =  =~~~~PEDFR -AW rRIlf       2p     tOEF TH  cOMOROS 
; S ;:: ;: jJ s : t \> 2 A ~G  R 0 00iS:ANXDECOMtORE::S: 
Chezani    HonPsm~~~~~~~D     IlIll
0    0 0 \0    h L atMIleaA            LA             g                                   -l .1  IV0n 2 0oY01AmA A 
VA     4AN
tras;~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~'                              f'    f                                              0-   00  255YA'vo /g   1 ='         0    &  tt s.   i;
I                                                           to ,          A 3 i(  8  _/  )   /  1 ,, S  ; :;  g  | :: i  ,   IJther toOn  40
ten      0  0       E    9       X          J     S               /      g    1g;0 0 '/      11'p0owe     p onts
.WnA  aA IC t R          C O  teH atCoOM airportO
t     Ts   ii4                                                                              Po', t
s lirr 4      0      "P                                                               Se-ls tatol   on   la tera      0
inn        =uI ,e gre  rondo9                                                                K    r                t ,                            ;  
m                                                                                        A:.=f;;* ;4  ;S  :!     tin   ;:;
f  ;;  ;   f   ;,  .   =   ;   :  0   :3  S   ;   DF.>+r  + , ) e m b e r    , S n   >other    bM    aee
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Fo n=:de 0, Th Moro waterun  M'Kro syste
Y /l T O rl #~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~                                                T h rm et ct tr   powlfJ  jA    unt
seeo=$  raa d                                                                 sh~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~otdesq elro lF e
r=lns~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- shrr                                                     lolo teepon Ann~ >\3  
neo LPtona  Oprt*
ij..ort  Atre                                                                                    d: 
rrKZ2r^ of J6ch th7atbrzs                                                                 Port
AmboOeh           ''B'       &                         43'20' 4O2i' J~~~ iorD E
tot                                  Ojoyno'  -~~~~~ -   --~
4                             otooe
Tea A~~ OA tinOAOAOO ~~~~n' An
acnotrnotr. at. darateoftne     Di.-
atamarvante rfnntotorvtndetter  .vao                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~43,25'                   43130'






I 8 R t 15584
:                                 lf1~~~~~~~~O5'                                   4'0r :0''    tO5-                                                                                 Ao* :50Se ::~-  '  :,         rrsu,E1
FEDERAL ISLAMIC REPUFtLIC OF THE COMOROS
ANJOUAN
SECOND HIGHWAY (MAINTENANCE) PROJECT                                                                                                               .
-s-rs Ui    Regroti                                      re, offig  arb d workshop                                                                                                                                               10.00'
- oved rodls  a. w   o                                                                                                              Jt
-  W=          paaehtod  Wg  I Psod under
7   lost tgeoy orosjdeoeJtgi ROOrT  .00,_
roh ano  grovel rood.\    ~   a                                                                                                             '  
Q   Ole, trlon srd el'oge
*     Troroe-eotrosrdt drools t ricdd oic power
rlor.ts          0            5            ^           >           S                      <          a'5='.
+    Airport                                                                                                  Oowo-.)
E-l.,mfo taft.   .t,er%                                                                                                  q,                R, ;          E   
mrosiei _                              %o,obpoiTSAMU-Dr
?~~                      \               5= O2                                      ~t L '5C_
)~~~~~~~ ,, ,1S000  ,"  (   one   7    _soe_:
,0i'       OTOLoOLIC 00 TOP           obq.
o2err   " 10''             vn00   -~                                                      '.o                                                                                                                                 '   20 
C             q iv  ire  qo "0rytt j  ''                                                        _____________________
ITO    0000,,,                                           4                     r2    |    2    t    4it0iERsrs    '   01                        <'$           -ff:MILES
'        _        _                    do'r                                  0    420                                               wo                                               woo W






IBRD 15585
7:  43:40'                                             4 f   J45' '43 L5                                                    ; 7f ;                           FEPPIJARY 1581
FEDERA       MI I[AMC REPBFLiC OF THE COMOROS
;IGHWAY
(A  4ig  .ANcPROJECT
Ho2-05'- _--t n 0 i:                                                                                                  R400i; tf \ | ; J 2 \ 0 ; ; 0 0 i :0 ;; 0 ;; _5=n eande off ice ad workstiop
Wan~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ~~~~~~                            ~          ~         ~          Od ro
5 j--,-~.   ( <7\  ~~=< i 5; 2  '                                            ;-U                                                              0 -| Pa  d i   ---trPoa d$ imner comsruction
~~~~                                                                                              ______ Eart~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6h and gfovel -roads
-     F"Si0bty sf4d  i gried out under
N'Gamciroumbo                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~firt:hlghwoyp~roi(cf  EDIT 852 -COMY
;Their towrs and villages
Miringon                                                                                                                            sl~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6O   ~vfanCnorS,elers
)~~~~~~~~r 47                                                                                                                        6   C  0 j/    K n   0C0;
~~~~22O ~ ~         ~         ~          Noh                                                                                                                                        1  2201   MXol,
Quolia~ ~ ~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'leoL
zi                                                                                   12'2V-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MEGZ 
:Gr ndzo 1.
Meai
WBuzi Ly.                                                                                                                                   43-S'
MognnnI4-
Ouenefou t.         Crdzi 1.
CufrMiz onai t                                                                                                                     a 0 ' '  u  
43-0(Y               5      r, y .WM        if|I ,  yb,tL1i tV 9syote



