FFICIAL
UNITS JREDIT NUMBER 1188 COM
Development Credit Agreement
(Second Highway (Maintenance) Project)
between
FEDERAL ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF THE COMOROS
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated       4JQK              \   , 1982


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1188 COM
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated     M V>^    ALL/   A'       , 1982, between
the FEDERAL ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF THE COMOROS (hereinafter called
the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (herein-
after called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association
to assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Borrower intends to contract from the African
Development Fund, a loan (hereinafter called the ADF Loan) in an
amount approximately equivalent to five million eight hundred
thousand dollars ($5,800,000) to assist in financing equipment,
tires, fuel, lubricants and bitumen for Part A of the Project, on
the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (hereinafter
called the ADF Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the
Borrower and the African Development Fund;
(C) pursuant to a development credit agreement dated
October 13, 1978, the Association has extended a credit (No. 852
COM) to the Borrower for the purpose of assisting in financing an
earlier highway project (hereinafter called the First Highway
Project); and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, 'ith
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth Yarein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being here inafter called the General
Conditions).


﻿- 2 -
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Public Works Department" means the department set
up within the Borrower's Ministry of Equipment and the Environment
for purposes of carrying out road improvement and maintenance;
(b) "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(c) "Advance Account" means the account to be established
pursuant to Section 3.02 (i) of this Agreement;
(d) "Road Fund" means the fund established and operating
pursuant to the Borrower's Loi No. 81-20, dated May 15, 1981, for
purposes of financing road improvement and maintenance operations;
(e) "Wages for temporary labor" means sums paid in cash to
manual labor employed on a day-to-day basis, as and when needed
for road improvement and maintenance tasks;
(f) "CF" means the Comorian franc, the currency of the
Borrower; and
(g) "FY" means the period January 1 through December 31.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiv-
alent to five million six hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 5,600,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Associa-
tion, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so


﻿- 3 -
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open a Special Account at its Treasury. Payments out of the
Special Account shall be made exclusively to pay the reasonable
costs of goods and services required to carry out the Project and
to be financed under this Agreement in accordance with the provi-
sions of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 hereto.
(c) The Association shall, promptly after the Effective
Date, withdraw on behalf of the Borrower from the Credit Account
and deposit in the Special Account referred to in paragraph (b)
of this Section an initial amount in the currency of the Borrower
equivalent to one hundred eighty thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 180,000). Thereafter, at the request of the Borrower, the
Association shall further so withdraw from the Credit Account and
deposit in the Special Account such amounts as shall be required
to replenish the Special Account with amounts equal to payments
made out of the Special Account for expenditures for the Project
eligible for financing under this Agreement, but only to the
extent that the amount of any such deposit, together with any
amount remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such request, shall not exceed in the aggregate the equivalent
of one hundred eighty thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 180,000). Except as the Association shall  otherwise deter-
mine, each such deposit after the initial deposit shall be with-
drawn by the Association from the Credit Account under the same
Categories set forth in the table in paragraph 1 to Schedule 1 to
this Agreement, and in the same respective amounts, as have been
justified by the evidence supporting the request for such deposit
furnished pursuant to paragraph (d) of this Section.
(d) Prior to or at the time of each request for a deposit
by the Association into the Special Account, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association in respect of each payment made by the
Borrower out of the Special Account such documents and other
evidence as the Association shall reasonably request, showing that
the payment was made on account of the reasonable cost of goods or
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit in accordance with Schedule 1 to this
Agreement.
(e) If the Association shall have determined that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for any expendi-
ture or in any amount not eligible for financing by withdrawal


﻿-4-
from the Credit Account, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished pursuant to paragraph (d) of this Section, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association and, unless
otherwise determined by the Association, prior to any 'further
deposit in the Special Account by the Association, deposit in the
Special Account an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.
(f) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (c) of this
Section, no further deposit in the Special Account shall be made
by the Association when the Association shall have determined that
all further withdrawals from the Credit Account can be made
directly by the Borrower from the Credit Account under paragraph
(a) of this Section, or when the total amount withdrawn from
the Credit Account plus the amount of any qualified agreement
to reimburse made by the Association and of any special com-
mitment entered into by the Association pursuant to Section
5.02 of the General Conditions shall have reached the equivalent
of five million four hundred twenty thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 5,420,000), whichever shall be sooner. Withdrawal from
the Credit Account of the remaining amount of the Credit for the
Project shall follow such procedures as shall be agreed between
the Borrower and the Association and shall be made only to the
extent that the Association shall be satisfied by the evidence
submitted in support of the applications for such withdrawal that
all payments by the Borrower out of the Special Account were made
on account of the reasonable cost of goods or services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit in accordance with Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1985
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.


﻿-5-
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each Febru-
ary 1 and August 1 commencing February 1, 1992 and ending
August 1, 2031, each installment to and including the installment
payable on August 1, 2001, to be one-half of one percent (1/2 of
1%) of such principal amount, and each installment tnereafter to
be one and one-half percent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the Republic of France is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project
through the Public Works Department of its Ministry of Equipmert
and the Environment with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering
and road maintenance practices, and shall provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. Pursuant to its obligations under Section 3.01
of this Agreement and without any limitation or restriction upon
the generality thereof, the Borrower shall:
(i) establish an Advance Account in the name of the
Public Works Department, at the Borrower's Trea-
sury, for purposes of financing wages for temporary
labor under Part A of the Project;
(ii) make an initial deposit into said Account in an
amount of CF 10 million;
(iii) thereafter, make additional deposits into said
Account at the beginning of each quarter in amounts
sufficient to cover wages for temporary labor under
Part A of the Project for the immediately following
quarterly period; and


﻿(iv) make the deposits referred to in sub-paragraphs
(ii) and (iii) of this Section by transfer from the
Road Fund or, in the event that the Road Fund is
depleted, from the Borrower's general revenues.
Section 3.03. In order to assist the Borrower: (i) in plan-
ning, coordinating and implementing the road improvement and
maintenance program under Part A of the Project; (ii) in providing
both formal and on-the-job training to local staff under Part B.1
of the Project; and (iii) in carrying out the study under Part B.3
of the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants and experts
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by
the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, all
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be used exclusively for the Project until its completion.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules for
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii)
enable the Association's accredited representatives to visit the
facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to
examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) furnish to the
Association at regular intervals all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its
cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it,


﻿-7-
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds.
() Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, the Association may publish a description thereof, the
name and nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded
and the contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the
Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial
operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to
be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and the
Association of their respective obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall take all such action as
shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land and
rights in respect of land as shall be required for carrying out
the Project and, if the Association shall so request, furnish to
the Association, promptly after such aquisition, evidence
satisfactory to the Association that such land and rights in
respect of land are available for purposes related to the Project.
Section 3.07. Not later than September 30 of each year
until the completion of the Project, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, for review and approval by the Association:
(i) its updated proposals for the carrying out of the
road improvement and maintenance program under Part
A of the Project during the following year; such
proposals shall include technical and economic
information acceptable to the Association regard-
ing the economic justification for the improvement
works to be carried out under the program; and
(ii) its proposed budgetary allocation for road improve-
ment and maintenance purposes for the following
year in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.


﻿-8-
Section 3.08. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall carry out Part A.1 of the Project in
accordance with the design standards set forth in Schedule 4 to
this Agreement.
Section 3.09. (a) Not later than September 30, 1982 the
Borrower shall employ consultants to carry out the study under
Part B.3 of the Project in accordance with terms of reference
acceptable to the Association.
(b) The Borrower shall, during the carrying out of the study
under Part B.3 of the Project, discuss in detail with the Associa-
tion the substantive issues and findings of said study and shall,
promptly upon its completion, exchange views with the Association
with respect to the evaluation and implementation of the recommen-
dations and conclusions of said study.
Section 3.10. For purposes of Part B.2 of the Project the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association, not later than
September 30, 1982, an overseas training program satisfactory to
the Association; such program shall include detailed information
on, inter alia, the following: (i) the qualifications of each of
the candidates selected for an overseas fellowship; (ii) the
training program (and its cost) to be followed by each such
candidate; and (iii) the position to which each such candidate has
provisionally been assigned by the Public Works Department upon
completion of the period for which the fellowship is made
available.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project,
of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof (hereinafter called
the Project Accounts).
(b) The Borrower shall retain or cause to be retained until
one year after the Closing Date, as a separate part of the Project
Accounts, all records (orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
documents) evidencing the expenditures on account of which


﻿-9-
withdrawals are requested from the Credit Account on the basis of
certificates of expenditure and shall enable the Association's
accredited representatives to inspect such records.
(c) The Borrower shall: (i) have the Project Accounts for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied by independent auditors acceptable
to the Association; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon as
available, but in any case not later than six months after the
end of each such year, (A) a certified statement of the Project
Accounts for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall have reasonably requested, including, without
limitation to the foregoing, a separate opinion by said auditors
in respect of the expenditures and records referred to in para-
graph (b) of this Section as to whether the proceeds of the Credit
withdrawn from the Credit Account on the basis of certificates of
expenditure have been used for the purpose for which they were
provided; and (iii) furnish to the Association such other informa-
tion concerning the Project accounts and the audit thereof as the
Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall ensure that the roads
resealed under Part A.2 (a) of the Project and the road mainte-
nance equipment used for the Project are all maintained adequately
and shall ensure that all necessary repairs and renewals thereof
are made promptly, all in accordance with appropriate engineering
standards and economic practices, and shall provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, equipment, services and other
resources required for the foregoing.
Section 4.03. Until completion of the Project, the Borrower
shall, prior to undertaking any capital investment in the highway
sub-sector, other than the Project, exchange views with the
Association on any such investment.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. (a) For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof, namely, that subject to para-
graph (b) of this Section:


﻿- 10 -
(i) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds
of any grant or loan made to the Borrower for the
financing of the Project, including the ADF Loan,
shall have been suspended, cancelled or terminated
in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of the
agreement providing therefor; or
(ii) any such loan shall have become due and payable
prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(b) Paragraph (a) of this Section shall not apply if: (i)
such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is not
caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its
obligations under such agreement; and (ii) adequate funds for the
Project are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms
and conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower
under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is specified
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof namely, that the event specified
in paragraph (a) (ii) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall
occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the ADF Loan Agreement has been duly signed and all
conditions precedent, if any, to the effectiveness of, or initial
disbursement under such Agreement have been fulfilled, subject
only to the effectiveness of this Agreement;
(b) the Borrower has made the initial deposit referred to in
paragraph (ii) of Section 3.02 of this Agreement; and
(c) the Special Account has been opened as provided in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.


﻿- 11 -
Section 6.02. The date                  )       ; is hereby
specified for the purposes of section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
Section 6.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Article
IV of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on
which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a
date fifteen years after the date of this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time
responsible for finance is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministare des Finances, de 1'Economie, du Plan
et du Commerce Extfrieur
Botte Postale 324
Moroni
Rfpublique F6d6rale Islamique des Comores
Cable address:                      Telex:
MINIFINANCES                       211 CW BOOTH KO
Moroni
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 12 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in Paris,
France, as of the day and year first above written.
FEDERAL ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF THE COMOROS
By              D      N       0U
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Authorized Representative


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated        % of
(Expressed in      Expenditures
Category                   SDR Equivalent)  to be Financed
(1) Materials (spare parts,       2,100,000      100% of foreign
cement, steel, gravel                       expenditures
and wood) for Part A                        and 90% of
of the Project                              local
expenditures
(2) Wages for temporary             200,000      75% of ex-
labor for Part A of                         penditures
the Project                                 for FY 81,
50% of expen-
ditures for
FY 82 and
25% of expen-
ditures for
FY 83
(3) Consultants' and              1,850,000      100% of foreign
experts' services                           expenditures
for Parts A and
B.1 of the Project
(4) Fellowships for                 260,000      100% of foreign
Part B.2 of the                             expenditures
Project
(5) Studies for                      70,000      100%
Part B.3 of the
Project


﻿- 14 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                  SDR Equivalent)    to be Financed
(6) Initial deposit                180,000
under Section
2.02 (c) to
prefinance items
under Categories
(1) through (5)
above
(7) Unallocated                    940,000
TOTAL         5,600,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory 0', the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decr2ases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expen-
ditures prior to November 10, 1981 except that withdrawals,


﻿- 15 -
in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of two.hundred
thousand dollars ($200,000) may be made in respect of Categories
1, 2 and 3 on account of payments made for such expenditures
before that date but after June 30, 1981.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in
paragraph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated
that the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category
will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to
the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent
required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit
which are then allocated to another Category and which in the
opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other
expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Associa-
tion's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expendi-
tures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is designed to strengthen the Borrower's road
maintenance and improvement operations by: (a) increasing the road
maintenance capability of the Public Works Department of the
Ministry of Equipment and the Environment through on-the-job and
formal training of its road maintenance personnel; and (b) improv-
ing the condition of the existing earth and paved roads.
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Road Improvement and Maintenance Program
A road improvement and maintenance program (the Program) for
a period of about three years, comprising:
1.   Road Improvements:
The improvement to all-weather standard of about
186 km of earth roads.
2.   Road Maintenance:
(a) the resealing of about 240 km of paved roads; and
(b) routine maintenance of the roads improved under
Parts A.1 of the Project, the roads improved under
the First Highway Project and the Borrower's entire
paved road network.
3.   Reorganization and Strengthening of the Borrower's
Road Units:
The reorganization and equipping of two road
improvement units, two resealing units, three patching
units, two shoulder reconstruction units and five
drainage improvement units.


﻿- 17 -
Part B:   Training of the Public Works Department Personnel,
Fellowships for such Personnel and a Study on Labor-
Intensive Road Improvement and Maintenance
1.   Training:
The training of workshop staff and the continued train-
ing, including, inter alia, instruction in the operation of
road maintenance equipment, of about 10 road engineers and
technicians, about 30 road foremen and about 100 mechanics.
2.   Overseas Fellowships:
(a) fellowships for three foremen responsible for mechanized
road maintenance units and for three workshop managers;
and
(b) fellowships for three surveyors and three laboratory
technicians.
3.   A Study on Labor-Intensive Road Improvement and Main-
tenance Methods:
A study on the use of labor-intensive methods for road
improvement and maintenance, including, inter alia, an
examination of the financial implications and of the impact
on unemployment of such methods and the preparation of
a program for the implementation of the study's findings.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1984.


﻿SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Parts B and D hereof, goods and works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits", dated July
1980 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of interna-
tional competitive bidding as described in Part A of the Guide-
lines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and
forward to the Association as soon as possible, and in any event
not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such
form and detail and containing such information as the Association
shall reasonably request; the Association will arrange for the
publication of such notice in order to provide timely notification
to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and
works in question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary
information to update such notice annually so long as any goods or
works remain to be procured on the basis of international compe-
titive bidding.
3.   Contracts for spare parts, cement and steel will be grouped
to the extent possible, in order to derive maximum benefits from
bulk procurement.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port-of-entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import
taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and
similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery,
pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account
in the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland


﻿- 19 -
freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods
to the place of their use or installation shall be included.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for proprietary spare parts may be negotiated with
the original manufacturers or their agents; provided, however,
that the amount of the contracts so awarded shall not, in the
aggregate, exceed five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000)
equivalent.
2.   Contracts for gravel and wood may be awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding advertised locally, in accordance with local
procedures acceptable to the Association; provided, however, that
the amount of the contracts so awarded shall not, in the aggregate
exceed five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000) equivalent.
3.   Contracts for steel may be awarded through limited interna-
tional tendering after obtaining quotations from at least three
independent reputable suppliers. Limited international tendering
shall be carried out in accordance with procedures consistent with
those set forth in Part A of the Guidelines except that no notifi-
cation or advertisement of the invitation to bid will be required
and no margin of domestic or regional preference for manufacturers
or contractors will be applicable.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to all contracts for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000) or more (but
excluding contracts awarded for proprietary spare parts in accor-
dance with Part B.1 of this Schedule):
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations
to bid and the specifications and other bidding documents,
together with a description of the advertising procedures to be
followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the
said documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.


﻿- 20 -
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report, by the consul-
tants referred to in Section 3.03 of this Agreement, on the
evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together with the
recommendations for award of the said consultants and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The
Association shall, if it determines that the intended award would
be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids, re-
commendations for award and such other information as the Associa-
tion shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with
the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver
of the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an exten-
sion of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the


﻿- 21 -
provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for its determination.
D.   Procurement Without Contracting
Road improvement and maintenance works under Part A of the
Project may be carried out by force account by the Public Works
Department.


﻿- 22 -
SCHEDULE 4
Design Standards
(Section 3.08 of the Development Credit Agreement)
Design Speed (km/h)                40
Minimum Horizontal Radius (m)      20 (10 in exceptional circum-
stances)
Maximum Gradient (%)               12
Maximum Super-elevation (Z)         8
Road Width (m)                      4.5
Cross Fall: Gravel Surface (%)      3
Shoulder (%)           4
Side Slope: Embankment
(horizontal/vertical)   3/2
Cut
(horizontal/vertical)   1/2 (1/6 in rock formation)
Road Structure: Base (cm of
selected
materials)       10
Surface (cm of
crushed stone)   15
Width of Structures:            same as
Road Width


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of
198k.
FOR SECRETARY


