Document of                  FILE  COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2397-DO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
FOR THE
NIZAO IRRIGATION PROJECT
January 11,1979
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00        =    RD$ 1.00
US$1 Million   =    RD$ I Million
RD$ 1 Million  -    US$1 Million
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES: Metric System
1 meter (m)                          -      3.28 feet (ft
1 kilometer (km)                     =      0.62 miles
1 hectare (ha)            2=                2.47 acres
1 million cubic meters (m=                  810 ACTi-feet
i cubic meter per second (mi /S)      -     35.3 ft  per S (cusec)
1 ton                                =      1,000 kilogrms (kg)
2,205 pounds
i kilogram                           =      2.2 pounds
ABBREVIATIONS
BA          Agricultural Bank
CDE         Dominican Electric Corporation
CEA         State Sugar Council
CEDOPEX     Dominican Center for Promotion of Exports
FDD         Dominican Development Foundation
FEDA        Special Fund for Agricultural Development
FIDE        Central Bank's Economic Development Investment Fund
IAD         Dominican Agrarian Institute
IDB         Inter-American Development Bank
INDRHI      National Water Resources Institute
INESPRE     Dominican Price Stabilization Institute
SEA         Secretariat of State for Agriculture
USAID       United States Agency for International Development
GOVERNMENT OF DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:                    Dominican Republic
Beneficiary:                 National Water Resources Institute (INDRHI)
Amount:                      US$27 million equivalent
Terms:                       Repayable in 17 years, including 4-years of
grace, with interest at 7 percent per annum.
Relending Terms:             The proceeds of the loan would be made available
by the Government to INDRHI by way of a grant.
Project Description:         The project supports the Government objectives
of increasing agricultural productivity and
exports, and improving the living conditions
of the rural poor. The project consists of:
(a) civil works to rehabilitate and expand the
irrigation system under the command of the
Marcos A. Cabral and Nizao-Najayo canals, to serve
13,700 ha; water level control and measurement
structures, for proper operation and maintenance
of the system; (b) on-farm development works on
2,330 ha of new land; (c) 24.5 km of gravel
surfaced secondary roads and 146.6 Km of gravel
surfaced road along the main canals to facilitate
operation and maintenance; (d) project unit
headquarters for supervision, administration
and execution of civil works; operation and
maintenance; and extension and agrarian reform
services; (e) equipment for force account construc-
tion of secondary and tertiary canals; operation
and maintenance and agrarian reform and agricul-
tural development programs; (f) operational
expenses and remmuneration of local project staff,
and (g) up to 250 man-months of local and
expatriate consulting services. The project would
benefit about 3,200 farm families. The target
group in the project area would be those with
holdings of 3.0 ha or less, including the
beneficiaries of the agrarian reform program.
This group represents about 70 percent of direct
project beneficiaries and 35 percent of the
project farm lands. The principal risk
confronting the project would be associated with
the completion of rehabilitation works of the main
canals without major interruption of existing
irrigation services.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties, Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Costs;                       Item             ------- US$ thousand -
Local      Foreign    Total
Rehabilitation of the
Irrigation System        12,530       13,410    25,940
Operation and
Maintenance                 100          890        990
Feeder Roads                  110           140       250
Agricultural Development  1,730          1,840      3,570
Agrarian Reform             270          250        520
On-farm Development         990          790      1,780
Extension and Training    470            800      1,270
Technical Services            600        1,100      1,700
Project Administration        130            -        130
Total Base Cost          15,200       17,400    32,600
Physical Contingencies    2,500          3,000      5,500
Price Contingencies         5,900        6,600    12,500
Total                    23,600       27,000    50,600
Financing Plan:                                   US$ million           Percentage
Bank Loan              27.0                   53%
Government             23.6                   47%
Total           $50.6                   100%
Estimated
Disbursements;              IBRD/FY      --…-----$ millions ---------------
1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985
Annual        1.3    4.1    6.8    8.2    5.4    1.2
Cumulative   1.3    5.4   12.2   20.4   25.8   27.0
Rate of Return.               14.5 percent
Staff Ap_raisal Report:       Report No. 2209b-DO dated December 22, 1978
Regional Project Department
Latin American and Caribbean Regional Office



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON
A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC FOR A
SECOND IRRIGATION PROJECT
(NIZAO IRRIGATION)
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Dominican Republic for the equivalent of US$27 million to help
finance a second irrigation project. The loan would have a term of 17 years,
including 4 years of grace, with interest at 7 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The most recent economic report on the Dominican Republic, Report No.
1705-DO entitled "Main Problems in the Economic Development of the Dominican
Republic," was distributed to the Executive Directors on November 23, 1977.
Relevant social and economic data are presented in Annex I.
3.        During 1968-74, the Dominican economy experienced an unprecedented
average annual increase in GDP of 10.5 percent. In 1974-1977, however,
economic growth slowed to only 4.0 percent per year. In 1978, preliminary
estimates indicate a further decline to 3.8 percent.
4.        Economic growth during 1968-74 was led by exports of sugar and
minerals, by tourism and by a high level of both private and public investment.
During that period, the Dominican Republic was able to increase substantially
the volume of sugar exports, start the exploitation of ferronickel deposits,
undertake vigorous industrial expansion (mostly in import substitution indus-
tries), and establish itself in the Caribbean tourism market. The main reasons
for slower growth in recent years are poor agricultural performance, partly as
a result of droughts in 1975 and 1977, the drop in sugar prices after 1975,
which had a strong impact on domestic aggregate demand, and--more recently--
the depressed world market for ferronickel. Manufacturing, oriented mainly to
the domestic market and heavily dependent on imported intermediate and capital
goods, has been particularly affected by the slow growth of the economy and by
shortages of electricity. Industrial expansion during 1974-77 averaged
5.5 percent per year, compared with the 1968-74 average rate of 13.7 percent.
5.        The country's balance-of-payments is vulnerable.  During 1975-77,
sugar (including by-products) accounted for about 47 percent of merchandise
exports, and five other commodities, namely coffee, cocoa, tobacco, ferro-
nickel and bauxite, accounted for an additional 40 percent. All these
commodities face relatively slow growth of demand. During 1970-77, the
current account deficit averaged 5.8 percent of GDP, but varied between
a low of 2.2 percent in 1975 and a high of 11.4 percent in 1974. The deficit
was mostly financed through inflows of direct investment and long-term loans
to both the public and private sector.



- 2 -
6.        An overall balance-of-payments deficit of US$100 million is estimated for
1978, compared with a surplus of US$60 million in 1977. The deterioration in
the balance of payments is mainly due to a projected increase in the current
account deficit from US$264 million in 1977 to US$440 million in 1978 resulting
from a continued decline in sugar prices, a drop in coffee and cocoa prices,
and a substantial reduction of the volume of ferronickel exports. The balance-
of-payments deficit in 1979 is forecast to be of the same order of magnitude
as in 1978. As part of its fiscal and balance-of-payment program, the Govern-
ment contracted in December 1978, a US$185 million medium term loan from a
consortium of foreign commercial Banks.
7.        Inflation, which was minimal during the 1960s, accelerated in the
1970s. The average annual increase in the Santo Domingo consumer price index
during 1971-77 amounted to 11.8 percent. During this period the rate differen-
tial between inflation in the Dominican Republic and in the U.S., the country's
main trading partner, averaged 4.5 percent a year; this differential con-
tributed to the increasing import propensity and added to balance-of-payments
difficulties. The consumer price index for Santo Domingo indicates a reduction
in the rate of inflation during 1978: during the period June 1977-June 1978
the increase was 10.4 percent compared to 13.0 percent during the same period
of the previous year.
8.        Fiscal policy has been cautious.  In 1968-77 current budget surpluses
averaged 6.3 percent of GDP (varying between 2.9 percent in 1968 and 10.2 in
1975) and financed, on average, 98.5 percent of the Central Government's
capital expenditures. In 1975-77, Government savings exceeded investment.
After the sharp drop in sugar prices in 1976, this was only feasible by cut-
ting investment drastically to adjust to the decline in current revenues.
Although the Government's long-term savings performance is impressive, it has
been achieved at the expense of extremely low growth of current expenditures,
especially wages and salaries. During 1968-77, average annual growth of
recurrent expenditures was about 1.6 percent in real terms, and average real
salaries dropped considerably. This austerity limited the Government's
ability to operate and maintain the country's economic and social infrastruc-
ture as well as to attract and retain capable personnel in government service.
9.        In 1978 there was deterioration in the fiscal situation.  The deficit
on Central Government operations is expected to be RD$100 million; it arose
partly as a result of a lower current surplus of RD$190 million compared
with RD$247 million in 1977, and partly as a result of increased capital
expenditures. The reduction in the current surplus is attributable to wage
increases granted to the military, postal workers and top public sector
officials, and to a reduction of RD$60-70 million in revenues due to lower
value of sugar exports and the temporary suspension and subsequent reduction
by 50 percent of export taxes on cocoa and coffee. The Dominican authorities
hope to improve the fiscal situation in 1979 by controlling expenditures,
adjusting the price of public sector services and by increasing revenue
collections through improvements in administration.
10.       The main elements of the development policy pursued by the Government
that was in office from 1966 until August 1978 were land reform and irrigation,



- 3 -
a system of strong incentives for industry and tourism, and expansion of infra-
structure. The public investment efforts resulted in considerable improvements
in the country's primary economic infrastructure. However, major projects,
such as several multi-purpose dams were carried out without adequate assessment
of their economic justification, while the potential benefits of investments
were sometimes not fully realized because there was no provision for necessary
complementary works. Moreover, inadequate tarifis and arrears in payments of
public sector electricity bills have prevented the electricity company from
carrying out essential maintenance and investment.
11.       The objective of the land reform was to ensure better use of arable
land and wider access to land by the landless. Land expropriations, thus
far, have not been of a sufficient magnitude to make progress towards these
objectives and to significantly reduce rural unemployment. They have, on the
other hand, increased uncertainty among land-owners, discouraged investment in
agriculture, and adversely affected production.
12.       Industrialization was promoted through a system of tax incentives,
low import duties on raw materials, high protection and access to foreign
exchange at the preferential official exchange rate for the purchase of
capital and intermediate goods. This incentive structure was successful in
getting the process of industrialization under way. It did, however,
encourage production for the local market rather than for export, the use of
capital intensive techniques in spite of the abundance of cheap labor, and the
use of foreign inputs instead of local raw materials. It also discriminates
against the small firms whose development could have a positive impact on
employment.
13.       The new Government that took office in August 1978 faces a difficult
situation. It is under strong pressure to reflate a stagnant economy in the
context of acute social problems, not least of which are an open unemployment
rate estimated at 20 percent in Santo Domingo, and an underemployment rate in
the order of 60 percent of the rural labor force. Yet, measures to expand
economic growth must necessarily take into account the country's difficult
balance-of-payments prospects.
14.       The new Government has recognized the need for appropriate adjust-
ments in economic policies. The planning and coordination of fiscal, balance-
of-payments and external borrowing policies is to be strengthened. A medium-
term public investment program is being prepared. It will outline the
Government's investment priorities and their external borrowing requirements.
The Government attaches high priority to the improvement of public administra-
tion, particularly of those services such as credit, extension, education and
health which can have a direct impact on agricultural output and rural living
conditions. Given the Government's determination to continue a prudent fiscal
policy, the improvement of current services could require new tax measures.
The latter are under consideration. Also ranking high in the Government's
priorities are measures to strengthen the balance-of-payments by promoting
non-traditional exports, including agro-industry. The Authorities are con-
ducting an analysis of the existing incentives system to determine how it
could be modified to achieve a more rational allocation of resources.



- 4 -
15.       Measures are also being taken to strengthen the autonomous agencies
such as the electricity company, the sugar corporation, the state industrial
conglomerate and the price stabilization institute. Expalis[on of electric
generating capacity and modernization of sugar production will require sub-
stantial capital outtlays in the near future.
16.       The prudent debt manageinent policy traditionally followed by the
Dominican Authorities (the public debt service ratio was 7 percent of export
earnings in 1977) and the present Government's conitinued commitment to fiscal
prudence, should enable the ,kurliorities to finance, without difficulty, pro-
spective balance-of-payments deficits in 1978-79. In the longer rfun, however,
a critical issue will be the Governmenit's success in implementing its announced
objective of expanding and diversifying exports so that the balance-of-payaents
will not pose an intolerable constraint to econoiaLo growth and social equity.
There are strong indications tiiat the Authorities will move decisively. On
this basis, we conclude that the Dominican Republic is creditworthy for Bank
lending.
PART II - BANK OPERATIONS IN THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
17.       The Bank Group began operations Li tlhe Dominican Republic in 1969.
Except for an enclave maining- project, lending to the Dominican Republic was on
TDA terns prior to FY1975.  Since then lending has been on Bank *erns,
including two Third Window operations. One loan for a ferronickel project
in FY1970, and two credits respectively, for a livestock production project
and an educalI: on project in FY1971 are fully disbursed. A credit for an
irrigation project was approved in FY1973. Two loans for a tourism infra-
structure project and a second educatfion project, respectively, were approved
in FY1975 and two loans, both on Third Window terms, for highway rehabilitation
and maintenance and population and family healtlt were approved in FY1977.
There was no Bank lending to the DoiaLnican Republic in FY1978 because of
delays on the part oF lae Government in defining its priorities for external
borrowing.
18.       IFC has financed two operations in the Dominican Republic, an
investment in a cement plant approved ia 1974, and a line of credit for small
and medium scale indulstry approved in 1978.  IFC is also contemplating other
operations in the Dominican Republic. Total Bank loans and TID credits
outstanding amount to US$53.1 million, oF which US$32.2 are undisbursed.
Annex II contains a sunnairy -.tatement of the Bank Group loans and credits as
of November 30, 1978 and notes on the progress of ongoing projects.
19.       Bank Group lending to the Dominican Republic has ainaed at strength-
ening the balance-of-payments; improving social services available to the
lower income grouips, pacticularly in rural areas; improving agricultural
production and land distribution; and strengthening instituations responsible
for major economic sectors. Thie prLiicipal thrust of the project now under
considerationi is the improvement of agricultural production and better lalnd
distribution.



20.       IDB became the major source of long-term assistance to the Dominican
Republic since U.S. budgetary support ended in the late 1960's. Assistance
from IDB has included agriculture (credit programs for farmers and irrigation);
power (two multipurpose hydroelectric projects and rural electrification);
water supply and sewerage; and higher education. U.S. long-term assistance
consisted mainly of food (PL480) and loans for agriculture.
Table 1: DOMINICAN REPUBLIC - DEVELOPMENT ASSISTANCE, 1970-1977
(US$ million)
Sector                                 IDB        US       Bank    IDA
Agriculture and Fisheries             76.9       27.0        -    18.0
Industry                                 -        5.1      25.0     -
Power                                 44.1          -        -      -
Tourism                                  -          -      21.0     -
Transport                              2.5          -       5.0     -
Water and Sewerage                    22.2          -        -      -
Education                             13.2        1.8       8.0    4.0
Health and Population                    -        4.8       5.0     -
Preinvestment                          1.5         -         -      -
Other L1                                 -       50.4        -      -
Total                                160.4       89.1      64.0   22.0
/1   PL 480 loans.
21.       The Dominican Republic has not had a development plan in the past.
However, the new Authorities are preparing a four-year public investment
program, in which sector and project priorities will be defined. The Authori-
ties have requested the Bank to establish a consultative-type Sub-Group for
the Dominican Republic as part of the Caribbean Group for Cooperation in
Economic Development which was created in December 1977. The Bank is assisting
the Government in the preparation of the public investment program and of a
list of projects for which the Government expects to obtain external financing.
These documents would be reviewed by the Sub-Group at a first meeting tenta-
tively scheduled for the Spring of 1979. The Authorities expect that this
mechanism will assist them in their effort to mobilize external financing on
terms compatible with the country's balance-of-payments constraints.
22.       Projects currently in preparation by the Bank and prospective
operations address the country's main economic and social development issues.
A Second Tourism Project to provide credit for hotel construction, urban works
and construction of a handicrafts center, and a Sugar Modernization Project to



- 6 -
initiate the rehabilitation of the State Sugar Corporation would be primarily
directed at strengthening the balance-of-payments. Further Bank lending is
envisaged for education, health and population, and road maintenance and
rehabilitation, including a pilot component on the use of labor-intensive
techniques. New areas for Bank lending are being discussed with the Authori-
ties; they could comprise power and export-oriented industries.
23.       The Bank Group's share in the Dominican Republic's external public
debt outstanding and disbursed was estimated at 5.1 percent at the end of
1977. The Bank Group's share of external public debt service in 1977 was 2.8
percent. Its share of outstanding public external debt would rise to about
8.5 by 1985, while its share of external public debt service would increase to
about 5.8 percent.
PART III - THE SECTOR AND SUBSECTOR
The Agricultural Sector
24.       Agriculture is the most important sector of the Dominican Republic's
economy, both in terms of output and employment. Over half of the economic-
ally active population is employed in the sector, which is a major source of
foreign exchange earnings. Agriculture has a large growth potential, but it
is also the sector with the most serious social problems. In 1977, it contri-
buted 14 percent to GDP, and exports of agricultural origin amounted to
$578 million, or about 74 percent of the total value of commodities exported.
25.       The growth of agricultural production since 1960 has averaged
2.7 percent per year, with higher growth in food crops (4.6 percent) and in
livestock (4.9 percent). However, in the past four years, performance has
stagnated, and growth in food crops has been reduced to 3 percent per year. A
drop in international sugar prices and droughts in 1975 and 1977 have been
major causes of this performance.
26.       Sugar, coffee, cocoa, and tobacco are traditional exports, amounting
to US$558 million in 1977. Sugar and sugar by-products represent 45 percent
of this value. Vegetables, fruits and meat are the sector's non-traditional
exports, with a total value of US$19 million. Exports of vegetables and fruits
increased from US$2.1 million in 1966, to US$17 million in 1977. Principal
export markets are Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands and the U.S. mainland.
27.       Imports of foodstuffs have increased substantially in the past five
years, totalling US$85 million in 1976. Rice, wheat, soybean oil, peanut oil,
and corn are the main imported products. Progress towards self-sufficiency
has been hampered by marketing and credit problems. Small farmers are the
exclusive producers of rice and peanuts and self-sufficiency in these two
products could be attained through the proper organization of credit and
extension services. High yielding varieties of corn and soybean adapted to
the climatic conditions of the country have not been developed.



-7 -
28.       The Dominican Republic is endowed with good land resources and about
57 percent of the country's 4.84 million ha is in farms- a high percentage
when compared to other countries in Latin America. The rural population
comprises about 55 percent o5 the country's 5 million population. Total popu-
lation density of 103 per km is among the highest in Latin America. Rural
poverty remains one of the major socio-economic problems of the Dominican
Republic and rural per capita income is estimated to be about one fourth of
per capita urban income. The inadequacy of rural incomes and of social
services is reflected in nutritional deficiencies and high mortality levels.
Possibilities for increasing land in farms are extremely limited  land
productivity will have to be increased if per capita food supplies are to be
maintained.
29.       The land use pattern reflects the uncertainty created by the present
agrarian reform laws among medium and large scale farmers. About 1.5 million
ha is now in pasture, and about one third of this total could be intensively
cropped. Present agrarian reform laws permit larger holdings when the land is
devoted to pasture, rather than crops. Another reason for underutilization of
lands is the limited capacity of the Dominican Agrarian Institute (IAD) to
distribute approximately 230,000 ha which were expropriated by the Government
up to 1976. In addition, the State Sugar Council (CEA) owns another 230,000
ha, of which 130,000 ha are under sugar--most with fairly low yields--and the
rest is under pasture or unutilized. The remaining arable land is divided
into about 300,000 farms. There is. especially among the small farms, ample
opportunity to increase present low yields by providing them with technical
assistance and credit.
30.       The Dominican Republic is endowed with substantial surface and
groundwater resources and the quality of both is generally adequate for
agricultural purposes. Approximately 20 percent of the country is classified
as a dry zone in which irrigation is necessary. 15 percent is considered an
intermediate zone where supplemental irrigation would be desirable, though not
essential for cultivation; and the remaining 65 percent is a wet zone, mostly
mountainous, which is unsuitable for intensive agriculture.
Institutional Framework
31.       A large number of public sector agencies are active in agriculture
but there has been little coordination among them. This was due mainly to
highly centralized decision-making at the top Government level, especially
in matters of budgetary allocation, and the absence of well-defined agricul-
tural and rural development policies. The effectiveness of the Secretariat
of State for Agriculture (SEA) in promoting agricultural production and,
to some extent, rural development has, however, increased in recent years
through the establishment of a planning division, a decentralized extension
service, an expanded marketing section and a supervised credit program
designed for farmers' associations and small farmers. The new authorities
have recently begun an effort to coordinate all agencies involved in the
sector under the direction of SEA.



- 8 -
32.       The Dominican Agrarian Institute (IAD). is the Government agency
in charge of development and distribution of lands that the government expro-
priates through the various agrarian reform laws and the Cuota Parte Law
(under which landowners return to the Government from 25 percent to 80 percent
of their land depending on its use, in payment for the increase in value
brought about by irrigation). Agrarian Reform beneficiaries must be landless
workers in the area to be distributed, without other sources of income, or
farmers displaced from their land as a result of government programs. The
minimum requirements in the selection of beneficiaries are that they commit
themselves to work on the farm and with the help of the immediate family, and
that they be from 18 to 50 years of age. Inadequate funding of IAD has
jeoparidized the success of on-going operations and seriously slowed the pace
of land distribution efforts. The new Government intends to strengthen
IAD to permit the distribution of state owned lands to landless rural workers,
estimated at some 100,000 persons.
33.       The Agricultural Bank (BA) and commercial banks are the principal
sources of institutional credit to agriculture. In 1975 they shared 51
percent and 41 percent, respectively, of the US$153 million lent to the
sector. The remaining 8 percent of institutional credit was provided by
development finance companies (financieras) and the Dominican Development
Foundation (FDD), a private foundation which provides credit and extension
services to small farmer cooperatives. BA has obtained its funds through
capital transfers from the Government and from foreign loans (mainly from
IDB). Commercial banks lend from their own deposits and, in a lesser propor-
tion  by relending funds from the Central Bank's Economic Development
Investment Fund (FIDE).
34.       Institutional credit in the sector has primarily benefitted medium-
and large-scale farmers, while most small-scale farmers have traditionally
relied on money lenders, truck drivers, rice mills and local store owners as
a source of credit. The availability of institutional credit to small farmers
would have a significant impact on rural development, and the Government is,
therefore. taking steps to encourage the BA to concentrate its activities on
assisting small farmers. Institutional credit costs range from 8 to 12 per-
cent per annum, while informal credit costs vary from 2 percent per month
to 20 percent per month.
35.       The Dominican Price Stabilization Institute (INESPRE) is responsible
for the regulation and stabilization of agricultural prices. At present,
INESPRE establishes support prices for a dozen commodities and controls the
marketing of rice, beans and sugar. INESPRE's activities have expanded
rapidly, and during the 1972-75 period, the value of purchases (including
imports) more than tripled from RD$ 38.4 million to RD$ 143.0 million.
Domestic prices of basic foodstuffs have been allowed to rise substantially
in recent years. Despite this differential, domestic production gains have
failed to keep pace with demand in recent years, and imports of rice and
vegetable oils have increased rapidly. These trends suggest that the higher
prices paid for rice and peanuts do not reach the small-scale producers who
account for most of the output, or that. at prevailing technology levels, the



- 9 -
costs of producing these foodstuffs in the Dominican Republic are much higher
than in other countries. These problems would affect the project marginally,
as it is expected that only about 1,000 ha. would be planted with rice.
Nevertheless, the new Government is considering a national system of weighs
and measures and improved marketing services that would result in better
prices paid to farmers.
The Irrigation Subsector
36.       The past Government attached high priority to water resource devel-
opment. In the last decade, some US$157 million were invested in the construc-
tion of three dams (Tavera, Valdesia and Rincon), and in the construction of
314 km of irrigation canals. The present irrigated area is 154,000 ha. In
addition to the existing facilities, seven projects are under construction at
an estimated cost of US$336 million. These projects are expected to irrigate
31,700 ha of new lands and improve the water supply in 53,000 ha. Government
outlays, however, have been almost totally directed to investment. Current
expenditures increased only slightly since 1971, resulting in poor operation
and maintenance of the existing irrigation systems.
37.       State-owned irrigation systems are administered by the National
Water Resource Institute (INDRHI) through a network of four irrigation
districts covering 135,000 ha. Over 30 crops are grown in the irrigation
districts. The principal crops are rice (47 percent), plantain (9 percent),
beans (6 percent) and vegetables and fruits (6 percent). About 15 percent of
irrigated land is under pasture. Yields under irrigation are considerably
higher than those under rainfed conditions.
38.       The operation of existing irrigation systems must be upgraded to
obtain full benefits from the improved water supplies resulting from construc-
tion of storage dams. Water delivery schedules are presently established
by days and hours, with no irrigation at night, and no measurement of water
flows except in the main canals. Although the absence of measurements makes
it impossible to determine precisely the efficiency of operations and use
of irrigation water, it is estimated to be low. Most of the irrigation
systems under the command of storage dams need rehabilitation to upgrade their
operation. The project now under consideration would rehabilitate the Marcos
A. Cabral and Nizao Najayo canals, which are under the command of the Valdesia
dam.
39.       Irrigation water charges are low in the Dominican Republic.  Although
collection of water charges has increased considerably, covering about 80
percent of all users, the Government had to subsidize about 60 percent of the
operation and maintenance costs of the irrigation systems.  Irrigation works
are poorly maintained because of insufficient funds.  Recent estimates of
requirements for proper operation and maintenance of irrigation systems in
the Dominican Republic are in the range of RD$ 30 to RD$ 40 per ha, while
INDRHI's expenditures were of RD$ 15 per ha in 1977.



- 10 -
40.       Recovery of capital investment for irrigation systems is partially
accomplished through the Cuota Parte Law. Farmers with less than 9.4 ha are
exempted. The new Government is preparing an amendment to the Cuota Parte
Law, to ensure a higher recovery of capital investment and a better distri-
bution of irrigated lands.
Government Policy for Agricultural Development
41.       In view of the importance of the sector in the economy of the
country, the new administration is taking actions to achieve a better coordi-
nation among the institutions involved in the sector, under the leadership
of the Secretariat of Agriculture; to increase the availability of institu-
tional credit to small farmers and to organize them in cooperatives and
associations to facilitate the marketing of their products; and to strengthen
research and extension activities. Irrigation continues to be regarded as
high priority, but the administration will concentrate on the rehabilitation
of existing irrigation systems and construction of complementary works,
and on upgrading the operation and maintenance of these systems so as to
obtain full economic benefits from previous investments. The Government also
intends to introduce legislation that would strengthen implementation of land
reform on irrigated lands.
Past BankGro!u Assistance_to_Agriculture
42.       The Bank Group has to date financed a livestock project and an
irrigation project in the agricultural sector of the Dominican Republic. The
objective of the livestock project, approved by IDA in FY1971, was to increase
output in 260 beef and dairy ranches through modern techniques. Completed in
1976- its audit was presented to the Board in May 1978. The project succeeded
in increasing production and productivity considerably. The number of benefi-
ciaries was, however, reduced as a result of higher than expected inflation.
43.       The Yaque del Norte Irrigation Project was approved by IDA in FY1973
with parallel financing from IDB. It aims at increasing agricultural produc-
tion by providing irrigation and drainage to approximately 27,000 ha, and
includes a land settlement program. The project has suffered a delay of more
than two years and has experienced a cost overrun of 88 percent. This resulted
mainly from delays in the acquisition by the Government of rights-of-way for
the construction of the main canal. This obstacle has now been overcome and
construction of the diversion dam and one portion of the main canal is well
advanced.
44.       Another problem has arisen from delays in the approval by the
Government of measures for the redistribution of irrigated lands and for the
successful completion of the land settlement program. However, the Government
has now indicated that an agrarian reform law would be presented to Congress
during the first semester of 1979, limiting maximum land holdings on all
state-irrigated lands, including the Yaque del Norte area. This would permit
the execution of the land settlement program beginning in the second semester
of 1979.



- 11 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
45.       A report entitled "Staff Appraisal Report of the Nizao Irrigation
Project, Dominican Republic" (No. 2209b-DO) dated December 22, 1978 is being
distributed separately. The main features of the loan and project are found
in the front of this report, and supplementary project data is given in
Annex III. The project was prepared by INDRHI, with FAO/CP assistance between
1977 and 1978 and was appraised in March/April 1978. Negotiations were held
in Washington from November 20 to November 23, 1978. The Government was
represented by a delegation led by Mr. Andres M. Aybar Nicolas, Executive
Director of INDRHI.
The Project Area
46.       The 19,500 ha project area is on a coastal strip of level and rolling
land which extends southwest of Santo Domingo and has a mountain range and
the Caribbean sea as its north and south borders. Seasonal variations are
minor but rainfall is unevenly distributed, varying from 490 mm/year at the
western end, to 1,260 mm/year at the eastern end of the project. Young allu-
vial soils predominate in the area, which is generally fertile. The net present
irrigated area is 11,370 ha., and an additional 2,330 ha. of new land would
be irrigated.
47.       The area is divided by the Nizao river into two zones--the right bank,
extending towards the semi-arid region of Azua and irrigated by the 64 km long
Marcos A. Cabral canal, and the left bank, extending toward the semi-humid
region of San Cristobal and irrigated by the 62 km long Nizao-Najayo canal.
Both, partially lined canals, are in need of repairs. All lateral canals are
in need of repairs, and generally lack control and measurement structures for
adequate operation and delivery of water to the farms.
48.       The project area is densely populated (127,000 people as of January
1978). Farmers are rated among the country's best agriculturalists. Physical
infrastructure is well developed, a highway crosses the area, and feeder roads
link small towns and villages. This permits easy access to Santo Domingo, the
country's most important market and export outlet. In addition, nearby
agro-industries provide a ready market for vegetables and fruits.
49.       A variety of high value crops is presently grown in the 11,370 ha
of irrigated lands in the project area. Perennial crops occupy 7,800 ha
and a total of 1,970 ha. are cultivated with two seasonal crops per year.
The remainding 1,600 ha. of the irrigated area is under pasture or remains in
fallow, a temporary situation often resulting from limited water supplies,
which force farmers to crop a smaller area.
50.       Present crop distribution reflects the availability of water in
different zones of the project area. Lands with ample water supplies, near
the Nizao river, are cropped with sugarcane, rice and vegetables. Lands
with limited water supplies west of the Bani river, are cropped with plantains
and cassava or remain in pastures and in fallow. Lands in the San Cristobal



- 12 -
area have an intermediate cropping pattern. Yields for the same crops as well
as the intensity of land use are higher in the areas with good water supplies.
51.       There are presently 2,299 small- and medium-sized farms with less
than 10 ha. and 154 farms with more than 10 ha. on a total of 8,100 ha., and one
sugar estate that covers 3,270 ha. The new lands to be irrigated (2,330 ha)
are Government-owned and would be distributed among 800 landless farmers by
IAD in lots of 3.0 ha. per farmer. The project would benefit about 3,200
families on a total of 10,430 ha. Project benefits would comprise increased
water supply on about 4,200 ha. and extension of the irrigation system to the
2,330 ha of new lands. In addition, the operation of the irrigation system
would be improved on 3,900 ha. No benefits are attributed to the privately-
owned sugar estate, which already has access to sufficient water supply for
efficient cane production. Nevertheless, the sugar estate has benefited from
previous investments and would, therefore, pay the same water charges as
project beneficiaries.
52.       With increased water availability resulting from the project, the
areas devoted to rice, and vegetables--requiring frequent irrigation-can be
expected to increase. The extension of irrigation to other new areas would
also result in an increase of papaya, plantains and cassava production. In
addition, the adoption of more efficient irrigation techniques, the establish-
ment of water charges which better reflect the cost of irrigation, and
redistribution of state owned lands and through the "cuota parte" system,
would favor a further shift towards high value crops. The project would also
exploit the area's competitive advantage for production of exportable vegetables
and fruits, both fresh and processed.
53.       Cost recovery policies through water rates have been inadequate in
the Dominican Republic. The Government presently subsidizes about 60 percent
of operations and maintenance costs, and no effort has been made to recover
capital investments. The new Government has decided to implement a nationwide
progressive system of water charges. As an intermediate step, it has agreed
to double the present rates by December 31, 1979 to permit the recovery of a
greater portion of operation and maintenance costs. A nationwide progressive
system of water charges would be put in effect by December 31, 1980. The
system would permit the recovery of full operation and maintenance costs, and
a proportion of the investment cost that would be within the ability of the
farmers in each irrigation district to pay. Recovery levels would be
determined on the basis of studies for each irrigation district, and would be
carried out be INDRHI. A technical unit would be established within INDRHI by
June 30, 1980 for this purpose. The technical unit would carry out by June
30, 1983 a socio-economic study to determine the extent to which investment
costs could be recovered and would serve as a basis for the system of water
rates to be established in the Nizao project area. The System would be
put into effect by June 30, 1984. (Section 3.04 of the Loan Agreement and
2.08 of the Project Agreement). On the basis of various calculations to
evaluate possible water rates, it is estimated that about 30 percent of the
capital cost of the project could be recovered, 16 percent by means of water
charges and 14 percent by application of the cuota Darte law.



- 13 -
Project Objectives and Content
54.       The project is intended to increase agricultural productivity,
increase exports, and improve the standard of living of some 3,200 families.
It would finance, over a five-year investment period, the following components:
(a) civil works to rehabilitate the irrigation system under the
command of the Marcos A. Cabral and Nizao-Najayo canals (13,700
ha) which would result in better utilization of regulated water
from the Valdesia dam, improve water supply in about 4,200 ha,
and extend the irrigation system to 2,330 ha of new lands.
Water level control and measurement structures would be included.
The entire 64 km length of the Marcos A. Cabral canal would be
concrete-lined, as well as 60 km of lateral canals. About
146.6 km of gravel surfaced road along the main canals would
be constructed for operation and maintenance of the canals;
(b)  on-farm development works on 2,330 ha would consist of land
clearing and leveling and building the required farm ditches
and drains, control structures, gates and on-farm roads;
(c) about 24.5 km of gravel-surfaced secondary roads would be con-
structed to ensure the flow of goods and services to and from
the project area;
(d) project unit headquarters, consisting of offices for supervision,
administration and execution of civil works, operation and main-
tenance of the irrigation district, extension and agrarian reform
services; storage and shops; and housing for personnel;
(e) equipment for force account construction of laterals (secondary
and tertiary canals); operation and maintenance; and agrarian
reform and agricultural development programs;
(f) operational expenses such as spare parts, repairs, fuel and
maintenance supplies for equipment during the project imple-
mentation period; and project staff; and
(g) up to 250 man-months of both local (142 man-months) and
expatriate (108 man-months) consulting services.
Project Organization and Administration
55.       Overall responsibility for the project would rest with INDRHI, which
is in charge of planning, developing, operating and maintaining all government
irrigation systems. INDRHI was created in 1965 and is by law a decentralized
agency, under the coordination of the Secretariat of Agriculture. It is, how-
ever, almost totally dependent on transfers from the Central Government budget.
56.       INDRHI's policies and investment plans are approved by a Board
of Directors chaired by the Secretary of Agriculture and composed of the
General Director of National Planning, the Directors of IAD and BA, and three
representatives of the private sector. Day to day management is entrusted to
INDRHI's Executive Director, who is appointed by the President of the Republic.



- 14 -
57.       INDRHI is currently executing two major projects:  the IDA and IDB-
financed Yaque del Norte Project, and the Hatillo dam, financed entirely by
the Government. Future projects include the Nizao Irrigation Project,
and the Sabana Yegua and Sabaneta Projects, which are expected to be financed
by IDB. INDRHI should be able to execute these projects without major
difficulty, since its involvement during the construction phase of these
projects will with the exception of small irrigation systems, relate mainly
to the supervision of works carried out by contractors. In addition, technical
assistance is being provided to INDRHI by IDB, to strengthen its ability to
operate the irrigation systems.
58.       INDRHI has appointed a Project Director acceptable to the Bank, to
be responsible for the supervision of rehabilitation works, operation of irriga-
tion systems and execution of the agrarian reform and agricultural development
programs (Section 2.02 of the Project Agreement). A regional project coordi-
nating committee would be established by Government Decree, to approve the
yearly agricultural development program for the project, supervise its
execution and evaluate its results. The committee would consist of the
Project Director, regional representatives of SEA, IAD, Dominican Electricity
Corporation (CDE), BA, and FEDA, a council which coordinates the national
agencies involved in the agricultural sector, and a representative of the
farmers of the area. The creation of the regional coordinating committee
would be a condition of effectiveness (Sections 3.02 and 6.01(b) of the
Loan Agreement).
59.       INDRHI would select, with Bank approval, qualified engineering
consultants to update designs and prepare tender documents for project civil
works (Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement). Hiring of the consultants
would be a condition of loan effectiveness (Section 6.01(a) of the Loan
Agreement). Preparation of tender documents for the civil works to be per-
formed by contractors is expected to be completed by December 1979. A critical
aspect is that rehabilitation works be carried out without major interruption
of existing irrigation services. INDRHI would carry out construction of
secondary and tertiary canals. and land leveling by force account and would
supervise all construction works. It would reorganize and staff the Nizao
Irrigation District to provide irrigation services and perform maintenance of
works during and after the construction period.
60.       The Government and INDRHI would engage qualified engineering firms
under arrangements satisfactory to the Bank to perform periodic inspections of
the Valdesia and Barias Dams. In addition, INDRHI would carry out a study on
the operation of the Valdesia dam to optimize hydropower generation and the
supply of water for irrigation, under terms and conditions acceptable to the
Bank.  Agreements have been reached between INDRHI and the Dominican Electricity
Corporation (CDE) to review the recommendations of the inspection reports and
study, and to take appropriate action thereon (Sections 3.05 and 4.05 of the
Loan Agreement, and Sections 2.10 and 3.05 of the Project Agreement).
61.       INDRHI's financial statements and separate project accounts would
be audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. Audited INDRHI and
project accounts would be sent to the Bank within six months of the close of



- 15 -
each fiscal year. INDRHI would also be responsible for establishing and
maintaining a system for monitoring the progress of the project, and evaluating
the impact of the investment and technical assistance (Sections 2.06(b) and
(c), and 4.02 of the Project Agreement).
62.       SEA would establish a Sub-Regional office devoted exclusively to
serving the project area. LAD would provide the staff to prepare the cadastral
map, recover the "cuota parte" lands after the civil works are completed, and
distribute the land among landless farmers who qualify for the agrarian
reform program. The Government has agreed to provide IAD with sufficient
staff to carry out the above, and would ensure that SEA provides adequate
research and extension services to the project area (Section 3.01(a) of the
Loan Agreement). Consultants hired by INDRHI would assist SEA in training
extension agents and farmers. SEA would provide quality control for vegetable
seeds by December 31, 1981 (Section 4.03 of the Loan Agreement).
63.       Additional needs for medium-term credit generated by the project are
estimated at US$5.0 million over a five-year period, commencing the third year
of the project. At full development, incremental credit requirements would
reach about US$1.8 million per year. The Government has agreed to provide BA
with adequate financial resources to cover the incremental need for medium-term
and seasonal credit (Section 4.02 of the Loan Agreement).
Cost Estimates and Financing
64.       Total project costs are estimated at US$50.6 million.  A detailed
breakdown of costs is given in the Loan and Project Summary. Physical contin-
gencies for civil works and for equipment and technical services have been
estimated at 20 percent and 10 percent of base costs, respectively. Price
contingencies are calculated at 39 percent of base costs for the five-year
implementation period.
65.       The proposed loan of US$27 million would finance the foreign exchange
costs of the project, estimated at 53 percent of total costs. The proceeds of
the loan would be made available by the Government to INDRHI by way of a grant.
Local currency requirements estimated at the equivalent of US$23.6 million
would be met by annual Government budgetary contributions to INDRHI, SEA and
LAD (Section 3.01(b) and (c) of the Loan Agreement).
66.       The estimated cost of 250 man-months of consulting services to be
provided under the project is US$1.7 million, or an average cost per man-month
of approximately US$6,800 (excluding contingencies and price escalation). This
cost is considered reasonable given the type of expertise required.
Procurement
67.       Civil works for the rehabilitation of the main canals and imported
equipment would be procured through international competitive bidding (ICB).
Bidding documents for the rehabilitation of the main canal would include a
clause requiring that during construction, an established minimum flow be met



- 16 -
to irrigate the presently cultivated area. INDRHI would construct canals
in new areas and rehabilitate secondary and tertiary canals by force account
which would result in the intensive use of labor.
68.       Contracts for construction of project headquarters and training
centers; on-farm development works; feeder roads; and procurement of minor
equipment and supplies would follow local procurement procedures which are
acceptable to the Bank. Technical services financed with loan proceeds would
be procured under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank.
Disbursements
69.       The proposed Bank loan would be disbursed over a four-and-one-half-
year period against the foreign exchange expenditures of the project, as
follows.
(a) 100 percent of foreign exchange expenditures for directly
imported equipment, and technical services,
(b) 85 percent of local expenditures on imported equipment
procured locally,
(c) 54 percent of total expenditures for civil works.
Demand and Market Aspects
70.       The project would result in substantial increases in the output
of plantains, rice, tomatoes, cassava, mangos, oranges, and papaya.
Of these products, rice, cassava, and plantains, which are staples of the
Dominican diet, would be predominantly absorbed by the internal market.
71.       Prospects for expanding exports of fruits and vegetables to the U.S.
are good. However, the quality of boxes and cartons produced in the Dominican
Republic is deficient and often contributes to the deterioration of fresh
produce en route to import destinations. Quality control norms were prepared
by the Dominican Institute of Technology and are expected to be approved by
mid-1979. The Government would permit the temporary import of any equipment
needed for the purpose (which includes cartons and boxes) if the above
measures prove to be insufficient (Section 4.06 of the Loan Agreement).
Environmental Impact
72.       As the main objective of the project is to rehabilitate existing
irrigation systems and to extend the irrigated area, there would be no
significant change in the environment. Since the construction of the Valdesia
dam, the Government has initiated a soil conservation program to control
erosion and to reduce accumulation of sediments in the storage reservoir.
The Government would continue the soil conservation program in the Nizao
catchment basin (Section 4.04 of the draft Loan Agreement).



- 17 -
Economic Evaluation
73.       The economic rate of return (ERR) of the project is estimated
at 14.5 percent. Sensitivity analyses indicate that the economic rate of
return would be 13.0 percent with a 20 percent increase in construction costs;
and 12.2 percent if the value of benefits were to decrease by 20 percent.
The projected per capita farm income after the project is completed, based on
6.3 persons per family in the project area, would be of $850 (in 1978 dollars),
compared to $420 without the project. The target group in the project area
would be those families with 3.0 ha or less, including the beneficiaries of
the agrarian reform program. This group represents about 70 percent of direct
beneficiaries, and 35 percent of project farmlands.  Farmers in the target
group would receive a per capita farm income of $470, compared to $200 without
the project, and would supplement their farm income as hired labor in jobs
created by the project.
74.       About 13,000 rural families would indirectly benefit from the
additional jobs created in the production and marketing of agricultural
products. Agro-industries located in the area which have been working below
capacity would benefit from the increase in production resulting from the
project.
75.       Additional benefits would be the strengthening of agricultural
production organization at the regional level, and the upgrading of the
operation and maintenance of the national irrigation systems.
Project Risks
76.       The principal risk confronting the project would be associated
with the completion of rehabilitation works of the main canals without major
interruption of existing irrigation services. To minimize this risk, bidding
documents would include a clause requiring contractors to maintain a minimum
flow to ensure that the irrigation needs of the presently cultivated area
are met.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
77.       The Loan Agreement between the Dominican Republic and the Bank, the
Project Agreement between the Bank and the National Water Resource Institute
(INDRHI) and the recommendation of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed separately
to the Executive Directors.
78.       Special conditions are listed in Section III of Annex III.



- 18 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
79.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
January 11, 1979
Washington, D.C.



-19-                                    ANNEX I
Page 1 of 6
DOKINICAN REPUBLIC - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC                                   la
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. EM.)                                               - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL             48.7                                                 SAME        SAME      NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL      24.5                               MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME       INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b     REGION /c  GROUP /d   GROUP /e
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                 240.0       390.0    840.0           1066.7      867.2      1796.4
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)    157.0       321.0    458.0            911.1      578.3       1525.0
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION, KID-YEAR
(MILLIONS)                        3.0         4.1       5.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 30.3        39.8     45.9             57.9       46.2        52.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. EM.                      63.0         83.0    103.0             25.6       50.8        27.6
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    166.0       174.0    204.0             77.6       93.3       [16.4
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                        47.3        47.5      48.0             42.0       42.9        34.8
15-64 YRS.                        49.7        49.4      49.4            52.2       53.5        56.0
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                  3.0          3.1      2.6              3. 7       3.5         5.7
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              3.6 If      2.9 /i    2.9 La          2.7        2.5         1.6
URBAN                              6.1         5.6       6.6             4.3        4.7         3.4
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER TEOUSAND)     49.9        47.3      45.8            35.8       37.8        27.0
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     18.7        13.4      11.0             9.1       10.8         9.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               ..         3.5       3.4             2.6        2.5         1.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)      ..         17.2      70.8
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..         ..        5.0            15.1       20.0        19.3
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX Of FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970-100)            120.1       100.0      97.0           102.1      107.3       103.8
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREHENTS)                   92.0        88.0      98.0           103.9      105.3       110.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          46.0        50.0      45.4            60.3       63.0        77.7
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         ..        29.0      23.3            26.7       21.7        22.2
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     11.7         6.0        *-             8.7        8.0         1.9
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    49.3        52.2      57.8            62.6       57.2        63.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                          101.0       103.0     104.0            56.9       53.9        38.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        37.0      55.0            60.7       56.8        67.7
URBAN                               ..        72.0      88.0            78.0       79.0        83.5
RURAL                               ..        14.0      27.0            34.9       31.8        41.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
rOTAL                               ..        58.0      42.0            61.1       30.9        70.3
URBAN                               ..        63.0      74.0            80.3       45.4        90.7
RURAL                              ..         54.0      16.0            25.4       16.1        38.3
POPULATION PER PRYSICIAN          1520.0      1710.0   1950.0           L899.3     2706.8      1310.8
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON    15240.0     11720.0  11950.0           1220.1    1462.0        849.2
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            440.0       350.0    350.0            422.3      493.9       275.4
URBAN                               ..       150.0    220.0            258.2      229.6       129.9
RURAL                              ..       2680.0   3580.0           2281.6    2947.9        965.9
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED          ..          ..       30.0            25.6       22.1        18.9
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              5.0         5.3       ..              5.2        5.2         3.9
URBAN                             4.8          5.2       ..              ..         5.0
RURAL                              5.1         5.4       ..              ..         5.4
AVERAGE NLMEER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                              2.0         ..        ..              2.0        2.0         0.9
URBAN                              1.6         ..        ..              2.1        L .5        3.8
RURAL                              2.2         ..        ..              2.7        2.7         1.0
ACCESS 10 ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                             20.0         ..        ..              6.2       64.1        59.2
URBAN                             57.7          ..        ..            77.3       67.8        78.0
RURAL                              3.0         ..        ..             12.8       34.1        L2.5



- 20 -
ANNEX I
Page-Z of 6
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC                                        /a
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
SAME         SAME      NEIT HIGHER
MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC    INCOME         INCOME
1960 /b      1970 /b ESTIMATE /b        REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP /e
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:      TOTAL                  98.0        [03.0      104.0 lh          103.5        99.8         97.6
FEMALE                 98.0        102.0      105.0 lh          102.9        93.3         87.4
SECONDART:   TOTAL                    7.0         19.0       22.0              37.2        33.8         47.8
FEMALE                  7.0         19.0       22.0              37.9        29.8         42.6
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SECONDARY)   ..             8.0        9.0              14.7        12.8         22.7
PUPIL-TEACiER RATIO
PRIMARY                              58.0         54.0         ..              32.8        34.9         25.4
SECONDARY                            16.0         24.0         ..              17.8        22.2         24.9
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)          64.5         67.2          ..             74.9         71.8         96.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER 2ARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            4.0         10.0       15.0              26.9        12.4         32.3
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           34.0         38.0       41.0             173.5       104.5        201.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATI0N                            6.0         23.0       34.0              69.4        28.1          97.7
YEUSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                    27.0          36.0       43.0             72.8         45.2         70.9
CINYEA ANNUAL ATTENDANCe PER CAPITA  2.0              1.2         ..              4.3         4.6           4.4
ENPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (TRDUSANDS)         820.0       1100.0    1200.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                     10.5         11.2        11.9             21.4        25.7          17.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                61.0         55.5       53.8              37.8        46.2          38.4
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   12.2         10.6
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                  28.6          26.8       26.5             30.8        33.8          33.7
MALE                                   50.4          47.1       46.3             47.2         48.1         50.8
FEMALE                                  6.1           6.1        6.3             13.2        17.3          12.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                  1.9          1.7        2.0               1.7         1.4          1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS        ..         26.3 /i      ..              28.9        23.6         20.2
HIGREST 20 PERCENT DF HOUSEHOLDS    ..            54.3 /7      ..              57.7        52.3         47.9
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS        ..          4.3 /t       .-              3.2         4.3          3.2
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS        ..         12.4  i      .-              10.7        13.1         13.7
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
LURBAN                                 ..           ..         ..             251.9       191.9
RURAL                                  ..           ..      239.0             200.6       193.1        157.8
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..           ..      208.0             403.1       319.8        448.8
RURAL                                  ..           ..      149.0             258.0       197.7        313.1
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                  ..           ..       17.0              24.8        19.8         23.2
RURAL                                  ..           ..       60.0             65.2         35.1         54.5
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The ad,usted group averages for each indicator are population-.eighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group.  Coverage of councries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 a-d 1961; for 1970, becween 1969
and 19i1; and for Most Recent Escimate, between 1973 and 1977.
/c  Latin Aarica & Caribbean;  ,d  Intermedtate Middle Income ($551-1 [35 per capita, 1976);  /e  Upper
,fiddle Income ($1136-2500 per capita. 1976);  /f  Santo Domingo only;   /e  Due to emigr3tion, population
growth rate in lower than rate of natural increase;   'h  1972;   /i  Santo Domingo (urban).
September. 1978



'C         X.L O
Xbf                                                                                         CC    C   _o C  
Z                                                                IC                              Ev='_  
z~ ~    ~~~                                                                              C     uUv g., CC;,C   --                     C
_.                                                                                          C   
D C                                                                 _aC CCC°  C         °       .                                   S        
t-1 ~  ~             =       -                                    .              . a   aCrsWofE  ,a,     
lC  aCC a                             e.                                                                                -   CCaW ; -i*:       
_                                                                             u   w     DS S  OCIC_
SS               C.                                                                  eX' 
I   =<   r                                                               o  o      ''  u ' l-z C  C  C C  C 
H ~ ~ ~ ~~~~                         CC            C 'C                  *COC                                                                       * .             e_    
>~~~~~~~~~~~C                                                 CC  5             ss~g<aaE            ,>c 
h!   o u      W         t                      [           |    .       e |  . C.CC.  -  5C                            C.           4 J .III
c   .                     I            I             I                        I O                   .      I           I
U  o   w                  1.   cj   I                I                        I             I      s       1.  .       I



ANNX I
Page 4 of 6
DEFINITIONS OPFOILIDCTR
Note-   Alch-ugh the data ar  drawn frotsore  generally judged the mot authoritative  and reliable, it should also be noted that they may cot he itetr-
natIonall, comparable becaca  of the lack of standerdi.ed definitions and .cncpt. used by different  .. outric  in collecting the data.  The data ar.  onthles
usful to decorthb  orders of mgnitude, indicate trend., and charatteriac .ctain nejo- diffarance.. hatweccucties
The adlusted groct uver..e..frcoo  ind,icator are popoletion-weightad ge-mtric moa.,  eclding tha  -trrsnes  Iaue f the  nddoato,r ad the moat
populated .. uurtr  to each grop.Covrae.  of c..cie. umn   h   riotr   eedMe viaiiyof dta and isno  .sifor_.  Ict  lac  ofdaa
grop  -v-gea for Capial.  Scrplua   1 il tpcrter. and indictors of                t Moea  oa ernad ec-tret  diaposa...   ho..aing. 1ncome die tribution and port  are
cLmplo population-weighted gr-utrircneav  without, the en       Iso    f entretevlu.
LAND1 ARid :thouaa,cd_ sq.  u)IPocolation oar khaitel bed -to2tal. urbe. asd                                                                     . rua  -  Popultion (total
Toto1 - Total    ftlcoae  copiio   ad araed inland waters                                 urbano, andirurI) divided hyb ker reepanctive sbkr ofp hospital1 be'd.
curiculua      oo   eetesiaeo   gIcuture  ara asd temporarily                             sosilabe in public and privets ga..eralan  ecialleed hospital andns
or permanently ton croPs, pastures, market and kithbs  gerdenart kIb tat                              ...ceters.  Hospitals  n  etblihet   emnetys fdb
lie fallow.                                                                             et lsat c.. physisian.  istabliebments providhinngtprinc-ipelly custodial
cra are not incloded.  Rural hespitals.  ocvecr, includa health and madi-
GNP' PER CAPITA fIll) - GNP1 Pec topics, eetiate  at current market prcstaltcectna--  not permanently staffed by a physician (hoc by a medical as-
calculated by saecuoto  method ase World Bank Atls. (1975-77 basi);                      $istant, nurse, nideife, etc.) chick off.r in-patient  ccnossodation end
160, 1970, and1977 data,                                                              provide a lieitad renge of medical facilitre
Admsinpe  hoseitsi bed - Total numberIof admission.o.               rdicare
ENERGY CONIIJMFTION fER _CAPITA - dAnnual c...uuption of iseril  nryfro  hositals  iie   ytenme  of bade
coo  and lignite,,petroleum,..taursi gee and bydro-, nuclear ad g
thra  crict)In kilogruma of coal equivalent pa  cai. I                      HOUSING
Average  isof hoseold (cer;sons per husehold) - total, urban, and crura-
POPULATION AND1 VITAL STATISTICS                                                           A house:hold consist  of aroup of individuals who share living quarters
Total populaloc,, mid-year imliloa)- As of July 1; it not available,                      and their main e-aIe.  A bnardar or lodger eay or map non be lnotludad in
avsrsge  f ccc en- paso atimates;1960, 1970, end 1977 dots,                   the hou...bold for a.taisetIcI pucpcaes.  Stteistical definitions of house-
Irhac popuietion (cercent cf total) - hatlo of c~~~~~~_rhan to total popols-  hold very.
ticno; di'ffe're.nt dein7icona o  urban ares a   ffet coparability                  Avrg'unhor of 2sea pe nr roen -  otl  uc-b- n  rrl-Avraenm
ofdt   mng countcfaa.                                                              ber of pron. per room. ic all  uban,t end rural oc cup iedl cc sional
Population density                                                                        dwellings, respectively.  Dwellings encluds non-permanet structures and
Per  s          H os      id-y-a  Ppoplation per square kilometer (151 beotares)         unoocupisd perna.
If ttotl ae.Accese to ele icriity (remand ofdwellings) - total. urban. and raru-I
Per on. k.. sariculture lend - Computed as above f ororcut              I and            Covntoa  dwellingsI wih   stiiyin lirintg quarters aa percentage
only,                                                                                  of total, urban, end rural dwellings respectively.
Pcpulutioc aao s,tructure (percet) - Children (0-14 years), working-age
(15-64 peers, sd       teirnd (65 years and aver) a. percentages of mid-           EDUCATIOIN
year population.                                                                    Adiusted erlletration
I.pu."t.o  aromth rate (pcrceo) -total, and urban - Compoun.d annual                    Primary achool - tonal, and fam1l  -Total.and.femal  enrollment of all age.
growth rote  o f ctoa  nod ohu id-year populations for 1910-hi,                        or the primary level aa pe-centage  of repectively primary sho-g
lI9i-l, and .9..-7.                                                                    popu1-ia...e; normaly include. chiidren agd k-li years ban adjusted for
Crude birth cots (per tchou..nd) -Aunu-I liva bicths per tha....nd of                     different length, of primary education; far countries cit nieeh                du-
mid-year pupulation; ten-year arithet ic aver.gas ending in 1960 end                    cation enrollmet may emcee d li parcent sines some pupile are below  or
1970 and five-year averge endine in 1971 for ecat recet eatimate.                       above the  ffici.1 school age.
Crude death cate (per thousa,nd) - Aus,ul deaths Per thousandIof mid-                   Secon.dary school - totel. and female - Computed  .aboove; secondary  duca-
yea  population; to-yearaithmetic avrage.  ending ic 1960 and 1970                      tIon  rqies  t Ileest four yasre of approve.d primay inetructionl pro-
an.d ftoo-your -vecage ending in 1971 for moan recent estimate                          videa... gnral yc_ati..al, or teac.her training inetructiona for pupils
Irua  recroduction cats -Ave-nee numberIof daughtesawmnil  best                           uaaaly of 12 to 17 yeare of age; cnrreepnndence courses ara generally
iv her norma  reproductiveperiod if she a_paian-    prn..oe    g-                        -nlded.
specific forti'lity rates;  usualy five-year avrages ending in 1960,                 Vocational e nrollment  Penrcent of seconday- otIoainsiutions in-
1970,. u I. 175.                                                                        clude technical, ind-anri1i, or otherpor             hich operate independently
Pumilc plonioa-ac...actcc... anccual (thouaands) - dAnua..l nuber of                      or as dspsctents0 oP ..scodary inatitution..
occ-pto-n If birth-control device  under aus pices of national family               Pupil-teaoher relic - primary, and secondary - Totsl atudents cncolled in
Plancnan proarum.                                                                       primary and secodary 1-val  divided by numbern of tmac.here in thecr-
PF_ily cPsIng. -S _users (Percen.t of ma-eied wmn         Percentage of                   spond ina levaa.
married cmn of child-bear.ing Age (15-44 years) who ass birth-control               Adult literscy rate. (perc..nt) - Literate adulta (able no read end write) s
devices to all maryd wome  In  san  age group. a.                                         percen.tage of total adult population aged 11 year  end over.
FOOD AND1 NUTRITION                                                                   COSUMlSPTION
lode  offod ~prpoductiot,n per ca:pita (dlMylli) -.1nden somber of Per               Pisenrcaafe _os                   opulation   - Paae.c.ar   oprics motor cars
capit  annul prouctio  of al fon  coesditiep                               seatinglsste  nigh  pre..; seldes umbulacee, hearsesand military
Pot cupito cucpDy of calories (perce~.nt of reqaice.nsta) - Computed from     vehicles.
energy oqivalent'of oet foo  spplie  availblei  country Pe r cpita                  Raio receivers (pe  thousand poenlatilon  - Alltpdo eevr   o   aIo
pot doy.  Available ..pp.tea comprise domea.tic pro'duction, imports less            brosdcaatn to gecera  pubic per chcuaand efpopulation; seclude  onIcenead
eots, ocd chooge  in stock.  Ne Inupplisa enolude animalifend, aed,                rciesIn o..oncrie tnd.in years w~he.nrgstaioIf radio e.  was.in
quacttenund'in  ooI rocsin, and Do.a.s in distribution.   Re-                        efc;dt  Potrentyera ma-ntbecomparable since enst cout ~is
quirn..ests wore entieted by PAO based us phyaiologicai.. neda for nor-              ubliahed D, ce.aIng.
_al _ccivty adhealth cons idering envi-rneenil tempercture. body                    TVr.. reevrs (ee  thousand pcpalatinnl    TV rece.ivers for broadcas.t to gsnoc1
weIghts, ag   n   s  ictributione of population, and alloclog 10 Per-                   public per thousand.populto;ecue  uniesdT -ealecs in com--
octfowatatoeeold level                                                                trioanIn              h.ar .oe  reglatrat I.o.V.es  a  in effect.
Per -ccit. suply of protein (srcs Per day) - Protein content of per                   g'aae   iclto   Par thousad epoupt, a)- iShw  tke averageica
capita net spl  offdpr  a.   e  euply of food is defind  stion of "dilyeealitrstnwpper', defined a   periodical publi-
abov.   fo Rquirenetsfor all coun.tries  etablished by USDA provide for                 cation devotediprimarily to  rcrig.g..ca  nw.It is considered to
ai etimo  aloIcaofh  gram  of total prsnein per day and 20 grams                       be "dily'i In appears at loera four tIeseawee.k.
of anima  co1d-pulue. 'prte1.in, of which'1  gasehould be snimal protein.           Cinem  annual attendance Per canine pet veer - Dosed on the number of tickets
Thes  stuodads cr  lower than thcae of 71 grume of totni protein and                    sod during the year. including adninai..c no drive-inciea  end mobile
773goomcIfanimal protein aa  n a--rge for the onrld, pro posed by                       unIts.
Pe    Pt   rtiFAl in the Third Wrld Food Surre y.
Pot cacito protein  uocly from animal and pulas-  r ttein supply of food        EMPLOYMENT
derivedfro   oimatlsond puieeingam,erdy                                             Tatal_labo.rfornCe (ibcnsan.ds) -tooial   ctive persona, icluding creed
Cidlgs1_i) motalit  roteler ihcusad) -Aass-I deaths Per thous-                     forsn    nmlyed hut aoludiag hou-eirea, students,ec.Dfii
and in age group I-4 yoors, to children is this sge grcup.                              tions in ourilo  catre  ore nuompral.'
femae (ercet)    femleiabo  fort   asPercentage of total labor force.
HEAL.TH                                                                                  giutr   pret   Lbr frce in farming, forestry, booting and fishing
Lifronp-tooco ct birch (year.) -Averge number of yearn of life,a  per-cctge of total1 laborforce..
remaitiog at birch; un-ully fire-yer e.ratgee ending in 1910. 1970,                 Indutr  foocni  - _Lehor force iv  iniog, consrucr-Ion, manufacturing end
cd 1971.                                                                               electricity, water and gas sa percentage of total labor force.
Iofoot'mortalitc rate (Per thous...d) - Annual  deaths If infants under               Pertiieilo  cats  Percent) - total, male, and femle.  Total, mal, end
oce ysor of ago Per thousand lire birbta.                                               fesI     lbor forc-a  peccae f their respective  pousions
ACces  to cu wf    e   (PIrotof        Vpitlno  - tcIe  urban, and rural -                Tbhe.e are ILO's adjusted parcticption craes r flecting age-set
Sombero-     epeIo,uhc   o  rural) wit2h rs abemcset                                     tc-tcrur  of rhe populurior. and ln   Im   rnd.
sui  wte  supply (ticlden created sufc  waters or untreated but                  fo-nomic dependency ratio - Ratio of popnlstioc under 15 and 61 sad over to
ucu toue  cater ouch  caha  from protected borsholes, springs,                    the labor forte is age groop of Il-hi years.
J.oohneeaphlc ontino                      aadeinlucI" not- moeINCOME DSIIRIBUIOTS
than 200 ecttern from  o h.... may be considerad on baing within ra-                 Percentage of private income (both In cas h and bind) rece ived by richest 5
uocbhie aces  of tathose    I  rra  asa.. reasonable scoea would                        Percent, richest 20 percent, poorest 20 Perce.t,Iand Poorest 40 percent
PIpy that tIhe hbousewife or senbere of the household doIIt have to                    ofhbouseholde.
spend a diuproportionute part of tbs day in fetching the fuily 'c
easer nee ds.                                                                       PiVERTY TARGET iROUPS
Acoo.s tc e-reto di.oa  (pretoo             psladion)    totl  urban   n               EstImated sholute povery incmeleel(U5$. per cpta) - urba  and rri.E -
rual-huke   f  eol  (to tal, urban, ad rural) nervedby'.eNcetan                           Abouepvryincom.lve  is thtinoe                    ies  belo  which ainie
diapotr aspecetages of theio respective populations.  Enoreto                           nurtoaladequste dint plus esentia1 non-food rqionceic not
dlp IclmyInlde the collvctloc end disposal, w.ith or withoutsfrdke
icsen,of hunafsh eucrta end -susi-waterby-wter-borse ayet...                        E.timaced relative povecty inccum  level (US$ per topia)-uban and rural1
orI he 00opit privies end similar instalaions.                                          Relative poverty Incm  level1 is that i-om  levlIen  than ...s-third
Population per phYsiciac - Populotioc divided by numberof practiciog                      per .apito pereoneI Income oftthe country.
physicisocI qualfied from a osdiosl echoo  at oniverity level1.                       eimated. rpocurins below rovert  income levl I..... t  - urban and rural1
Pocuu rio  percomb     -eoo- Population divided by number or                       Pecn  of  Popoletion (urban and rcr1) who are either 'absolute. poor  or
Pructicingml  andf J.l greduate curses, prsct ica1 ncuees, and                          "relative poor" whithever ia greeter.
toonomic and Socialr lotslivision,
icocmic Anlysis and IPoecinsDporto



- 23 -
ANNEX I
ECONOMIC INDICATORS                          Page 5 of 6
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1977                                  ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%, constant prices)
US$ Mln.   %               1960-68     1968-74      1974-77
GNP at Market Prices                   4,343.2   100.0               3.6         10.5         4.0
Gross Domestic Investment              1,008.5    23.2               8.7         21.6         5.4
Gross National Saving                    744.2    17.1              -9.1         30.7        16.5
Current Account Balance                - 264.3    -6.1
Exports of Goods, NFS                    917.9    21.1              -1.2         14.3         7.5
Imports of Goods, NFS                 -1,202.6   -27.7               9.9         12.5         2.3
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1977
Value Added           Labor Force        V.A. Per Worker
US$ Mln.   %          Mln.      %        US$ T_%
Agriculture                              931.2  20.9
Industry                               1,305.0  29.2
Services                               2,230.4  49.9
Unallocated
Total/Average                        4,466.6 100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government             Central Government
(RD$ Mln.)     % of GDP        (RD$Mln.)       % of GDP
1977      1977   1976-77       1977       1977   1976-77
Current Receipts                         677.6      15.2     15.7        629.3     14.1      14.4
Current Expenditure                      441.7       9.9      9.9        382.6      8.6       8.6
Current Surplus                          235.9       5.3      5.8        2177        5.5      5.8
Capital Expenditures                     241.0       5.4      5.7        236.1       5.3      5.5
External Assistance (net)                 17.2       o.4       o.4        19.1       0.4      0.4
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES               1970    1971    1972    1973    1974    1975    1976    1977
(Million RD$ outstanding end periodT
Money and Quasi Money                 295.7   343.3  418.8   518.3   739.2   867.0   887.3   1,020.4
Bank Credit to Public Sector          233.2   273.4   298.3   330.5   421.9   424.9   401.4        475.8
Bank Credit to Private Sector         180.1   216.8   282.1   385.6   577.8   685.0   788.9        851.4
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP      19.9    20.6    21.1    22.1    25.3    24.1    22.5         22.8
General Price Index (1970 = 100) 1/ 100.0  101.4   107.7   114.2   134.3   157.3   161.5           175.6
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index 1/                   .       1.4     6.2      6.o    17.6    17.1      2.7       8.7
Bank Credit to Public sector            7.7    17.2      9.1    10.8    27.7       0.7    -5.5      18.5
Bank Credit to Private Sector          18.7    20.4    30.1    36.7    49.8    18.6    15.2          7.9
NOTE: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the
period covered.
1/ GDP deflator.
.. not available
not appricable



- 24 -
ANNEX I
Page 6 of 6
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                            MERCHANDISE EXPORTS
1975      1976       1977                                      Average 1975-77
(Millions US $)                                            US$ Million    %
Exports of Goods, NFS          1,009.1      84o.4     917.9   Sugar and by-products                 376.0       47.2
Imports of Goods, NFS         -1,083.2  -i 069.4  -1 202.6   Ferronickel                            101.4       12.7
Resource Gap (deficit = -)      - 74.1    t249.o V284T7   Coffee                                    109.5       13.7
Tobacco                               34.3       4.3
Interest payments, net          - 28.3    - 43.5      -51.1   Cocoa                                  54.2        6.8
Other factor payments, netl/   - 84.5    - 80.3       -72.3   Bauxite                                18.1        2.3
Net transfers 2/               _o4.4        130.9     143.8   All other commodities                 103.3       13.0
Balance on Current Account      - 82.5    -241.9    -26Z3          Total                            796.9      100.0
Direct Foreign Investment         63.9       60.0      45.9   EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1977
Net Public MLT Borrowing          4>.7       46.2       84.5
Disbursements                  (93.0)    (65.6)   (106.9)                                           US $ Mln
Amortization                   (47.3)    (19.4)   ( 22.4)
Short Term Capital                25.7       16.8     -27.1      Public Debt, incl. guaranteed          606.5
Other items n.e.i.3/              12.2       88.7     220.9      Non-Guaranteed Private Debt            n.a.
Increase in Reserves (+)          65.0      -30.2       59.9     Total outstanding   Disbursed
Gross Reserves (end year)        135.8      165.2     224.8   DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1977. 4t
Net Reserves                      31.9      -11.3       50.5                                               %
Fuel and Related Materials                                       Public Debt, incl. guaranteed            7.0
Imports                        179.0        ..         ..      Non-Guaranteed Private Debt              n.a.
Exports                           -          -          -      Total outstanding   Disbursed            7.0
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                    IBRD/IDA LENDING,(JULY 31, 1978) (Million US$):
Through - 1971           Since - 1971
RD 1   1.00 = RD $ 1.00   US $ 1.00 = RD $ 1.00                Outstanding   Disbursed             25.1      11.9
PD $ 1.00 = US $ 1.00   50 $ 1.00 = US $ 1.00                  Undisbursed                         28.0      10.2
Outstanding incl. Undisbursed       53.1      22.1
1/ Workers remittances included under net transfers.
2/ Includes balancing item for adjustments of imports.
3/ Includes private long-term capital, other capital, and errors and omissions.
R Patio of debt service to exports of goods and non-factor services.
not available
Country Programs I
Latin America and the Caribbean
Regional Office



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 4
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
A.   Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (As of November 30, 1978)
US$ million
Loan or                                                          Amount (Less cancellations)
Credit No   Year           Borrower             Purpose          Bank       IDA       Undisb.
One Loan and two credits fully disbursed                         25.0       9.1 1/       -
352 DO     1973    Dominican Republic        Irrigation         -         13.0         5.2
1051 DO     1974    Central Bank              Tourism           21.0         -         14.3
1142 DO     1975    Dominican Republic        Education           8.0                   7.7
1316 DO     1976    Dominican Republic        Highways           5.0                    1.3
1325 DO     1976    Dominican Republic        Population         5.0                    3.7
Total                                               64.0       22.1
of which has been repaid                         10.9       -
Total now outstanding                               53.1      22.1
Amount sold
of which has been repaid                            -         -
Total now held by Bank and IDA 1/                   53.1      22.1
Total Undisbursed                                   27.0       5.2        32.2
1/   With exchange adjustment



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 4
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of November 30, 1978)
Fiscal                                 Type of               Amount in US$ Million
Year             Borrower             Business            Loan      Equity    Total
1974      Cementos Nacionales S.A.   Construction           6.0       1.4        7.4
Material
1978      Financiera Empresarial       Industrial                      -
S.A.                         Credit            3.0         -        3.0
Total Gross Commitments                          9.0        1.4       10.4
Less Repayments                                0.3         -        0.3
Total Commitments now held
by IFC                                         8.7        1.4      10.1
Total Undisbursed                                3.0         -         3.0



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 4
PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
Credit 352 DO    Yague del Norte Iriga_tion Project, $13.0 million
Credit of Januar       1973, Closing Date.  December 31, 1979.
The project is designed to increase agricultural production by
providing a modern irrigation and drainage system for 23,000 ha and improved
water supply for 4,500 ha already under irrigation. Also included are
implementation of an agrarian reform program and technical assistance.
The project is two years behind schedule, partly because of delays
in recruiting consultants, and partly because Contract I financed by IDB could
not be signed until rights of way were obtained, a condition in IDB's loan
agreement. Project costs are estimated at 88% above appraisal estimates. A
more recent problem has involved delays in the Government's decision to carry
out the land acquisition and redistribution program. Satisfactory assurances
have been obtained that a maximum land size would be established to permit the
execution of the program by the second semester of 1979, which is in line with
the present schedule of execution of civil works and of the agricultural
development program.
Loan 1051 DO      Tourism I Project, $21.0 million loan of November 6, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
The project is designed to provide infrastructure and other facilities
for tourism development in Playa Dorada and Playa Grande near Puerto Plata.
Project implementation is seven months behind schedule because of
delays in effectiveness and changes in the management of the Borrower (Central
Bank). Tendering for the construction and equipment of the major components
of the project is almost complete. A number of private investment groups have
expressed interest in constructing hotel accommodations (villas and apart-
hotels) in the project areas and have been granted options. However, no firm
commitment has been obtained for the construction of hotels.
Loan 1142 DO      Second Education Proj_c t_ $8.0 million loan of July 17, 1975;
Date; June 30  1979.
The project finances the construction, furnishing and equipping of
204 rural community learning centers, 4 agricultural training centers, 3
vocational training centers, equipping of 14 secondary schools, and of 4
/1   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects/investments in execution, and in particular
to report any problems which are being encountered, and the actions
being taken to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and
with the understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced
evaluation of strengths and weaknesses of projects in execution.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4
vocational training centers; a text book feasibility study, and training.
The project is over two years behind schedule. Construction of vocational
schools is delayed, pending legislation which is expected to be approved by
Congress in January 1979 . The contract for construction of primary rural
schools has been signed. Acquisition of equipment for secondary schools was
delayed by procurement problems which have now been resolved. Construction of
agricultural training centers has begun.
Loan 1316-DO      Highway Maintenance and Reconstruction; $5.0 million
Loan of August 10, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
The project provides a highway maintenance program; reconstruction
of a 19 Km. road and technical assistance. Technical assistance is being
provided satisfactorily for the nationwide maintenance program. Purchase of
95% of the maintenance equipment has been made. Works on the reconstruction
of the Puente Rio Camu-San Francisco de Macoris road are now proceeding
satisfactorily, after an initial 3 month delay.
Loan 1325 DO      Population and Family Health; $5.0 million loan of
September 16, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
The project provides for the construction of rural health and
clinics and one health sub-center in Regions I and II, communications and
teaching equipment, vehicles and operating costs for community based contra-
ception programs, and technical assistance. After a ten month delay due
to administrative problems, the project is progressing satisfactorily.
Construction has already begun in the health sub-center and in ten rural
clinics. The Bank has approved the contract for construction of the remaining
16 clinics. Fellowships for nursing students are being provided. The first
group of medical students has been sent to rural areas for two-month periods
of practice. Technical assistance has been obtained and is working well
toward redefinition of levels of medical attention and consequent retraining
of health personnel. However, an additional government allocation of
US$1.0 million is needed to ensure implementation according to schedule.



- 29 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
Nizao Irrigation Protect
I.   Timetable of Key Events
(a) First presentation to Bank: May 1977.
(b) First Bank mission to identify and prepare project: June 10, 1977.
(c)  Project prepared by:  INDRHI/FAO-CP with assistance of Bank staff,
from September 1977 to March 1978.
(d) Preappraisal Mission: January 10, 1978.
(e) Departure of Appraisal Mission: April 17, 1978.
(f) Completion of Negotiations: November 23, 1978.
(g) Planned date of effectiveness: April 27, 1979.
II.  Special Bank Implementation Actions:
None
III. Special Conditions
Agreement has been reached with the Government and INDRHI to ensure
that:
(a) financing of local currency requirements for the project would
be met by the Government through annual budgetary appropriations
to INDRRI, SEA and IAD (para 65);
(b) research and extension services would be strengthened to meet
project requirements (para. 62);
(c) SEA would provide quality control for vegetable seeds by
December 31, 1981 (para 62);
(d) BA would be provided with the necessary financial resources
to cover additional project credit needs (para 63);
(e) independent external auditors, satisfactory to the Bank, would be
employed to audit INDRHI's financial statements and the project
accounts at the end of each fiscal year (para 61);



- 30 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(f) INDRHI would establish a project monitoring and evaluation
system. A draft of the project completion report would be
prepared by the Project Director and submitted to the Bank
no later than six months after the proposed investment had
been completed (para 61);
(g) the Government will continue the soil conservation program in
the Nizao catchment basin (para 72);
(h) the Government would, by December 31, 1979, double present
water rates in all the systems administered by INDRHI;
establish by December 31, 1980 a nationwide progressive
system of water charges to cover full operation and main-
tenance costs and a portion of capital cost which would be
within the ability of farmers to pay; establish by June 30,
1980 a technical unit within INDRHI to carry out studies
that would determine the level of water rates for each
irrigation district; and by June 30, 1983 establish a
specific system of water rates for the Nizao irrigation
district to be put into effect by June 30, 1984 (para. 53).
(i)  INDRHI would carry out periodic inspections of the Valdesia
and Barias dams and would carry out a study to optimize the
operation of the Valdesia dam (para 60);
(j) a condition of effectiveness would be the adoption of legal
action to establish a regional project coordinating committee
(para 58);
(k) a condition of effectiveness would be the employment of a
qualified engineering consultant firm to update designs and
prepare tender documents for the civil works (para 59); and
(1) the Government would, if necessary, permit the temporary
import of equipment required for exporting vegetables and
fruits produced in the project area (para 71).



|       i        ii g ~~~~~.tI    i   ef | | 
- 0=0 f   0 '  X      mo_ _ 0 
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~     -     9   0f   0 __
ff W. ff .T <D ,&--
.''N' tt ' X M~~
tRt+" '   w      tn X~~~~~~~
$  E  X  V jH W ,-, > t S I CA~~~-
f =  X A    4       '       @ '  ''z, 0
J ,> h '\ f: ._fA(WS~~~~C
f    S      ; a                    \.\ ,,,/~~~~~~~~
0 / <- ~~~~~~~~~~~
i' '
p1. 
a V q i g ;-                        '-.          O _
aN,. o           



