I)ocument of
The World Bank
FOR OF]FICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 2209b-DO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
NIZAO IRRIGATION PROJECT
January 3, 1979
Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
US$1.00        =  RD$ 1.00
US$1 Million   =  RD$ 1 Million
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES (METRIC SYSTEM)
1 meter (m)                            = 3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)                       = 0.62 miles
1 hectare (ha)                         = 2.47 acres
1 million cubic meters (million m3)  = 810 acre-feet
1 cubic meter per second (m3/second) = 35.3 ft3/second (cusec)
1 ton                                  = 1,000 kilogram (kg)
= 2,205 pounds
1 kilogram (kg)                        = 2.2 pounds
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BA        Agricultural Bank
CAEI      Industrial Export Company
CDE       Dominican Electric Corporation
CEA       State Sugar Council
CEDOPEX   Dominican Center for Promotion of Exports
CNIECA    National Center for Agricultural Research and Training
FDD       Dominican Development Foundation
FEDA      Special Fund for Agricultural Development
FIDE      Central Bank's Economic Development Investment Fund
IAD       Dominican Agrarian Institute
IDB       Inter-American Development Bank
INDRHI    National Water Resources Institute
INESPRE   Dominican Price Stabilization Institute
SEA       Secretariat of State for Agriculture
USAID     United States Agency for International Development
GOVERNMENT OF DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
NIZAO IRRIGAITION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.   THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
A.   Introduction ......         ...............................      I
B.   The Irrigation Subsector ............... .*........              5
C.   Government Policy for Agricultural Development  ...              7
II.   THE PROJECT AREA ......................................               8
III.   THE PROJECT
A.   Introduction .......         ..............................    15
B.   Brief Description ..         ...............................    15
C.   Detailed Features.                       .        .......    16
D.   Cost Estimates .......         ............................     18
E.   Financing ...          .....................................    20
F.   Procurement        ......................................    20
G.   Disbursements .        ........................    ..          20
IV.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A.   Organization and Management ...................        ...    21
B.   Implementation ... ......... .. . ............... ........    22
C.   Agricultural Supporting Services ................    22
D.   Accounts and Audits .... ...........................    23
E.   Monitoring and Reportinig ........... .... o.........    24
F.   Safety of Dams .......         .............................    24
V.   AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION AND TECHNOLOGY
A.   Current Production ......          .........................    24
B.   Future Cropping PatterpLS ...pit e.....s...............    26
C.   Labor and Farm Mechanization ...............Fai....a           27
D.   Production Costs ........... ........... ...........           28
E.   Yields and Crop Production ......................    28
F.   Environmental Impact ................. .............    29
VI.   MARKETS AND MARKETING
A.   Foreign      ..................... .....................    29
B.   Domestic .........         ................................    31
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited the
Dominican Republic in April-May 1978. This mission comprised Messrs. A. Cornejo,
W. Ringlien, J. Pelissier, J. Martinod and F. Miyanaga (Bank).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
Page No.
VII.   FINANCIAL ANALYSIS ..........................................         32
VIII.   JUSTIFICATION AND BENEFITS ..................................         35
IX.   SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ......... ...       37
ANNEX I
Table I -   Present Cropping Pattern                                         40
Table 2  -   Land Tenure                                                     41
Table 3  -   List of Equipment Required for the Project                      42
Table 4  -   Incremental Local Staff Requirements and Estimated Cost
during Construction Period                                    43
Table 5  -  Technical Services                                               46
Table 6  -   Civil Works Cost Estimates                                      47
Table 7  -   Estimated Schedule of Expenditures                              48
Table 8  -   Proposed Allocation and Withdrawal of the Proceeds of Loan    49
Table 9  -   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements                             50
Table 10 -   Average Crop Budgets with Full Irrigation                       51
Table 11 -   Projected Development of Cropping Pattern by Zone               52
Table 12 -   Financial Analysis of Five Farm Models:  1-ha Farm Model        53
Table 13 -   Financial Analysis of Five Farm Models:  2.7-ha Farm Model,
Zone 5, East       54
Table 14 -   Financial Analysis of Five Farm Models:  2.7-ha Farm Model
Zone 5, West       55
Table 15 -   Financial Analysis of Five Farm Models:  3-ha Farm Model        56
Table 16 -   Financial Analysis of Five Farm Models:  6-ha Farm Model        57
Table 17 -   Financial Analysis of Five Farm Models:  10-ha Farm Model       58
Table 18 -   Crop Yield Buildup                                              59
Table 19 -   Development of Crop Production                                  60
Table 20 -  National Agricultural Production and Exports (Imports) and
Incremental Production and Exports (Imports) due to Project  61
Table 21 -   Export Performance of Fruits and Vegetables from the
Dominican Republic                                           62
Table 22 -   Import Barriers in the United States to Fruits and
Vegetables from the Dominican Republic                       63
Table 23 -   National Supply and Utilization and Per Capita Consumption of
Grains, Fruits and Vegetables Grown in the Project Area,
1977                                                         64
Table 24 -   INESPRE:  Selected Agricultural Products Imported and
Purchased on Domestic Market 1974-77 with Estimates for
1978                                                         65
Table 25 -  Alternative Rent and Cost Recovery Indices Based on Various
Assumptions of Annual Water Charges in 1978 Prices           66
Table 26 -   Rent and Cost Recovery Indices                                  67
Table 27 -   Incremental Cost and Benefit Streams Adjusted by Accounting
Price for Foreign Exchange                                   68
Chart 1 -   Project Organization                                             69
Chart 2  -   Implementation Schedule                                         70
Chart 3  -   Present Values of Cost and Benefit Streams Against Discount
Rates                                                        71
ANNEX 2
List of Selected Documents and Data Available in Project Files               72
MAP



DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
NIZAO IRRIGATION PROJECT
I. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
A. Introduction
General
1.01      Agriculture remains the most important sector in the Dominican
Republic and in 1977 it contributed about 14% to the GDP as did the manu-
facturing and commercial sectors. In the same year, exports of agricultural
origin amounted to US$518 million, or about 74% of the total value of commodity
exports. Over half of the economica:Lly active population is employed in the
sector although there is widespread unemployment.
1.02      The growth of agricultural production since 1960 has averaged about
2.7% a year, with more gains in food crops (4.6%) and livestock (4.9%).
However, in the last four years, performance has stagnated in general and
growth of food crops has been reducecl to 3.0% per year, or about the rate of
the population growth. The drought of 1975 and unfavorable weather in 1977
have been the dominant causes of the decline.
1.03      Sugar, coffee, cocoa and tobacco are the traditional agricultural
exports, amounting to US$558.0 million in 1977. Sugar and by-products alone
accounted for 45% of this value. Vegetables, fruits and meat are the sector's
non-traditional exports and they amounted to US$19.0 million in 1977. Exports
of vegetables and fruits, fresh and processed, have increased remarkably
in the last 10 years, from a total value of US$2.1 million in 1966 to
US$17.0 million in 1977. The principal markets for these products are Puerto
Rico, Miami, New York, and the Virgin Islands. Exports of fruits and
vegetables are important to the country's economy, not only for the foreign
exchange, but also to ease unemployment as they are labor-intensive activities,
and to set the conditions for agro-industry development.
1.04      Import of foodstuffs has increased slightly in the last five years
and totaled US$85.0 million in 1976. Rice, wheat, soybean oil, peanut oil,
and corn are the main imported products. Self-sufficiency in rice can be
attained by a proper organization of the credit and extension services to
reach small farmers, and by elimination of marketing imperfections that are
preventing high prices paid for this product from reaching the producers. Small
farmers are the exclusive producers of rice and peanuts. The situation is
different for corn and soybean because high yielding varieties adapted to the
climatic conditions prevailing in the Dominican Republic have not yet been
developed, and farmers, therefore, benefit more from growing other crops that
are proven.



1.05      Rural population comprises about 55% of the country's 5 million
total population e5timated for 1977. The present population density of
103 persons per km is among the highest in Latin America. Poverty is a
salient characteristic of the rural areas, and rural per capita income is
estimated to be only about one-fourth of per capita urban income. The in-
adequacy of rural incomes as well as of primary services for the rural popu-
lation is reflected in nutritional deficiencies and high level illiteracy
and mortality rates, and explains the continuous migration of agricultural
workers and landless peasants to cities. Over the period of 1960-70, the
urban population increased about 5.9% annually, while rural population
growth was only 1.4% per annum. In order to reverse present trends that
prevent the well being of a majority of the rural population, the Government
is designing policies and preparing plans and investment programs to increase
agricultural production and promote rural development.
The Agricultural Resource Base
1.06      The Dominican Republic is endowed with good land resources, and about
57% of the country's 4.84 million ha is in farms, a high percentage compared
with other Latin American countries. The decade of the 1960s was a period of
rapid expansion of the area used for agriculture. The area in farms rose
from 2.23 million ha in 1960 to 2.74 million ha in 1971. Three-quarters of
the increase in agricultural output for that period is attributable to the
expansion of agricultural areas and one-quarter to productivity increases.
The possibilities for increasing lands in farms further, however, are extremely
limited in the Dominican Republic. Expanding irrigation and improving drainage
and flood control in some of the coastal area could result in small additions
of agricultural land at reasonable cost, but, if the over-cultivation of
marginal land and consequent erosion problems in mountain areas are not
stopped, total agricultural land in the Dominican Republic could well decrease
in the future. The scarcity of new agricultural land has important impli-
cations for rural development in the country, and land productivity will have
to be increased if per capita food supplies are to be maintained. The best
possibility for increasing productivity lies in the good lands that can be
cultivated intensively, some of which are now underutilized and in pasture
to avoid agrarian reform.
1.07      The present land use pattern reflects the uncertainty created by the
application of the agrarian reform laws among medium- and large-scale farmers.
Most of the agricultural land is now in pasture (about 1.5 million ha), a
third of which could be cropped intensively. The principal explanation for
this is that the agrarian reform law permits larger holdings when the land is
devoted to pasture than when it is in rice or other crops. Another reason for
underutilization of lands is the limited capacity of the Dominican Agrarian
Institute (IAD) (para 1.11) to distribute expropriated land. In 1976, about
250,000 ha expropriated by the Government were largely unproductive awaiting
development and distribution. Also, the State Sugar Council (CEA) owns about
230,000 ha, of which about 130,000 ha are under sugarcane--most with fairly
low yields, about 50 m tons per ha--and most of the rest is under extensive
pasture or unutilized. The remaining usable land, some 800,000 ha, is divided
into the nearly 300,000 farms that produce most of the foodstuffs. There is,



- 3 -
especially among the small farms, ample opportunity to increase the present
low yields by providing them with technical assistance and credit. Finally,
there are some 100,000 rural workers who own no land at all. Government is
endeavoring to expand its agrarian reform program (para 1.11), and the proposed
project would include an important land settlement component.
1.08      The Dominican Republic is also endowed with substantial surface and
groundwater resources. Rainfall in the country ranges from 500 to 2,700 mm
per annum, with total annual stream flow exceeding 19 billion m3. Surface
water flows through a network of 108 independent river systems, of which five
are classified as large river basins: the Yuna, Yaque del Norte, Yaque del
Sur, Azua and Artibonito. The quality of both surface and groundwater
resources is generally adequate for agricultural purposes.
1.09      Irrigation requirements vary among zones, depending on the type of
cultivation, rainfall and other climatic conditions. In general terms,
approximately 20% of the country is classified as a dry zone in which irrigation
is absolutely necessary for crop production. Another 15% is considered an
intermediate zone where supplemental irrigation would be desirable, though
not essential, for cultivation. The remaining 65% is basically a wet zone,
mostly mountainous, unsuitable for intensive agriculture.
Agricultural Service Agencies
1.10      A large number of public sector agencies are active in agriculture
but coordination between them is inadequate. This is due mainly to highly
centralized decision-making at the top Government level, especially in matters
of budgetary allocation, and the absence of well-defined agricultural and
rural development policies. The Secretariat of State for Agriculture (SEA) is
the main Government agency traditionally in charge of research and extension.
Its effectiveness in promoting agricultural production and, to some extent,
rural development has been improved in recent years by the establishment of a
planning division, a decentralized extension service, an expanded marketing
section and a supervised credit prograra designed for farmers' associations and
small farmers. The new Government has begun an effort to coordinate main
agencies involved in the sector, under the direction of SEA.
1.11      IAD is the Government agency in charge of development and distribution
of lands that Government expropriates for the agrarian reform program as a means
to promote rural development. Present legislation enables IAD to acquire land
for redistribution through the cuota parte system after the construction of
irrigation canals has been finished. Under this system, landowners return
to Government between 25% and 80% of their lands, depending on present land
use, in payment for the increased value of their lands brought about by
irrigation. Farmers with holdings of less than 9.4 ha do not pay cuota parte.
Preference is given in IAD's land distribution to individuals who are
resident in the area, and own no land but have some farming experience.
The Institute offers a wide range of services to beneficiaries, including land
clearing, construction of feeder roads and small irrigation canals, extension
and credit. IAD is poorly funded, however, to deliver needed services to
beneficiaries, and the majority of landless farmers who received land have
continued to use traditional methods of cultivation that being extremely



- 4 -
low yields. Aside from jeopardizing the success of on-going operations,
inadequate funding of IAD has seriously slowed the pace of planned land
distribution efforts. Thus, agrarian reform programs have not substantially
changed disparities in land tenure, and 73% of the 300,000 farms are still in
the range of 0.1 to 5.0 ha, accounting for 21% of the total agricultural area.
On the other hand, 1,300 farms are larger than 200 ha and occupy 38% of the
total agricultural area.
1.12      The Agricultural Bank (BA) and commercial banks are the principal
sources of institutional credit to agriculture and in 1975 they shared 51% and
41%, respectively, of the US$153.0 million lent to the sector. The remaining
8% of institutional credit was provided by financieras and such special
institutions as the Dominican Development Foundation (FDD). BA obtains its
funds through capital transfers from the Government and from foreign sources.
Commercial bank lending to the sector comes from their own deposits and, in
smaller part, from the Central Bank's Economic Development Investment Fund
(FIDE). Institutional credit in the sector has primarily benefited medium-
and large-scale farmers, while most small-scale farmers have traditionally
relied on money lenders, truck drivers, rice mills and local store owners as a
source of credit. However, BA and FDD are intended primarily to serve small
farmers and have been financing their needs with funds provided by the IDB and
USAID. Institutional credit costs range from 9 to 12% per annum and non-
institutional credit costs from 2% to as much as 20% per month. Furthermore,
borrowing from intermediaries to avoid slow loan processing by BA can force
small farmers to buy inputs from them at inflated prices or to sell their
crops under unfavorable conditions. The availability of institutional credit
to small farmers would thus have a significant impact on rural development,
and the Government is drawing up plans to encourage the BA to expand its
present activities in assisting small farmers. The credit needs of medium-
and large-scale farmers could be met by the well-developed private financial
system of the country.
1.13      Agricultural inputs are supplied to farmers through normal commercial
channels. With a view to reaching small farmers in the more depressed areas,
SEA has recently launched a program of farm supply outlets, including
fertilizers and chemical products, at 25 locations throughout the country.
Seed quality is generally deficient and SEA needs to begin a program of seed
certification and control.
1.14      The Dominican Price Stabilization Institute (INESPRE) is responsible
for the regulation and stabilization of agricultural prices, so as to permit
reasonable profit margins for efficient producers and distributors. At present,
INESPRE regulates marketing and support prices for a dozen commodities. 1/
It controls the marketing of rice, beans and sugar. INESPRE's activities
have expanded rapidly, and, during the 1972-75 period, the value of purchases
(including imports) more than tripled, from RD$ 38.4 million to RD$143.0
million. Domestic prices of basic foodstuffs have been allowed to rise
substantially in recent years, particularly for rice, and vegetable oil
domestic prices are considerably higher than import CIF costs. Despite
these incentives, domestic production gains have failed to keep pace with the
1/   Rice, beans, corn, sugar, onions, garlic, chickpeas, plantains, bananas
potatoes, peanut oil and soybean oil.



-5-
expanding demand in recent years, and imports of rice and vegetable oils have
increased rapidly. These trends suggest that the higher prices paid for rice
and vegetable oils do not reach the small-scale producers who account for most
of the output, or that, at prevailing technology levels and exchange rates,
the costs of producing these foodstu:Efs in the Dominican Republic are much
higher than those in other countries. These problems which are being tackled
by INESPRE, however, do not apply to fruits and vegetables produced in the
area of the proposed Nizao Irrigation Project.
1.15      The Dominican Center for Promotion of Exports (CEDOPEX) is the
Government organization to promote non-traditional exports. It is actively
encouraging these exports with technical assistance in marketing and a line
of credit for working capital needs. Foreign market prospects are bright
for Dominican fruits and vegetables.
B. The Irrigation Subsector
1.16      The Government has attached high priority to water resource develop-
ment and, in the period of 1973 to 1977, expenditures on dams and irrigation
canals averaged about 10% of total Government expenditures, which amounted to
half of the expenditures in the agricultural sector. Government spending on
irrigation has been almost exclusively in capital expenditures. Current
expenditures, on the other hand, have increased only slightly since 1971,
resulting in a continuous lack of emphasis on the operation and maintenance
of existing irrigation systems.
1.17      The present irrigated area encompasses some 154,000 ha, an increase
of 50,000 ha since 1956. State-owned irrigation facilities are generally
administered by the National Water Resources Institute (INDRHI) through a
network of four irrigation districts covering 135,000 ha. Over 30 crops are
commercially grown in the irrigation districts, the main ones being rice (47%),
pasture (15%), plantain (9%), sugarcane (9%), beans (6%), and vegetables and
fruits (6%). Yields under irrigation conditions are considerably higher than
those under rainfed conditions, and overall land use intensity 1/ in the
irrigation districts was estimated at 129% in 1976.
1.18      In the last decade, the Government spent about US$144.0 million in
the construction of the Tavera, Valdesia and Rincon dams and US$13.0 million
on 314 km of irrigation canals. The irrigated areas commanded by the dams
and diversion systems are 58,000 ha and 24,000 ha, respectively. In addi-
tion to the existing facilities, seven projects (dams and irrigation canals)
are under construction at an estimated cost of US$336.0 million. These
projects are expected to irrigate 31,700 ha of new lands and improve the
water supply in 53,000 ha. Government expenditures on dams would also pay
for about 360 MW of increased hydropower capacity.
1.19      Operation of existing irrigation systems must be upgraded to obtain
full benefits of the improved water supplies resulting from construction of
1/   Overall land use intensity is def-ined as harvested area, plus area with
permanent crops, divided by the cultivable area.



- 6 -
storage dams. Water delivery schedules are presently established by days and
hours, with no irrigation at nights, and no measurement of water flows except
in the main canals. The absence of measurements makes it impossible to
determine the precise efficiency of operation and use of irrigation water
in the districts, but it is low. Most of the irrigation systems unler the
command of storage dams need rehabilitation to upgrade their operation.
INDRHI maintains the irrigation headworks and main canals and drains, and
farmers maintain the distributary canals. Main canals are lined to reduce
maintenance costs, and, in general, canal maintenance in the irrigation
districts, especially of the larger ones, appears to be fair.
1.20      Irrigation water charges are low in the Dominican Republic, and
operation and maintenance of irrigation systems is subsidized by the Government.
Current irrigation water rates were established in June 1966 and are RD$ 2.50
per ha for the first 10 ha under irrigation and RD$ 5.50 from 10 ha up for all
crops except for rice, which costs twice the amount mentioned above. Collection
of water charges has increased considerably, reaching 80% of emitted charges.
In 1977, INDRHI expenditures in operation and maintenance of irrigation systems
amounted to RD$ 2.01 million and rates collected totaled RD$ 0.81 million.
Consequences of this policy of low water charges are that: (a) the Government
is subsidizing about 60% of the operation and maintenance cost of the irri-
gation systems; (b) the irrigation works are poorly maintained due to limited
funds 1/; and (c) the overall irrigation efficiency is low due to inadequate
operation of the systems and the fact that farmers consider irrigation water
as a free commodity, and, therefore, tend to use it carelessly. The Govern-
ment is now considering a proposal to increase water rates to recover the
full cost of operation and maintenance.
1.21      INDRHI is the Government agency for the operation and maintenance
of publicly owned irrigation systems, and it is also in charge of defining
and evaluating water project proposals and constructing irrigation systems.
The construction and rehabilitation of relatively small irrigation systems
is usually done under force account. However, due to the high priority the
Government has assigned to construction of new irrigation systems, INDRHI has
developed more capabilities in this area than in the operation of systems.
Closer coordination with SEA, IAD, and BA is therefore needed to operate the
irrigation systems in accordance with well-established production programs.
For construction of large dams, the Government has created ad hoc state
corporations, and operation of the dams that generate hydroelectric power
is the responsibility of the Dominican Electric Corportion (CDE).
1.22      The only project the Bank group is financing in the irrigation sub-
sector is the Yaque del Norte Irrigation Project approved in January 1973.
The project aims at increasing agricultural production by providing irrigation
1/   Operation and maintenance cost for INDRHI's irrigation districts averaged
RD$ 15.00 per ha in 1977. Recent estimates for proper operation and
maintenance of rehabilitated gravity irrigation systems in the Dominican
Republic are in the range of RD$ 30 to RD$ 40 per ha.



- 7 -
and drainage of 23,000 ha on the right bank of the Yaque del Norte river, part
of which is presently irrigated, and improving water supply of 4,500 ha on the
left bank. Major works include a diversion dam, main canal, secondary irriga-
tion and drainage systems, a pumping plan and on-farm works. The project also
includes agrarian reform, technical assistance to improve marketinL, and credit;
improvement of operation and maintenance, upgrading of extension services;
studies on irrigation practices, water requirements and land reclamation;
preparation of a program for project charges; and proposals for the establish-
ment and management of an irrigation d:istrict.
1.23      The project cost was origina]lly estimated at US$39.0 million, of
which US$13.0 million is financed by ani IDA credit (Credit 352-DO) and US$18.8
million by the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) under parallel financing.
The project is about two years behind schedule and cost overruns are about 88%
of appraisal estimates. The principal delaying factor initially was the
question of rights-of-way for the construction under the IDB-financed contract,
which was let first. The diversion dam and first 34.0 km of the main canal is
being financed by the IDB and the balance of 85.0 km by IDA, together, in each
case, with the secondary and tertiary canals and the on-farm development
works. Progress in the IDB-financed phase of the construction has improved
lately and about 30% of the works under this contract had been completed by
November 30, 1978. The IDA-financed contract was signed in July 1978, but on
September 26, 1978, INDRHI unilaterally suspended works to enable the contractor
to make progress in the IDB-financed contract. During negotiations, INDRHI
agreed to resume works in the IDA-financed contract by February 10, 1979. The
most critical factor for the execution of the project has been the continuing
delay in approval of the agrarian reform laws which are necessary for the
redistribution of irrigated lands. The legislation under review by the new
Administration involves changes in the ceiling of land holding and in the
system of cuota parte (para 1.11) that will permit the Government to acquire
sufficient lands in the project area to benefit about 2,000 landless farmers.
The new Administration has indicated in letters dated December 1 and December
11, 1978 its intention to present for Congressional approval, in the first
semester of 1979, a law limiting the size of land holding in the irrigated
areas served with systems built by the Government and to establish a specific
percentage of lands that private owners will have to transfer to the Government
in payment for the increased value of their lands brought about by the irriga-
tion systems constructed with public funds. The Yaque del Norte Project has
made an important contribution by instituting the pattern of organization
needed to execute large irrigation projects in the country and by improving
effectiveness of inter-agency coordinatiLon for better use of available resources
to increase agricultural production. The project is also making a contribution
to the development of irrigation techniques in the country and their extension
to farmers through training.
C. Government Policy for Agricultural Development
1.24      The important basic objectives of public policy in agriculture have
been: (a) to accelerate job creation in rural areas and land distribution to



- 8 -
reduce underemployment and migration to cities; (b) to improve the nutritional
standards of the poor through increased food production; (c) to contribute
to the country's industrial development by providing a steadily growing supply
of raw materials of adequate quality; and (d) to expand the sector's contribu-
tion to foreign exchange earnings by producing more exportable products, both
raw and processed. The proposed Nizao Irrigation Project would contribute to
these objectives.
1.25      The new Administration is taking actions to reorganize the agricul-
tural sector to get a better coordination among the different institutions
that are active in agriculture, under the leadership of the Secretary of
Agriculture; to increase the availability of institutional credit to small
farmers; to organize the small farmers in associations and cooperatives to
obtain institutional credit and for marketing their products; and to link, at
the regional level, the research and extension activities to assist the small
and medium farmers with technology packages to increase agricultural production.
The new Administration, while attaching high priority to irrigation, is
concentrating its efforts and investments on the rehabilitation of irrigation
systems and construction of complementary works that will help to obtain full
benefit from previous investment, and in upgrading the operation and mainte-
nance of the irrigation systems.
II. THE PROJECT AREA
Main Features
2.01      The project area is a coastal strip of level and rolling land which
extends southwest of Santo Domingo and has the southern foot of the central
mountain range and the Caribbean Sea as its north and south borders, respec-
tively (Map IBRD 13748). The Nizao river is the main source of water supply
and it divides the project area into two zones--the right bank zone, extending
toward the semi-arid region of Azua and irrigated by the Marcos A. Cabral
canal, and the left bank zone, extending toward the semi-humid region of San
Cristobal and irrigated by the Nizao-Najayo canal. The total area commanded
by these canals covers 19,500 ha of the Bani and San Cristobal municipalities.
A productive and high value irrigated agriculture has evolved in the project
area and is favored by a good climate (para 2.02), adequate alluvial soils
(para 2.04), and proximity (30 to 60 km) to Santo Domingo, the country's
most important market and export outlet. The project area is highly populated
and farmers are rated as being among the country's best agriculturists.
Irrigation has been practiced since the turn of the century, and farmers have
shown initiative in developing their lands and using available private and
Government agricultural services. Physical infrastructure is well developed
in the project area. There is a highway that crosses the area, and feeder
roads link small towns and villages. This network makes it possible to
get into Santo Domingo in about one hour from any location in the project
area. An agro-industry plant is located in Bani (para 2.21), and there are
two more plants near Santo Domingo that process vegetables and fruits from the
project area. Since 1975, the Nizao river flows have been regulated by the



- 9 -
Valdesia dam and the re-regulatory reservoir of Barias. These hydraulic
structures now make it possible to improve the operation and maintenance of
irrigation facilities in about 11,370 ha, including additional water supply to
about 4,200 ha and to extend the irrigation systems over 2,330 ha of new
lands.
Climate
2.02      The climate in the project area places practically no restrictions
on growing high value tropical and sub--tropical crops, with warm temperatures
throughout the year allowing a 12-month growing season with irrigation.
Precipitation varies from 1,260 mm/year at San Cristobal, the eastern end of
the prcject, to 490 mm/year at Calderas, the western end. The 32-year record
of the climatic station located at Bani, in the center of the project area,
shows an average precipitation of 914 mm/year, potential evapotranspiration
of 1,650 mm/year 1/, mean annual temperature of 27 0C, and 74% of relative
humidity. There are two distinguishable seasons in the project area: the wet
season, from May to October, during which 79% of the annual precipitation occurs,
and the dry season, from November to April, during which the remaining 21% falls.
Due to the seasonal character of precipitation, water deficiencies occur
during five months in the San Cristobal area and during 11 months in the Bani
area. Toward the west end of the project area, only semi-arid shrubs and
range pastures are capable of growth without irrigation.
Topography, Drainage, Soils and Land Classification
2.03      Being at the foot of the central mountain range, the project area
is characterized by a mixture of rolling topography and level lands.  Level
lands have average slopes of 0.5 to 1.0% and rolling lands, 2 to 3%. Due to
steep slopes and many streams, surface drainage is good and in some cases
excessive. Under these conditions, efficient practices of on-farm water
management become essential to avoid wasting water.  Some of the rolling lands
would have to be irrigated by contour methods of irrigation and by sprinkler.
The lower part of the rice area and the areas close to the mouths of the
Nizao and Bani rivers show localized drainage problems that will be corrected
by the proposed project.
2.04      Young alluvial soils predominate in the project area.  These soils
are a mixture of clay, silt, sands, and rolled stones brought by water from the
central mountain and deposited over calcareous materials and beach sands. Soil
texture is generally medium (loam) in thie project, with some fine texture soils
occurring in the flat areas and lower spots. Sandy soils are present near the
rivers and streams. Soils, in general, are deep, neutral or slightly alkaline,
with cation exchange capacity in the range of 15 to 45 me/100 gr, low organic
water content, moderate infiltration rates, and free of salts. The only
apparent problem exists in some rolling areas, where the surface layer of good
soil is 30 to 45 cm deep, laying on mixtures of sands and stones. Surface
irrigation of these soils needs careful planning and execution, as leveling is
1/   Estimated using the method of Hargreaves.



- 10 -
precluded. According to their suitability for production of irrigated crops
(USBR classification), there are 3,100 ha of Class I, 4,300 ha of Class II,
5,200 ha of Class III, and 1,100 ha of Class IV lands in the project area.
Irrigation Water Supply and Water Quality
2.05      The project enjoys very reliable water supplies.  The Nizao river
flows are stored in the Valdesia dam (186 million m of storage capacity) and
released at night at a rate of 90 m3/sec to generate peak electric power for
Santo Domingo. The power generation flows are temporarily retained in the
Barias reservoir (5.0 million m3 of storage capacity) and released during the
day at the intake capacity of the Marcos A. Cabral canal (about 12.0 m3/sec).
The catchment area of the Nizao river, upstream of the Valdesia dam, has
820 km2 with an average precipitation of 1,700 mm/year. Annual total runoff,
therefore, is far in excess of project total water demands. A simulation study
of river flows, dam storages, project irrigation water demands, and peak
generation of power concludes that there is a greater than 97% probability
that future monthly irrigation water demands will be met. The Nizao river
water is of good quality for irrigation. Electrical conductivity throughout
the year ranges from 0.36 to 0.5 mmhos/cm. Sodium percentage is less than 26,
and sodium absorption ratio ranges from 0.5 to 1.0. According to the
Riverside Salinity Laboratory Classification, the Nizao river waters are
rated low salinity (Ci) and low sodium (SI). Due to the good permeability of
the soils, adequate surface drainage and quality of water, the development of
salinity problems by irrigation is a very remote possibility in the project
area. Groundwater resources have not been evaluated in the project area.
A survey done in January 1978 shows that in the area of Bani there are 74 wells
in operation, of which about half are for water supply to towns and villages,
with only 10 for agriculture uses, mostly for livestock. Average water dis-
charge of these wells is about 14.0 liters/sec.
Water Demand
2.06      Irrigation is needed in the project area year around to grow crops
like rice, sugarcane, plantains, vegetables and fruits. Water demand estimated
by the Blaney-Criddle method gives monthly water deficits ranging from 88 mm
in November to 152 mm in July, after correction by the effective precipitation.
The diversion demand for the peak month of July is estimated at 16.5 m3/sec to
irrigate the project's 13,670 ha, or about 1.2 liters/sec/ha. Diversion demands
were estimated assuming 84% efficiency on water conveyance and operation of the
irrigation systems, and 60% on-farm water efficiency. Total efficiency of the
4            irrigation systems has, therefore, been estimated at 50%.
Present Land Use and Production
2.07      A variety of high value crops is presently grown in the 11,700 ha of
irrigated lands (Annex 1, Table 1). Perennial crops occupy 8,530 ha and the
most important are: sugarcane, plantains, pastures, cassava and fruits. A
total of 1,960 ha is cultivated, with two seasonal crops per year. The main
seasonal crops are: rice, onions, okra and pepper. About 1,200 ha remains in



- 11 -
fallow.  Fallow is a temporary situation resulting from such factors as lack
of credit, poor seeds or, more usually, by farmers' decisions to devote
limited water supplies to a smaller are.a of land occupied by a high value
seasonal crop. About 650 ha in the canal commanded areas are not presently
irrigated because of inadequate water supply.
2.08      Present crop distribution reflects the availability of water in
different zones of the project area. Lands with ample water supplies,
near the Nizao river, are cropped with sugarcane, rice and vegetables. Lands
with limited water supplies 1/, west of the Bani river, are cropped with
plantains and cassava and a greater proportion remains in pastures and in
fallow. Lands in the San Cristobal area have an intermediate cropping pattern
due to more precipitation. Land productivity as well as intensity of land
use also reflects the availability of waiter. Yields for the same crops as
well as the intensity of land use are higher in the areas with good water
supplies.
2.09      Farmers in the project area, therefore, use available resources
wisely and have reached an adequate level of technology with intensive
cropping and use of modern inputs. Where irrigation water is in good supply,
the main limiting factors to higher output are inadequate on-farm water
management, poor quality of seeds, limited production credit for small farmers,
and shortage of farm machinery for land preparation. The improvement in
water supply brought about by the Valdesia and Barias dams resulted in an
increase of the irrigated area by 2,000 ha and a shift of the cropping pattern
toward vegetables and fruits. Also, some lands outside the commanded areas
are irrigated by pumping from the main canals and streams, usually by
sprinklers. These facts illustrate the eagerness of farmers to intensify crop
production as soon as irrigation water is available to them.
Population and Employment
2.10      The project area is highly populated, with total population estimated
at 127,000 persons as of January 1978. The population density is, therefore,
about 600 persons per square km in the project area, with about 30% living
in small towns and 70% in the rural areas. There is one city in the project
area, Bani, with 35,000 inhabitants, and eight small towns of about 1,000
inhabitants each. 2/ Population growth rate in the project area has been
2.1% per annum, about 0.9% less than the national average.  The rates of
growth for urban and rural population have been 4.3% and 1.1%, respectively.
About 55% of the population in the project area is under 20 years of age.
There is seasonal unemployment in the project area, but, as temporary work can
be found in cutting sugarcane, weeding arnd harvesting vegetables and fruits;
transporting and marketing agricultural products; agro-industries; and perform-
ing odd jobs in the nearby cities of San Cristobal, Haina and Santo Domingo,
agricultural wages in the project area are higher than the minimum wages.
1/   Most of these lands receive irrigation water at three-week intervals.
2/   Calderas, Matanzas, Sombrero, El Llano, Boca Canasta, Paya, Nizao and
Don Gregorio.



- 12 -
Land Tenure and Farm Sizes
2.11      In the project area, there are 2,453 farms on a total of 8,070 ha,
and one sugar estate that covers 3,270 ha. The new lands to be irrigated
under the project (2,330 ha) are Government-owned and would be distributed
among landless farmers by IAD at a rate of about 3.0 ha per farmer. The sugar
estate belongs to a private Dominican company (Compania Anonima de Exportaciones
Industriales--CAEI), and its lands, located on both banks of the Nizao river,
had preferential water rights before construction of the Valdesia and Barias
dams. CAEI is a well-managed enterprise that monitors soil moisture with a
computer program and sprinkler irrigates about 30% of its lands. CAEI employs
about 1,200 persons, of whom about 65% are agricultural laborers, and the rest
work in the mill and perform services. Sugar estates are excluded from the
agrarian legislation that limits the size of farms owned by a person or
company but they cannot extend the area devoted to sugarcane. Owner-operated
small- and medium-size farms predominate in the project area and there are
only 13 large farms on a total area of 520 ha. Lands that are rented or
sharecropped cover 1,100 ha, mostly in areas with limited water supply. Farm
size distribution in the project area is presented in Annex 1, Table 2.
Existing Irrigation Facilities
2.12      Since November 1975, the Nizao river flows have been regulated by
the Valdesia and Barias dams 3(Map IBRD 13748).  Valdesia is a gravity dam
80 m high with 130 million m of useful storage capacity. It has installed
capacity to generate up to 54 MW, using a flow of 90 m3/sec, for seak power
demand. Barias is a re-regulating reservoir with a 5.0 million-mi capacity.
It controls the Valdesia power generation discharges to bring a continuous
flow for irrigation purposes. Barias also performs the function of a
diversion dam, and the intake structure has been designed to deliver up to
30 m3/sec into the Marcos A. Cabral canal.
2.13      The main canals, Marcos A. Cabral and Nizao-Najayo, are hillside
canals over about 60% of their total lengths of 64 km and 62 km, respectively.
The Marcos A. Cabral commands 8,800 ha and the Nizao-Najayo 2,600 ha of lands,
at the right and left banks of the Nizao river. 3The Marcos A. Cabral canal
was constructed in 1920 with a capacity of 4.0 m /sec and has been rehabili-
tated and expanded 3twice, in 1943 to 7.0 m /sec and in 1958 to its present
capacity of 12.0 m /sec. The first 45 km has partially lined and unlined
sections, while the last 18 km is fully lined. About 30% of this last
section, however, needs repairs.  Sixty laterals originate in the
Marcos A. Cabral, totaling 137 km in length.  The Nizao-Najayo canal was
constructed between 1947 and 1955 and has a capacity of 2.8 m /sec.  About
40% of its length is lined but in bad condition because of poor maintenance.
Water for this canal is provided by the Barias diversion dam, which releases
a flow of 5.0 mi /sec in the river bed. A rudimentary intake is 3 km below
Las Barias, and its operation is affected by sediment when excess water
erodes the river banks. Thirty-two laterals originate in the Nizao-Najayo
canal, totaling 45 km in length. In the Nizao irrigation system, all
laterals need repairs and, in general, they lack the control and measurement



- 1:3 -
structures for adequate operation and clelivery of water to farms. The total
area of 13,700 ha under the command of the two canals can be broken down
into the following categories:
(a)  7,200 ha fully irrigated (every 10 to 15 days);
(b)  3,730 ha partially irrigated (every 20 to 30 days), west of
the Bani river;
(c)  440 ha of non-irrigated areas scattered within the irrigated
perimeters because of inadequate lateral capacity;
(d)  1,300 ha non-irrigated in arid climate in the western end of
the project area; and
(e)  940 ha non-irrigated and currently devoted to rainfed
agriculture in the eastern end of the project area.
This means that 53% of the area is under full irrigation, 27% is under partial
irrigation, and 20% is not irrigated. increasing canal capacity under the
project would allow for full irrigation of the entire command area.
Existing Agriculture Support Services
2.14      The project area has the basic agricultural services to maintain an
adequate level of production. SEA has zonal offices in Bani and San Cristobal
that provide extension, supervised credit, animal production and veterinary
services and assistance in rural organization, mechanization and plant
protection.
2.15      Extension.  The project area includes four sub-zones (Bani, Fundacion,
Nizao and San Cristobal) and nine agricultural areas. Nine extension agents
of the SEA are, therefore, presently serving about 2,400 farm families, a
ratio of 1:270, which is considered adequate in view of the level of technology
farmers have reached in the project area.
2.16      Research.  The country's main research center, the National Center
for Agricultural Research and Training (CNIECA), is located at San Cristobal.
CNIECA has 24 researchers in the fields of general agriculture, plant breeding,
plant protection and animal husbandry. No research is done in soils or
water management for lack of personnel trained in these fields. The CNIECA
experimental station has an area of 100 ha and adequate physical facilities
and equipment. There is also a 24-ha branch research station near Bani that
focuses on vegetable research. At the eastern end of the project area, the
Government has allocated 500 ha of lands to the National University for
research on livestock and pastures. The university operates a livestock
reproduction center on its ranch.
2.17      Operation and Maintenance of the Irrigation System.  The project
area is part of the Ozama-Nizao Irrigation District whose headquarters is in
Bani. Irrigation districts are INDRHI's regional units for operation and
maintenance of irrigation systems. The Nizao Irrigation District has a staff



- 14 -
of 56 persons, three of whom are professionals and the remainder, ditch riders,
gate operators, and assistants. Water storage facilities are good, but equipment
to operate and maintain the irrigation system is totally lacking. The present
irrigation system is characterized by low irrigation efficiency. Substantial
volumes of water are wasted in the fully irrigated areas, while other areas
further removed from the canals suffer from lack of water. Better control is
not possible at the present time on account of the lack of intake structures.
Irrigation is limited to daylight hours. A major purpose of the proposed
project, besides the rehabilitation of civil works, is to upgrade operation
and maintenance by training staff and providing them with adequate equipment
facilities.
2.18      Agrarian Reform.  There are three agrarian reform settlements in the
project area that have operated with IAD assistance since 1968. These settle-
ments comprise 2,200 ha and benefit 540 families. They are located in the
area with limited water resources and served by extension and credit services
provided by IAD.
2.19      Credit.  According to a limited sample survey conducted by INDRHI
in 1977, about 25% of farmers in the project area benefit from some form of
agricultural credit, almost twice the national average of 14%. Institutional
credit accounts for 60% of total credit in the project area, the major propor-
tion of it being channeled through the BA, including SEA's supervised credit
program. The BA has two branches, Bani and San Cristobal, to serve the
project area. About 20 credit agents appraise loan applications for BA, and
SEA's nine agents work for SEA's supervised credit program for small farmers
of the project area. The FDD is active in the area and, in 1977, supplied
about RD$ I million of short-term credit to 20 farmers' associations. Recovery
of credit to such groups was over 90%. More farmers are expected to form
associations inspired by the successful operation of FDD.
2.20      Markets and Marketing.  INESPRE operates a marketing center in Bani
where it has a 1,000-m-ton warehouse and a cold storage plant of similar
capacity. Private storage facilities are also available in the project area,
including seven rice mills with a combined capacity to grind 3 m tons of rice
per hour and a storage capacity of 2,800 m tons. Additional storage facilities
exist in the nearby cities of San Cristobal and Santo Domingo. For exporting
vegetables and fruits, there are 45 firms licensed by CEDOPEX, including
three firms in Bani. CEDOPEX also provides credit for exports. SEA's under-
secretariat of marketing and production operates a rather effective service
on daily price and market information for agricultural products throughout
the country, publishing such information three times a week in the newspapers.
It is soon to be transmitted daily on radio programs as well. In the project
area, INESPRE purchases rice, a commodity for which it holds a marketing
monopoly in the country, and a fraction of the production of onions, plantains,
beans and pigeon peas for reasons of price stabilization.
2.21      Agro-industry.  An agro-industry plant, La Famosa, that processes
tomato paste, cans pigeon peas and papaya, and concentrates orange juice, is
located in Bani, but it operates below capacity at present, due to the limited



- 15 -
supply of raw material. About 50% of its production is sold in the US and
Puerto Rico. There are additional agro-industry plants in San Cristobal
and Santo Domingo that can process vegetables and fruits from the project
area.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Introduction
3.01      The Government of the Dominican Republic has requested a Bank loan
to help finance the rehabilitation and extension of the irrigation systems
that use regulated water from Valdesia and Barias dams. A pre-feasibility and
engineering study was carried out by the consulting firms, EDES from Spain
and MENDAR from the Dominican Repulbic. They studied various alternatives for
the use of irrigation water made available by the construction of the Valdesia
dam. The feasibility study was prepared by a team led by INDRHI and consisting
of representatives of SEA, IAD, BA and CEDOPEX. An FAO/Bank Cooperative Program
mission and Bank staff assisted in project preparation. The feasibility study
was submitted to the Bank in February 1978.
B. Brief Description
3.02      The proposed project would finance, over a five-year investment
period, works to rehabilitate the irrigation system under the command of the
Marcos A. Cabral and Nizao-Najayo cana:Ls (13,700 ha) to better utilize
regulated water from the Valdesia dam and improve water supply in about
4,200 ha and extend the irrigation system to 2,330 ha of new lands.  The
project would also provide additional staff and equipment for operation and
maintenance and for training of this staff. The project agrarian reform
program would include additional staff, equipment and facilities to select
and settle landless farmers in the new:Ly irrigated areas and in the areas
which the Government will recover by application of the cuota parte law
(para 1.11), and for the preparation of a new cadastral map of the project
area. The agricultural development program includes additional staff, equip-
ment and facilities to provide extension services to new settlers. Extension
staff and farmers would be trained to improve on-farm water management and
agricultural practices for vegetables and fruits at the state experimental
farms of Bani and San Cristobal. Consultant services would be provided for
completion of final designs and for supervision of construction, operation
and maintenance of the irrigation systems, and for the agricultural develop-
ment program as well as for periodic inspection of the Valdesia dam. A
project headquarters would be constructed to accommodate the staff of Govern-
ment agencies involved in execution of the project. The project would directly
benefit 3,200 farm families of whom 80%' are small and landless farmers.
3.03      The project would be carried out by INDRHI with the assistance of
SEA and IAD staff. A Project Coordination Committee, including regional
representatives of the above-mentioned agencies and representatives of the BA,



- 16 -
CDE and farmers, would be established to approve the yearly agricultural
development program for the project, supervise its execution and evaluate
its results.
C. Detailed Features
Civil Works
3.04      Rehabilitation of the Irrigation System.  The entire 64-km length of
the Marcos A. Cabral canal would be concrete-lined. Capacity would be 16.5 m3/sec
in the first 1.4 km segment, at the end of which water would be divided to
provide 4.2 m3/sec to the Nizao-Najayo canal. Capacity below this point on the
Marcos A. Cabral canal would be 12.3 m3/sec to irrigate 10,090 ha of the right
bank of the Nizao river, including 1,290 ha of new land for agrarian reform
settlement. The Nizao-Najayo canal would take water from the Marcos A. Cabral
and cross the Nizao river by an inverted siphon 425 m long to join the existing
canal 800 m from the present intake. The Nizao-Najayo canal would also be
concrete-lined over its entire length to reduce seepage losses and to enable
it to carry water to irrigate 3,580 ha on the left bank, including 940 ha of
new lands. Works would include improvement of the existing structures (flumes
and siphon) for both canals and construction of new control and diversion
structures for the laterals and installation of new gates. Overpasses and
upper canal protection would be provided to prevent the entrance of dirty
waters from the rains in the hills.
3.05      The main irrigation canals would have 115 laterals, 65 on the
Marcos A. Cabral and 50 on the Nizao-Najayo. Laterals for the Marcos A. Cabral
total 162 km and about 60 km would be concrete-lined. The Nizao-Najayo
laterals total 53.5 km in length and about 7 km would be considered for
lining. Delivering structures and gates would also be built on all laterals.
3.06      The project would construct about 7.8 km of drains located in the
lower zones of the irrigated area which are affected by ponding of irrigation
and rain waters during the wet season. It would also rehabilitate natural
drains and connect lower areas to them. Depth of drains would range from
1 to 2 m as they would operate mainly to drain excess runoff and ponded waters.
3.07      On-farm Development.  On-farm development works on 2,330 ha would
consist of land clearing and leveling and building the required farm ditches
and drains, control structures, gates and on-farm roads. IAD would provide
technical assistance to the farmers as well as basic equipment such as land
planes and tractors.
3.08      Roads.  About 24.5 km of gravel-surfaced secondary roads would be
built under the project to ensure the flow of goods and services in the
project area. The roads included in the project would be as follows:



- 17 -
Nizao--La Noria--Autopista                  12.0 km
La Noria--La Costa                           1.5 km
La Batea--El Llano                           1.5 km
El Llano--La Costa                           2.0 km
Canafiscol--Sombrero                         5.0 km
Matansas--La Costa                           1.0 km
Caldera--Prolongacion Canal Calderas         1.5 km
In general, the roads would follow existing tracks to minimize the need for
land acquisition. Earth-work would consist mainly of raising the roads above
the surrounding lands, and they would be surfaced with 20 cm of crushed stone
or river gravel. Culverts would be built at frequent intervals. Some
146.6 km of gravel-surfaced road would also be built along the main canals.
3.09      Buildings.  The project would construct buildings for headquarters,
consisting of offices for supervision, administration and execution of civil
works, operation and maintenance of the irrigation district, and extension
and agrarian reform services; for storage and shops; and for housing for
personnel.
Equipment
3.10      The project would provide equipment for force account construction,
supervision of construction, operation and maintenance, and the agrarian reform
and agricultural development programs, as detailed in Annex 1, Table 3.
Operational Expenses
3.11      The project would provide spare parts, repairs, fuel and maintenance
supplies for the equipment during the project implementation period.
Incremental Local Staff
3.12      The project would provide the additional staff needed to carry out
construction works by force account, to supervise construction, to operate
and maintain the irrigation district, to select landless farmers to be settled
in the newly irrigated areas and in the area the Government will recover by
application of the cuota parte law, to prepare a new cadastral map, and to
carry out the agricultural development program, as detailed in Annex 1, Table 4.
Additional extension staff at a rate of one agent to 160 new farm families
would also be provided under the project. This high ratio is necessary because
settlers would be landless farmers, beneficiaries of the agrarian reform pro-
gram, with limited experience in farm management and proper irrigation practices.
Technical Services
3.13      The project would provide up to 250 man-months of both local (142 man-
months) and expatriate (108 man-months') consultant services (Annex 1, Table 5).
Local consultant services would be used to assist INDRHI in the preparation of
final designs, plans, specifications and tender documents for civil works;
evaluation of bids; and supervision of construction (para 4.03). In view of
the shortage of local expertise, internationally recruited consultant services



- 18 -
would be used to organize the operation and maintenance of the irrigation
systems during the rehabilitation period, including the preparation of operation
and maintenance manuals and training of personnel, and to develop a system of
water charges to be implemented by INDRHI. Internationally recruited consul-
tant services would also be used to inspect the safety of the Valeesia and
Barias dams; carry out the study for the operation of the Valdesia dam so as
to optimize both the generation of hydropower and the supply of water to the
irrigated areas; and train extension agents and farmers in improved soil and
water management practices at the training facilities built under the project
at the experimental stations at San Cristobal and Bani. The irrigation
consultant would maintain liaison with CNIECA, the agricultural research
agency, with a view to assisting in designing and carrying out research on soil
and water management. The project would also provide the aerial photography
of the project area for preparation of the cadastral map.
D. Cost Estimates
3.14      Total project cost, including contingencies, is estimated at
US$50.6 million, of which US$27.0 million, or 53%, represents foreign
exchange costs net of import duties/taxes. Base project cost amounts to
US$32.6 million and has been estimated on the basis of early 1978 prices in
pesos and converted into US dollars at the official exchange rate. Physical
and price contingencies total US$5.5 million and US$12.5 million, respectively.
Physical contingencies for civil works have been estimated at 20% to cover
possible increases in costs for maintaining irrigation services while
rehabilitation of the main canal is in progress. Physical contingencies
for equipment and technical services have been estimated at 10%. Expected
price increases, during the five-year implementation period from mid-1979 to
mid-1984, are calculated on the basis of projected inflation rates for civil
works and consultants at 8% during 1978, 7.5% in 1979, and 7% thereafter.
For equipment, the rates are 7% in 1978, 6.5% in 1979 and 6% thereafter.
3.15      Costs of civil works are based on unit prices of the lowest bid for
the Yaque del Norte Irrigation Project awarded in January 1978. On-farm
development cost is based on costs for similar works carried out locally and
in other countries under comparable conditions. The average cost per man-month
of consultants is estimated at US$6,800 (excluding price contingencies), which
is considered reasonable, given the type of expertise required and the fact
that it includes overhead and other charges estimated at about 60% of the cost.
Detailed cost estimates of civil works and the estimated expenditure schedule
are presented in Annex 1, Tables 6 and 7, respectively, and summarized below:



- 19 -
Foreign
Local   Foreign   Total   Exchange
---- (US$ Million) ---      -- (%) -
Civil Works:
Rehabilitation of Canals by Contractors 1/   8.20         10.76    18.96       57
Rehabilitation of Canals by Force
Account 2/                                    3.02       3.12      6.14      51
On-farm Development 3/                          0.99       0.79      1.78      44
Feeder Roads 4/                                 0.11       0.14      0.25      56
Buildings                                       0.18       0.19      0.37      51
Sub-total                             12.50      15.00    27.50        54
Equipment                                          -         1.30      1.30      100
Incremental Local Staff 5/                        2.10        -        2.10      -
Technical Services 6/                             0.60       1.10      1.70      65
Total Base Cost:                       15.20     17.40    32.60        53
Contingencies:
Physical                                        2.50       3.00      5.50      54
Price                                           5.90       6.60    12.50       52
Sub-total:                             8.40       9.60    18.00       53
Total Project Cost:                   23.60      27.00    50.60        53
1/   Includes all construction of the Marcos A. Cabral canal (46 km), the
Nizao-Najayo lateral (62 km), and the Nizao lateral (19 km).
2/   Includes repair work and reconstruction on Marcos A. Cabral canal from
46 km to 64 km, all laterals with more than 300 liters/sec capacity,
and drains.
3/   Includes all works at farm level such as clearing, land shaping,
irrigation, and drainage ditches arid roads for 2,330 ha.
4/   Includes improvement of 24.5 km of existing roads.
5/   Includes salaries and allowances fcor local staff.
6/   Includes services provided by consultants and special contracts for
studies (Annex 1, Tables 5 and 7 give details).



- 20 -
E. Financing
3.16      The proposed Bank loan of US$27.0 million would finance the foreign
exchange costs of the project. The period of repayment would be 17 years,
including four years of grace. Government's contribution, equivalent to
US$23.6 million, would finance the balance of local currency requirements
and would be met by annual budget appropriations to INDRHI, SEA and IAD.
The Government would be the Borrower and carry the foreign exchange risk.
The Government would transfer to INDRHI the proceeds of the Bank loan, as a
grant, for the parts of the project to be carried out by INDRHI. During
negotiations, assurances were obtained from Government on these points.
F. Procurement
3.17      Contracts for the rehabilitation of the main canals (US$18.96 million
without contingencies) and imported equipment (US$1.30 million without contin-
gencies) would be procured through international competitive bidding in
accordance with the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and
IDA Credits." Bid documents for main canal rehabilitation would include a
clause requiring that during construction an established minimum flow will
continue to ensure that the irrigation needs for the presently cultivated area
are met. INDRHI would construct canals in new areas and rehabilitate lateral
and tertiary canals by force account (US$4.90 million without contingencies),
using labor-intensive techniques as recommended by a recent Bank economic
mission to ease unemployment in rural areas. INDRHI's construction unit has
experience in canal construction and rehabilitation, labor needed would be
contracted specifically for this work, and equipment will be mainly limited
to trucks and concrete mixers that could later be used for canal maintenance
in other irrigation districts. Contracts for construction of project head-
quarters and training centers, on-farm development works and feeder roads
and procurement of minor items of equipment and supplies for about US$2.50
million without contingencies would be let following local procurement
procedures, which are satisfactory. During negotiations, assurances were
obtained from Government that technical services to be financed with loan
proceeds would be procured under terms of reference and conditions of employ-
ment satisfactory to the Bank and the Borrower, and that contracts for rehab-
ilitation of main canals and imported equipment would be procured through
international competitive bidding.
G. Disbursements
3.18      Disbursements would be for:  (a) 100% of the foreign expendi-
tures for directly imported equipment and for consultant services and
technical assistance; (b) 85% of local expenditures of imported equipment
procured locally; and, (c) 54% of total expenditures for civil works
(Annex 1, Table 8). All disbursement claims will be fully documented



- 21 -
except for civil works carried out by force account and operational expenses.
The documentation for these force account and operational expenditures would
not be submitted to the Bank for review but would be retained by the Borrower
and made available for inspection by project supervision missions.
3.19      Disbursement of the Bank loan, except force account expenditures,
would be in line with approved contracts and supported by standard documenta-
tion. It is expected that disbursements would follow estimated expenditures
with a six-month lag and thus be completed by December 31, 1984. The plan
proposed for allocation and withdrawal of loan proceeds and a semi-annual
disbursement schedule are in Annex 1, Tables 8 and 9.
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Organization and Management
4.01      INDRHI was created in 1965 and given responsibility for planning,
developing, operating and maintaining all Government irrigation systems in
the Dominican Republic.  INDRHI is financed by Government appropriations and
by revenues from collection of water charges. A Board of Directors is
responsible for INDRHI's policies and :Lnvestment plans, and its Executive
Director, who is also the Secretary of the Board, is appointed by the President
of the Dominican Republic. The Secretary of Agriculture chairs INDRHI's Board,
which is composed of the General Director of National Planning, the Directors
of IAD and BA, and three representatives of the private sector appointed by
the President. Project coordination at: the highest level would be provided by
INDRHI's Board of Directors and by the Special Fund for Agricultural Develop-
ment (FEDA) 1/ Council when needed. INIDRHI has a large staff of over 1,000
employees at the headquarters and in the irrigation districts, including about
120 civil engineers, 20 agronomists ancl a few economists.
4.02      INDRHI has appointed a Project Director satisfactory to the Bank, to
be responsible for constructing rehabilitation works, operating the irrigation
systems, and executing the project agrarian reform and agricultural development
programs. In line with arrangements working satisfactorily in the ongoing
Yaque del Norte Project, a regional Prcoject Coordinating Committee would be
established to approve the yearly agricultural development program for the
project, supervise its execution and evaluate its results. The committee
membership would consist of the Project Director; regional representatives of
the SEA, IAD, BA, CDE, and FEDA; and a representative of the farmers of the
area. The proposed organization for the project is presented in Annex 1,
Chart 1. The establishment of the Project Coordinating Committee would be a
condition of loan effectiveness.
1/   The FEDA Council approves plans and allocates funds for agricultural
and rural development. It is chaired by the President of the Republic
and composed of the Secretary of Agriculture, Secretary of Public Works,
Technical Secretary of the Presidency, Director of the Central Bank,
and Directors of IAD, INDRHI, BA, and INESPRE.



- 22 -
B. Implementation
4.03      A qualified local engineering consultant firm would be selected, with
Bank approval, to update designs and specifications for the irrigation systems
and prepare the tender documents for the civil works that would be performed
by contractors. The employment of the consultant would be a condition of loan
effectiveness. It is expected that this work would be finished in about 10
months. Construction by force account would be the responsibility of INDRHI's
Department of Projects in Execution, and supervision of construction, for work
done by both contractors and by force account, would be carried out by INDRHI's
Department of Project Control with the assistance of consultants. Assurances
were obtained that consultants acceptable to the Bank would be employed by
INDRHI to assist it in the supervision of construction. The Nizao Irrigation
District would be reorganized with the assistance of consultants and staffed
to provide irrigation services and perform maintenance of works during and
after the construction period. The extension regional office of SEA would
establish a sub-regional office devoted exclusively to serving the project
area, and IAD would provide the staff that would prepare the cadastral map,
recover the cuota parte lands, and distribute land among landless farmers that
qualify for the agrarian reform program.
4.04      It is estimated that implementation of the project would require
about five years, i.e., from mid-1979 to June 1984 (Annex 1, Chart 2).
Construction is likely to commence by the end of 1979 or the beginning of 1980
and be completed in about four and a half years. Activities associated with
agricultural development and agrarian reform programs would be carried out
simultaneously. It is estimated that the construction work and settlement of
new farmers would be completed by mid-1984 and full development of agricultural
production would be reached in 1989.
C. Agricultural Supporting Services
Research and Extension
4.05      Research, extension and agrarian reform services are presently
adequate in the project area. As the irrigated areas expand under the project,
additional staff will be required by the extension services and IAD, as shown
in Annex 1, Table 4. Consultants would provide training for extension agents
and farmers in improved soil and water management practices and also in
vegetable and fruit production. Assurances were obtained from the Govern-
ment that research and extension services would be strengthened to meet
project requirements.
Fertilizer, Pesticides and Seeds
4.06      Supply of fertilizer, pesticides and seeds, mostly through commercial
channels, is adequate and would remain so in the project area, due to proximity
to Santo Domingo. Present fertilizer use in the project area is about 350 kg



- 23 -
per ha per crop of mixed fertilizers such as 15-15-15 or 12-24-12. Quality
control, however, is needed for vegetable seeds, and assurances were obtained
at negotiations that Government would ensure that SEA would provide quality
control for vegetable seeds by December 31, 1981.
Credit
4.07      The increase in irrigation area, high cropping intensity and better
farming practices resulting from the project would require an increase in
availability of credit. The need in newly irrigated areas would be for
medium-term credit to farmers and private machinery operators, mainly for
the purchase of tractors (about 50), power tillers and implements, sprinkler
irrigation equipment, threshers, and pest control equipment, for an estimated
total of RD$ 5.0 million over five years starting the third year of the project.
Overall seasonal credit requirements are expected to decrease during the first
two years of the project because of disruption of irrigation, then increase
by about RD$ 1.0 million during the fifth year. At full development, incre-
mental credit requirements would reach some RD$ 1.8 million per year. The new
Government has assigned top priority to agricultural development, and for the
period 1979-83 the financial resources of BA would be increased by RD$ 132.0
million. About RD$ 82.0 million would be contributed by two IDB loans for
agricultural credit, and the remaining of RD$ 50.0 million would come from
Government capital transfers through the Central Bank. During negotiations,
assurances were obtained from the Government that it would ensure that BA
meets the project incremental needs for medium-term and seasonal credit and
has the necessary financial resources for the purpose.
D. Accounts and Audits
4.08       INDRHI's accounting system has been improved and is adequate
for the present scope of its activities.. Its accounts are subject to audit
by independent auditors at the end of ealch fiscal year. Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that (a) separate project accounts would be
kept by INDRHI; (b) independent auditors, satisfactory to the Bank, would be
employed to audit the project and INDRHI] accounts at the end of each fiscal
year; and (c) audited project and INDRHI] accounts, together with the auditor's
report, would be sent to the Bank within six months of the close of each fiscal
year.
4.09       In addition to the conventional financial audit, the auditor's report
should provide, for each transaction, (a) a statement on whether the goods and
services have been procured in accordance with the conditions set out in the
loan; (b) a statement on whether goods hlave been received or work performed;
(c) comments and opinion on the certification of expenditure for force account
work; (d) a statement that payment has been made; and (e) verification that
goods or services are eligible for financing under the loan and have been used
in the project.



- 24 -
E. Monitoring and Reporting
4.10      INDRHI would be responsible for establishing and maintaining a
system of monitoring the progress of the project and evaluating the impact
of the investment and technical assistance. It is envisaged that suitable
qualified staff would collect productivity and financial data for the project
as a whole and on a sample of farms. The Project Director would then assemble
and analyze this information. INDRHI's Department of Project Control would be
responsible for submitting to the Bank consolidated quarterly progress reports
covering progress of civil works construction, project expenditures and loan
disbursements, agricultural production, agrarian reform and the farmers'
training program. The Department would also be responsible for submitting to
the Bank the annual project accounts and auditor's report and a draft of the
completion report. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the
project monitoring and evaluating system would be established by INDRHI
and that a draft of the project completion report would be prepared by the
Project Director and submitted to the Bank no later than six months after the
proposed project investment had been completed.
F. Safety of Dams
4.11      Three inspections of the dams would be carried out during project
implementation. An assurance was obtained from the Government and INDRHI
that, under arrangements satisfactory to the Bank, the Valdesia and Barias dams
respectively would be periodically inspected in accordance with sound engineer-
ing practice in order to determine whether there are any deficiencies in the
condition of such structures, or in the quality and adequacy of maintenance or
method of operation of the same, which may endanger their safety. The inspec-
tion reports would be submitted to the Bank for review before their recommen-
dations are implemented. Further, assurances were obtained that, in coop-
eration with CDE, a study would be carried out on the operation of the Valdesia
dam so as to optimize both the generation of hydropower and the supply of water
for irrigation and that the recommendations of this study would be carried out
by CDE, as agreed with the Bank.
V.   AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION AND TECHNOLOGY
A. Current Production
Technological Levels
5.01      The level of agricultural production technology in the project area
depends largely on the level of water control. Rainfed agriculture, focusing
on plantain, cassava and corn, is of a subsistence type, with low inputs,
limited risks and low yields. In contrast, the commercial vegetable farms
in the center of the project area are fully irrigated and enjoy a relatively
high level of sophistication in farming practices (mechanical land preparation



- 2i -
and use of improved seed, fertilizer and pesticides). This is the result of
more than 30 years of experience in irrigated farming and the proximity of Santo
Domingo as a market for vegetables and fruits. Under the project, full irriga-
tion and the use of modern technology would be extended to the entire command
area, but no significant change is con,templated which would further upgrade
it. The only major improvement would be in the introduction of more effective
irrigation techniques resulting in an increase in irrigation efficiency.
5.02      According to present water availability, the project area was
divided, at the preparation stage, into five 1/ zones to better analyze the
impact of the project on agricultural production. Zone 1 comprises 4,760 ha
irrigated by the Marcos A. Cabral canal and extends from the west bank of the
Nizao river to the east bank of the Bani river. This zone has good water
supply, and benefits from the project will be limited to a shift in cropping
pattern due to better operation of the irrigation system and correction of
localized drainage problems, in addition to the irrigation of about 90 ha not
presently irrigated because of insufficient lateral capacity. Zone 2 covers
5,250 ha and is the continuation of the area irrigated by the Marcos A. Cabral
canal, west of the Bani river. About 3,700 ha of Zone 2 (East) are presently
irrigated but water supply is limited due to insufficient capacity (about 3.2
m3/sec) of the siphon that crosses the Bani river, and the remaining area (about
1,550 ha) of Zone 2 (West) is newly irrigated lands. Zone 4 covers 1,060
ha east of the Nizao river and is irrigated by the Nizao-Najayo canal. About
92% of the Zone 4 area is in sugarcane and located around the CAEI Sugar
Estate factory.  Zone 5 (2,300 ha) is the remainder of the area irrigated by
the Nizao-Najayo canal. Zone 5 has been divided into three sub-zones: Zone 5 -
West (1,480 ha), where water supply is good and benefits will be similar to
Zone 1; Zone 5 - East Bahia (130 ha), a newly irrigated area but with more
precipitation so that benefits due to irrigation will be less than in Zone 2;
and Zone 5 - East Nigua (690 ha), a newly irrigated area that includes the
university lands.
Crop Production
5.03      Sugarcane.  This crop occupies 25% of the project area, all of it
processed by the CAEI mill. Sugarcane is grown on some of the best soils of
the area. Much of the production is controlled directly by the mill, with the
use of sophisticated irrigation techniques. Harvesting is done by hand. No
expansion of sugarcane is expected under the project.
5.04      Plantain and Fruits.  Plantain occupies some 20% of the area and
is grown with full irrigation in the center, partial irrigation in the west,
and under rainfed conditions in the east. The greatest area of concentration
is west of the Bani river. Because of market demand and good profits, produc-
tion of this crop can be expected to in,crease under the project. One of the
most promising fruits is papaya; it brings good returns to the grower and
demand for it is increasing. Other fruit crops are citrus, avocado, mango
and pineapple.
1/   Zone 3, served by the Juan Caballero canal, was excluded from the project
in view of the doubtful economic justification of investment in irriga-
tion in this area.



- 26 -
5.05      Vegetables.  Commercial vegetables currently occupy some 1,000 ha
per year, mostly under double cropping, grown in areas with assured irrigation
of sufficient frequency (about 10-day intervals). The area has increased
following construction of the Valdesia dam and is expected to expand further
as a result of the project because of good markets and profits. Vegetable
growers use intensive production techniques, including fertilizer and
pesticide application. They also plant improved and adapted varieties and
use commercial seed, usually imported from the United States. The major
vegetable is onion, mainly red-bulb types for the local market, but yellow-
bulb types for the export market have been successfully tested in the area
and their cultivation can be expected to expand. The crop budgets (Annex 1,
Table 10) show costs and returns for onions, okra, pepper, industrial tomatoes
and tomatoes. Tomato growing is also expected to expand because of high
benefits. Other vegetables include eggplant, cucumber and squash. Pigeon peas
are grown as annuals or perennials and can be considered as vegetables as they
are most often harvested green for fresh consumption, freezing or canning.
5.06      Food Grains and Roots.  Rice is a major crop, grown mostly on low
lying clay soils in the valleys and along the sea, both for family consump-
tion and as a cash crop. Both traditional varieties and new improved varieties,
with shorter cycles, are grown, using transplanted plants and continuous
flooding irrigation. Agricultural practices provide fertilization and pest
control. Corn, a minicrop in the project area, is grown for home consumption
as green or dry grain. Similarly, red beans grown for grain are of minor
importance. Cassava, an important staple crop next to plantain and rice,
occupies substantial areas, but varieties and cultural practices remain
traditional.
5.07      Pastures.  Either natural or in rotation with field crops, pastures
occupy large areas, covering especially marginal land and land with marginal
irrigation. Such areas are used for grazing cows, with the milk going for
family consumption. There are some 8,000 head of dairy cattle in the area
and some 4,000 goats. The Pedro H. Urena National University (UNPHU) farm
has an area of improved pastures (Pangola, Guinea grass, elephant grass) and
may expand improved forage production when irrigation water becomes available.
The economics of irrigated pastures in the project area is questionable,
however, considering the value of vegetables and fruits. Given a dependable
supply as the result of the project and the financial attractiveness of
vegetables and fruits, a shift is expected from pastures to higher value
crops.
B. Future Cropping Patterns
5.08      In the presently irrigated areas, the cropping pattern is not
expected to be affected by the project although the crop mix may be modified
in response to change in market demand and crop prices.
5.09      With increased water availability resulting from the project, the
areas devoted to rice--with high water requirements--and vegetables--requiring
frequent irrigation--can be expected to increase. However, the extension of



- 27 -
irrigation to new areas with coarse soils would also result in an increase
of fruits, papaya and plantains, and cassava. In addition, the adoption of
more efficient irrigation techniques, the establishment of water charges
which better reflect the cost of irrigation, and land redistribution through
the cuota parte system should favor a further shift towards high vrlue
crops at the expense of fallow, unimproved pastures, corn and peanuts.
5.10      In the area assigned to the university, in Zone 5, the plans call
for improved pastures, principally for cattle breeding, on 450 ha, establishment
of commercial fruit production on 80 ha,, and commercial vegetable production
on 60 ha (or 120 ha per year with double cropping) (para 2.16).
5.11      The Class II and Class III lands now devoted to pastures, with
regular irrigation schedules as the result of the project, would be switched
to more intensive vegetable or fruit crops. A similar trend is expected for
lands now under fallow because of inadequate irrigation. The projected
development of cropping patterns by zones, up to full development, is shown
in Annex 1, Table 11.
C. Labor and Farm Mechanization
5.12      As shown in the farm budgets (Annex 1, Tables 12 to 17), labor require-
ments range from 110 man-days for a 1-haL farm to 970 for a 10-ha farm. With an
average of 6.3 persons per rural family in the project area, the total family
labor availability is about 500 man-days per year. Because of intensive
land use with double cropping, labor requirements are nearly constant, with
few peak periods. The labor force in the project area is, therefore, suffi-
cient. Also, while the larger farms have to hire labor, the small holders,
who make up the majority of land owners in the area, represent a substantial
reservoir of manpower.
5.13      It is estimated that the new areas under irrigation would create
the need for additional labor, equivalent to 670,000 man-days, or the amount
available from 1,350 rural families. This requirement would be met by families
which would be settled in the new areas. Thus, the project would make a
substantial contribution to rural employment in the area.
5.14      It is anticipated that a majority of the settlers would be former
landless peasants who had worked as laborers in the project area, but other
settlers would come from neighboring areas where farming is marginal. The
average settler farm of 3 ha would require about 265 man-days of labor,
which could easily be supplied by family members.
5.15      Land preparation is generally mechanized in the project area and
this is taken into account in the calculation of labor requirements. Large
and medium farmers have their own tractors, while small holders have prepara-
tion done under contract. Power tillers are also used by small farmers, and
their use is expected to expand. Land preparation services are offered by
private operators, by SEA, by IAD, and by a few processors who contract with
farmers for their production (peanuts, olkra, industrial tomatoes). The number



- 28 -
of tractors in the project area is, however, insufficient to ensure timely
services for all farmers. Credit is required, therefore, for private operators
to purchase additional equipment and would be forthcoming from the local
banks, including BA (para 4.07).
D. Production Costs
5.16      Average production costs are presented in the crop budgets, which
are broken down into inputs (seed or plant material, fertilizers, pest
control chemicals), mechanical services (para 5.15), labor and miscellaneous
costs. Labor costs are estimated on the basis of average man-day require-
ments for each crop, assuming a daily wage rate of RD$ 3.00 both for family
and hired labor. No shadow wage rate has been used, since double cropping
and growing labor-intensive vegetables do not allow for substantial slack
periods in labor demand. Miscellaneous costs include current water charges
(RD$ 5.00 per ha for rice and RD$ 2.50 for other crops for farms under 10 ha),
transportation costs, and maintenance of the irrigation system.
5.17      Production costs are high for vegetables and fruits, which require
high levels of inputs and labor. This underlines the need for seasonal credit.
5.18      Slight variations in input and labor costs are expected in relation
to output levels, which are conditioned by the irrigation water supply. Lower
production means lower requirements for fertilizers and for labor at harvest
time. Thus, production costs would be lower for rainfed areas (Zone 5, West),
Zone 2 (partially irrigated), and during construction of irrigation works,
when the frequency of irrigation would be reduced.
5.19      At full development, water charges are expected to increase signif-
icantly to cover operation and maintenance costs and part of the investment
cost of the irrigation system (para 7.06). In the farm budgets, the water
charges are shown separately for the full development period.
5.20      Being small, most farms operate with minor investments in machinery
and equipment. No debt service is, therefore, included for medium-term
borrowing in the production costs. Debt service for mechanical equipment is
included in the charges for mechanical services.
E. Yields and Crop Production
5.21      The build-up of crop yields in the different zones of the project
up to full development is shown in Annex 1, Table 18. For Zones 1, 4, and 5,
West and Zone 2, East (para 5.02), a decrease in water supply is assumed during
the second and third years of project implementation, due to difficulties in
maintaining the full irrigation service while simultaneously proceeding with
rehabilitation of the main canals. This will result in a drop of up to 20% in
crop production during years 2 to 4. Crop yields in areas with good water
supplies (Zones 1 and 4) would not change with the project while for zones



- 29 -
with limited water supplies (Zones 2, East, and 5, West), yields have been
increased conservatively, up to 25%, only on crops that are known to be
sensitive to water deficit occurrences. The new irrigation areas (Zone 2,
West; Zone 5, Bahia and Zone 5, Nigua) would attain the same yields as those
in older irrigated areas by year 10 of project initiation. The development of
total project crop production from year 0-1 to year 10 is shown in Annex 1,
Table 19, and the incremental productioln and exports due to the project,
compared with the national agricultural production and exports (imports)
are shown in Annex 1, Table 20.
F. Environmental Impact
5.22      The Nizao catchment area is located in the Cordillera Central, a
mountainous region with steep slopes and narrow valleys. Parts of these
lands have been deforested and settled, and, although laws strictly prohibit
deforestation and settlement, they continue in remote areas and have increased
erosion and sediment loads in streams and rivers. Since the construction of
the Valdesia dam, the Government has initiated a soil conservation program to
control erosion as a means to reduce accumulation of sediments in the storage
reservoir. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the soil conservation
program in the Nizao catchment basin would be continued as a means to reduce
accumulation of sediments in the Valdesia reservoir.
5.23      As the main objective of the project is to rehabilitate existing
irrigation systems and to extend the irrigated area by 2,330 ha, there would
be no significant change in the environmlent. There are no epidemic diseases
in the project area, and the impact of increased use of pesticides, nitrogen
and phosphorous fertilizer residuals would be insignificant. It is expected,
in fact, that by lining irrigation canals and by draining low lying, water-
logged areas, health and working conditions would actually be improved as a
result of the project.
VI. MARKETS AND MARKETING
A. Foreign
Export Value
6.01      The Dominican Republic exported US$778.0 million of merchandise
during calendar 1977. Traditional exports--sugar, coffee, cacao and tobacco--
accounted for 68% of the total, with fruit and vegetable exports valued
(FOB) at US$16.0 million (Annex 1, Table 21). Fruits and vegetables produced
in the project area that showed outstanding export performance in 1977 were
pigeon peas (US$4.2 million), yam (US$2.5 million), okra (US$1.5 million),
pepper (US$1.3 million), cassava (US$0.9 million), tomatoes (US$0.7 million),
squash, avocados, beans, and fruit pulp (all about US$0.5 million each).
Foreign market demand is growing for yam, cassava, pigeon peas and tomatoes,
and a potential market exists for white and yellow onions processed in dry or
concentrated form for exports.



- 30 -
Export Markets
6.02      The Dominican Republic has a comparative advantage in location for
supplying the US with fresh and frozen fruits and vegetables. The major ports
of entry for Dominican products are New York, Miami, San Juan and the Virgin
Islands. Mainland US imported nearly US$7.0 million worth of fruits and vege-
tables produced, in part, in the project area; Puerto Rico imported US$6.2
million; the Virgin Islands, US$144,000; and the nearby islands of Curazao,
Aruba and St. Martin, another US$288,000. Expansion of export markets will
be largely in mainland US and in Puerto Rico.
Problems
6.03      Import Barriers.  Import barriers in the United States to fruits and
vegetables from the Dominican Republic are not excessive and most products
come under the generalized system of preferences and, therefore, pay no import
duties (Annex 1, Table 22). Tomatoes, tomato paste, processed cassava and
pigeon peas are subject to duties but such products have not been major
factors in trade volume for Dominican exporters. Sanitary regulations have
recently influenced the amount of fresh okra imported to the Miami market
as USDA claims that this vegetable is infested with an insect which could
possibly cause problems in US cotton fields. However, the presence of this
insect has been occasional and, pending further study required to determine
the actual risk to US cotton fields, imports into the US continue to be
unrestricted outside the Miami market.
6.04      Transportation.  Some 59 ship lines call at Santo Domingo, giving
the country excellent access to New York, San Juan and Europe. However,
there has been no container service to Miami or the nearby islands and
all produce going into those markets is carried either on regularly scheduled
flights at 11w/lb to Miami or on small airlines specializing in short-haul
freight. A newly formed Government enterprise, the National Shipping
Company, began a refrigerated shipping service to Miami in May 1978 and this
should increase export volume considerably for chilled and frozen produce
already packaged for supermarket sale.
6.05      Low Volume.  Due to the lack of large supplies of industrial
tomatoes, yam, cassava, avocados, pepper, pigeon peas and fruit pulp,
Dominican exporters have not entered into high volume, long-term contracts
with importing firms in the US although several contract offers have been
made. To minimize risk, exporters diversify produce and sign long-term
contracts only for items they grow themselves or have grown by farmers who
are advanced credit and provided with transportation to produce exclusively
to fulfill contracts. However, if larger quantities of produce were grown
in the Dominican Republic as expected under the proposed project, they
could be sold in the US market.
6.06      Cartons and Boxes.  The quality of cartons and boxes produced in
the Dominican Republic is deficient and often contributes to the deteriora-
tion of fresh produce en route to import destinations. Studies to improve
quality of cartons and boxes have been undertaken and norms for quality
control have been prepared by the Dominican Institute of Technology. It is



- 31 -
expected that these norms will be approved by mid-1979. CEDOPEX has informed
the Bank of various efforts being made to improve the quality of cartons and
boxes and indicated that the Government: would consider permitting the temporary
import of such material if the measures now being taken prove to be insuffi-
cient. An assurance was obtained during negotiations that the Govarnment
would take such action as may be necessary for ensuring the availability of
adequate equipment for the export of fruits and vegetables, which includes
but is not limited to cartons and boxes.
Market Prospects
6.07      Foreign market prospects are bright for Dominican fruits and
vegetables, and remarkable improvements have been made in the organization
and management of Dominican export firms over the past five years. Over
45 firms exporting fruits and vegetables are licensed by CEDOPEX, including
three firms in Bani.
6.08      Dominican fruits and vegetables have a comparative advantage over
US producers in that their production blase in terms of agro-climatic conditions
is superior and the cost of labor is low--about US$3.00 per day compared to
US$20.00 per day in Florida and Puerto Rico. Further, urban pressures are
increasing land values in Florida and Puerto Rico, causing land to go out of
agriculture and into alternative uses. Despite the sophisticated machinery
used by US producers, costs of production are not competitive for several
fruits and vegetables. However, further US market development is required for
Dominican pineapple, cassava and avocados. In addition to the favorable
product outlook, Puerto Rico received about US$900 million in food stamps in
1977, which went, in large part, for purchase of fruits and vegetables,
increasing the demand for these items.
B. Domestic
6.09      Of the food commodities grown in the project area, rice, cassava
and plantains are staples in the Dominican diet. The national supply and
utilization of these and other commodites is shown in Annex 1, Table 23.
Domestic market demand for rice, corn and peanuts far exceeds the supply,
and these items are traditionally imported.
Food Security
6.10      INESPRE.  Government establislhed the Dominican Price Stabilization
Institute (INESPRE) in 1969 to help assure food security through monopoly
marketing in rice and monopoly importing of foods and feedgrains, including
rice, corn, beans, and vegetable oils. In providing food security, INESPRE
often goes into the domestic market to purchase onions, plantains, garlic,
pigeon peas, and potatoes for storage. The agricultural commodities which
were either imported or purchased on the domestic market by INESPRE for the
1974-77 period, plus estimates for volume movement in 1978, are shown in
Annex 1, Table 24. INESPRE also purchases black beans on the domestic
market for export to Venezuela, from wh:Lch it, in turn, imports red beans.
6.11      Rice is the predominant crop for which INESPRE holds a monopoly.
It sets the price to the farmer but does not closely supervise the weighing



- 32 -
scales or the laboratory tests, including those for moisture levels carried
out by the rice mill operators. It is thus suspected that smaller size
farm owners receive less than full value for their rice deliveries to the
mills. Average annual imports of rice are around 50,000 m tons of white rice
for an expenditure of about RD$ 22 million annually in foreign exchange.
6.12      INESPRE owns and operates a food storage system which comprises
about 38,000 m tons of grain silo capacity and 30,000 m tons of conventional
warehouse capacity, plus another 7,000 m tons of cold storage capacity. In
addition, the rice mills have another 200,000-m-ton capacity installed
throughout the rice growing regions, and Molinos Dominicanos, a private firm,
which imports and mills about 100,000 m tons of wheat per annum, has a
capacity of 60,000 m tons and is planning to construct another 36,000 m
tons of grain silos.
6.13      SEA.  In addition to the information service on daily prices and
markets throughout the country (para 2.20), SEA publishes every six months an
analysis on supply and utilization of products, and on trends and prospects of
different agricultural products and domestic markets.
Problems in Marketing
6.14      While considerable improvements in agricultural marketing are
being undertaken, not only by the public sector, but also by fresh and frozen
produce exporters, four major areas of further marketing improvements are
now under consideration by SEA. These are: (a) establishment of a national
system of weights and measures; (b) improvement of marketing services to
small farmers; (c) studies and proposed action on post-harvest losses; and
(d) improved wholesale markets. The Inter-american Institute of Agricultural
Sciences is actively rendering technical assistance to SEA in the above-
mentioned fields, financed by a first-stage US$1.0 million grant. Further-
more, the Integral Agricultural Development Program (PIDAGRO) has about
US$8.0 million earmarked for improvements in the national marketing system,
with special emphasis on improved wholesale and retail marketing.
6.15      INESPRE is expected to expand silo capacity for conditioning
and storing rice in the Sabana Grande de Palenque area and to promote
an agro-industry to dehydrate or concentrate essence of onions for domestic
and industrial use and for export. SEA will soon experiment with a pilot
project to dehydrate onions and garlic in Bani.
VII. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
Farmers' Incomes
7.01      For the purpose of estimating the impact of the project on farmers'
incomes, five farm models were constructed, reflecting the basic farm sizes
and cropping patterns in the project area (Annex 1, Tables 12 to 17). These
models simulate farms under partial irrigation, although there are, in addition,
farms located in areas that already receive full irrigation and will have
little increase in net income with the project, and farms will be created in



- 33 -
the new areas brought into full irrigation under the project (para 5.21).
Farmers' incomes, net of all labor costs and water charges, increase between
11% and 411%, depending on the cropping pattern and the availability of water
before project (which is explained acrording to zone in paragraph 5.02), as
shown in the following table:
Net Farmers' Incomes
Without        With        Percentage
Farm Model                         Project       Project        Increase
---  -(R   $)    -(-% ) _ _-        _
Full Irrigation
I ha, Zones 1 and 4                  873         1,053            21
10 ha, Zones I and 4                6,787         7,629            12
2.7 ha, Zone 5, West               5,928         6,567            11
Partial Irrigation
3 ha, Zone 2, East                 2,453         3,360            37
5 ha, Zone 2, East                 4,357         7,086            63
New Irrigation
2.7 ha, Zone 5, East                 970         4,958           411
3 ha, Zone 2, West                     0 1/      3,360
1/   No cropping without project.
7.02      The per capita farm income with project, based on 6.3 persons per
family in the project area, clusters aLround the GNP per capita of RD$ 843
(1977 estimate), and ranges from a low of about RD$ 167 to RD$ 1,227 per
annum. The target group in the project area has been identified as the
families with an average holding of 3.0 ha or less, including the beneficiaries
of the agrarian reform program. This group represents about 70% of the farm
population and cultivates 35% of the project farm lands (Annex 1, Table 2).
The target group is represented by three sub-groups in the farm model analysis.
The sub-group at or below the critical consumption level 1/ comprises farms
below 1.5 ha and represented by the 1.0-ha farm model. This model indicates
per capita family net income with the project of RD$ 167 per annum. The other
sub-groups are represented by the 3.0-ha farm model (partial irrigation) and
2.7-ha farm model (new irrigation) and include the agrarian reform beneficiaries.
These models indicate per capita family net ineomes with the project of RD$ 533
and RD$ 800 per annum, respectively. Farmers in the target group would
supplement their farm income as hired labor in jobs created by the project
(para 5.13). Farms of 1.0 ha and 3.0 ha would employ about 120 and 265
man-days of labor, respectively, or about 24% and 53% of the estimated 500
man-days of labor available in an average project family of 6.3 members.
1/   The critical consumption level is estimated at 30% the national per
capita income, or about RD$ 253 in 1977.



- 34 -
Cost Recovery
7.03      Government is presently subsidizing about 60% of the operation and
maintenance cost of Government-owned irrigation systems (para 1.20), and no
effort has so far been made to recover capital investments. The annual oper-
ation and maintenance cost of project facilities at full development has been
estimated at RD$ 505,800 per annum, or at a rate of RD$ 37 per ha in 1978 prices.
Recovering the full cost of operation and maintenance would, therefore, mean
increasing present water rates in the project area by 3.7 times for rice
farmers and about 15 times for small farmers growing other crops (para 1.20).
7.04       The capital cost of the project amounts to RD$ 38.1 million net
of price contingencies, or about RD$ 2,780 per ha in 1978 prices. At 12% rate
of interest over a 50-year period, the annual payment required to recover
100% of capital cost with interest is estimated at RD$ 330 per ha per annum.
Consequently, the project water rate would be about RD$ 367 per ha per annum
in 1978 prices to recover capital expenditures and operation and maintenance
cost by means of water charges. This would result in an excessively high
rate that farmers, especially those in the target group, would be unable to
pay.
7.05      To facilitate evaluation of possible water charges, rent recovery
indices and cost recovery indices were calculated for various assumptions of
annual water charges in 1978 prices (Annex 1, Table 25). Three hypothetical
farm sizes of 1 ha, 3 ha and 10 ha, assumed to be partially irrigated farms
before the project, were used in the calculations. The project rent accruing
to these farms is derived by taking out the cost of family labor, 5% of the
net value of incremental cash income for incremental management costs and 10%
of the value of the net cash income toward allowance for risk and uncer-
tainty from the net incremental cash income. Also, water requirements per
ha were assumed to be equal for the entire project area as all farms virtually
produce similar output.
7.06       In addition to the cost recovery due to water charges, there would
be a transfer of about 900 ha of land from land owners to Government by the
application of the cuota parte law in the project area (para 1.11). This
amount of land has an estimated value of RD$ 5.4 million in 1978 prices, or
about 14% of the project capital cost. Thus, about 30% of the capital cost of
the project would be recovered by means of water charges (16%) and by applica-
tion of the cuota parte law (14%). It does not seem advisable to increase
water charges further because, for a cost recovery index of about 16%, rent
recovery indices show that larger farms would pay about 75% and smaller farms
between 40% and 47% of their incremental income (Annex 1, Table 26), and water
charges would be about RD$ 74 per ha per annum. This amount covers operation
and maintenance cost (RD$ 37) and about 16% of capital costs (RD$ 37) on the
basis of discounted values at 12% in 1978 prices. The above water charge has
been used in the financial analysis of the farm models (Annex 1, Tables 12 to
17). These analyses indicate that farms in all categories from small to large
would have a net income with the project sufficient to pay water charges to
cover operation and maintenance and recover about 16% of the capital cost.
The residual incremental rent would still be enough to make project and
production investments attractive to farmers.



- 35 -
7.07      The privately owned sugar estate located in the project area con-
tributes to Government revenues in the form of annual corporate income tax and
sugar export tax which varies according to the level of sugar prices. This
estate would be expected to pay the same water charges as other project bene-
ficiaries, although no incremental production of sugarcane is exp,cted as
a result of the project. The estate has benefited from previous investments,
i.e., the Valdesia dam and the existing irrigation system and the rehabilitation
of the irrigation system will ensure that the estate continues to be adequately
supplied with water.
7.08      Implementation of a cost recovery policy through water charges
presents difficulties due to the country's long tradition of very low water
rates, to the lack of legislation to enforce payment of water charges and to
INDRHI's poor organization to set the 'Level and to collect water charges.
The Government is willing to change these conditions and assurances were
obtained during negotiations that (a) by December 31, 1979, present water
rates would be doubled in all irrigation systems administered by INDRHI;
(b) by December 31, 1980, a general progressive system of rates for the
supply of water for irrigation that aLlows INDRHI to charge rates set at
levels to cover the full operation and maintenance costs and that portion
of capital cost which would be within the ability of farmers to pay would
be established and put into effect; and (c) by June 30, 1983, a specific
system of rates for the project would be established in accordance with the
principle set out in (b) above and the result of the study to be carried out
by INDRHI; this system would be put into effect by June 30, 1984, as project
facilities are completed and lands come into full production. The adequacy of
the system of charges would be reviewed by Government with the Bank every two
years. Assurances were also obtained during negotiations that (a) by June 30,
1980, INDRHI would establish and maintain thereafter a technical unit to
carry out the studies to set the levels of water rates in the irrigation
system administered by INDRHI; and (b) no later than June 30, 1983, INDRHI
would carry out a study, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank,
for determining the extent to which the capital invested in the project can
be recovered over a period of 40 years, taking into account, inter alia,
users' ability to pay, the need to maintain appropriate incentives to such
users, and the need to cause such users to make the best use of the land and
water available to them. INDRHI will review with the Bank the conclusions
and recommendations of this study soon after it is completed.
VIII. JUSTIFICATIONI AND BENEFITS
General
8.01      The project represents the best alternative for developing the
Nizao region and for economic use of water resources regulated by the
Valdesia dam. The project would provicle a dependable basis for agricul-
tural development in the semi-arid area of Bani and Azua and improve the
possibilities of intensive agriculture in other areas (San Cristobal) where
the rainfall presently makes some cultivation possible. It appears tech-
nically viable and will benefit landless farmers in addition to medium and



- 36 -
small farmers who have already demonstrated skills in the production of vege-
tables and fruits, both for the local and external markets. The production
infrastructure that already exists in the project area and its proximity to
Santo Domingo make the agricultural development program realistic. The
project would strengthen the organization for agricultural production at the
regional level, the upgrading of operation and maintenance of the irrigation
systems, and the use of labor-intensive methods for rehabilitation works,
which are in line with recommendations of past Bank missions and have been
accepted by Government and would be implemented in the project.
8.02      The project would increase production of food crops and exploit
the area's competitive advantage for production of exportable vegetables
and fruit, both fresh and processed. About 3,200 farm families would be
directly benefited and an estimated 13,000 rural families indirectly bene-
fited by the additional jobs to be created in the production and marketing
of agricultural products. Also, the agro-industry factories already in
place and presently working below capacity would benefit from the project's
increased production. The project would provide a reliable water supply to
the 2,400 farm families now living in the area, some 1,200 of whom would
receive the benefit of full irrigation. Over 800 landless farmers or
unemployed would be settled on newly irrigated land which is now unproduc-
tive because of the arid climate.
Economic Rate of Return (ERR)
8.03       The incremental cost and benefit streams adjusted by the accounting
price for foreign exchange are presented in Annex 1, Table 27. All of the
project costs have been taken into account in the economic analysis, including
even an allowance for production foregone due to the disruptions caused by
construction on main canals. Discounting costs and benefits over a 50-year
period, the ERR for the project is estimated at 14.5%. This ERR assumes the
following:
(a)  total incremental output was based on crop budgets for the
project area rather than on the farm models outlined in
paragraph 7.01;
(b)  an accounting price of foreign exchange was estimated at
25% above the official exchange rate of RD$ 1.00 to US$1.00,
to reflect the incidence of trade duties and quantitative
restrictions;
(c)  labor was priced at its market cost of RD$ 3 per day as
it was found that labor generally contributed marginal
output in line with its wage (para 5.16);
(G)  the life of the project extends over 50 years which includes
five years of improvement and rehabilitation of the main
canals, laterals and on-farm development;
(e)  farmer beneficiaries of the project are to expect their farms
to reach full development in year 10; and



- 37 -
(f)  commodity prices for rice and corn imports were based on
CIF prices and adjusted yearly according to the forecasts of
the Bank's Commodities and Export Projection Division and
the prices of all other project commodities were financial
farmgate prices.
8.04      The Net Present Value (NPV) of the project discounted at 12%, the
estimated opportunity cost of capital, is US$10.8 million in 1978 prices.
Sensitivity analysis shows the project to be sufficiently resistant to adverse
changes in costs and benefits (Annex 1, Chart 3):
NPV                ERR
(US$ Million)           (%)
Base Case                              10.8               14.5
Construction Cost Increase 20%          4.8               13.0
Benefits Decrease 20%                   0.9               12.2
Total Cost Increase 10% and Total
Benefits Decrease 10%                1.9                12.4
Benefits Delayed by Two Years           0.7               12.1
Project Risks
8.05      The main risks confronting the project would be associated with
accomplishing the rehabilitation works on main canals with minimum interrup-
tion of actual irrigation services. The failure to achieve this goal could
result in (a) greater loss of production than expected in the irrigated area,
reducing the benefits; (b) failure to meet the estimated construction schedule;
(c) higher costs than estimated for construction; and (d) negative reaction to
the project by the farmers. To minimize these risks, the choice of contractors
would be guided by their ability to minimize the interruption of water delivery
(para 3.17). The project includes consultants to upgrade operation of the
irrigation systems during the construction period, and the Project Director
would be in charge of both rehabilitation work and operation of the irrigation
systems to assure good coordination and minimize losses. Information to
farmers and farmer participation for preparation of construction and water
delivery schedules are essential during rehabilitation of main canals.
IX. SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
9.01      During negotiations, assurances were obtained from Government that:
(a)  it would finance the local currency requirements for the project
by annual budgetary appropriations to INDRHI, SEA and IAD
(para 3.16);



- 38 -
(b)  research and extension services would be strengthened to
meet project requirements (para 4.05);
(c)  it would ensure that SEA would provide quality control for
vegetable seeds by December 31, 1981 (para 4.06);
(d)  it would ensure that BA meets the project incremental needs for
medium-term and seasonal credit and has the necessary financial
resources for the purpose (para 4.07);
(e)  it would ensure that a study would be carried out on the operation
of the Valdesia dam and its recommendations would be carried out by
CDE, as agreed with the Bank (para 4.11);
(f)  it would continue with the soil conservation program in the
Nizao catchment basin (para 5.22);
(g)  it would take action for ensuring availability of adequate equip-
ment for the export of fruits and vegetables (para 6.06); and
(h)  it would, by December 31, 1979, double present water rates in all
irrigation systems administered by INDRHI; establish and put into
effect by December 31, 1980, a general progressive system of rates
for the supply of water for irrigation that allows INDRHI to charge
rates set at levels to cover the full operation and maintenance
costs and that portion of capital cost which would be within the
ability of farmers to pay; and establish, by June 30, 1983, a
specific system of rates for the project area, in accordance with
the principle set above and the study carried out by INDRHI.
This system would be put into effect by June 30, 1984, as project
facilities are completed and lands come into full production.
The adequacy of the system of charges would be reviewed by Govern-
ment with the Bank every two years (para 7.08).
9.02      During negotiations, assurances were obtained from INDRHI that:
(a)  technical services to be financed with loan proceeds would
be procured under terms of reference and conditions of employment
satisfactory to the Bank and the Borrower, and that contracts for
rehabilitation of main canals and imported equipment would be
procured through international competitive bidding (para 3.17);
(b)  it would employ consultants for supervision of construction
(para 4.03);
(c)  it would keep separate project accounts (para 4.08);
(d)  it would employ independent auditors, satisfactory to the Bank,
to audit the project and INDRHI accounts at the end of each fiscal
year (para 4.08),



- 39 -
(e) audited project and INDRHI accounts, together with the auditor's
report, would be sent to the Bank within six months of the close
of each fiscal year (para 4.08);
(f) it would establish the project monitoring and evaluating system
and that a draft of the project completion report would be
prepared by the Project Director and submitted to the Bank no
later than six months after the proposed project investment had
been completed (para 4.10);
(g) it would carry out periodical inspections of the Valdesia and
Barias dams, in accordance with sound engineering practice, and
under arrangements satisfactory to the Bank, in order to determine
whether there are any deficiencies in the condition of such
structures, or in the quality and adequacy of maintenance or
method of operation of the same, which may endanger their safety
(para 4.11); and
(h) it would establish, by June 30, 1980, and maintain thereafter
a technical unit to carry out the studies to set the levels of
water rates in the irrigation systems administered by INDRHI;
and no later than June 30, 1983, INDRHI would carry out a study,
under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, for deter-
mining the extent to which the investment cost in the project
can be recovered (para 7.08).
9.03      Conditions of effectiveness of the loan would be that:
(a) the Project Coordinating Committee had been established (para 4.02);
and
(b) a qualified local engineering consultant firm had been employed
to update designs and prepare tender documents for the civil
works (para 4.03).
9.04      With the assurances indicated iabove, the project is suitable for
a Bank loan of US$27.0 million to the Dominican Republic for a period of
17 years, including four years of grace.
January 3, 1979



- 40 -
ANNEX 1
Table 1
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
NIZAO IRRIGATION PROJECT
Present Cropping Pattern
(ha)
Marcos A. Cabral          Nizao-Najayo
Command                  Canal
Zone 11i  Zone 22/    Zone 43/  Zone 54/    Total
Single Cropping
Sugarcane                      2,220         50          950        130       3,350
Plantain                         320      1,970           20        140       2,450
Papaya                            40         90            -          -         130
Other fruits                       30        20             -        28          78
Coconut                           60         40            -         70         170
Pasture                          360        680           10        620       1,670
Cassava                          110        230            -        170         510
Pigeon peas                       30         70            -         70         170
Sub-total:            3,170      3,150           980     1,228       8,528
Double Cropping
Rice                             860          -            -        436       1,296
Okra                             290         30            -        248         568
Onions                           140         30           20        410         600
Industrial tomatoes              160         50            -         40         250
Fresh tomatoes                     -          -            -         10          10
Pepper                           100          -           20        190         310
Other vegetables                 140         20           20        106         286
Corn                             140         50            -         85         275
Peanuts                          140         40            -         57         237
Beans                             30          -            -         60          90
Sub-total:            2,000        220           60      1,642       3,922
Physical Area:        1,000        110           30        822       1,962
Fallow                             590        440           50        132      1,210
Total Crop and Fallow:           5,760      3,810        1,090      3,002     13,662
Total Physical Area:             4,760      3,700        1__060     2,180     11,700
1/ East of the Bani river.
2/ West of the Bani river.
3/ North of Loma Duveaux.
4/ South of Loma Duveaux.
October 6, 1978



- 41 -
ANNEX 1
Table 2
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
NIZAO IRRIGATION PROJECT
Land Tenure
Number and Area of Farms
No. of                            Average Size
Farm Sizes    Farms      _%       Area      %       of Farm
-- (ha) --                         (ha)           --- (ha) ---
Cultivated Area
Small:                     0.5       245      10       139       2        0.5
0.5 -   1.5        748      30       905     11         1.2
1.6 -   2.5        540      22    1,061      13         2.0
2.6 -   5.0        504      20    2,091      26         4.0
Medium:           5.1 -  10.0         262     11    1,534       19        5.9
10.1 -  31.3        141       6    1,820      23        13.0
Large:           31.4 - 100.0         AL3      1       550       6       42.3
Sub-total:                  2,453    100    8,100    100
CAEI Sugar Estate                       1            3,270
Total:                      24C54           11,370
New Area                                770            2,330                 3.0
Total:                      3,224           13,700
December 11, 1978



- 42 -
ANNEX 1
Table 3
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
NIZAO IRRIGATION PROJECT
List of Equipment Required for the Project
Estimated Cost
Description                                  Quantity      CIF (US$ '000)
Force Account Construction
Loader wheel type, lm3                                          1               46
Truck dump, 4-6 m3                                              3               72
Truck with tank, 8,000 liters                                    2              48
Mixers, concrete, portable 1/2 m3                              12               32
Vibrators, concrete                                            10                7
Vehicles, pick up, 4-wheel type                                 7               77
Pumps, water, portable with engine and hose                      5               2
Radio, portable for vehicle                                     6               12
Engineering equipment                                        1 lot              10
Sub-total:                          306
Supervision of Construction
Vehicles, pick up, 4-wheel drive                                 8              88
Testing laboratory equipment                                 I lot               5
Office equipment                                             1 lot              10
Engineering equipment                                        1 lot              10
Radio, portable for vehicle                                     5               10
Sub-total:                          123
Administration - Operation and Maintenance
Vehicles, station wagon, 4-wheel drive                          3               33
Vehicles, pick up, 4-wheel drive                                 3              33
Truck, dump 4 to 6 m3                                            2              48
Grader, wheel type, self propelled, 125 hp                      1               94
Tractor, 140 hp, truck type with angle dozer and root rake  1                   70
Shop equipment including welding machines, compressor,
lubricating equipment and tools                            1 lot             15
Engineering and surveying equipment                          1 lot              10
Climatology and water measurement equipment                  1 lot              25
Radio, portable for vehicle                                     6               12
Sub-total:                          340
On-farm Development
Tractor, 75 hp, truck type with angle dozer and root rote   1                   60
Land planes                                                     3               30
Wheel tractor, 70 hp                                             3              30
Sub-total;                          120
Agricultural Extension and Training Program
Sprinkler irrigation systems                                     2              30
Tractor plows and cultivation equipment                          2              40
Land planes                                                     2               20
Buses or trucks                                                  2              50
Vehicles, pick up, jeeps, and station wagon                      6              70
Motorcycles                                                     6               30
Shop equipment                                               2 lots             20
Sub-total:                          260
Agrarian Reform Program
Vehicles, pick up, jeeps and station wagon                      5               55
Motorcycles                                                     4               20
Surveying, drafting equipment                                1 lot              15
Sub-total:                            90
Total:                            1,239
August 22, 1978



- 43 --
ANNEX 1
Table 4
Page 1
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
NIZAO IRRIGATION PROJECT
Incremental Local Staff Requirements and Estimated Cost
during Construction Period
------- Calendar Years ---------
1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   Total Cost
---------- (man-years)----------   (RD$ '000)
A. Civil Works
Force Account Construction
Chief Engineer                          0.25    1       1       1      0.25      38.55
Engineer                                0.50    2       2       2      0.50      57.83
Senior Surveyor                         0.50    2       2       2      0.50      37.52
Surveyor and Crews (6)                  2.00    4       6       6      2.00    108.81
Inspector                               2.00    4       5       5      2.00      55.36
Accountant                              0.25    1        1      1      0.25      12.05
Assistant Accounts                      0.50    2        2      2      0.50      19.28
Administrator                           0.25    1        1      1      0.25      14.46
Secretary                               0.25    1       1       1      0.25       7.23
Drivers                                 1.00    3       4       4      1.00      34.65
Storekeeper                             0.25    1       1       1      0.25       4.58
Warehouse Keeper                        0.25    1        1      1      0.25       6.75
Sub-total:                                                                 397.07
Annual Bonus (8.33%)                                                         33.08
Sub-total:                                                                  430.15
Construction Supervision
Chief Engineer                          0.25    1       1       1      1         50.70
Engineer                                0.50    4       4       4      1        113.96
Senior Surveyor                         0.50    3       3       3      1         43.43
Surveyor and Crews (6)                  0.50    3       3       3      1        158.54
Inspector                               0.50   12      12      12      4        143.25
Assistance                              0.25    2        2      2      0.5       25.64
Secretary                               0.50    1       1       1      1         12.67
Drivers                                 0.50    4       4       4      2         60.32
Storekeeper                             0.25    2       2       2      2         11.19
Engineer, materials                     0.25    1       1       1      1         42.26
Engineer, Assistance Lab.               0.50    4       4       4      4         72.45
Technicians                             0.20    4       4       4      4         28.98
Sub-total:                                                                  763.39
Annual Bonus (8.33%)                                                         63.59
Sub-total:                                                                  G26.98
On-Farm Development
Agriculture Engineer                    -        1       1      1      1         22.95
Assistant                               -        1       1      1      1         17.21
Senior Surveyor                         -        2       2      2      2         34.43
Surveyor and crews (6)                  -        2       2      2      2        121.63
Draftsman                               -        1       1      1      1         11.47
Secretary                              --        1      1       1      1          6.88
Driver                                  -        2       2       2     2          8.61
Sub-total:                                                                  223.18
Annual Bonus (8.33%)                                                         18.59
Sub-total:                                                                  241.77
Total Civil Works:                                                       1,498.90



44 -
ANNEX 1
Table 4
Page 2
-------- Calendar Years --------
1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   Total Cost
---------- (man-years) ---------   (RD$ '000)
B. Irrigation District
Administration
Chief of District                      0.5     1       1       1     1         44.40
Administrative Assistant               -        1      1       1     1         16.65
Accountant                             0.5      1      1       1     1         13.87
Assistant Accountant                   0.5      1      1       1      1         8.32
Secretary                              0.5     1       1       1     1         13.62
Driver                                 0.5     1       1       1     1         10.41
Storekeeper                            0.5     1       1       1     1          9.72
Sub-total:                                                                116.99
Annual Bonus (8.33%)                                                        9.74
Sub-total:                                                                126.73
Operation
Chief of Zone                          1       2       2       2     2         55.50
Canal Inspector                        0.5     1       1       1     1         34.91
Assistant Canal Inspector              3        3      3       4     4         28.62
Chief Gate Operator                    4        6      6       8    10         96.67
Gate Operator                          8      10      10      10    10         52.03
Ditchrider                            20      20      20      20    20        104.06
Flow Gauger                            1       1       2       2     2         22.65
Secretary                              1       2       2       2     2         16.65
Driver                                 1       2       3       3     3         29.42
Storekeeper                            2       3       3       3     3         15.61
Sub-total:                                                               456.12
Annual Bonus (8.33%)                                                      37.99
Sub-total:                                                               494.11
Maintenance
Chief                                  0.5     1       1      1      1         27.75
Chief Mechanics                        0.5     1       1      1      1         22.20
Mechanics                              0.5     1       1       1     1         17.23
Chief Maintenance Crew                 0.5     1       1       1     1         18.12
Maintenance Crew (5)                   0.5     1       1       1     1         48.34
Warehouse Keeper                       0.5     1       1       1     1          9.71
Secretary                              0.5     1       1      1      1          8.32
Storekeeper                            1.0     2       2      2      2         21.52
Tractor Operator                       0.5     1       1      1      1         11.48
Grader Operator                        1.0     2       2      2      2         22.95
Truck Driver                           1.0     2       2      2      2         20.08
Sub-total:                                                               227.70
Annual Bonus (8.33%)                                                      18.96
Sub-total:                                                               246.66
Total Operation and Maintenance Irrigation District:                     867.50



- 45 -
ANNEX 1
Table 4
Page 3
------- Calendar Years ---------
1979   1_D    1981   1982   1983   Total Cost
---------- (man-years) ---------   (RD$ '000)
C. Agriculture Extension and Trainingl/
Agronomist Extension                   -        -       2      2      2         36.00
Agronomist Training                    -        -       2      2      2         36.00
Extension Agents                       -        -       6      6      6         70.00
Assistant Training                     -        -       4      4      4         24.00
Drivers                                -        -       7      7      7         43.00
Sub-total:                                                                209.00
Annual Bonus (8.33%)                                                       17.40
Sub-total:                                                                226,40
D. Agrarian Reform
Agronomist, Chief                      -        1       1      1      1         24.00
Deputy Chief                           -        1       1      1      1         20.00
Land Judge                             -        -       1      1      1         18.00
Field Inspector                        -        1      1       1      1         20.00
Cadastral Team (2)                     -        1       2      2      2        49.00
Surveying Crew                         -        1      1       1      1        28.00
Draftsman                              -        1      2       2      2        21.00
Drivers                                -        2      4       4      4        30.00
Sub-total:                                                                210.00
Annual Bonus (8.33%)                                                       17.50
Sub-total:
227, 5r
Total Incremental Local Staff:                                          2,820.30
1/ By mid-1978, agricultural extension staff in the project area was composed of
one agronomist and nine extension agents.
December 5, 1978



- 46 -
ANNEX 1
Table 5
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
NIZAO IRRIGATION PROJECT
Technical Services
-------- Calendar Year --------
1979   1980   1981   1982   1983    Total
---------   - (ma -mnhs) ---------------
 --(man-monh)
Foreign
Engineer, Operation and
Maintenance                        -       6     12      12      6         36
Engineer (Dams Safety Inspection)  3         -      3       -      3          9
Agricultural Engineer (On-
farm Irrigation)                   -      6      12     12      12         42
Agronomist (Vegetables and
Crops)                             -      -       3       3      -          6
Simulation of Dam's
Operation                          -      -       -     12       -         12
Engineer Consultant, Final
Designs                            3      -       -      -       -          3
Total:                 6      12     30      39     21        108
Local
Final Designs and Tender
Documents:
Project Director                 8      -       -      -       -          8
Engineer (2)                    16      -       -      -       -         16
Assistant Engineer (2)          16      -       -      -       -         16
Supervision of Construction:
Director                         3     12      12     12      12         51
Engineer                         3     12      12     12      12         51
Total:                46      24     24      24     24        142
August 3, 1978



- 47 -
ANNEX 1
Table 6
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
NIZAO IRRIGATION PROJECT
Civil Works Cost Estimates
----------  Cost     
Local     Foreign       Total
----- (US$ '000) -_-----
Rehabilitation of Irrigation System
By Contractors
Marcos A. Cabral Canal
0.000 km to 1.425 km                       194.1       270.2        464.3
1.426 km to 13.200 km                    1,509.9    1,936.8      3,446.7
13.201 km to 29.975 km                   1,644.6    2,278.8      3,923.4
29.976 km to 46.020 km                   1,616.8    2,198.8      3,815.6
Nizao-Najayo Canal
0.000 km to 1.987 km                       115.8       182.3        298.1
1.988 km to 20.200 km                      188.1       259.7       447.8
20.201 km to 36.500 km                     921.2    1,247.8      2,169.0
36.501 km to 52.700 km                     772.3       919.4     1,691.7
52.701 km to 61.965 km                     590.7       662.4     1,253.1
Nizao Lateral
0.000 km to 7.225 km                       264.0       337.0        601.0
No. 1, 0.000 km to 6.050 km                182.5       229.1        411.6
No. 2, 0.000 km to 6.000 km                196.9       238.4        435.3
Sub-total:                     8,196.9   10,760.7    18,957.6
By Force Account
Marcos A. Cabral Canal
46.021 km to 63.820 km                     833.4       829.4      1,662.8
Laterals                                 1,009.3       636.8     1,646.1
Culdera Lateral                            718.8       444.5      1,163.3
Drains                                       8.2         4.9         13.1
Nizao-Najayo Canal
Laterals                                   244.6       156.2        400.8
Drains                                       2.4         1.6          4.0
Sub-total:                     2,816.7    2,073.4       4,890.1
On-Farm Development                             992.9      788.7      1,781.6
Feeder Roads                                   113.2       138.2        251.4
Buildings                                      185.6       185.8        371.4
Total Civil Works:            12,305.3   13.946.8    26,252.1
December 11, 1978



- 46 -
AflU 1
Table 7
'40.4.4.00   00000  0   .4-400 -   0'000  .4  .40000000  01 '4 '1 0   I II
I                                                                  'I..
o"-0-ooo.4.4000    .4000 0  0.440 0'   0000O002000.40
42 '400400. 400400200000 4                      .40'4"'  Ofl
004000   -  '4 .0   '
0.4-    .4           -           -   -                        -
0   00000  0   .4000  .4                0 000000  0 0 I 0 0101
-                                       .                                  Il-I
0.0   00000  .4  .4.4000  0'  0.4.00  0      *2,O2  000000  0    01 0 '4I'4I
- 000.0.40000.400.4  00.4.4 .4                         000002.'4.4i002N
.4           -          0                             .4    .4    40    0  '4    '4
.4.4000000.4.4.4000  i]
0 '4 .4101
02.42'  .4                .4.400 0   .400.4  0   0.40020*           0 0 0 0
-  0 -   .4                     o00'400 0
0'
4000 0                     0 0 0.400001
00.4.4.4                                          1
-4-il     .  222. 0000 '4 ,WWO,102 00.4000
01
0.400  0   -4000  .4    0       0   0    0 0 0 01
04     -   0    0   0    0   .4   01
j   0101   -4   222211    4.t000.4   0   2.4 212  02  .4 0 00.4.4
4000   0                 .4-00  0   '4000  24   40    00  .4 '4 01  'I .4j
I  .00.4.42  '4   222222    .4000  0000.4.42002*  '00  0 .4 01 '4 01 .4
.400-4  .4                                        0.4    00  0 '4 .01 0 01 fl
-                '4           -   00'4.042'4
-4,0    0                                                        ooJo  -41 l
'4.000  0                 0    00  0 0 0 0 I '41
0.4.4-4.4                 0    0.40-         044
i;'        2*22    00-40  .4   2*220    22022* 00  0 0
-4 I 04
ol oj
-4000   0                 0.400  0   .4.400  '4    0                      I I
400.4                                '4    '4                 - .4.4.40]  '4]
401.41
-4-400.4        20   0   04.000  0    000  0    '4000  00  '4 .4    0 01 1
.40.40'  0     '2-42  0   .4000  0   0000.4    20000000  0 0 oI U 0102
'4      000.4000    000.0  -4    00000000   010  ol .I
.4       0   -          0   -4      0      00    000.] Z  1 1
-                                                                                      -42;  ' :
U -           44  -400-4  .4       -4  0   .4000  0                    000  00  0 0
1                222  ' 0   0000  .4    '222    22.400000  0 0 0. 0. 0 '4
01-40.4.4              0       022.4.0.0                  0.40000.40.4  o] 4
0  -   o             000.3   0                 0.4o   0   '0000  0    '30    0         '4 '4 0 01 01
4  20 0'                      .4   '2''  2  o..4000    000.40.   200,  201  0 0 0 40 01 02
-4   -    3      0   .4.40.4  -4                                        0-'     -   0    .4   0    .4  .42  0'
U    0    00                                               -4     0                 .4   .4   10  .4]   01
4"'                                                                                    .     -1
.40                                                                              .3      1
4  .2                      0        -4  -4  .4-4-4-4 0   -4000  .4   .30    0   4 0 01 0 0101
0           I                      I 0   .4000  0   0-4.4.4 0   2000  202  0 0010.41.41
oooo   '4 0   000J.40J0]
.4 0.400.00                                    I 22
0           I                                                                    .40100101
O   .03000  0                       0   00.40.41.41
4'.4.400-4.4-4                             0  0 0.40.402-41
0   0000  -4    222222.412202   0. '4 0 .4 40? 01
-                                                                          <''I
-4         0-40        ::.::.:.20A2
0.4           4            4                                                .4
4-    00!     0   U  04   0 02U  4   0440024042042.40.4024:                       0
4.0.4004  0   04-.02   0::  I            I        02::::  0 0  0 0' -
-4  .444000.440-4-44.40    000.44020.4-40
I                                  04                       0
0    4-0002.02    444-0     -40-4-04  .4
00004         424024    ..]4004     02.-'0244   4"'20o000       0 0    U
0000-4     I'0201.4 0    U020200    200        00202400.400
U            WI           1         -           00               0    42  0



- 49 -
ANNEX 1
Table 8
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
NIZAO IRRIGATION PROJECT
Proposed Allocation and Withdrawal of the Proceeds of Loan
Cost            % of Expenditure to be
Category                   Total       Loan      Financed by the Loan
(US$ Million)
I.  Civil Works                        32.6      17.7      54% of total expenditures
Rehabilitation of Canal  ICB   22.6        12.9
On-farm Development       LCB    2.1        1.0
Feeder Roads              LCB    0.3        0.1
Buildings                 LCB    0.5        0.2
Rehabilitation of Canal  F.A.   7.1         3.5
II.  Equipment Imported                  1.4        1.4     100% of foreign expenditures
Imported but Locally Procured                        85% of total expenditures
III.  Technical Services                  1.9        1.3     100% of foreign expenditures
IV.  Unallocated                        12.5        6.6
Total:         48.4       27.0
December 11, 1978



- 50 -
ANNEX 1
Table 9
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
NIZAO IRRIGATION PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(US$ Million)
IBRD Fiscal Year                                 Disbursement
and Semester                       During Semester              Cumulative
1980
June 30, 1980                            1.3                       1.3
1981
December 31, 1980                        1.3                       2.6
June 30, 1981                            2.8                       5.4
1982
December 31, 1981                        2.8                       8.2
June 30, 1982                            4.0                      12.2
1983
December 31, 1982                        4.1                      16.3
June 30, 1983                            4.1                      20.4
1984
December 31, 1983                        4.0                      24.4
June 30, 1984                            1.4                      25.8
1985
December 31, 1984                        1.2                      27.0
August 3, 1978



DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
NIZAO IRRIGATION PROJECT
Average Crop Budgets with Full Irrigation
(RD$/ha)
Unit                   Unit         Gross                                                     Production Costs                                                  Net
Crop                      Output       Yield       Price       Income              _or      _Pest_Control_Mechanical_2_Benefit
Seed or                      Pest Control    Mechanical                                  2/
Plant       Fertilizers    Chemicals             Services      Labor 1/    Miscellaneous    Total
Material                                                                   I
Sugarcane        year  I                    t            80        14.2        1,136               30           80               40                80           270               60            580         556
years 2-5                  t            80        14.2        1,136               -            80               20                -            210              60             370         766
weighted average           t            80        14.2        1,136               -            -                -                 -            -                 -             412.        724
Plantain         year 1                 '000 units       30        61          1,830               40          240               70                80           300               80             810      1,020
yeam 2-15              '000 units       30        61          1,830               -           240               70                -            240               80            630       1,200
weighted average       '000 units       30        61          1,830               -             -               -                 -             -                -              642      1,188
Papaya                                  '000 units       13       500          6,500               30           90               60                80           300               80            640       5,860
Other Fruits 3/                             t            15       259          3,882               -            -                -                 -            305               -              650      3,500
Cassava                                     t            12       179          2,148               30           80               60                80           260               50             570      1,578
Milk (pasture)                              t             1       230             -230             -             -                -                -              30              -               60        170
Pigeons Peas (fresh)                        t             3.5    272             952                5           45               15               80            300              50             500         452
Rice (paddy)                                t             4       245             980              40          105               50               110           330               60             695        285
UKra                                        t            12       10o          1,5t0               30           75              110                80           375               80             750        810
Onions                                      t            11       510          5,610              130          310              300                80           550               80          1,450       4,160
Industrial Tomatoes                         t           30        44           1,320               20          150              120               80            400               70            840         480
Fresh Tomatoes                              t            32       298          9,536               80          240              300                80           550              100          1,350       8,186
Pepper                                      t             8       212          1,696               80          180              100                80           360               80             880        816
Other Vegetables 4/                         t            10       163          1,628               -             -                -                -             368              -              815        813
Corn (shelled)                              t             2.8    148             414                5           60                10               80            150              50             355        59
Peanuts (unshelled)                         t             2       240            480               50           45               10                80           180               50             370        110
Beans (dried)                               t             1.8    684           1,231               60           60               120               80            150              50             520        801
1/ Costed at RD$3 per man-day.
2/ Includes transportation, water charges (before development).
3/ Estimated average for various fruits: avocado, citrus, pineapple.
4/ Estimated average for various vegetables:  cucumber, eggplant, squash.                                                                                                                                              ,M
June 29, 1978                                                                                                                                                                                                          0






-7                                       TVhT   7,7.8o                                                                                                                       "          ~         ~          :                                                         r                                                                       1~           X                                 8        ~u                   8                                     08-   M788088                                  8
-   -   -   -   -      -           -           -          -           -                                                                                                                                                                                                                            -88 8-:-8-                                 88          00          888-88                                                                  .
888088  888                                                   88-8      888         88          801        8:8         88         088                            8888818
-.                           8*          88         81          18           1 :1 :                                  8888






DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
NIZAO IRRIGATION PROJECT
Financial Analysis of Five Fain Models: 1 ha Farm Model - Zones 1 and 4
Gress Value
Area                    Yield                    Prices                 of Productien              Farm Inputs                   Labor-/              Net Farm Benefit
Withoet       Full        Without       Full        Without       Fell        Without        Full       Without        Full       Witheut        Fuli        Without        Full
Product                                Prj,ect  Development   Project   evelopment   Project  Develepment   Pr-ject  Development   Proeect  Develepment   Proiect  DeveloPment   Froject  Developnent
--  (ha) -------   --  (m tons/ha) ----    ----- (RD$/(   to$         ) --  -t----------------------- -------------- (RD$) -              ------------------------------_(-__)-
Rice Paddy                                           0.22         0.30         4.0          4.0          334         334          293.9        400.8          80.3       109.5          72.6        99.0           141.0        192.3
Corn                                                 0.08         0.06         2.8          2.8           193        193           43.2         32.4          16.4        12.3          12.0          9.0            14.8        11.1
Beans
Pigneo  Peas                                         0.02         0.02         3.5          3.5           272        272            19.0        19.0           4.0         4.0           6.0          6.0             9.0         9.0
Cassa-a                                               0.03        0.04        12.0         12.0           179        179            64.4        85.9           9.3        12.4           7.8         10.4            47.3        63.1
Beanuts                                              0.08         0.06         2.0          2.0          240         240           38.4         28.8          15.2        11.4          14.4         10.8             8.8         6.6
Oniens                                               0.07         0.08        11.0         11.0           510        510           392.7       448.8          63.0        72.0          38.5         44.0           291.2       332.8
Peppers                                               -           -             -           -               -                        -           -             -           -             -            -               -           -
Okra                                                 0.12         0.14        12.0         12.0           130        130           187.2       218.4          52.2        60.9          45.0         52.5            90.0       105.0
Fresh Tomatoes                                       -            -             -           -               -          -             -           -             -           -             -            -               -            -
Industrial Tomatoes                                  0.05         0.06        30.0         30.0           44          44           66.0         79.2          22.0        26.4          20.0         24.0            24.0        28.8
Other Vegetable                                      0.06         0.12        10.0         10.0           163        163            97.8       195.6          26.8        53.6          22.1         44.2            48.9         97.8
Planetins (per '000 erits)                           0.13         0.20        30.0         30.0            61         61           237.9       336.0          51.7        79.6          31.7         48.8           154.5       207.6
Papaya                                                -           -             -           -               -          -             -           -             -           -             -            -               -            -
Other Frait                                          0.01         0.02        15.0         15.0           259        259            38.9        77.7           3.5         6.9           3.1          6.1            32.3        64.7
Sugarcane                                             -           -             -           -               -          -             -           -             -           -             -            -               -            -
MNlk (pastarn)                                        0.12        0.12          1.0         1.0           230        230            27.6        27.6           3.6         3.6           3.6          3.6            20.4         20.4
Fallow                                                0.30        0.20          -           -               -          -             -           -             -           -             -            -
Tatal Cropped Area:                             1.29        1.42
Net Farm Benefit                                                       882.2     1,139.2
Interest an Short-term Debt2V                                            9.3         12.2
Net Farm Income after Interest                                         872.9     1,127.0
Water Charges3/                                                                      74,0
Net Farm Income after Water Charges                                              1,053.0
Net Farm Inrcme before Project                                                      872.9
Net Incremental Farm Income                                                         180.1
I/  All family labhr.
2/  Ietereet en shart-term debt estimated assuming 9% interest rate per annum rharged ta 40% of farm input  cast plus hired labor.
3/ Water charges estimated at RD$ 74.00 per ha.
October 6, 1978



DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
NIZAO IRRIGATION PROJECT
Financial Analysis of Five Farm Models: 2.7 ha Farm Model, Zone 5 East
Gross Value                                              1/
Area                    Yield                    Prices F              of Production           Farm Inputs                 Labor                Net Farm Benefit
Without      Full       Without    Full          Without    Full          Without    Full           Wtot        Full         Without    Pull           Without      Full
Product                      Project  Development  Project Development    Project Development    Project Development    Project Development    Project Development    Project  Development
--(ha)---------  _-_-(m tons/ha)----    ----(RD$/m ton)-----   ---------------------------------------(RD$)---------------------------------------------
Rice Paddy                                    0.1         0.4        3.0         4.0           334        334           100.2       534.4         29.2       146.0         26.4        132.0         44.6        256.4
Corn                                          0.4         0.1        1.4         2.8           193        193           108.1        54.0         53.2        19.0         42.0         15.0         12.9         20.0
Beans                                         -           0.1        -           1.8           684        684            -          123.1          -          37.0          -           15.0         -            71.1
Pigeon Peas                                   0.2         0.1        1.8         3.5           272        272            97.9        95.2         32.0        20.0         48.0         30.0         17.9         45.2
Cassava                                       0.6         0.4        6.0        12.0           179        179          644.4        859.2        148.8       124.0        124.8        104.0        370.8        631.2
Peanuts                                       0.1         -          1.0         2.0           240        240            24.0        -            13.3         -           12.6          -           (1.9)
Onions                                        -           0.3        -          11.0           510        510            -        1,683.0         -          270.0         -           165.0         -         1,248.0
Pepper                                                         -                 -             -          -              -                                           -                   -           -
Okra                                          -           0.1        -          12.0           130        130            -          156.0         -           43.5         -            37.5         -            75.0
Fresh Tomatoes                                _           0.1        -          32.0           -          298            -          953.6         _           80.0         -            55.0         -           818.6
Industrial Tomatoes                                            -                 -             -          -              -                                           -                   -           -
Other Vegetables                              -           0.5        -          10.0           163        163            -          815.0                    223.5         -           184.0         -           407.5
Plantain (per '000 units)                     0.5         0.5       20.0        30.0            61         61          610.0        915.0        159.0       199.0         97.5        122.0        353.5        594.0
Papaya                                        -           -          -           -             -          -              -           -            -            -           -             -           -              -
Other Fruits                                  -           0.3                   15.0           259        259            -        1,165.5         -          103.5          -           91.5         -           970.5       ,.
Sugarcane                                                      -                  -                  -            -           -                   - _  _                                       -                    -
Milk (pasture)                                0.4         0.4        1.0         1.0           230        230            92.0        92.0         12.0        12.0          12.0        12.0         68.0          68.0
Fallow                                        0.4         0.2        -           -             .           .                         -            -            -            -            -           -
Total Cropped Area:                        2.7         3.5
Net Farm Benefit                                                 865.8       5,205.5
Interest on Short-term Debtl'                                      16.1         46.0
Net Farm Income after Interest                                   849.7       5,159.5
Water Charges3                                                                 2eo0
Net Farm Income after Water Charges                                         4.959.5
Net Farm Income before Project                                                 849.7
Net Incremental Farm Income                                                 4,109.8
1/  All family labor.
2/  Interest on short-term  debt estimated assuming 9% interest rate per annum charged to 407 of farm input cost plus hired labor.
3/  Water charges estimated at RD$ 74.00 per ha,
August 31, 1978



DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
NIZAO IRRIGATION PROJECT
Fiu..cial Analysis of Five Farm Models:  2.7 ha Parm Model - Zone 5. West
Cross Value
Ares                      Yield                      Prices                  of Production             Farms InPuts                  Lshbrl/              Net Farm  Benefit
Without        Full       Without        Fill        Without        Full        Without        Fil1       Without         Foll       Without         Full       With.ot         Full
Product                                 Project  Development   Project  DeveloPment   Project  Development   Project  Development   Project  Development   Project  Development   Projiect  Development
----- (h.) --------   ---  (mtons/ha) ---    ---- (RD$/mo tn) ---    ---------------------------------------- (RD$) ------------------------------------------
Rice Paddy                                             0.9          1.2           4.0          4.0           334        334          1,202.4      1,603.2         328.5        438.0         297.0        396.0         576.9        769.2
Corn                                                   0.1          0.1           2.8          2.8           193        193             54.0         54.0          20.5         20.5          15.0         15.0          18.5         18.5
Beans-                                                              ----                                                   ---------
Pigeon Peas
Cas.ava                                                0.2          0.2          12.0         12.0           179        179            429.6        429.6          62.0         62.0          52.0         52.0         315.6        315.6
Peanuts                                                0.2          0.2           2.0          2.0           240        240             96.0         96.0          38.0         31.0          36.0         36.0          22.0         22.0
Onions                                                 0.8          1.0          11.0         11.0           510        510          4,488.0      5,610.0         720.0        900.0         440.0        550.0       3,328.0      4,160.0
Peppers                                                       -            -            -              -             -            -             -            -             -             -            -                    -            -
Okra                                                   0.4          0.4          12.0         12.0           130        130            624.0        624.0         174.0        174.0         150.0        150.0         300.0        300.0
Fresh Tomatoes                                                -            -            -              -             -            -             -            -             -            -             -             -                   -
Industrial Tomatoes                                    0.2          0.2          30.0        30.0             44         44            264.0        264.0          88.0         88.0          80.0         80.0          96.0         96.0
Other Vegetable                                        0.8          0.7          10.0         10.0           163        163          1,304.0      1.304.0         357.6        357.6         294.4        294.4         652.0        652.0
Plantains (per '000 units)                             0.1          0.1          30.0        30.0             6i         61            183.0        183.0          39.8         39.8          24.4         24.4         118.8        118.8
Papaya                                                 -            -             -            -               -           -              -           -             -            -              -            -             -            -
Other Fruit                                            0.1          0.1          15.0         15.0           259        259            388.5        388.5          34.5         34.5          30.5         30.5         323.5        323.5
Sugarcane                                              -            -             -            -               -           -              -            -             -           -              -            -             -            -
Milk (pasture)                                         0.3          0.3           1.0          1.0           230        230              69.0        69.0            9.0         9.0            9.0          9.0          51.0        51.0
Fallow                                                 0.3          0.1           -            -               -           -              -            -             -            -             -            -1
Total Cropped Ares:                              4.4          4.6
Net Farm Benefit                                        5,802.3      6,826.6
Interest an Short-term  Debt2/                             50.5         58.3
Net Fern Income after Interest                          5,751.8    6,768.3
Water Charges-/                                                        200.0
Net Fern Income after Water Charges                                  6,568.3
Net Farn Income before Project                                       5,751.8
Net Incremental Fern Income                                            816.5
1/  All family labor.
2/  Interest en short-term  debt estimated assuting 9% interest rate per anont charged to 40% of farm input cost plus hired labor.
3/ Water charges estimaced at RD$ 74.00 per ha.
August 31, 1978



DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
N17AO IRRIGATION PROJECT
Financial Analysis of Five Farm Models: 3 ha Farm Modal - Zone 2. East
Gross Valoe
Area                       Yield                    Prices                of Prodoctien              Farm Inpute                   Labor-               Net Farm Benefit
Withoot       Fill       Without        FPll        Without       Poll        Witoodt  Poll             Withoot        Full       Without        Fell       Withoet        Full
Prodoct                              Project  Devlpment   Project  De-lope..c    Foject  Development   Proiect  Development   Project  Developeent   Project  Development   Project  Development
------ (ha) --------   --- (( tons/ha) ----   --- (RD$/n too) ----   _______R____________-_----------------  (RDS) ------
Rice Paddy                                            -           0.3           -           4.0             -        334              -         400.8           -         109.5           -           99.0           -         192.3
Corn                                                  0.1         -             2.2         -             193          -             42.5          -           18.5          -           13.5          -            10.5         -
Beans                                                 -           0.1           -           1.8             -        684              -         123.1           -          37.0           -           15.0           -          71.1
Pigeon Peas                                           -           -             -           -               -          -              -           -                          -            -            -             -           -
Cassave                                               0.2         0.3           9.6        12.0           179        179            343.7       644.4          55.8        93.0          46.8         78.0         241.1       473.4
Peanuts
Onions                                                0.1         0.1          11.0        11.0           510        510            561.0       561.0          90.0        90.0          55.0         55.0        416.0        416.0
Peppers                                                     -            -            -                     -          -              -           -             -            -            -            -             -           -
Okra
Fresh Tomatoe.s                                                   -                         -                          -                           -                         -                         -                         -
Industrial Tomatoes                                   -           0.1           -          30.0             -         44              -         132.0           -          44.0           -           40.0           -          48.0
Other Vegetable                                       -           0.2           -          10.0             -        163              -         326.0           -           89.4           -          73.6           -         163.0
Plantains (per '000 units)                            1.5         1.5          24.0        30.0            61         61          2,196.0    2,745.0          537.0       597.0         333.0        336.0      1,326.0      1,812.0
Papaya                                                -           -             -           -               -          -              -            -            -            -            -            -             -           -
Other Fruit                                           0.15        0.3          12.0        15.0           259        259            466.2       582.8          46.7       103.5          41.1         91.5         378.4       387.8
Sugarcane
Milk (pasture)                                        0.6         0.3           1.0         1.0           230        230            138.0        69.0          18.0          9.0         18.0          9.0         102.0        51.0
Fallow                                                0.45        0.2           -           -               -           -             -            -            -            -             -           -
Total Cropped 'rea:                             3.10        3.4
Net Farm Benefit                                                        2,474.0    3,614.6
Interest on Short-term  DebtV/                                             20.7         31.6
Net Farm Income after Interest                                          2  _43.3    3,583.0
Water Charges-3/                                                                      222.0
Net Farm  Iscu..e after Water Charges                                               3,361.0
Net Farm  Isceme before Project                                                     2.453.3
Net Incremental Farm  Income:                                                         907.7
1/ All family labor.
2/  Interest on short-term debt estimated assuming 9'b interest rate per annum charged to 407. of farm input cost ples hired labor.
A/ Water charges estimted at RD$ 74.00 per h1.
August 31, 1978



DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
METAl IRRIGATION PROJECT
Finan.cial Analysis of Five Farm Models:  6 ha Farm Model - Zone 2, East
Gro.n Value1
Area                     Yield                    Prices                of Production             Farm Inputs                  Labor-'              Net Form Benefit
Without       Full       Without       Full       Withou.t       Full       Without       Full       Without        Full       Withost        Full       Without       Full
Product                         Project  Development   Project  Enelo.pmet   Projec.          eelpet    Proet   eelpet R         ~    Project  DEnvelopment   Pr-ject  Sevelopie,t   Project  Dev-openet
---(ha)-------  (o tons/ha) --                       --(00$/--------------s------ to)(RD$)---------------------
Rice Paddy                                          -           0.6           -4.0                       -        334              -         81.6           -290-198.0                                          -384.6
Pigeon Pean                                         -           -             -           -              -          -              -                                                                
CGssavo                                             0.3         1.5           9.6        12.0          179        1 79           515.5    1,074.0          83.7        155.0         70.2       130.0         261.6       789.0
Peu...ts                                            -           -             -           -              -          -              -           -            -            -            -           ---
Onions                                              0.1         0.2          01.0        11.0          510        550            561.0    1,122.0          90.0        180.0         55.0       111.1         416.0       832.0
Peppers                                             -           -             -           -              -          -              -           -            -            -            -           -             -           -
Fr-sh Tonaton                                                   ---                               -                 -                   -             -            -                  -                  -                  -
Industrial Too-atone                                            0.1          -           30.0                      44              -         132.0                     44.0-                     40.0-                     48.0
other Vegetable                                     -           0.1           -          10.0            -        163              -         163.0           -          44.7          -          36.8           -          81.5
Plentalee (per '000 units)                          2.9         2.9          24.0        30.0           61         61         4,245.6    3,307.0        1,038.2    1,154.2          643.8       707.6       2,563.6    3,445.2
Papaya                                              -           -             -           -              -          -              -           -            -            -            -            -            -           -
Other Froit                                         0.3         0.6          itOn        15.0          255         59            932.4    1,331.0           93.3       207.0         82.2       183.0         756.9    1,941.0
Milk (pasture)                                      1.8          1.2          1.0         1.0          230        230            414.0       276.1          54.0       360.0         54.0        360.0        306.0       (444.1)
FaIllo                                              0.65        0.53                                                    -  -             -            -            -                  -            -
Total Cropped Area:                            6.05        6.5
Net Farm Bene.fit                                                     4,404.1    7,077.5
Interest us Short-term Debt2-'                                           47.2         79.0
Met Farm Income  fter Interest                                        4 356.9    6,998.3
Water Chergen-/                                                                      444.0
Net Farm Income. after Water Charges                                               6,554.3
Net Far.   ncm  before Project4359
Net Incremental Farm Income.                                                       2,197.4
1/  In befor  devlopment mOor is all f.eily lnOut while at fu~ll develoPoeot family labor  conofor ahour 400 .u.-day. or R031,200 and hired labor acconts for ahout 188 nan-days or RD$ 564. 
2 Interest or short-term dobt estimated auumig 97. interest rate per... anu  chargd to 40% of farm input cost plus hired labor.
3/Water charge.satomated at 00$ 74.00 per ha.
Aug.at 31. 1978



DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
NIZAO IRRIGATION PROJECT
Financial Analysis nf Five Farm Models: 10 ha Farm Model - ZDnes I and 4
Area                      Yield                       Prcsof   Fodaction                              Far   I.pnte                                       Net   F.___ __ __ _   B__ __ __ _ fit__
Without       Fell        WithYot        Fall       Without        FPll       WithGot       Palle        Withoot   Fnp             Without        Full      eWithot         Fall
Product                               Project  Development   Project  Development   Proiect  Development   Pro-ect  Development   Project  Development   Project  Deveiopment   Project  Development
------ (ha) --------        -(-  tons/ha) ---    ---- (RD$/  ton) ---                                                          (RD$)  ----------------------------------------
Rice Paddy                                            2.8          3.5           4.0         4.0           334        334          3,740.8     4,676.0       1,022.0      1,277.5         924.0     1,155.0       1,794.8      2,243.5
Corn                                                  0.8          0.7           2.8         2.8           193        193            432.3        264.8        164.0        143.5         120.0        105.0         148.3        16,3
Pi geon Peas 
Cassava                                               0.2          0.2          12.0        12.0           179        179            429.6       429.6           62.0        62.0          52.0         52.0        315.6        315.6
Peanuts                                               0.3          0.3           2.0         2.0           240        240            144.i        144.0         57.0         57.0          54.0         54.0         33.0         33.0
Onions                                                0.3          0.3          11.0        11.0           510        510          1,683.0      1,683.0        270.0        270.0         165.0        165.0      1,248.0      1,248.0
Peppers                                                -           -             -           -               -           -             -            -             -            -            -            -             -           -
Okre                                                   1.1         1.3          12,0        12.0           130         130         1,716.0      2,028.0        478.5        565.5         412.5        487.5         825.0       975.0
Fresh Tomatoes                                         -           -             -           -               -           -                          -             -            -            -            -             -           -
Industrial Tomatoes                                   0.2          0.2         30,0         30.0            44         44            264.0        264.0          88.0        88.0          80.0         80.0         96.0         96.0
Other Vegetable                                       0.8          1.2          10.0        10.0           163        163          1,304.0      1,956.0        357.6        536.4         294.4        441.6         652.0       978.0
Plantains (per '000 units)                            1.0          1.4          30.0        30.0            61         61          1,830.0    2,562.0          3989.        SS7.2         244.0        34106      1,188.0    1,663.2
Papaya                                                 -           -             -           -               -           -             -            -             -            -            -            -             -           -
Other FsiL                                             0.1         0,z          15.0        15.0           259        259            388.5        777.0          34.5        69.0          30.5         61.0         323.5       647.0
Sugarcane                                              -           -             -           -               -           -              -           -             -            -            -            -             -           -
Milk (pasture)                                         2.0         1.8           1.0         1.0           230        230            460.0        414.0          60.0        54.0          60.0         54.0         340.0       306.0
Fal11u                                                 2.6         2,3           -           -               -           -              -           -             --                         -           -             -            -
Total Cropped Area:                             12.2        15,4
Net Farm Benefit                                                        6,964.2      8,521.6
Interest on Short-term Lebt-/                                             177.5        148.0
Net Farn Income after Interest                                          6_786.7    8,373.6
Water Charges3/                                                                        740 0
Net Farm Ta-com  alter Water Charges                                                 7,633.6
Net Farm Income before Project                                                       6.786.7
Net Incremeetel Farm  Income                                                           846.9
1/  Family labor accounts for aboot 400 man-days or aboot RD$ 1,200; hired labor accounts for aboot 412 mao-days or about RD$ 1,236.
2/  Interest on short-term debt estimated assaisng 9b. intereut rate per annum charged to 40I af form input coat plus hired labor.
3/ Water bharges estimated at RD$ 74.00 per ha.
August 31, 1978



DOMtINICAN REPUBLIC
NIZAO IRRIGATION PROJECT
Crop Yield Buildup
(tons/ha)
Zones 1 - 4                  Zone 2 E                         Zone 2 W                         Zone 5, Bahia                Zone 5, Nigua                     Zone 5 W
-Ye___-------------------a.-----------------------          -----------------------    Year   ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
0-1     2      3   4-10   0-1    2-3       4     5-10   0-5       6      7      8    9-10   0-4    5        6     7-10      0-5     6      7    8      9-10   0-1    2-4   5-10
Sugarcane                        80    64      72    80    64    48        64    80         -    -        -       -    -       -      -      _      _         _      _      _      _       _
Plantain 1/                      30     24     27    30      24     18     24     30        -    -       20      25   30    20       25     30     30        20     25     30     30     30     80       64     80
Papaya 1/                        13     10.4  11.7  13       10.4    8     10.4  13         -    -        8      10   13      -      -       -      -         -      -    10      12     13     30       24     30
Other fruits                     15     12     13.5  15      12      9     12     15        -    -       10      13   15    -        -       -      -        12     13     15     15      15     1S      12     15
Coconut                           9.5    9.5    9.5    9.5    9.5    9.5    9.5   9.5       -      9.5    9.5     9.5  9.5    9.5    9.5    9.5    9.5        9.5    9.5    9.5    9.5    9.5    9.5      9.5    9.5
Milk                              1      1      1      1      1      1       1      1       -      1      1       1    1       1      1      1       1        1      1      1       1      1      1       1       1
Cassava                          12      9.6  10.8  12        9.6    6      9    12         -    11      12      12   12       6      8    12      12         6      8    12      12      12     12       9.6  12
Pigeon Peas (fresh)               3.5   2.8   3.2    3.5    2.8    1.8    2.7   3.5         -      3.2    3.5     3.5  3.5    1.8    2.5    3.5    3.5        1.8    2.5    3.5    3.5    3.5    3.5      2.8    3.5
Rice (paddy)                      4      4      4      4      4      2      3      4        -      2.5    3       4    4       3      4      4      4         3      4      4      4       4      4       3      4
Okra                             12     12     12    12      12     12     12     12        -      8     10      12   12       8      9     10     12         -      8     10     12      12     12      12     12
Onion                            11    11    11    11    11         11     11     11        -      7      9      11   11       -      7      9     11         _      7      9     It      1      !1      1      ''
Industrial Tomatoes              30    30      30     30    30      30     30     30        -    20      25      30   30       -    20      25     30         -     20     25     30      30     30      30     30
Fresh Tomatoes                   32    32      32     32     32     32     32     32        _    22      27      32   32       -    22      27     32         -    22      27     32      32     32      32     32
Pepper                            8      8      8      8      8      8      8      8        _      5      7       8    8       -      5      7      8         _      5      7       8      8      8       8      8
Other Vegetables                 10     10     10     10     10     10     10     10        -      6      8      10   10       -      -      8     10         6      8     10     10      10     10      10     10
Corn (shelled)                    2.8    2.2    2.5    2.8    2.2    1.4    1.8    2.8      -      2.2    2.6     2.8  2.8    1.4    2.0    2.8    2.8        1.4    2.0    2.8    2.8    2.8    2.8      2.2    2.8
Peanut  (unshelled)               2.0    1.6    1.8    2.0   1.6    1.0    1.5   2.0        -      1.6    1.8     2.0  2.0    1.0    1.5    2.0    2.0        1.0    1.5   2.0    2.0    2.0    2.0       1.6    2.0
Beans (shelled)                   1.8   1.8    1.8    1.1   -         0.8   1.3    1.8    -        1.2    1.5     1.8  1.8    -       1.5    1.8    1.8       -      1.5    1.8    1.8    1       1.8     1.8    1.8
1/   '000 units/ha.                                                                                                                                                                                                      DX
June 28, 1978



DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
NIZAO IRRIGATION PROJECT
Development of Crop Production
Year
Crops                  Unit        0-1        2          3          4          5          6          7          8           9          10
Sugarcane                           t       267,000   213,900   231,660   265,460   267,500   267,750   268,000   268,000   268,000   268,000
Plantain                          '000 U.   60,780    46,350    47,310    56,580    77,475    79,325    83,100    83,375    94,775    96,275
Papaya                            '000 u.    1,456       1,140      1,190      1,660      3,090      3,250      3,470      3,840      4,225       4,550
Other Fruits                        t           756        612        624        666      1,566      2,174      2,499      2,809      3,089       3,479
Coconut                             t         1,235      1,235      1,235      1,235      1,235      1,235      1,235       1,235      1,235      1,235
Milk                                t         1,670      1,670      1,670      1,678      1,510      1,420      2,000      1,965       1,934      1,922
Cassava                             t         5,148      6,928      7,204      8,475      8,530    10,700    13,460    13,520    13,520    13,520
Pigeon Peas  (fresh)                t           495        700        650        635        520        543        684         631        631        631
Rice (paddy)                        t         5,178      2,698      3,628      4,558      7,538      8,770      8,950      9,090       9,250      9,290
Okra                                t         6,784      3,424      3,484      5,670      8,730    10,470    10,850    10,890    10,950          10,950
Onions                              t         6,500      3,250      3,250      4,290      8,491      9,896    10,311    10,556    10,776         10,776
Industrial Tomatoes                 t         7,200      3,600      3,600      5,850      7,500      7,150      7,400      7,600      7,900       7,900
Fresh Tomatoes                      t           640        320        800      1,440      4,160      7,630      8,300      8,650       8,910      9,070
Pepper                              t         2,480      1,240      1,240      1,680      3,120      3,918      4,168      4,198      4,278       4,278
Other Vegetables                    t         2,796         96         96      2,246      5,036      8,264      9,504    10,064    10,484    10,584
Corn Shelled                        t           705        875        807        700        601        584        682         654        654        654
Peanut Unshelled                    t           451        491        481        490        411        390        420         410        410        410
Beans                               t           162         -          45         36        330        600        690         735        735        735
July 12, 1978



-61-
ANNEX 1
Table 20
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
NIZAO IRRIGATION PROJECT
National Agricultural Production and Exports (Imports) and Incremental
Production and Exports (Imports) Due to Proiect
(m ton)
PRODUCTION                                          EXPORTS OR IMPORTS
Without            With
Project in      Project in                                             Incremental
National   Project Area  PFroject Area   Incremental                National    due to Project
(1975-77)                                                           (1976/77)
Rice, paddy                         579.0           5.2              9.5             4.3                 (48.3)             4.3
Beans, red                           15.7           0.5              0.6             0.1                   1.6              0.1
Pigeon Peas                          12.3           0.5              0.6             0.1                   7.1              0.1
Cassava                             168.0            5.1            12.4             7.3                   3.7              7.3
Peanuts                              59.31/         0.4              0.4             -                     -                -
Onions                                8.3           6.6              9.0             2.4                   0.1              2.4
Peppers                               6.22/         2.5              4.4             1.9                   3.8              1.9
Okra                                  5.o2/          6.8            10.6             3.8                   2.4              3.8
Fresh Tomatoes                       16.0           0.3              4.6             4.3                   0.5              2.2
Industrial Tomatoes                  64.8           7.5             10.8             3.3                   2.5             3.3
Other Vegetables                      -             2.831           15.2            12.4                   -               6.4
Plantain (million units)            720.0-/        61.0             95.4            34.4                   7.0             3.4
Papaya (million units)                4.95/         1.5              4.6             3.1                  0.4              1.5
Other Fruits                          -             1.4-/            5.9             4.5                   -               2.2
Sugarcane                            10.57.       267.0            268.0             1.0                   1.18/           0.19'
1/  (1974-76),
2/  Preliminary estimate.
3/ Use okra and pepper as proxies for other vegetables.
41 In million of units.
5/ In million of units (1972-74).
6/ Assume 18 m tons/ha yield of assorted fruits.
7/ In million of m tons of sugarcane.
8/  In million of m tons of raw sugar.
9/  1,000 m tons of raw sugar equal to about 1,000,000 m tons of sugarcane.
June 29, 1978



- 62 -
ANNEX 1
Table 21
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
NIZAO IRRIGATION PROJECT
Export Performance of Fruits and Vegetables
from the Dominican Republic
1976                          1977
Volume        Value           Volume        Value
(m ton)      (US$ '000)       (m ton)      (US$ '000)
All Exports
Traditionals                1,381,984       463,579       1,463,465       531,280
Non-traditionals            1,070,390       245,351       1,457,773       244,958
Reexports                       2,575         5,453           1,831          2163
Total:         2,454,949       714,383       2,923,069       778,401
Vegetables                     32,298         9,610          38,186        10,046
Fruits                         46,761         6,642          34,646         6,029
Project Commodities
Vegetables:
Tomatoes and paste            2,269           699           3,946         1,142
Onions                          143            25              28              7
Squash                        2,840           560           2,468           512
Eggplant                        642           115             420           102
Okra                          1,577           663           3,453         1,532
Pepper                        3,149           947           4,494         1,267
Pigeon peas                   7,872         4,668           6,308         4,170
Beans                         1,149           550           2,146           524
Cassava                       3,461           916           4,026           880
Yam                          12,109         3,057           9,851         2,468
Fruits:
Plantains                     1,424           303           1,511            391
Mangos                          140            24             205             21
Avocados                      2,607           482           2,878           580
Oranges                         112            12               31             3
Papaya                          403           137             392           136
Fruit pulp                      945           246           1,624           427
August 3, 1978



- 63 -
ANgEX 1
Table 22
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
NIZAO IRRIGATION PROJECT
Import Barriers in the United States to Fruits and
Vegetables from the Dominican Republic
Eligible for
System of General
Product               Import Duties        Non-Tariff Barriers   P'references of US
Tomato Paste           13.6% ad valorem         Approved by FDA               No
Yam                    12.5% ad valorem         Approved by FDA               Yes
Pepper                 2.5/lb ad valorem       Approved by FDA               Yes
Tomatoes               From March 1 to          Approved by USDA              No
July 14 and Sept. 1 to
November 14 pay 2.1'/lb.
From July 15 to Aug. 31
and Nov. 15 to Feb. 28
pay l.l/lb.
Plantains              Free                     Approved by USDA              Yes
Cassava Processed      17.5% ad valorem         Approved by USDA              No
Cassava Fresh          Free                     Approved by USDA              Yes
Papaya                 8.5% ad valorem          Approved by USDA              Yes
Papaya Pulp            17.5% ad valorem         Approved by USDA              Yes
Mango Pulp             7% ad valorem            Approved by USDA              Yes
Pigeon Peas            2~/lb                   Approved by USDA              No
August 3, 1978



DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
NIZAO IRRIGATION PROJECT
National Supply and Utilization and Per Capita Consumption of Grains, Fruits
and Vegetables Grown in the Project Area, 1977
('000 m tons)
Supply                   Total                   Utilization                       Per Capita
Beginning                        Supply and        Human    Use as Animal            Ending  Consumption
Product               Stocks   Production Imports  Utilization   Consumption  Seed   Feed  Exports Stocks   kg/Capita
Rice, white              31         198         65         294            246         -       -       -      48         51.2
Cassava                   -        149           -         149            139         -       6       4       -         29.0
Corn                      3          44         75         122              7         1    105       -        9           1.5
Beans                     3          33          4          40             35         -       -      -        5           7.3
Yam                       -          41          -          41             26         8       -       7       -           5.4       O
Plantains/                -         647          -         647            637         -       _     10        -        133.0-'
Peanuts3/                 3          10         14          27             20         --              -        7          4.2
Pigeon Peas               -          16          -          16              8         2       -       6       -           1.7
Tomato, table             -          13          -          13             13         -               -                   2.7
Onion                     6           -          -4/         7              7         _       _       _       _           1.5
1/ In millions of units of plantains.
2/ Number of plantains consumed per person.
3/ Peanut oil only.
4/  About 600 m tons were imported in October and November of 1977.
August 3, 1978                                                                                                                   VIZ



- 65 -
ANNEX 1
Table 24
DOMINI:CAN REPUBLIC
NIZAO IRRIGATION PROJECT
INESPRE: Selected Agricultural Products Imported and Purchased
on Domestic Market 1974-77 with Estimates for 1978
(in m tons and RD$ '000 (FOB))
Red                            Black
Corn      Rice       Beans    Onions   Plantains   Beans
1974
Imported:  m ton         66,639    60,542      2,069          -          -          -
RD$ '000    11,143    37,157       1,505           -         _          _
Domestic:  m ton              -   161,308         997     3,523        8621/       73
RD$ '000          -    62,622         402        552         17        34
1975
Imported:  m ton         33,043    49,614      6,712          -          -          -
RD$ '000      5,535    19,155      5,479           -         -          -
Domestic:  m ton              -   140,655      1,672        611          -        887
RD$ '000          -    63,398      1,209        111          -        430
1976
Imported:  m ton        60,005    31,989       5,486          --
RD$ '000      7,258     8,246      2,088           -
Domestic:  m ton              -   145,078      4,639      2,426      1,305-/   1,472
RD$ '000          -    65,415      3,262        452         40        708
1977
Imported:  m ton        75,179    64,609       3,816        682          -          -
RD$ '000    11,862    26,11;L      2,835        100          --
Domestic:  m ton              -   176,397      2,259          -      2,2121/      652
RD$ '000          -    79,757      1,640          -         92        339
1978
Imported:  m ton        70,000    40,000       5,000          -          -         -
Domestic:  m ton              -   137,000      5,500      4,500      5,200     1,500
l/ in thousands of units of plantains.
August 3, 1978



- 66 -
ANNEX 1
Table 25
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
NIZAO IRRIGATION PROJECT
Alternative Rent and Cost Recovery Indices
Based on Various Assumptions of Annual Water Charges in 1978 Pricesi/
Farm Sizes
1 ha         3 ha        10 ha
Water Charges2/                        RD$         261           784       2,613
Operation and Maintenance            RD$         196          589        1,962
Capital Cost                         RD$          65          195          651
Rent Recovery Index                     Z           31.6         26.9          49.6
Cost Recovery Index                     %           10.6         10.6          10.6
Water Charges3/                        RD$         327          980        3,263
Operation and Maintenance            RD$         196          589        1,962
Capital Cost                         RD$         131          391        1,301
Rent Recovery Index                     %           39.5         33.6          62.0
Cost Recovery Index                     %           13.3         13.3          13.3
Water Charges4/                        RD$         392        1,178         3,914
Operation and Maintenance            RD$         196          589        1,962
Capital Cost                         RD$         196          589        1,952
Rent Recovery Index                     %           47.4         40.3          74.3
Cost Recovery Index                     %           15.9         15.9          15.9
Water Charges5/                        RD$         457        1,370        4,564
Operation and Maintenance            RD$         196          589        1,962
Capital Cost                         RD$         261          781        2,602
Rent Recovery Index                     %           55.3         47.0          86.7
Cost Recovery Index                     %           18.6         18.6          18.6
Water Charges_6/                       RD$         522        1,565        5,215
Operation and Maintenance            RD$         196          589        1,962
Capital Cost                         RD$         326          976        3,253
Rent Recovery Index                     %           63.1         53.7          99.7
Cost Recovery Index                     %           21.2         21.2          21.2
Water Charges7/                        RD$         588        1,761        5,866
Operation and Maintenance            RD$         196          589        1,962
Capital Cost                         RD$         392        1,172        3,904
Rent Recovery Index                     Z           71.1         60.4         111.4
Cost Recovery Index                     %           23.9          23.9         23.9
Water Charges8/                        RD$         849        2,542         8,468
Operation and Maintenance            RD$         196          589        1,962
Capital Cost                         RD$         653        1,953        6,506
Rent Recovery Index                     %          102.7          87.2        160.8
Cost Recovery Index                     %           34.5         34.5          34.5
1/  The above items are incremental, discounted values at 12% at constant 1978
prices, or ratios derived from them.
2/  Assumes annual water charges would be RD$ 50  per ha in 1978 prices.
3/  Assumes annual water charges would be RD$ 62 per ha in 1978 prices.
4/  Assumes annual water charges would be RD$ 74 per ha in 1978 prices.
5/  Assumes annual water charges would be RD$ 87 per ha in 1978 prices.
6/  Assumes annual water charges would be RD$ 99 per ha in 1978 prices.
7/  Assumes annual water charges would be RD$ 112 per ha in 1978 prices.
8/  Assumes annual water charges would be RD$ 161 per ha in 1978 prices.
August 24, 1978



- 67 -
ANNEX 1
Table 26
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
NIZAO IRRIGATION PROJECT
Rent and Cost Recovery Indicesl/
Farm Size
1 ha      3 ha       10 ha
(RD$) ---------
1.  Gross Value of Production                        1,699      6,238    10,651
2.  Less:    Production (Cash) Costs                   338      1,469     2,416
3.  Equals:  Net Cash Income                         1,361      4,769     8,235
4.  Less:    Inputed Value of Family Labor             129        614        372
5.           Inputed Value of Management Services   136           414        865
6.           Allowance for Risk/Uncert:ainty           269        825     1,731
7.  Equals:  Rent/Surplus                              827      2,916     5,267
8.  Rent as Percentage of Cash Income (%)               61         61         63
9.  Water Charges                                      392      1,175      3,914
10.    Operation and Maintenance                        196        589      1,962
11.    Capital Cost                                     196        586      1,952
12.  Rent Recovery Index  9 . 7 (%)                      47.4       40.3       74.3
13.  Public Sector Outlays                            2,462      7,388    24,627
14.    Capital Cost                                   2,167      6,502    21,674
15.    Operation and Maintenance                        295        886      2,953
16.  Cost Recovery Index  9 . 13 (%)                     15.9       15.9       15.9.
17.  Farmers' Income Per Capita in Project Year 10,
at Full Development21                            373        975     2,192
1/ The above items, except No. 17, are incremental, discounted values at 12%
at constant 1978 prices, or ratios derived from them.
2/ Assumes a family size of 6.3 persons, the estimated average for the project
area.
August 25, 1978



DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
NIZAO IRRIGATION PROJECT
Economic Analysis: Incremental Cost and Benefit Streams Adjusted
by Accounting Price for Foreign Exchange
(US$ '000 Equivalent)
Capital   Operation and   Agricultural         Farm Input                           Farm
Year           Cost      Maintenance       Extension           Costs        Farm Labor         Benefits
C1            C2               C3               C4              C5                 B1
1         3,328.6          555.8              0.0               0.0             0.0               0.9
2         8,671.0          358.9              0.0          -1,142.6         -809.6           -3,546.2
3        11,712.8          374.9              0.0          -1,033.2         -661.2           -2,850.5
4        11,026.4          421.5               0.0           -417.5         -173.3             -278.1                 1
5         3,240.2          428.9              0.0             860.5          677.2            5,355.0                a
6              0.0         851.6            194.9           1,518.9        2,812.9            6,894.7                X
7              0.0         428.9            194.9           1,707.9        3,134.3            8,569.7
8              0.0         428.9            194.9           1,887.3        3,247.3            9,008.1
9              0.0         428.9            194.9           2,045.1        3,359.5           10,248.5
10              0.0         428.9            194.9           2,095.2        3,442.8           10,626.6
11              0.0         851.6            194.9           2,095.2        3,442.8           10,626.6
12-15           0.0         428.9            194.9           2,095.2        3,442.8           10,626.6
16              0.0         851.6            140.3           2,095.2        3,442.8           10,626.6
17-20           0.0         428.9            140.3           2,095.2        3,442.8           10,626.6
21              0.0         851.6            140.3           2,095.2        3,442.8           10,626.6
22-25           0.0         428.9            140.3           2,095.2        3,442.8           10,626.6
26              0.0         851.6            140.3           2,095.2        3,442.8           10,626.6
27-30           0.0         428.9            140.3           2,095.2        3,442.8           10,626.6
31              0.0         851.6            140.3           2,095.2        3,442.8           10,626.6
32-35           0.0         428.9            140.3           2,095.2        3,442.8           10,626.6
36              0.0         851.6            140.3           2,095.2        3,442.8           10,626.6
37-40           0.0         428.9            140.3           2,095.2        3,442.8           10,626.6
41              0.0         851.6            140.3           2,095.2        3,442.8           10,626.6             > 
42-45           0.0         428.9            140.3           2,095.2        3,442.8           10,626.6
46              0.0         851.6            140.3           2,095.2        3,442.8           10,626.6
47-50           0.0         428.9            140.3           2,095.2        3,442.8           10,626.6
December 11, 1978



DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
NIZAO IRRIGATION PROJECT
Project Organization
National Level                                               FEDA C                               Chaired by the President of the
National Levc!                      FEDA Council                    n    ~~~~~~~~           ~~Republic|
Chaired by the Secretary of Agri-
INDRHI, Board of Directors                  culture, Directors of National
Planning, IAD, BA, and Private
I             n                Sector
INDRHI, Executive Director |
I    I~                                                           l
Project Control    _
and Monitoring
Project Level     -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -                           -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -
Project Coo rdinating                  Regional Representatives of
Committee                           SEA, IAD, BA, CDE, F EDA and
farmer's representatives.
Project Director
onstruction Supervision   Operation and                 Agricultural Extension            Land Settlement and
Maintenance                  and Research                      Cadastral Map
Contractors          Force Account                                         T         Cners
VVorld Bank - 19330



DOMINICAN REPUBL!C
NIZAO IRRIGATION PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
Calendar Year
1978              1979              1980              1981              1982              1983               1984        Total Cost
1   23    4   1   21 3             1    23   4   1  2    34             1   2   3   4   1   2   3   4   1   2   3   4   uS$ o000
A.  Constrction of Civil Works                   -T
1.0 By Contractors
1.1  Marcos A. Cabral Canal
0.000 km to 1.425 km                                                                                                                                                464.3
1.426 km to 13.200 km                                                                                                                                              3,446.7
13.201 km to 29.975km                                                                                                                                              3,923A.
29.976 km to 46.020 km                                                                                                                                             3,815.6
1.2 Niao-Najayo Canal
0.000 km to 1.987 km                                                                                                                                                 298.1
1.988 km to 20.200 km                                                                                                                                               447.8
20.201 km to 36.500 km                                                                                 _                                                           2,169.0
36.501 km to 52.700 km                                                                                                                                             1,691.7
52.701 km to 61.965 km_                                                                                                                                            1,253.1
1.3 Nizao Lateral
0.000 km to 7.225 km                                                            _01.0
No. 1 0.000 km to 6.050 km                                                                                                                                          411.6
No. 2 0.000 km to 6.000 km                                                                                                                                          435.3
2.0 By Force Amount
2.1 Marcos A. Cabral Canal
46.021 km to 63.1320 km_                                                                                                                                           1,662.8
Laterals
Caldera Lateral                                                                                                                                                    1,163.3
Drains                                                                                                                                                                13.1
2.2 Ni,ao Najayo
Laterals                                                                                                                                                             400.8
Drains                                                                                                                                                                 40O
3.0 On-Farm Development                                                                                        1_781.6
4.0  Feeder Roads                                                                                                                                                         251. 
5.0  Buildings                                                                                                                                                           371A4
B.  Equipment                                                                                                                                                               1,2690
C.  Operational Expenses                                                                                                                                                      20,1
D.  Incremental Local Staff                             l
E.  Technical Services
Final Designs and Tender Documents                                                                                                                                   173.3
Supervision of Construction                                                                                                                                          374.0
Operation and Maintenance                                                                                                                                            360.0
Dams Safety Inspection                                                                                                                                                50.0
Simnulation of Dams Operation                                                                                                                                        120.0
Aerial Photography                                                                                                                                                    25.0
On-farm Irrigation                                                                                                                                                   4 0.0
Vegetables and Fruits Crops                                                                                                                                           60.0
BASE COST ESTIMATE    32,443.4
W-rld 3.,,k - 19329
PO z
'1 I 1
to1 ~



- 71 -
ANNEX 1
Chart 3
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
NIZAO IRRIGATION PROJECT
Present Values of Cost and Benefit Streams
Against Discount Rates
52.500
CC
j~ 50000  {      
u 47500
LU
45000                          -.
2 42500\
40000
37500G
Q 35000 00                            1 1       l 1 i                  1
LL.0  L.15  L2.0  L2.5  13.0  L3.5  14.0  L4.5  15.0  LS5.  L6.0
DrSCOUNT RRLE
LEGEND
12.00% -\ OPPORTUNrTY COSP OF CRRPrL
-'. s B.T'OTPL
-                          C   TL -  s C.T'lL
October 6, 1978



- 72 -
ANNEX 2
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
NIZAO IRRIGATION PROJECT
List of Selected Documents and Data Available in Project Files
A. Selected Reports and Studies on the Sector
Al -  Main Problems in the Economic Development of the Dominican Republic,
Bank Report No. 1705-DO, November 23, 1977, 2 volumes.
A2 -  Analisis del Sector Agricultura - USAID and Secretaria de Estado de
Agricultura, November 1977, 8 volumes.
A3 - Diagnostico del Sistema de Mercadeo Agricola en la Republica Dominicana -
Secretaria de Estado de Agricultura, December 1977, 1 volume.
A4 -  Economic Growth, Equity and Agricultural Development in the Dominiean
Republic, USAID Mission, Draft Report, March 1978.
AS5 - Aspectos del Empleo Rural en la Republica Dominicana - Secretaria de
Estado de Agricultura, December 1977.
A6 -  Plan Operativo de la Secretaria de Estado de Agricultura para 1978,
December 1977.
A7 -  Plan Nacional de Investigacion y Extension - Secretaria de Estado de
Agricultura, Convenio IICA-SEA-FEDA, November 1977, 2 volumes.
B. Selected Reports and Studies Related to the Project
B1 -  Estudio Previo y Proyectos de Adecuacion y Ampliacion de los Sistemas
de Riego Dependientes del Rio Nizao, EDES-MENDAR, January 1974, 8 volumes.
B2 -  Diseno Definitivo, Memoria y Especificaciones Sobre la Adecuacion y
Ampliacion de los Sistemas de Riego Dependientes del Rio Nizao, EDES-
MENDAR, June 1975, 2 volumes
B3 -  Rehabilitacion de los Sistemas de Riego Dependientes de la Presa
Valdesia, INDRHI, January 1978, 2 volumes.
B4 -  Rehabilitacion y Adecuacion de los Sistemas de Riego Dependientes de la
Presa Valdesia, Revised Agricultural Tables and Summary Economic Analysis,
FAO/CP, February 1978.
B5 -  Estudio Detallado de Suelos del Area Entre los Poblados de Matanzas
y Sombrero, Zona de Riego de Bani, EDASA, April 1978.



- 73 -
ANNEX 2
C. Selected Working Papers and Tab-Les Prepared by Appraisal Mission Members
Working Paper 1 - The Agricultural Sector
Working Paper 2 - Irrigation Component
Working Paper 3 - Agricultural Credit
Working Paper 4 - Agricultural Production and Technology
Working Paper 5 - Markets and Marketing
Working Paper 6 - Computer Print-out of Economic Analysis
October 6, 1978






r                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 AUG U ST  t7A
ID-,\INICAN  REPUBLIC
NIZAO IRRIGATION PROJECT
4-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~, A   .  ..S  -A?
d                                                                                 DA Al~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1505  A
MILES                                     I 2 .
-_    _ --S                                                MILOMETERS O      1          2          3          A                                                                                                                                           X
A Cb-l~~~~~~~~~~~
|   -  'ecvrXarf ivads   hlLOMETERS 0   i       2           3          4          5                         5AsS 0   o                           ri7>                                                        7J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,NIlS SATS -,-- Bo  S
3 wsXsrvOvWwt/ L$W         H                     ''S~  \  , OM1NIA I  3
K.  ~         ~         ~~~~~~ ~REPUBLIC  s
ME-2CD,  4ELIZE
~~~~~~~~  /                                                                                                                                                                   CR~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~GATEMS  I  ' '    0
5                                                 C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A  R / I/eI/ 4 I  5    A                                                                                                                    EL SAbVADOMENS/ABAGUA 
COSTA                    I NEZIEL
M0M0RAo~BO00050Or~RR0R~R,IR~0R         OCEIAN//    IA        <            5NZ



