Document of
The World Bank
Report No.:   21428 BR
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$90 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO THE
STATE OF CEARA
WITH GUARANTEE OF THE
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR THE
CEARA BASIC EDUCATION QUALITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
NOVEMBER 29, 2000
Human and Social Development Sector Management Unit
Brazil Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective November 1999)
Currency Unit = Real (RS)
R$1.90       =  US$1.00
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APRECE               - Ceara Mayors Association (Associa,cdo dos Prefeitos do Ceara)
CAGE                 - SEDUC's Education Coordination and Management Unit
CAS                  - Country Assistance Strategy
CDTP                 - SEDUC's Technical - pedagogical Development Unit
CENPEC               - Education and Culture Research Center (Centro de Pesquisa em Educa,do e Cultura)
CLS                  - SEDUC's Procurement Team (Comissdo de Licitaado da SEDUC)
CPPE                 - SEDUC's Education Planning and Policy Unit
CRA                  - Learning Resource Center (Centro de Recursos de Aprendizagem)
CREDE                - Regional Education Development Center (Centro Regional de Desenvolvimento da Educaq4o)
ECD                  - Early Childhood Development (Educacao Infantil, 0-6 anos)
FUNDEF               - Education Development and Teacher's Incentive Fund (Fundo de Manuten,do e Desenvolvimento do
Ensino Fundamental e de Valoriza,do do Magisterio)
FUNDESCOLA           - School Improvement Program (Program a do Fundo de Fortalecimento da Escola)
GEP                  - Project Executive Group (Grupo Executivo do Projeto)
IDB                  - Inter-American Development Bank (Banco Inter-A4mericano de Desenvolvimento)
1DM                  - Municipal Development Index (Indice de Desenvolvimento Municipal)
IPEA                 - Applied Economic Research Institute (Instituto de Pesquisa Econ6mica Aplicada)
IPLANCE              - Ceara Planning Institute (Funda,co Instituto de Planejamento do Ceard)
LDB                  - National Education Law (Lei de Diretrizes e Bases da Educa,do Nacional)
MEC                  - Ministry of Education (Ministerio de Educa;ao)
MIS                  - Management Information System
NEBE                 - Northeast Basic Education Project (Projeto Nordeste)
PBF                  - Basic Operational Standards (Padroes Bdsicos de Funcionamento)
PDE                  - School Development Plan (Plano de Desenvolvimento da Escola)
PNLD                 - National Textbook Program (Programa Nacional do Livro Diddtico)
PROARES              - Social Reform Support Program (Programa de Apoio as Reformas Sociais)
PRODEM               - Municipal Education Development Program (Programa de Desenvolvimento da Educa,cao Municipal)
PROINFO              - National Education Inforrnatics Program (Programa Nacional de Informatica na Educa,co, MEC).
PROMED               - 1DB Expansion and Improvement of Secondary Education Project (Projeto de Expansao e Melhoria do
Ensino Medio)
PROURB               - Urban Program of the State of Ceara
SAEB                 - Basic Education Evaluation System (Sistema de Avaliacdo da Educa,do Bdsica)
SAP                  - Pedagogical Monitoring and Support System (Sistema de Acompanhamento Pedag6gico)
SAS                  - State Labor and Social Action Secretariat (Secretaria Estadual de Trabalho e A,cdo Social)
SECITECE             - State Science and Technology Secretariat (Secretaria Estadual de Ciencia e Tecnologia)
SEDUC                - State Basic Education Secretariat (Secretaria Estadual de Educa,ao Basica)
SEPLAN               - State Planning and Coordination Secretariat (Secretaria Estadual de Planejamento e Coordena,do)
SESA                 - State Hlealth Secretariat (Secretaria Estadual de Saude)
SIP                  - School-Initiated Project (Projeto de Inova,cao Escolar)
SPAECE               - State Education Evaluation System (Sistema Permanente de Avaliaqdo Educacional do Estado do Ceard)
UECE                 - Ceara State University (Universidade Estadual do Ceard)
UFC                  - Ceara Federal University (Universidade Federal do Ceara)
UNESCO               - United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization
UNICEF               - United Nations International Children's Fund
UNDIME               - National Union of Municipal Education Managers (Unido Nacional de Dirigentes Municipais de Educa,do)
Vice-President      David de Ferranti
Country Director:    Gobind T. Nankani
Sector Director:     Xavier Coll
Team Leader:        Madalena dos Santos



Brazil
Ceara Basic Education Quality Improvement Project
TABLE OF CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective ................................................................1
1. Project development objective ................................................................l
2. Key performance indicators .                                ...............................................................I
B. Strategic Context ................................................................2
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the Project .........2
2. Main  sector issues ................................................................2
3. Government strategy ................................................................4
4. Sector issues to be addressed  by the Project and strategic choices ...............                                        ..................5
5. Education management and coordination between municipal and state systems ...........6
C. Project Description Summary ................................................................7
1. Project components ................................................................7
2. Key  policy and  institutional reforms supported  by the Project ..................                                    .....................8
3. Benefits and target population  ...................                                .............................................8
4. Institutional and  implementation  arrangements ..............................................................9
D. Project Rationale ...............................................................                                                                   10
1. Project alternatives considered  and  reasons for rejection ............................................. 10
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies ........ 13
3. Lessons learned and  reflected  in the Project design ...................................................... 13
4. Indications of borrower commitment and  ownership ................................................... 14
5. Value added  of Bank  support in this project ...............................................................  15
E. Summary Project Analysis ...............................................................                                                            16
1. Economic ...............................................................                                                               16
2. Financial ...............................................................                                                              16
3. Technical ...............................................................                                                              17
4. Institutional ...............................................................                                                          17
5. Social ................................................................18
6. Environmental assessment ...............................................................                                               19
7. Participatory  approach ...............................................................                                                19
F. Sustainability and Risks ...............................................................                                                            19
1. Sustainability ...............................................................                                                         19
2. Critical risks ................................................................                                                        21
3. Possible controversial aspects ...............................................................                                         21
G. Main Loan Conditions ...............................................................                                                                22
1. Conditions for Effectiveness ...............................................................                                          22
H. Readiness for Implementation ...............................................................                                                        22
I. Compliance with Bank Policies ...............................................................                                                        22



Annexes
Annex 1.  Project Design Summary .........................................................                                                                 23
Annex 2.  Detailed Project Description .........................................................                                                           27
Annex 3.  Estimated Project Costs .........................................................                                                                41
Annex 4.  Economic and Fiscal Analysis .........................................................                                                           42
Annex  5.   Social and  Beneficiary  Assessment .......................................................                                                 .. 61
Annex 6.  Institutional Analysis ..........................................................                                                                72
Annex  7.   Procurement and  Disbursement Arrangements .................................                                                    .............. 84
Annex 8. Project Processing Budget and Schedule (Project Team Participants) ............ 93
Annex 9.  Documents in Project File .........................................................                                                              95
Annex 10. Statement of Loans and Credits .........................................................                                                         98
Annex   11. Country at a Glance .........................................................                                                                101
Map .........................................................                                                                                                            103



Brazil
Ceara Basic Education Quality Improvement Project
Project Appraisal Document
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
Brazil Country Department
Date: November 29, 2000                               Team Leader: Madalena dos Santos
Country Director: Gobind T. Nankani                   Sector Director: Xavier Coll
Project ID: BR-PE-59566                               Sector: EP - Primary Education
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan          Theme(s): Education
Poverty Targeted Intervention:   [X] Yes  [ ] No
Project Financing Data
[X] Loan       [ ] Credit      [] Grant       [] Guarantee       [] Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount: US$90 million
Proposed terms:    [ ] To be defined      [X] Multicurrency      [ ] Single currency
[ ] Standard Variable   [ ] Fixed            [ ] LIBOR-based
Grace period (years):             5
Years to maturity:               15
Commitment fee:               Standard
Front-end fee on Bank loan:      1.0%
Fitancing plaint:                                                                  -.
$04rce                          .ocal .                      -r.gi.
Government of Ceara                                         60.0               0.0               60.0
IBRD                                                        80.2               9.8               90.0
Other (specify)
Total:                                                     140.2               9.8              150.0
Borrower: The State of Ceara
Guarantor: Federative Republic of Brazil
Responsible agency: Ceara Basic Education Secretariat - SEDUC
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):
FY            2i1X0        2002         203   2.004                 2      ;.
Annual       13.5         20.5         25.0          25.0          6.0
Cumulative      13.5         34.0          59.0         84.0          90.0
Project implementation period: 2001-2005
Expected effectiveness date: March 30, 2001            Expected closing date: June 30, 2006
Implementing agency: Ceara Basic Education Secretariat - SEDUC
Contact person: Antenor Naspolini, Ceara Basic Education Secretary






Brazil
Ceara Basic Education Quality Improvement Project
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective (see Annex 1)
The main objective of the Ceara Basic Education Quality Improvement Project is to promote
greater quality, efficiency and equity in the provision of education services by: (a) improving
education quality in both academic achievement (output) and learning environment (education
inputs); (b) expanding access to drop-outs and excluded youth through the use of alternative
methodologies; (c) fostering equity in the provision of education services in the poorest
municipalities; and (d) strengthening the managerial and administrative capacity of the central,
regional and municipal levels to deliver public education services efficiently.
The Project stems from a comprehensive "Ceara Strategic Human Resource Qualification Plan -
1999-2003" (Ceara State Governnent, 1998a), elaborated by the state Government, and
complements federal programs that will benefit the State (i.e., School Improvement Prograrn -
FUNDESCOLA; Expansion and Improvement of Secondary Education Project - PROMED). The
Project will be facilitated by cooperative programs already adopted by the State Government with
the 184 municipal systems.
Poverty in the State of Ceara, has been historically acute and, despite recent progress, remains
severe and deep. Using a "food only" poverty line of US$34 (R$65) per month per capita, the
State headcount poverty rate includes 49.4% of the total population of 6.8 million, compared to
23% for all Brazil. As indicated in a recent World Bank study, the level of education is the most
important poverty determinant in Ceara, and 84% of the poor live in homes where the household
head has less than four years of schooling (World Bank, 1999b). This study recommends
improvements in education as the top priority action for the State. The proposed Project includes
specific interventions in 54 of the poorest municipalities of the State, which traditionally have not
benefited from public programs (Vieira, Moreira & Maia, 1999).
For over a decade, the state Government has been striving to overcome poverty and
underdevelopment with some encouraging results. The state GDP increased at an annual average
rate of 5.8 % from 1970 to 1997, and fundamental' education coverage (net enrollment rate)
expanded from 56.8% in 1990 to 98.3% in 1999 (gross enrollment rates went from 77.5% to
135.5% in the same period). In spite of this progress, major challenges still need to be addressed
to ensure sustainable economic development for Ceara. The principal challenge is to improve the
level of qualification of its human resources, which is the main objective of the Project.
2. Key performance indicators (see Annex 1)
Both State program and Project-specific indicators will be used to measure the impact of Project
activities. The key performance indicator for the State program (to be achieved by December
2005) is a 15 percentage increase in the number of 4th and 8th graders that perform at a satisfactory
' The Brazilian education system offers non-mandatory early childhood (0-3 initial and 4-6 preschool) education
programs (Educaqdo Infantil); a mandatory eight-year "fundamental" education segment (Ensino Fundamental); and a
three-year secondary school level (Ensino MIdio). The Brazilian law defines "basic education" as meaning Educacao
Infantil + Ensino Fundamental + Ensino Medio.



level in Portuguese and mathematics, as measured by the standardized tests of the nationwide
Basic Education Evaluation System (SAEB).
The key performnance indicators for the Project (to be achieved by December 2005) are (MEC,
1999):
* completion rates in fundamental education (grades 1-8) increased from 72% to 80% on average
in state and municipal schools;
* net enrollment rates in early childhood development programs of the 0-3 age group raised from
11.4% to 22% and of the 4-6 age group from 72.4% to 80%, including the non-formal
programs;
* age-grade distortion in fundamental education reduced from 56 % to 35%; and
* access to fundamental education for drop-outs and younger workers (15- to 39-year old),
increased from 36% to 41%, so that 25% (or 90,000) of this population have at least the first
four grades of schooling.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the Project (Annex 1)
CAS document number: 20160-BR               Date of latest CAS discussion: March 6, 2000
The overall CAS goal is to promote sustainable long-term growth, alleviate poverty and reduce
income inequity in Brazil. For this purpose, the CAS gives special emphasis to support for
education. The specific education sector goal of the CAS is to achieve universal completion of the
eight-year fundamental education cycle by 2007 and improve educational performance in basic
subjects, particularly Portuguese and mathematics. The World Bank Education Sector Strategy for
Brazil, dated September 1998, defines as a main objective the support of efforts to increase
educational attainment and raise student learning, especially among the poor, and proposes
investments in pre-school, fundamental and middle education in the poorest states of Brazil.
The Ceara Basic Education Quality Improvement Project will directly contribute to meeting these
goals by: (a) focusing on interventions to improve the quality and efficiency of basic education,
both at the state and municipal levels; and (b) supporting the CAS overall poverty alleviation and
income inequity reduction objectives by targeting one of the poorest states of Brazil and, within
the state, 54 of the poorest municipalities.
2. Main sector issues
In spite of the progress made in education over the recent years and the strong political
commitment by the State Government, there is much to be done to assure quality education and
adequate qualification of human resources.  The following sector issues pose a particular
challenge:
(a) High repetition and age-grade distortion. Between 1990 and 1999, the educational enrollment
of children from 7 to 14 years of age expanded significantly in Ceara, leaping from 56.8% to
98.3%. However, repetition and dropout rates in primary education are still very high (a combined
total of 25%) and only 46% of the students complete 8' grade within the expected eight years of
schooling. In 2000, about 56% of students were two or more years older than they should be for
their respective grades. Age-grade distortion is the cumulative result of late entry to school,
2



chronic grade repetition syndrome, and low basic standards in most schools.
(b) Low level of teacher qualification and skills. A detailed 1998 Teachers' Census undertaken
by the State Basic Education Secretariat's (SEDUC) Teacher Education Unit indicated that, of a
total of 39,225 active fundamental education teachers in Ceara, 11,406 (29.1%) were considered
"lay teachers" who did not meet the National Education Law (LDB) requirements. Approximately
10% of them had not completed the eight-year fundamental education level. The Unified Teacher
Competition (Concurso Unico), jointly designed and held in December 1997 and June 1998 by the
state and municipal public systems to fill existing vacancies with higher-level professionals, helped
improve the situation. Yet it is still a serious problem, especially at the municipal level.
Furthermore, low content knowledge and poor teaching skills are common among teachers and
contribute to low student achievement and high repetition and dropout rates. The lack of attractive
career plans and incentives affects the entire teachers' system and has a negative impact on
education quality.
(c) Low student achievement. Results of the 1997 SAEB's evaluation showed that in Ceara the
average achievement level (measuring the probability of a correct answer to curricular items on a
scale of zero to one hundred) in Portuguese was 46.5% for 4h graders and 59.4% for 8th graders,
compared with 49.4% and 65.8%, respectively, at the national level. In mathematics, the average
achievement level for 4th graders was 27.1%, and 32.2% for 8th graders, while national levels were
29.5% and 35.8% respectively. These below-average results indicate that student achievements in
Ceara could negatively affect the possibilities of economic development of the State, especially for
initiatives in areas outside the state capital.
(d) Low enrollment and poor quality of initial and preschool education (O to 6years old). There
is increasing awareness of the crucial role played by early childhood education in reducing
repetition and evasion and increasing student achievements. Yet the services provided in Ceara
fall far short of desired levels of coverage, quality and management. As of 1999, overall
enrollment of the 4 to 6 age brackets was 355,161 or 72.4% of this population group; the
corresponding figures for the 0 to 3 group were 56,371 and 11.4% respectively. Low quality is
mainly due to insufficient training of teachers and the lack of standards and materials. Of a total of
18,858 pre-school teachers, 7,298 (38.7%) have not completed secondary education.
(e) Inadequate municipal-state system coordination. The presence of 184 municipal education
systems functioning in parallel with the state education system complicates the process of
modernization and advancement of education in Ceara. At the lst-to-8th grade level, the 184
municipal systems attend to approximately 1,112,000 students (68% of public school enrollment),
whereas state schools serve approximately 520,000 (32%) students.   Two overlapping
administrative systems operating independently within the same municipality contribute to
inefficiencies in the use of resources, gender inequity of opportunities and hinder needed
improvements in quality. To offset this structural problem, in recent years SEDUC has started
several joint initiatives with municipalities, and the proposed project will further advance this
collaboration. The Regional Education Development Centers (CREDEs) will play a crucial role in
increasing state-municipal system coordination.
(p9 Low enrollment rates and poor quality of secondary education. While in 1999 enrollment in
fundamental education (1 0 - 8 h grade) approached universal coverage, only 30% of the 15-19 age
population is enrolled in secondary education. The distribution of school places and enrollment is
highly unequal, resulting in striking disparities among and between income groups, the capital city
of Fortaleza and the rest of the state, and urban and rural areas. There is also a well-known
3



mismatch between secondary school curricula and labor market demands. Poorly qualified
teachers are an issue on its own. The Unified Teacher Competition radically changed the profile of
secondary teachers, but 1,730 (or 17%) of the total 10,224 still did not meet the 1996 LDB
requirements.
(g) Poverty-related factors. As indicated earlier, at least 49.4% of the population of Ceara live
below the "food only" poverty line. Several studies have demonstrated that poverty strongly
affects children's chances of successfully completing an eight-grade education. Parents' demand
for schooling for their children correlates with their own level of education, and 84% of Ceard poor
households are headed by someone with less than four years of schooling. According to the 1998
PNAD Household Survey, 29.6% of the population over 15 years of age is illiterate, with a higher
percentage among men and a heavy concentration in rural areas. Poor children generally have
access to poorer quality schools, whether quality is measured by the adequacy of the facility itself,
the availability of textbooks and other learning materials, or by teachers' qualifications. While
acknowledging that poor school quality is directly linked with high repetition and low attendance
rates, it must be noted that there is strong evidence that poverty and parents' level of education are
also key determinants of learning outcomes (their effect often dominating the impact of school and
teacher characteristics on learning outcomes).  This supports the Government strategies of
combining both supply-side interventions (improvements in school quality) with demand-side
interventions (such as the Bolsa Escola scholarship program) to increase the effectiveness of
school inputs.
3. Government strategy
The Governnent of Ceard is strongly committed to raising educational quality and student
attainment and started the implementation of programs to achieve these objectives even before the
new federal legislation was passed in 1996. A state program called "All for Quality Education for
All" (Todos pela Educa!do de Qualidade para Todos) was launched in 1995 to increase society's
awareness of educational issues and to expand enrollment and improve the quality of fundamental
education. Between 1995 and 1997, the State pioneered an arrangement similar to the present
Ministry of Education (MEC) sponsored Education Development and Teacher's Incentive Fund -
FUNDEF, guaranteeing educational funds to the 124 municipalities that agreed to participate in the
Unified Teacher Competition. Since the approval in 1995 of Ceara's Municipalization Law, 115
state primary schools (90% of the total but 100% of state primary schools at the interior of the
state) with their approximately 22,500 students have been transferred to municipal jurisdiction and
the cooperation between state and municipalities has improved. As a result, the number of
students enrolled in state schools in grades Ist through 4th declined by about one-fifth (from
301,598 in 1996 to 248,236 in 1998), while those in municipal schools increased by about one-
third (659,364 to 889,673, respectively) during the same period.
In 1996, the State launched three programs to increase the quality and efficiency of basic
education: (a) the classroom-oriented Living School (Escola Viva) program focused on changing
the traditional teaching approaches used by teachers and introducing innovative pedagogical
experiences; (b) the student-centered Time to Learn (Tempo de Aprender) program designed to
modify the learning environment to enhance student motivation; and (c) the "learning cycles"
intended to further the bond between the learning process and the developmental process of a
student. These programs benefited from resources and assistance from the Northeast Basic
Education Project, partly financed by the World Bank. In 1996, SEDUC redefined its 14 Regional
Directorates and transformed them into the current 21 Regional Education Development Centers
(CREDEs) to coordinate educational policies with the municipalities in the 21 official micro-
4



regions of Ceara. These regional centers are now an important instrument for joint initiatives
between the state and municipalities, such as selection and training of teachers, and for the
implementation of school-based educational development strategies. At the center, SEDUC carries
out regular consultations with the Ceara Mayors Association (APRECE) and the state branch of
the National Union of Municipal Education Managers (UNDIME), to design and implement
integrated statewide educational policies and programs.
To maximize resources, SEDUC has established a fruitful intersectoral partnership with other state
secretariats, particularly with the Labor and Social Action Secretariat (SAS) and the Health
Secretariat (SESA) in the area of early childhood development, and the Science and Technology
Secretariat (SECITECE) in the area of materials and training for mathematics and science
education, and unified laboratories for state and municipal schools. To gain legitimacy and further
advance educational reforms, the state also has promoted partnership and cooperation with civil
society and community organizations. In 1997, it established the "Ceara Agreement for Justice in
Education" to monitor the adequate use of resources in education and mobilize society to
guarantee school access and permanence to all children. The state conducted the first election of
school directors by teachers, parents and students in 1995, followed by a second one in 1998. A
statewide "Permanent Education Development Forum," composed of representatives of civil
society, business and labor organizations and academics, examines state policies and provides
guidance and advice.
4. Sector issues to be addressed by the Project and strategic choices
Through this project, the Government aims to address statewide and long-term development goals
of reducing education's low quality, inefficiencies and inequalities, thus improving human capital
formation in the state and alleviating poverty. In shaping the strategy, the Government has
carefully taken into consideration the following strategic choices to tackle the critical issues of
basic education in Ceara:
Low quality and inefficiency of basic education
* Establishing a strong pre-service and in-service training program, including the development of
higher education level programs to upgrade current teachers' qualifications with the support of
state and federal universities;
* Implementing accelerated programs for over-age students and other accelerated methodologies
to reduce age-grade distortion;
* Providing Basic Operational Standards so that each school counts on the essential inputs and
human resources needed to function adequately and is able to offer children a better
environment and opportunities to learn and educationally grow; and
* Strengthening the Pedagogical Monitoring and Support System (SAP) to improve teachers'
skills and increase school accountability and outcomes.
Inequities in the provision and quality of education services
* Creating equal opportunity mechanisms to boost municipal schools' capacity to deliver quality
initial and fundamental education, even in remote rural areas; and
5



* Establishing targeted approaches to address the specific needs of the poorest children and of
minority groups (including Portuguese-speaking local ethnic groups) and communities, thus
addressing the problem of equity in the provision of educational services.
Low access
+ Increasing years of schooling - as an important determinant of individual achievement and
economic growth - among low-income groups by tailoring various basic education alternatives
to meet different needs; and
# Creating - through the use of different methodologies, including distance education - greater
opportunities for dropouts, young workers and parents to enroll, stay in school and complete
their basic education.
Low participation and decision making at the school level
+ Promoting collaboration of schools and communities through the establishment and
strengthening of School Councils as well as strengthening the Inter-institutional Committees of
Initial Education at the state level and other decision-making mechanisms at the school level,
thereby laying the groundwork for a stronger sense of partnership and ownership; and
* Supporting and fostering the organized school-oriented participation of the private sector, local
communities, universities and research centers to increase relevance and accountability of
educational services delivery.
5. Education management and coordination between municipal and state systems
* Modernizing and strengthening the decentralization process at the regional (CREDE),
municipal (Municipal Education Secretariats) and school (School Councils) levels;
* Strengthening the role of SEDUC by establishing policy direction, setting goals and priorities,
identifying quality standards and highlighting the need for a framework of legal, administrative
and pedagogical norms and regulations;
* Establishing strategies to increase coordination and cooperation among state and municipal
systems by supporting critical actions in networks (Rede Educativa) covering both municipal
and state schools, and by adopting mechanisms geared to improve the municipal capacity to
design and implement programs essential for overall social and economic development in
accordance with national and state policies and local needs;
* Improving the State Education Evaluation System (SPAECE) to monitor quality of student
performance in all public basic education schools; and
* Supporting data collection, storage, and management mechanisms to promote effective impact
evaluation and time-series analysis of various education indicators, thereby providing the tools
for improved dissemination and policy making results in the sector.
6



C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description, and Annex 3 for a cost breakdown)
Indicative          Bank-
Component                   Sector     Costs     % of  financing  % of Bank-
(US$M)   Total   ASsm)    fluancilg
1. Improving School Quality and Efficiency    Institution  65.7   43.9%    40.0    44.4%
building
1.1 Enhancing Teacher Development and Early              18.3
Childhood Development (ECD) Programs
1.2 Assuring Basic Operational Standards                23.8
for Schools
1.3 Reducing Age-grade Distortions through              22.0
Accelerated Programs
1.4 Strengthening the Pedagogical Monitoring              1.6
and Support System (SAP)
2. Expanding Access                       Institution    22.1   14.7%    13.3       14.8%
building
2.1 Improving Access to Basic Education for
Dropouts and Excluded Youth
3. Upgrading Education in Poorer          Physical       20.6   13.7%    12.3       13.7%
Municipalities through a Municipal        and
Education Development Program          Institution
(PRODEM)                                building
4. Promoting Decentralization and        Institution     27.6   18.4%    16.6       18.5%
Institutional Development               building
4.1 Fostering School Autonomy Strategies                 16.3
4.2 Strengthening Institutional Modernization            10.1
4.3 Building up Social Participation and                  1.2
Mobilization
Project Administration                                   9.0    6.0°/     3.6       4.0%
Total Baseline Cost                              145.0
Project Contingencies                                    4.1    2.7%      3.3       3.6%
Bank Fee                                                  0.9    0.6%      0.9       1.0%
Total Project Costs                    150.0  100.0      90.0     100.0
Total Financing Required                  150.0  100.0  _
7



2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the Project
The Project will support consolidation of the following key policies and institutional reforms:
* Better quality of education through improvements in teachers' qualifications and state
evaluation as a tool to increase social accountability in both state and municipal systems;
* Expansion of access to basic education, to provide universal basic education to all students,
with emphasis on increasing the education opportunities for dropout students and workers;
* Expansion and quality improvements of ECD activities and preschool education at the
municipal level, helping municipalities comply with the requirements of the LDB,2 with
emphasis on the poorest urban centers and rural areas;
+ Decentralization in the provision of education services. The project will continue to support
activities that will consolidate school-based management strategies by: (a) working with the
School Councils and the School Management Team (Nuicleo Gestor da Escola); and (b)
supporting school democratization efforts at the state level, such as the direct election of school
directors by students (12 years or older), parents, teachers and staff;
*  Effective implementation of FUNDEF3 by assisting municipal education secretariats in the
efficient management of available resources and in the implementation of actions to improve
the quality of education;
* Better coordination between the state and municipal systems. Ceara's 1995 Municipalization
Law established the basic conditions and instruments to coordinate the actions of the state and
the municipalities in the area of education. The project will strengthen the CREDEs to act as
key instruments to increase such coordination; and
* Partnership with the private sector, local communities and sub-national levels of government to
improve the quality of services provided and the management capacity of the education sector.
3. Benefits and target population
The direct beneficiary of the Ceara Basic Education Quality Improvement Project is the school-age
population currently enrolled in public primary education or entering school in the near future. In
1999, the number of children between 0 and 6 years of age was 1.15 million and those from 7 to 14
years numbered 1.38 million. These young people will benefit from schools that are better
managed, have adequate learning materials and programs, have better prepared and motivated
teachers, and provide quality education. This is expected to have lifelong impact in terms of better
opportunities and a higher quality of life. By 2005, the project should reach approximately
122,000 students in the 0 to 3 year old segment; 188,000 in the 4 to 6 year old group; 672,000 of
the 7 to 14 year old group; and 90,000 of the 15 to 39 age group.
2 The 1996 National Education Law (Lei de Diretrizes e Bases da Educacdo Nacional - LDB) specifies that
municipalities have the responsibility to provide early childhood and preschool education programs.
3The Constitutional Amendment No. 14/96, approved on December 9, 1996, and the National Education Law,
approved on December 24, 1996, established the Basic Education Development and Teacher's Incentive Fund
(FUNDEF), and required that 15% of total municipal and state revenues be used to finance fundamental education.
8



While the benefits of the Project will include the entire school-age population, some interventions
(basic school operational standards, implementation of school development plans, expansion of
early childhood development activities, and innovation in rural education through the Escola Ativa
(Colombia Escuela Nueva model) will be targeted to the poorest municipalities of the State.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements
Executing Agency: SEDUC will be the executing agency of the Project. While SEDUC line units
and the CREDEs will directly implement most project activities, the municipalities will also be
responsible for implementing selected Project activities under the coordination/supervision of
SEDUC. The Technical - pedagogical Development Unit (CDTP) of SEDUC will execute all
components related to improvements in school quality and efficiency, and expansion of access, in
close coordination with the Monitoring and Control Unit (CMC). The Education Coordination
and Management Unit (CAGE) will execute all components related to strengthening school
autonomy and strengthening the regional units and the municipalities. The Planning and Education
Policy Unit (CPPE) will coordinate the decentralization and institutional development activities,
including evaluations and studies, in close coordination with CAGE.
Project oversight and policy setting: Overall responsibility for oversight of the proposed project
will be vested in the Secretary of Basic Education, who will be supported in general policy setting
and institutional coordination by SEDUC Management Team (Nzucleo Gestor), composed of the
Sub-secretary of Basic Education, and the Directors of SEDUC 's administrative units (see Annex
6- SEDUC's Organizational Structure). For policy decisions regarding the Municipal Education
Development Program (PRODEM), which will support education improvements in the 54 poorest
municipalities, a Review Committee will be established. This Committee will be comprised of
representatives of SEDUC, UNICEF, APRECE, UNDIME and a group of CREDE directors who
will participate on a rotating basis. The Project Implementation Manual defines the operational
guidelines of PRODEM.
Project Coordination, Monitoring and Evaluation. A small Project Executive Group (Grupo
Executivo do Projeto - GEP) reporting to the Subsecretary of Education will support and track
Project implementation and monitoring. The main responsibilities of GEP include: (a) financial
oversight of the Project; (b) overall monitoring and evaluation; and (c) coordination with line
departments that will execute Project components. The GEP will be composed of, at least, three
professionals covering the technical, financial and legal areas of the Project implementation
process.
With the support of UNICEF, SEDUC has hired the Education and Culture Research Center
(CENPEC) to assess the status of educational development in Ceara. Its report will be available by
mid-2000 and will offer baseline data to measure improvements produced by the Project. During
the life of the Project, research agencies or universities will be hired to follow up on educational
advances and suggest improvements and modifications in the program. Annual evaluations of
Project implementation, with the participation of all agencies involved with educational
development in the state, will be conducted, and SEDUC will present to the Bank an annual
progress report on the implementation of the Project, including the targets achieved and the
proposed budgetary requirements for Project implementation during the subsequent year. A mid-
term evaluation is scheduled two years after Project effectiveness.
The annual and mid-term evaluations will benefit from a new supervision strategy recently
introduced in Brazil, the Continuous Learning Framework. This strategy proposes joint Project
9



Implementation Reviews and in-depth Technical Assessment Missions to study various project
components. Participants might include additional task team leaders from the Bank and specialists
from other projects in Brazil or neighboring countries. This will capitalize on the knowledge
accurnulated and being developed in Bank-financed project units and other government agencies.
This method will provide external evaluations of Project implementation, generating a more
objective view of Project performance, and will facilitate comparisons with other projects and
cross-fertilization of relevant information and experiences.
Accounting, financial reporting and auditing arrangements. Previous experience with the State
indicates that generally acceptable systems are in place. However, during project preparation
SEDUC has undertaken a re-organization to better integrate its administrative and financial
functions. SEDUC is now in the process of finalizing the development and installation of an
integrated financial and physical monitoring system. An assessment of the financial management
capacity of SEDUC was completed, and the recommendations were incorporated in the project
design. An Action Plan to upgrade the systems and the staff capability in this area was prepared
and is included in the project files. Improvements in the areas of project accounting and reporting
will facilitate timely preparation and submission of audit reports, which will be contracted with an
independent private firm acceptable to the Bank Selection of a qualified auditor acceptable to the
Bank is part of the certification process for use of PMR disbursements and as such is a condition of
disbursements.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection
The proposed project was designed in the context of a comprehensive statewide human resource
development plan for the period 1999-2003, prepared by five Secretariats (Planning and
Coordination, Basic Education, Labor and Social Action, Health, and Science and Technology)
and endorsed by the Governor after his reelection. The key project development objective and
each project component were carefully weighted against other competing approaches in terms of
conceptual consistency, medium-term impact and best resource use, as explained below.
Focus on Basic Education. Basic education (including preschool and grades 1 to 8) has become
the main thrust of the project. This is the education level where the most perverse social
imbalance exists in the state of Ceara and is the one most likely to make a real difference in terms
of lifelong job readiness and poverty alleviation if quality education is provided.  Direct
investments in secondary education were excluded because it would have diverted scarce
resources, and some financing was available for this level from alternative sources (Federal
Government with Inter-American Development Bank's (IDB) financing). However, the project
will support selected investments in secondary schools not covered by other projects, and some of
the improvements in school quality and efficiency, as well as teacher education programs, will
have a direct impact on secondary education. Higher education was not considered because of its
low poverty alleviation impact.
Inclusion of Initial and Preschool Education. After establishing fundamental education (1St - 8th
grade) as the project emphasis, the decision on whether and to what extent to include early child
development resulted from the discussion of recent research studies, including a World Bank
report for Brazil that concludes that there are high returns to investments in the sector (Barros &
Mendonca, 1999b).  This report presents evidence that children that attend early childhood
activities complete primary school in a shorter time and advance further in the education stream.
10



The lifelong increase in income of those that attended early childhood activities is about 10% per
year and the rate of return to early childhood is estimated to be around 17%. A dilemma was
posed between initial (0-3) and preschool activities (4-6), but the end result was the inclusion of
both sub-levels due to their intrinsic continuity and reinforcing effects, principally for children
from poor families.
Education  Quality Alternatives.   Alternatives considered in this area included: (a) the
concentration on one input exclusively (i.e., teacher training programs only); (b) a complete
laissez-faire autonomy of school authorities to determine their needs and resources; and (c) the
application of rigid top-down planning and controlling models in order to guarantee maximum
efficiency levels. The first alternative was dropped because there was a consensus that quality
depends on many factors (basic operational standards, school autonomy, community participation,
management capacity, etc.), and better results are obtained when they complement each other. The
second alternative was discarded because most school directors and teachers still lack the technical
and managerial skills required to pursue acceptable quality levels in their independent decisions
and proposals.  The third alternative was eliminated because experience and beneficiary
assessment studies have repeatedly shown that local interests and community sense of ownership
are important factors to increase quality. The alternative adopted for the project has led: (a) to
decentralizing the selection of the full range of quality improvement programs to the regional
level, through the interaction of CREDEs, municipal education secretariats and schools; and (b) to
incorporation in each school of a Pedagogical Coordinator to work closely with teachers.
School Efficiency Alternatives. Studies have demonstrated that school efficiency in Ceara has
been severely hampered by high repetition and dropout rates, and that both types of failure
correlate with the critical age-grade mismatch found in the school population. To address this
multifaceted issue, three alternatives were explored: (a) a significant lengthening of the school day;
(b) the implementation of a well-designed accelerated program to allow students to cover at least
two academic years in one; and (c) the expansion and improvement of initial and preschool
education as a preventive measure. The first alternative was rejected, as it would put an additional
burden on children without adding an appropriate focus to the problem; the second and third were
readily incorporated into the Project since there was consensus on their complementary (curative
and preventive) characteristics.
Emphasis on Education Access. Since Ceara has reached almost universal (98.3%) coverage of
the 7 to 14 year-old population, two alternatives were analyzed: (a) minimize the access issue
altogether and insist only on basic education quality; and (b) seek further inclusion of excluded
population segments, such as young workers who usually leave school at an earlier stage. The first
alternative was discarded given that pockets of seriously at-risk children still exist in urban and
rural settings and need urgent educational assistance. The second one was accepted on equity
grounds to make quality basic education available to those historically excluded from school
benefits. However, it was recognized that reaching the small pockets of the excluded is not an easy
task.
School and System Management Alternatives. Three alternative management approaches and
strategies were considered: (a) a low key emphasis on management in favor of overt emphasis on
equipping and training the four state secretariats (SEDUC, SAS, SECITECE and SESA) involved
in the project and some municipal education secretariats; (b) a rather moderate consideration for
system management coupled with preference for a massive input-based approach at the school
level; and (c) a balanced strategy considering management improvements at the state, municipal
and school levels. The first alternative was rejected as lessons learned from past projects



recommend decentralized solutions. The second option was equally discarded since well-known
input-based projects have failed to cause the expected impact. Management has become a decisive
catalyst to mobilize human institutional and financial resources, and interventions at all levels were
considered essential.
Demand side interventions. Programs that provide stipends to poor families that send their
children to school (Bolsa Escola) have become popular in Brazil and have been the subject of a
recent evaluation by the World Bank. Bolsa Escola seeks to achieve better integration of the state
and municipal education programs with the on-going demand-side cash-grant initiatives supported
by the federal, state and municipal governments in urban areas. These initiatives provide stipends
to poor families with the agreement that they will keep their children in school until the age of 14.
Three of these initiatives target rural poor students in Ceara (Programa de ErradicaVdo do
Trabalho Infantil-PETI, Fundo de Garantia da Renda Minima and Comunidade Soliddria) and one
targets students in urban areas (Crianqa Fora da Rua Dentro da Escola). These initiatives will be
rapidly expanded in the forthcoming three years. After a complete school census is undertaken, (a)
the state authorities will re-exarnine the effectiveness of these programs; (b) a strategy to
incorporate the existing pockets of exclusion will be better defined; and (c) the effectiveness of the
existing programs in Ceara will be fully documented. The authorities will also examine the issue
of dropouts and determine if a Bolsa Escola program could help reduce the problem. The project
will establish mechanisms to monitor the impact of the Bolsa Escola program in the retention and
performance of the students already benefited by the existing programs.
12



2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies:
(completed, ongoing and planned)
Latest Supervision (Form 590)
Sector Issues                   Project                       Ratings
.___.___________.___._    (Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation    Development
Progress (IP)    Objective (DO)
Bank-financed
Basic education access and quality    Northeast Basic Education I  Completed    Completed
Basic education quality         Urban Basic Education          Completed        Completed
(Monhangara) Project
Basic education access and quality    Northeast Basic Education II  Completed   Completed
Basic education quality         Innovations in Basic           Completed        Completed
Education (Sao Paulo)
Basic education quality         Northeast Basic Education III      S          S
Basic education access, quality and   FUNDESCOLA I                 S          S
management
Basic education quality         Parana Education Quality           S          S
Basic education quality         Minas Gerais Pro-Quality           S          S
Project
Basic education access, quality and   FUNDESCOLA II            Approved         Approved
management
Secondary and basic education   Bahia Education Project         Planned          Planned
access quality and management
Rural poverty alleviation       Ceara Rural Poverty (Sdo           S                S
Jose) Project
Other development agencies
Inter-American Development Bank   Parana Secondary Education     Ongoing         Ongoing
Inter-American Development Bank   Secondary Education           Planned          Planned
(Promed) Program
Inter-American Development Bank   Social Reform Support         Ongoing          Ongoing
(Proares) Project                          I
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the Project design
Lessons learned from the design and implementation of the Northeast Basic Education I, II and III
Projects (Loans 1867-BR, 3604-BR and 3663-BR) and the FUTNDESCOLA I and II Projects
(Loans 4311-BR and 4487-BR) have been incorporated into the Ceara Basic Education Quality
Improvement Project. These lessons include the: (a) emphasis on school development strategies;
(b) inclusion of Basic Operational Standards; (c) participatory process for the elaboration of
School Development Plans; (d) strong cooperation between state and municipal systems; (e)
strengthening of monitoring and evaluation activities; and (f) emphasis on social mobilization and
communications.
13



Late entrance to school and lack of adequate preparation. Previous basic education projects that
have focused only on improvements on primary education have not effectively addressed the
issues of late entry to school and lack of adequate preparation. The Ceara project includes the
promotion and improvement of early childhood and preschool activities to further decrease
repetition and dropout, thus reducing the number of overage students. UNICEF has actively
participated in the design of this component, and has brought forward its international experience
in this area. The experiences of the Sao Paulo Innovations in Basic Education and the Parand
Education Quality Projects (Loans 3375-BR and 3766-BR, respectively) have been used in the
design of the accelerated classes, while the experience of the Minas Gerais Pro-Quality Project
(Loan 3733-BR) was used to implement the democratic election of school directors.
Institutional strengthening. Other projects in Latin America have shown that adequate
institutional capacity and an appropriate framework are key determinants of project success.
Focus will be placed on strengthening SEDUC's capacity to monitor and evaluate quality of initial
and basic education at the student and school levels, and make policy decisions in line with
findings. With regard to financial administration and procurement, the Project will emphasize
strengthening SEDUC's capacity building of its internal and decentralized units. SEDUC will also
work on improving communications with departmental, municipal and local personnel to support
the decentralization process.
Monitoring and Evaluation systems as tools for increasing accountability and education quality.
The positive experiences of the nationwide Basic Education Evaluation System (SAEB),
undertaken by the Ministry of Education with support from World Bank projects, will be used in
expanding and improving the State Education Evaluation System (SPAECE), which will cover all
state and municipal schools and provide them with important evaluation feedback to identify
weaknesses and adjust and enhance teaching practices.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership
The state Government's commitment to and ownership of the Project has been expressed by major
proactive initiatives. Prior to Project definition, and as a program framework, an overall Ceard
Strategic Human Resources Qualification Plan - 1999-2003 (Govemo do Ceara, 1998) was
prepared by an inter-institutional task force with representatives from four state secretariats.
Within this framework, a 12-member, four-secretariat Project Preparation Team was established by
the Governor. The team identified the proposed project and its components and has worked
intensively in its preparation with World Bank missions. Leadership and guidance in steering the
project preparation process was provided by the State Planning and Coordination and Basic
Education Secretariats.
As explained in Section B.3, the state Government is highly committed to raising educational
quality and launched the comprehensive "All for Quality Education for All" program in 1995. The
Project now constitutes the core of this program and several activities (accelerated classes,
pedagogical support systems, School Development Plans) have already started, although at a slow
pace because of budget limitations. The Project will strengthen and improve the quality of these
activities.
14



5. Value added of Bank support in this project
The Bank lends many unique and incremental contributions through its involvement with this
Project, clearly expressed in the following institutional and operational features:
World Knowledge Pool. During the preparation process, the World Bank provided international
knowledge and experience to each of the issues to be addressed by the Project. For example,
Ceara was chosen as one of the case studies for the work on teacher development and incentives
that is presently being conducted by the Bank, and representatives of the state have participated in
several international seminars organized by the Bank. In these seminars, the experience of other
countries (USA, Canada, Australia, France, Chile) has been examined. Something similar has
happened in the area of early childhood development, where representatives of the state have
participated in the preparation of the World Bank study and participated in the Early Childhood
Advisory Group. Studies conducted by the Bank as part of the Project preparation process have
helped in the definition of education policies and approaches. The study on education quality and
equity in Ceara (Moreira & Maia, 1999) was crucial in calling attention to the disparities within the
state and the need to focus public assistance to the poorest municipalities. The economic and fiscal
analysis (Annex 4) was helpful in the definition of policies on teacher incentives and salaries.
Targeting Strategy.  A combination of economic and financial analysis, equity-oriented
educational criteria, and indicators and evaluation expertise has induced the Bank to be
methodologically selective in terms of Project beneficiaries and strategies. This strategy helps
borrowers (and significantly so in the case of Ceara's poverty-stricken environment) move away
from general, long-term and generous plans to make strategic intervention choices and draw
consistent and equity-concerned decisions among competing alternatives. As a by-product of
Project preparation, equity concerns have spilled over to other borrowers' institutional programs
and have gradually become part of their attitudes and methods.
National and Regional Information Warehouse. Brazil, and particularly the state of Ceara, has
found the World Bank to be a well-informed counterpart. As the chief external financing
institution of Brazilian basic education for over a decade, the Bank has arnassed solid knowledge
on national and regional education issues and assimilated a diversified understanding of cultural
and political idiosyncrasies in the country. For the past ten years, the Bank: (a) has developed or is
currently developing basic education projects in about 25 Brazilian states; and (b) has completed a
series of disciplined studies and reports such as: "Call to Action" (World Bank, 1997) "Social
Spending in Selected States" (1997) "Financing Education in Brazil" (1998) "Secondary Education
Sector Work" (2000), "Teacher Development and Incentive Study" (forthcoming), and "Early
Childhood Development Study" (forthcoming).
Partnership and Cooperation. The Bank's concern with resource maximization and efficient
cooperation with other partners in the field adds to its role as inter- and intra-national catalyst and
broker. The proposed project will: (a) benefit from strategies and instruments developed in Brazil
(and mainly in the Northeast) by the Northeast Basic Education Projects (Projeto Nordeste),
FUNDESCOLA, and several Brazilian and Ceara universities; (b) rely on information provided by
the Bank's Early Childhood Development central Technical Unit and the ongoing "Teacher
Development and Incentive Study;" and (c) bring into practical Project partnership both national
(CENPEC, the Brazilian Educational Technology Association-ABT, CESGRANRIO) and
international (UNICEF, UNESCO, International Council for Sciences) institutions.
15



E: Summary Project Analysis: (detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 4)
1. Economic (Annex 4)
[x] Cost-Benefit Analysis: NPV = US$452 million; ERR = 23.0%
A cost-benefit analysis was done comparing expenditures and incomes with and without the
Project. For that purpose, student flows were computed for each situation which indicate a
substantial reduction in age-grade distortions and an increase in the number of students completing
basic and secondary education as a consequence of the Project. There would also be important
salary advances for these beneficiaries. Netting out costs and benefits, we estimate that the Project
has an economic rate of return (ERR) of 23.0%. A Monte Carlo analysis based on symmetrical
distributions for the rate of reduction in repetition rates and income increases due to better
education indicated that there is a 98.1% probability that the project's ERR is above 10%. The
sensitivity analysis indicated that the most critical variables are, in this order, the rate of repetition
of the Tempo de Avanfar program and the increases in income received by workers who have
completed fundamental and secondary education. If we reduce the income of workers with
complete secondary education by 5%, the project's ERR falls to 15.2%. If the project produces no
improvement in the efficiency of secondary schools, the ERR comes down to 17.8%. These
results indicate that even if the Project is not as successful as expected, it will still yield significant
net benefits.
The Project will produce several groups of winners: the students, including a large number of
young adults, who will be better educated and experiment lifelong increases in income; the
teachers and the staff of the state and municipal education secretariats, who will receive training
and in many cases salary increases; the Federal Government, which will need to transfer fewer
resources to the state; and the people of Ceara at large, who will benefit from the higher economic
growth the Project will likely induce. The Project will not generate any obvious losers, except in a
certain way the state Government and taxpayers, who will be faced with an increase in
expenditures, particularly with secondary school education.
2. Financial
The World Bank recently undertook an analysis of the fiscal situation of the State ("Brazil -
Poverty Reduction, Growth and Fiscal Stability in the State of Ceara," see World Bank, 1999b).
This report confirms the reputation of Ceara as a financially sound jurisdiction by Brazilian
standards. The state's primary deficit is relatively small, although it has deteriorated to 16% in
1997. The stock of debt is also small by Brazilian standards (102% of net current revenues) and
largely long-term and low-interest. Personnel costs consume only 60% of the net current revenues,
the number of people employed by the state has decreased in recent years, and salary policy has
traditionally been tight. The key issue confronting the state is its pension obligations, and some
measures are being taken to limit this problem. The World Bank report notes the small proportion
of spending in the state's core functions, notably basic education (R$383 million or US$202
million), or 14% of total state expenditures.
Fiscal impact ( see Annex 4, Part 5)
The Project's fiscal impact will be neutral for the municipalities, positive for the federal
government and negative for the state. At the municipal level, two forces will be at work: (a)
expenditures will rise as better-trained teachers are promoted and receive higher wages and as new
16



and rehabilitated facilities are maintained; and (b) resources are freed as enrollment falls. The
fiscal analysis estimates indicate that the resources to be freed are more than sufficient to cover the
increase in expenditures. At the federal level, the project brings unambiguous benefits, as the
reduction in enrollment in fundamental education schools and the increase in average state
expenditure per student decrease the need for transfers. Finally, the state, on the one hand, benefits
from the increase in average municipal expenditures per student, which lowers the need for intra-
state transfers, but, on the other hand, faces an increase in its indebtedness and a rise in its
recurrent expenditures with basic education.  We estimate that the net increase in state
government's expenditures is not large relative to current expenditures with basic education and
may be absorbed without difficulty as the economy and tax revenues grow.
3. Technical
Technical viability of the Project is grounded on a set of consistent and selective educational inputs
and management practices. Most elements and instruments included in the Project have been
previously tested by either state or municipal experiences. Project resources will be channeled
toward strengthening or expanding successful ongoing activities, such as teacher training
programs, Basic Operational Standards, accelerated classes, design and implementation of School
Development Plans, decentralization support, early childhood development programs, evaluation
and monitoring activities, and improvement of municipal education secretariats.
Basic operational standards will be set for schools and classrooms. The television-based classes
for grades 5 to 8 (a 26-year old Ceara remarkable experience) will be strengthened with redesigned
materials and additional Learning Coordinators by subject area. Early childhood programs are
being expanded and improved, incorporating new activities and strategies more in line with
international research and local studies' findings.
4. Institutional
a. Executing agency State Basic Education Secretariat -SEDUC.
b. Project management: GEP- Project Executive Group (Grupo Executivo do Projeto).
Project management. A small Project Executive Group (GEP) reporting to the Subsecretary of
Basic Education has been created to support and monitor project implementation, but execution of
most components will be carried out directly by the SEDUC line units, its 21 regional CREDEs
and the participating municipalities. The existing SEDUC Management Team (Nuicleo Gestor)
has established Project policies and will make key decisions as needed. While several activities
will be directly implemented by SEDUC, the CREDEs and the municipalities will also be
responsible for implementing activities under the coordination/supervision of SEDUC. Resources
will be transferred to the municipalities to implement selected project activities.
Institutional analysis. An institutional analysis assessing the capability of the major actors
involved in Project implementation was undertaken, and capacity building measures were agreed
(Annex 6). Also, a financial management assessment was completed and recommendations were
incorporated in the Project design. The institutional analysis concluded that the government of
Ceara will be able to implement the Project provided that (a) some components of the project will
be gradually implemented (see Annex 2); (b) the Govermnent will implement steps to close some
capacity gaps even before effectiveness, and (c) the Project will implement further capacity
building steps during the first years of Project implementation. In addition, the Government
understands that to advance its institutional reforms, improve management capacity and increase
17



the efficiency of the system at all levels, it will be necessary to modernize processes and
mechanisms and implement a staff development program to continue upgrading the staff members'
technical skills and broaden the knowledge regarding education innovations relevant to the state.
To help ensure the adoption of new processes and procedures and the long-term sustainability of
the proposed actions, the Project will support: (a) review of the institutional arrangements of
selected units to identify and correct overlapping activities and establish modern procedures and
mechanisms to monitor and evaluate education activities and projects; (b) training programs for
managers at the central, regional, municipal and school levels to consolidate the decentralization
process and the exercise of decision making in a decentralized fashion; (c) training programs to
upgrade the technical skills of those involved in the quality components, mainly in the areas of
evaluation and education assessment; (d) training programs to enable staff to take full advantage
of information technology equipment and software to be made available under the Project; and (e)
provision of equipment and vehicles to facilitate service delivery. Detailed terms of reference for
establishing a systematic staff development program are being prepared and will be a condition of
effectiveness.
5. Social
The results of three studies sponsored by the World Bank were used to carry out the beneficiary
assessment (Annex 5). The assessment relied on interviews with community leaders, parents,
young people, teachers and principals. An analysis of the interviews indicated that there are many
points to be improved upon with respect to quality, access, and school management, the three
central themes of the Ceara Basic Education Quality Improvement Project. The issues highlighted
in the assessment are addressed by the Project activities and the Government's sector policies.
The studies revealed a widespread belief in the value of education and in the need to improve the
quality of basic education. Available evidence also suggests that although economic pressures on
poor families and limited access to higher levels of fundamental education (5h to 8th grade)
continue to be problems, poor quality of education is the primary reason for school failure and
dropouts. This will be addressed by improving school operational standards, providing greater
technical and pedagogical support to schools and improving teacher quality. Teachers were
identified as a key figure in the education process, not only in the classroom but as a conduit
between the school and the community.
The assessment showed that the links between the school and the community need to be
strengthened. The involvement of the State Basic Education Secretariat, the CREDEs and the
municipalities, and the decentralization of funds to schools to carry out innovative school projects
will more widely involve the education community in efforts to improve the teaching-learning
process in the classroom. In addition, special attention will be given to the poorest municipalities.
Many of the Project's initiatives will be targeted to the 54 poorest municipalities through the
Municipal Education Development Program - PRODEM.
Finally, the beneficiary assessment identified areas that require further study. The use of television
programs, for example, generated mixed reviews. Therefore, the project will include closer
evaluation of these programs before expanding them. A new beneficiary assessment will be carried
out before the Project mid-term review.
18



6. Environmental assessment
Environmental Category    [ ] A   [ ] B   [X] C
The Project does not include the construction of major infrastructure and therefore does not present
a significant environmental risk. The few new school constructions and rehabilitations will follow
state and municipal guidelines for construction.
7. Participatory approach
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
The Ceara Basic Education Quality Improvement Project has been prepared with the wide
participation of all stakeholders. As previously mentioned, the "Ceara Strategic Human Resource
Qualification Plan - 1999-2003" (Ceara State Government, 1998a) that originated the Project was
elaborated by a group of representatives from five state secretariats. The State Education Council,
the Ceara Mayors Association, the CearA branch of the National Union of Municipal Education
Managers and dozens of municipal secretaries of education were consulted, as well as the
Permanent Education Forum, which represents universities, civil society, business and labor
organizations.
The beneficiary assessments summarized in Section E.5 allowed a wide group of stakeholders
(community leaders, parents, teachers, and students) to express their views on the education
programs implemented by the state and define their expectations for the proposed project. The
results of these assessments have been incorporated into the Project design.
b. Other key stakeholders:
Experts from the FUNDESCOLA program of the Federal Government, UNICEF, UNESCO and
CENPEC have participated in World Bank missions. These missions visited several schools and
municipalities to obtain first-hand opinions from stakeholders.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability
The strongest argument for sustainability of the Project lies in its close link to programs that the
state has already initiated. The Project will help to expand and improve existing activities in the
areas of in-service and continuing teacher training, efficiency of student flow (reduction of over-
age students), promotion of school-based innovative projects, TV-mediated programs, educational
decentralization, evaluation and monitoring activities and cooperation with municipalities. The re-
elected Governor of Ceara has indicated that education will be the number one priority of his
administration and has ensured the continuity of existing policies by maintaining the team already
involved with educational matters and with the preparation of the Project.
The school-based development strategy that will be supported by the Project requires a strong
commitment by the educational authorities for a minimum number of years to give adequate
results. Based on the experience of the FUNDESCOLA program, the Project will finance more
than one round of school improvement projects and will give strong emphasis to social
communication and the mobilization of parents and the school community. UNICEF, which has
19



experience at the grass roots level and has a local office in Ceard, will collaborate in these
activities. School Councils must operate as effective and dedicated organizations so that the focus
on the school becomes a permanent characteristic of the education system, and the Project will
include training for its members and those of other collegiate organizations, such as Municipal and
State Councils of Education.
The financial sustainability of the project is also helped by its strong links with existing programs.
State counterpart resources are assured mainly by the present budget allocations to education,
while participating municipalities rely heavily on the resources received from FUNDEF. Through
this mechanism, municipalities received in 1998 an additional R$170 million (US$89 million) for
education. The project will help the municipal secretaries of education to manage these resources
efficiently and effectively.
20



2. Critical risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1)
R;sk                       Risk Rating              Risk Minimization Measure
From Outputs to Objective
*   State continues to give high priority to        M       -   Re-elected governor has indicated that education will
education.                                                   be top priority in his new administration.
*   Cooperative relationship between state and               -   Strengthening of CREDEs and of micro-regional
municipal educational systems is strengthened.  M            educational forums will be given top priority.
Consultations with APRECE and UNDIME done
regularly.
*   FUNDEF resources are maintained and             M        -   Strong public support for FUNDEF. Included in
regularly delivered.                                         protected social program of World Bank and IDB
social protection loans.
*   Interest and participation of school             S       -   Project-sponsored social participation and
communities is facilitated and maintained.                   mobilization programs. Requirement of existence of
School Council to finance school projects.
*   Commitment and participation of Municipal       M        -   Ceara has good state-municipal collaboration
Education Secretaries.                                       experience. Participation in project programs is
conditional on signing collaborative agreements.
From Components to Outputs
*   Teachers use new knowledge and educational      M       -   Pedagogical Support System (SAP) will be
methods effectively.                                         strengthened.
*   School principals effectively perform their new  M       -   Social mobilization and training for members of
role as managers of schools commited to the                  school councils.
success of students.
*   Technical support from MEC/INEP/SEF and         M        -   Support agreements have been established.
experts is available.
*   Interest of parents in the educational results of        -   Mobilization and social participation. Literacy
their children is increased.                    S            programs for parents.
Overall Risk Rating                                 M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible controversial aspects
Risk                     Type of      Risk              Risk Minimization Measure
.  Risk      Rating
2000 post-election changes at municipal level  G         M       Social mobilization in support of Project activities.
Direct election of school principals.
Type of Risk - S (Social), E (Ecological), P (Pollution), G (Governance), M (Management capacity), 0 (Other)
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
21



G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Conditions for Effectiveness
* SEDUC has approved and submitted a Project Implementation Manual satisfactory to the
Bank, including PRODEM Guidelines.
* The GEP has been established and its key staff, including the professionals covering the
technical, financial and legal areas, have been appointed by SEDUC and are in place.
* SEDUC will present to the Bank for its review and approval, terms of reference for the staff
development activities referred in Annex 2, Component 4.
H: Readiness for Implementation
* The Project Executive Group has been established and is in operation.
* The preliminary version of the Project Implementation Manual has been approved.
* The procurement documents for first year's Project activities are ready for implementation.
* The Project Management System has been appraised and deemed operational.
I: Compliance with Bank Policies
This Project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
Task Manager/Team Leader: Madalena dos Santos, LCSHD                      ($
Sector Manager/Director: Xavier Coll, LCSHD             _      _    _    _     _
Country Manager/Director: Gobind T. Nankani, LCC5C       _      _     _|
22



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
Brazil: Ceara Basic Education Quality Improvement Project
Hierarchy of Objectives          Key Performance Indicators                Monitoring            Critical Assumptions
and Evaluation
General Objective of CAS                Sector indicators:                                      (Goal to Bank Mission)
Quality of life, and an educated  Universal fundamental school attendance    Database of School  Economic stability at both the
and skilled labor force increased    of 7-14 year olds achieved by year 2007.    Census - MEC/SEDUC    national and state levels,
and income inequity reduced.                                                                     coupled with social and
Illiteracy rate for the 15-to-39 year olds  IBGE -PNAD          political conditions so that
reduced.                               Household Survey         education priorities can be
reports                  adequately ensured and
Effectiveness and efficiency of basic                           provided.
education in both state and municipal   SAEB and SPAECE
schools increased.                     reports.
Average SAEB results for Ceara
fundamental education students in
Portuguese and mathematics in national
and state tests upgraded.
Project Development Objective:       Outcomellmpact Indicators:            Project Reports:          (Objective to Goal)
To improve the quality of public    State program indicators to be achieved by  SAEB reports.    Present educational programs
basic education schools, enlarge    2005:                               SPAECE reports.          of the federal and state
access to preschool, and improve   Fifteen percent (15%) increase over                          governments are maintained
the schooling rate for the 15-39  SAEB/ 1997 results in the number of Ceara                      or expanded.
year old population.            Fundamental Education students obtaining
basic levels of proficiency in Portuguese,    Specific evaluation  Cooperation between state
mathematics and science.               studies                  and municipalities continues
at present level or improves.
4h grade
Portuguese                                                      FUNDEF resources are
From 42.5% to 49%                                               maintained, regularly
delivered, and properly used.
Mathematics
From 10% to 11.5%
Science
From 52.4% to 60%
e grade
Portuguese
From 53.4% to 61%
Mathematics
From 12.3% to 14%
Science
From 50% to 57.5%
23



Hierarhy  of Objectives         Key Performance Indicators                Monitoring           Critical Assumptions
____________________                               .and Evaluation 
Project indicators to be achieved by 2005.
SEDUC reports           State government continues to
Increased educational opportunities for  IBGE-PNAD Household   give high priority to basic
90,000 youngsters and adults in the 15-39   Survey reports     education.
age bracket.
Database of School      Cooperative relationship
Reduction of 5% of the dropout rates from   Census - MEC/SEDUC    between the state and
11.4% (1999) at state schools, and 10.7%                       municipal systems is
(1999) at municipal schools, by 2005.                          strengthened.
Fundamental education (grades 1-8)                             FUNDEF resources are
completion rates raised from 73% in 2000                       maintained, regularly
to 80% in 2005                                                 delivered, and properly used.
Age-grade distortion in fundamental
education reduced from 55,7% in 2000 to
35% by 2005.
Repetition rates in the state fundamental
education system reduced from 7.6% in
1999 to 5% in 2005, and from 11% in
1999 to 7% in 2005 in the participating
municipal systems.
Output from components:                Output indicators               Project Reports         (Outputs to Objective)
1. Improving School Quality    6,700 teachers completed university level   Integrated Educational    Universities feel that they are
and Efficiency               programs between 2000 and 2005.        Management System        responsible for the teachers'
(SIGE) reports          training objectives and for the
strategies for their work in the
classroom.
Approximately 460 teachers with a non-                         Continuity is maintained and
education university degree received                           the success of the State's
pedagogical training by 2005.                                  priority for education is
confirmed.
3,400 preschool and 3,000 basic education                      Cooperation among the state
teachers received a secondary education                        and municipal secretariats is
diploma by 2001.                                               maintained.
9,000 Health Agents trained in educational  SEDUC and SESA     Cooperation between SEDUC
strategies designed to upgrade their skills   reports to GEP.  and SESA is maintained.
in early childhood development.
38 basic education schools built between                       FUNDEF municipal resources
2000 and-2003.                                                 are used in an adequate and
timely manner.
4,900 classrooms rehabilitated and                             School community is
equipped by 2005.                                              Committed to the elaboration
and implementation of PDE.
395,000 students enrolled in accelerated  Database of School   Families are willing to send
class programs, reducing the age-grade  Census - MEC/SEDUC    their children to day care and
distortion from 55.7% in 2000 to 35% by                        preschool programs.
2005.
24



Hierarchy of Objectives          Key Performance Indicators               Monitoring           Critical Assumptions
And Evaluation
SAP fully operating in the state schools in  Integrated Educational    Interest and participation of
at least 6 CREDEs and in 20% of the    Management System       the school community.
municipal schools in the same micro-  (SIGE) reports           Commitment of municipal
regions by the end of 2002, and in other  SAP monitoring reports   secretaries of education.
CREDEs by 2005.
2. Expanding Access            Access to education for 90,000 youngsters  IBGE - PNAD
and adults increased, thus upgrading   Household Survey
literacy rate from 79.5% in 1997 to 82.8%   reports
by 2005.
210,000 new students attended TV       Database from School
mediated classes during a 3 year period,    Census - MEC/SEDUC
from 2002-2004.
3. Upgrading Education in       Equity promoted in the education sector    Management Indicators
Poorer Municipalities        for the poorest 54 municipalities in the  System - SIGE for
through a Municipal          State, from 2002-2005.                  follow-up by SEDUC
Education Development                                                and municipalities
Program (PRODEM)
Participation rates of the 0-3 age group in   Reports from the
initial education increased from 11 % in  secretariats of Basic
2000 to 22% in 2005, and of 4-6 age group  Education, Labor and
in preschool education programs from   Social Assistance
72% to 80%.
Fifty percent (92 of 184) of participating    Municipal Education
Municipal Education Secretariats have  Secretariats (beneficiary
started to implement basic operational  municipalities
standards.
4. Promoting Decentralization   1,370 schools supported by projects that    SAP reports
and Institutional            strengthen local autonomy by 2005.
Development
PDEs developed in all state and municipal                       Inter-municipal micro-
schools with at least 250 students, by                         regional forum working in a
2005.                                                           functional and equitable basis.
21 CREDEs and SEDUC trained and
equipped to cooperate with municipalities.
SPAECE expanded to 100% of state
schools and up to 30% of municipal
schools.
At least 50% of staff development
program targets met by 2003
Approximately 60 staff from SEDUC
trained by 2005.
21 inter-municipal micro-regional forums
working.
25



Hierarchy of Objectives             Key Performance               Wnitoring              Critical Assmptlions
Indicators             and Evaluation
Projects components and Subcomponents    Inputs (budgetfor each       Project Repons          (Components to Outputs)
components - USS)
1. Improving School Quality and                US$65.7           Project Annual Reports     State Govemment continues to
Efficiency                                                                               give high priority to basic
education.
A. Enhancing Teacher Development and                              Intermediate exams
Early Childhood Development (ECD)
Programs
B. Assuring Basic Operational Standards                          Disbursement reports       Strengthening of the cooperation
for Schools                                                                              among state and municipal
educational system.
C. Reducing age-grade Distortions through                         Supervision Mission reports  Maintenance of the policy and
Accelerated Programs                                                                     decentralization model in the
State of Ceara.
D. Strengthening the Pedagogical                                 F90 Forms                  Satisfactory implementation of
Monitoring Support System (SAP)                                                          FUNDESCOLA in the
metropolitan area of Fortaleza.
Continuous collaboration among
2. Expanding Access                            US$22. 1                                     the Secretariats of Labor and
Social Assistance, Basic
Education, Science and
Technology, and Health.
A. Increasing the offer of basic education
programs through altemative
educational programs, with priority to
the 15-39 year age group
3. Upgrading Education in Poorer               US$20.6
Municipalities through a Municipal
Education Development Program
(PRODEM)
4. Promoting Decentralization and
Institutional Development                    US$27.6
A. Fostering School Autonomy Strategies
B. Strengthening Institutional
Modernization
C. Building up Social Participation and
Mobilization
Project Administration                          US$9.0
Total Baseline Cost                  US$145.0
Project Contingencies                           US$4.1
Bank Fee                                        US$0.9
Total                          US$150.0
26



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
BRAZIL: Ceara Basic Education Quality Improvement Project
Background
The Ceara Basic Education Quality Improvement Project is well-founded on a set of consistent and
selective educational initiatives and management practices, put in place and tested either by the state
or the municipalities. The only major new instrument to be implemented by the Project is the
Municipal Education Development Program (PRODEM), which is expected to become a powerful
mechanism to address the chronic equity problems faced by the poorest and most remote
municipalities. The project incorporates models and instruments designed by the federally sponsored
education programs being implemented in Ceara (FUNDESCOLA and PROMED) and experiences
successfully implemented under the Northeast Basic Education Project (Projeto Nordeste). Thus,
Project resources will be channeled toward strengthening or expanding successful ongoing activities
throughout 20 Ceara micro-regions. This will be done in a synergetic way to ensure complementarity
across projects, avoiding duplication. The State Basic Education Secretariat (SEDUC) partnership
with universities, research centers and institutions such as the Fundaqdo Roberto Marinho and the
Education and Culture Research Center (CENPEC), will contribute to increasing the quality of
Project interventions. A table summarizing issues addressed by each of these projects is found at the
end of Annex 2.
Project Objectives
The main objective of the Ceara Basic Education Quality Improvement Project is to promote greater
quality, efficiency and equity in the provision of education services by: (a) improving education
quality in both academic achievement (output) and the learning environment (education inputs); (b)
expanding access to initial education and basic education programs for dropouts, young workers and
excluded youth through the use of alternative teaching and learning methodologies; (c) fostering
equitable provision of basic education services; and (d) strengthening the managerial and pedagogical
capacity of the central, regional and municipal levels to deliver public education services efficiently.
Four interrelated components are designed to meet the objectives.
Project Components
Component 1 - Improving School Quality and Efficiency - US$65.7 million
Objectives. This component will improve school quality and efficiency by: (a) carrying out in-
service and continuing teacher development programs through different modalities to raise the
academic qualifications of teachers in both state and municipal schools and to introduce more
effective teaching practices; (b) supporting non-formal early childhood development (ECD) programs
by upgrading the Health Agents' (State Health Secretariat) skills to promote these activities at the
local level; (c) assuring basic operational standards for state schools; (d) developing "accelerated
programs" to help over-age students accomplish two or three grades in a single school year; and (e)
supporting and upgrading the existing Pedagogical Monitoring and Support System (SAP).
27



Subcomponent 1.1- Enhancing Teacher Development and Early Childhood Development (ECD)
Programs - US$18.3 million
Objectives. This sub-component will upgrade teachers' professional performance and ECD programs
by providing: (a) higher education programs for approximately 6,700 5h-8"' grade teachers; (b)
secondary education programs for approximately 6,400 teachers responsible for early/preschool and
I st-4 th grade education; (c) in-service training programs to update, expand and enrich teachers'
performance; and (d) the expansion of non-formal ECD activities through training of the community
Health Agents, who will then train parents and community workers to provide non-formal initial
education.
Implementation arrangements. A critical input for improving quality in Ceara is teacher training,
both pre- and in-service. In addition, the Project will support the expansion of non-formal ECD
activities through the Health Agents, who will receive special training to add an educational
dimension to their activities. Implementation will be coordinated by SEDUC's Technical-pedagogical
Development Unit (CDTP), which will be responsible for: (a) contracting out the design and
provision of higher education programs to upgrade current teachers' qualifications; (b) contracting
out the design and provision of high-quality in-service training programs to be implemented through
the Regional Education Development Centers (CREDEs) in each micro-region; (c) monitoring and
evaluating teacher training programs to guarantee the quality of the content and methodologies used,
and their effectiveness in improving teacher performance and student learning; (d) providing support
and guidance to the CREDEs as they lead the exchange process of pedagogical experience among
teachers in different micro-regions and education modalities; and (e) monitoring and providing
guidelines to the State Health Secretariat, with the support of UNICEF, to execute non-formal initial
education training programs for Health Agents. The following strategies will be used:
(a)   University training (Magister Program). Four public universities located in the various
regions of the state will execute the higher education programs. The main purposes for using
the local universities are to facilitate access to local teachers and guarantee the relevance of
the program to each specific region while preserving the goals and peculiarities of the
municipal education systems and the state perspective;
(b)   Proformacdo (secondary level) training. The secondary education program, tailored mainly
for municipal lay teachers, will be developed following the approach of FUNDESCOLA's
Proformaqdo program, designed and supervised by MEC;
(c)   In-service training programs. The main emphasis of the in-service training program is to
upgrade the content and pedagogical skills of Portuguese and mathematics teachers in basic
education schools. Programs will be designed by selected training agencies under the
supervision of SEDUC's CDTP and executed in collaboration with each CREDE. The design
of the in-service training program will take into consideration the systematic results of the
SAP, which is intended to become an important tool in raising teachers' awareness of their
teaching performance and in identifying their training needs. The CDTP will be responsible
for program monitoring and evaluation;
(d)   Initial education training program for Health Agents. The non-formal initial education
training program for Health Agents will be implemented by the State Health Secretariat
through its School of Public Health, following SEDUC and UNICEF guidelines and technical
28



support. The program is built on the celebrated success of Ceara's Health Agents network,
which promotes improvements in basic health and nutrition across the state through door-to-
door outreach to families, even in remote rural areas. The specific project objective is to
equip Health Agents with sufficient understanding of early childhood education development
so that they may train parents and community providers of non-formal initial education
services in more effective practices to stimulate and support infant and child development.
The success of Ceara's Health Agents earned them the 1993 international UNICEF's
"Maurice Patd Award," given for the first time to a Latin American government. In addition
to building on established institutional capacity, the program borrows important features of
successful initial education programs developed with Bank support in rural Mexico, as well as
other innovative experiences in Latin America; and
(e)   Monitoring and evaluation will be supported by the Project to determine the impact of the
training alternatives in improving teacher performance and student learning outcomes, as well
as Health Agents' performance.
Financing. The Project will provide funds for: (a) contracting out the higher education programs and
selected content/pedagogical training programs to universities and research centers; (b) teacher
training materials and equipment; (c) Health Agents' training and corresponding materials; (d) the
design and implementation of monitoring and evaluation studies to determine the impact of the
different training strategies; and (d) administrative expenses including per diem and transportation
required for the preparation and delivery of project-related training activities.
Subcomponent 1.2 - Assuring Basic Operational Standardsfor Schools - US$23.8 million
Objectives. This sub-component will help upgrade state schools to attain basic operational standards
(Padroes Basicos de Funcionamento-PBF). The main objective is to ensure that each school can
count on those resources, conditions and inputs which are more conducive to better teaching and
learning processes and outcomes.
By building on MEC's concept of minimum operational standards for schools to address long-
standing educational inequities in Brazil, and incorporating lessons learned from the implementation
of this concept by FUNDESCOLA, SEDUC has developed a set of Basic Operational Standards.
SEDUC's PBF model includes qualified teachers, adequate physical facilities, appropriate furniture
and equipment, functional learning-teaching materials, a school or classroom library, and library
books and pedagogical equipment, all adjusted to fit the size, education modalities and programs
offered in each school. Special attention will be given to the construction/rehabilitation of small
schools, including equipment and materials, for Portuguese-speaking local ethnic groups. In this
case, the beneficiaries will define their own operational standards. All 709 state schools will attain
these basic standards by the end of the Project. Municipal systems will be encouraged to meet PBF,
by using resources from the Municipal Education Development Program - PRODEM (see
Component 3).
Implementation arrangements. The CREDEs will be responsible for either executing or monitoring
and assessing these programs, following guidelines provided by SEDUC's Education Coordination
and Management Unit (CAGE). The actual PBF provision will be preceded by an assessment of each
of the schools in the selected micro-region, conducted by the CREDEs. The PBF typology (see
SEDUC, 1999 for PBF model in project files), developed by SEDUC to meet the needs of different
29



schools, will be used by the CREDEs to address current schools' requests and to agree on gradual
PBF improvements.
Financing. This sub-component will support: (a) the design and dissemination of information on the
PBF; (b) training activities for CREDE staff to implement the sub-component; (c) construction or
rehabilitation of classrooms and schools; (d) provision of furniture and equipment; (e) provision of
school and classroom libraries, school laboratories and equipment, and educational learning-teaching
materials for schools and classrooms; and (f) administrative expenses.
Subcomponent 1.3 - ReducingAge-grade Distortions through Accelerated Programs - US$22.0
million
Objective. Approximately 58% of Ceara's basic education students are over-age gradewise, due to:
(a) late entry into formal schooling; and (b) repetition, dropout and reentry problems. This sub-
component aims to help these students catch up academically and thereby reduce the serious age-
grade distortion in fundamental education. Following the success of this approach in other Brazilian
states (Sao Paulo, Maranhao and Parana), SEDUC is developing innovative accelerated programs and
TV education programs designed to meet the needs of older students, and is training teachers in more
effective and supportive pedagogical techniques designed to build students' self-esteem and
encourage the performance of over-age students, who are at high risk of dropout and academic
failure. These programs and methodologies are designed to enable motivated over-age children to
accomplish two or three grades in a single school year.
Implementation arrangements. Two methodologies will be implemented to support over-age
students in accelerating their learning process, both of them tested in Ceara and in other parts of
Brazil. First, the Project will support and expand the ongoing Accelerated Pilot Program successfully
implemented in schools and monitored by CREDEs, for over-age students at the fundamental
education level grades 1 to 4; and second, SEDUC is adopting, for over-age students in grades 5 to 8,
the Tempo de Avancar (Time for Advancing) Program which uses the Telecurso 2000 (television-
mediated) methodology and materials developed by the Fundacao Roberto Marinho. This program
has been used in several states. Both methodologies are explained below:
(a) Accelerated program for students in grades 1 to 4. SEDUC's CDTP, which developed the pilot
program, will be responsible for coordinating this sub-component with technical assistance from
CENPEC, the agency that successfully supported the implementation of a similar program in Sao
Paulo and Parana. CENPEC's technical assistance will include the: (a) transfer of the methodologies
to SEDUC staff members; (b) development of training programs for teachers on a demonstration
basis and the training of teacher trainers; and (c) systematic supervision of program implementation
at the school level to guarantee quality. Specially designed textbooks and materials have already
been prepared under the pilot. The extension of the program to all state schools will be financed
under the Project. Teachers will be trained in the rationale and techniques of the methodology, and
particularly in the effective use of the new textbooks and learning materials. Municipal systems will
be encouraged to adopt this methodology using financial resources provided under the Municipal
Education Development Program - PRODEM (see Component 3); and
(b) Accelerated program  for grades 5th to 8th and secondary education (Tempo de
Avan,ar/Telecurso 2000). For older students, the Tempo de Avan ar/Telecurso 2000 program, will be
used. SEDUC's CDTP, which will be responsible for coordinating this sub-component, has already
30



piloted the program and signed a Technical Agreement with the Fundaqao Roberto Marinho. Such
agreement was reviewed by the Bank and found to be satisfactory. Approximately 150,000 students
will benefit from the program. Implementation of the expansion of the successful pilot has already
begun, with 4,300 tele-classrooms established, and the first groups of 300 school directors and 1,200
teachers (out of the 5,000 planned) already trained by the Fundacdo in curriculum, methodology,
materials and new teaching practices. These are aimed at promoting students' motivation, curiosity
and higher-order thinking skills. The Fundaqdo will also be responsible for monitoring program
implementation at the school level on a sample basis and for providing regular follow-up
reinforcement training sessions to help teachers solve technical difficulties encountered in the
implementation of the Telecurso methodology or in the learning materials. The CDTP will be
responsible for conducting a full impact evaluation of the program, contracted to an external research
center or university.
Tempo de Avanqar students will be promoted when, after completion of the modules for each subject,
they pass a standardized examination conducted by schools accredited by the State Education
Council. This program will benefit from a Teachers' Incentive Program, recently announced by a
network of national and local business executives who have pledged to give a financial reward to all
Ceara teachers whose students successfully complete the Tempo de Avanqar program and pass the
fundamental and middle school equivalency examinations.
Financing. This sub-component will support: (a) the design and production of textbooks and other
support material for accelerated classes and the Tempo de Avan9ar program; (b) technical assistance,
training activities and evaluation activities; and (c) financing of equipment and administrative
expenses.
Subcomponent 1.4 - Strengthening the Pedagogical Monitoring and Support System (SAP) -
US$ 1.6 million
Objective. This sub-component will increase education and school quality, efficiency, and
accountability through the introduction of a new, integrated system of school supervision called the
Pedagogical Monitoring and Support System (SAP), which the SEDUC began developing in 1996.
The SAP is meant to improve on previous school supervision arrangements in several key aspects:
* Logistics. The SAP sets a regular timetable for school visits, reviews, and periodic major reviews
while local CREDEs provide continuing monitoring and technical assistance;
* Results-based orientation. Priority is given to developing and tracking objective measures of
school performance, such as student achievement on the national SAEB standardized tests,
repetition, dropout and completion rates, and school management factors; and
* "Whole school" development feedback. Perhaps the biggest asset is that SAP interdisciplinary
tearns (from CREDEs and central SEDUC) visit and observe the school and provide
comprehensive and detailed performance feedback, covering pedagogical and managerial issues.
More ambitious SAP reviews would involve the entire school community: directors, teachers,
parents, students and School Councils. Through this process, schools are helped to refine their
development plans (PDE) and set clear goals for improvement.
31



Implementation arrangements. The SAP design is a clear improvement over both previous school
supervision in Ceara and standard practice elsewhere in Brazil and Latin America. A well-conceived
and potentially powerful tool for improving school and teaching performance, the SAP seems,
however, to be highly ambitious in scope and institutional requirements.  As a result, SAP
implementation to date has been uneven across schools and CREDEs, and its impact on school
performance has been less profound than its designers had hoped at first. The purpose of this
subcomponent is to support SEDUC's efforts to deepen and extend SAP implementation at the
central, CREDE and school levels.
The implementation of the new SAP procedures and instruments to monitor state school system
performance will be heralded and tested initially in six CREDEs. Only after such testing and
evaluation will implementation be extended to the remaining CREDEs. This strategy will allow for
the simultaneous testing of the entire SAP strategy and its capability to efficiently contribute to
improving school and classroom performance. The CREDEs of Acaraui, Canindd, Crateius, Iguatui, 1c6
and Tiangua were selected to participate in the pilot on the basis of their geographical location and
representativeness of the various micro-regions. The preparation, development and evaluation of the
new SAP pilot program are expected to be carried out in fifteen months.
The subcomponent will be implemented jointly by SEDUC's CDTP and CAGE units, which are co-
responsible for the SAP design. The Project will support efforts to further refine and strengthen SAP
procedures, instruments and data analysis. It will also provide training and technical assistance for
central SEDUC personnel and CREDE staff involved in implementing the SAP, especially the math
and literacy coordinators (Professores Coordenadores de Ensino-PCE) at the CREDE level, who
play a critical role in training local teachers and school-based Pedagogical Coordinators.
Financing. This sub-component will finance: (a) consultant services; (b) training activities; (c)
design and application of monitoring instruments; (d) dissemination of results; and (e) administrative
expenses.
Component 2 - Expanding Access - US$22.1 million
Objectives. This component aims at: (a) increasing access through TV education programs
(Telensino) for students grades 5 to 8 where no schooling at this level is available; and (b) increasing
access to education for dropouts, parents and young workers in the 15 to 39 age group. A specially
targeted group is represented by students in the 15 to 39 age group who recently became literate
through the several literacy programs implemented in the state.
Implementation arrangements. This component will use a combination of distance and presence
basic education strategies, both supported by television programs, first to increase years of schooling
for students enrolled in schools where the complete 1st-to-8th grade segment is not offered; and,
second, to increase access to basic education for students in the 15 to 39 age group. To achieve these
objectives, this component will adopt the two following strategies:
(i) Telensino (Televised Education Program). To support primary school students (1-4 years of
schooling) in completing the eight years of fundamental education, and also middle education, the
Project will use the Telensino program. The project relies on 26 years of experience with state-
owned TV-mediated basic education programs. A 1996 beneficiary assessment conducted with
32



students enrolled in this program indicated that a significant number of students were not totally
pleased with the program (see Annex 5). Since then, SEDUC has introduced a series of changes
which have not had a significant impact on student outcomes yet. As this program has become the
major tool to provide the complete cycle of basic education to a large number of rural and small-town
children, SEDUC is committed to making the necessary changes to ensure that the program reaches
its full potential. SEDUC has commissioned an external evaluation of the program that is expected to
indicate the key elements to re-orient program design and implementation. With the results of the
evaluation, the Project will support the structural changes needed to improve the quality of Telensino.
This would include changes in classroom coordination, learning materials, and teacher training
methodologies, among others, to support both teachers and students to make better use of the TV
education programs. The program benefits from the fact that the Government has already acquired
the satellite signal for an increasing line of such education activities, which has increased the quality
of the transmission. Also, most of the targeted schools already have the infrastructure and equipment
to operate the program, and TV-mediated classes are being broadcast to the-entire state; and
(ii) Educacdo Contextualizada (Tailored Education Program). For students in the 15 to 39 year-old
group who recently became literate, the Project will offer the Educa9do Contextualizada program,
based on an ongoing experience with young workers. To attend to this age group's needs and
characteristics, a methodology is used that is specially designed to combine general basic education
content with activities that help students to develop skills and abilities useful for entering the labor
market. The 18-month program will be developed with a total of 180 television "modules".
Approximately 90,000 students will be attending the program during the life of the project, with
intense evening and weekend use of school facilities. Under the project, the program will be jointly
implemented by an eligible university and the Comunidade Soliddria Program, in close coordination
with SEDUC.
Table 1
Students to be enrolled in the Educa(!io Contextualizada Program
No. of Students
Year 1     Year 2     Year 3     Year 4     Year 5
30,000                  |                     i
30,000 
130,000
Total                            90,000
Financing. This sub-component will finance: (a) technical assistance and consultant services to re-
structure Telensino; (b) production of teaching-learning material; (c) training of the teaching
coordinators for both education modalities; (d) evaluation activities; and (e) administrative expenses.
Component 3 -Upgrading Education in Poorer Municipalities through a Municipal Education
Development Program (PRODEM) - US$20.6 million
Objective.  This component aims to improve educational results in the 54 poorest Ceara
municipalities by supporting the implementation of two education programs: (a) non-formal initial
education; and (b) innovative fundamental education activities to increase the learning achievements
of students in municipal schools.
33



A major objective of this component is to leverage desirable policy changes at the municipal level,
where school performance is weakest and the state system cannot exert direct control. The PRODEM
would provide a strong incentive for municipalities to modernize their education management
process and bring key policies (governing, recruitment, student assessment, basic operational
standards and school autonomy, etc.) into line with those of the state school system. This would
advance the goal of a more integrated, consistent, and equitable education system across state and
municipal regimes in Ceara.
The municipalities eligible for receiving resources from PRODEM usually have the following
characteristics: (i) relatively recent emancipation; (ii) a rather small territory; (iii) very low
administrative capacity; (iv) poor social infrastructure; (v) scattered rural population; and (vi)
ingrained poverty.
Implementation arrangements. The poorest Ceara municipalities do not in general receive the
benefits of most social programs funded either by the state or the federal govermment (see "Quality
and Equity in Ceara: Appraising Education Disparities, " in Moreira & Maia, 1999, in Project files).
To raise the level of education in those municipalities, compensatory strategies must be established.
Thus, the Project will strengthen the municipal education systems through the PRODEM, targeted to
Ceara's 54 poorest municipalities. The following aspects will be considered in the implementation of
PRODEM:
(i)   Targeting criteria. Two sources of indicators will be applied to select the municipalities
qualified to access PRODEM resources: (a) the Municipal Development Index (IDM),
developed by the Planning Institute of Ceara and based on 32 indicators used to rank the
development standing of the municipalities; and (b) the UNICEF typology, that identifies
Ceara municipalities with the poorest education and other social indicators;
(ii)   Organization and Administration The municipal sub-projects will be submitted for financing
twice a year to a Technical Committee, composed of SEDUC and UNICEF staff members.
This committee will analyze and rank them according to established criteria, and recommend
approval. The selected sub-projects are then submitted to the Review Committee;
(iii)  Review Committee. A Review Committee, responsible for approving the municipal proposals,
will be comprised of representatives of SEDUC, UNICEF, APRECE (Ceara Mayors
Association), UNDIME, and a group of CREDE directors who will participate on a rotating
basis. Once a proposal is approved, an agreement (convenio) between SEDUC and the
requestor will be signed whereby the former agrees to disburse, through the CREDEs, the
resources approved under the proposal, and the latter agrees to adequately implement the sub-
project;
(iv)  Pre-conditions to access PRODEM resources. In order to participate, municipalities will be
required to commit themselves to: (a) recruitment and appointment of all education personnel
through a transparent and competitive process (concurso ptuhlico) used in the state system; (b)
participation in the State Education Evaluation System-SPAECE; (c) establishment or
enforcement of the Municipal Council for Children and Youth Protection; (d) evidence of
compliance with the national children's rights statute; (e) establishment of school-level
governing councils in all schools, with representation of parents and community members (as
is standard in the state schools); and (f) satisfactory use of FUNDEF resources;
34



(iv)   Eligible activities are: (a) formal and non-formal initial education and pre-school programs;
(b) rehabilitation and furnishing of primary schools to ensure basic operational standards; (c)
teacher training and teaching-learning materials for multigrade (Colombia Escuela Nueva
model) and accelerated classes; (d) staff development training programs; and (f) technical
assistance to implement School Development Plans. A complete menu of activities to be
financed by PRODEM will be included in the PRODEM Guidelines which will be an annex of
the Project Implementation Manual; and
(iv)   PRODEM Guidelines. The Project Implementation Manual will provide detailed guidelines
indicating the management procedures, participation criteria and eligible activities to be
supported by PRODEM. As a condition for effectiveness, the PRODEM Guidelines, including
the eligibility criteria, will be agreed with the Bank.
Financing. This component will provide: (a) financial resources for identifying and implementing
the approved municipal sub-projects; (b) support to establish a monitoring system to follow up the
education interventions financed by PRODEM; (c) support to fully evaluate all sub-projects funded;
and (d) assistance to disseminate the results of the evaluations. The sub-projects could provide: (i)
consultant services and technical assistance for the municipalities to prepare the proposals; and (ii)
procurement of goods, such as audiovisual equipment, rehabilitation of classrooms or teaching-
learning materials, technical assistance, and training programs and training materials, among others.
Criteria for the financing of municipal sub-projects shall be detailed in the PRODEM Guidelines,
including a ceiling on the amount of expenditures eligible under each municipal sub-project for the
procurement of goods.
Component 4 - Promoting Decentralization and Institutional Development - US$27.6 million
Objectives. The main objective of the decentralization and institutional modernization component is
to support the ongoing decentralization process at the school, regional, municipal and central levels
by: (a) enhancing school-based management activities to increase school autonomy; (b) modernizing
the processes, procedures and monitoring and evaluation capacity at all levels of the education sector
to increase accountability and efficiency in service delivery; and (c) establishing a systematic and
effective communication strategy to obtain public support for education reform and innovation, and
receive feedback from parents, teachers, students and other key stakeholders.
Subcomponent 4.1 - Fostering School Autonomy Strategies - US$16.3 million
Objectives. This sub-component focuses on improving school management and efficiency by: (a)
supporting the design and implementation process of the School Development Plans-PDE; and (b)
enhancing community/parent and student participation in the decision-making process at the school
level.
Implementation arrangements. SEDUC's Education Coordination and Management Unit-CAGE
will be responsible for implementing this sub-component with the support of CREDEs and Municipal
Education Secretariats as follows:
(i)   The School Development Plan (PDE) implementation strategy. The PDE embodies the needs,
demands and expectations of the school and its community members. SEDUC initiated this
experience in 1998, enriched it with lessons learned from the FUNDESCOLA project and is
35



now revising the PDE manual. The new guidelines for PDE preparation will be disseminated
to the municipal schools through the CREDEs. Based on the PDE, School Innovation
Projects (SIPs) may be presented to be financed under the Project. The major activities to be
developed by the sub-component include: (a) design of a new set of criteria for selecting the
schools where PDEs would be initially developed; (b) training programs for SEDUC and
CREDE professionals involved in training school staff and community members in designing
their own PDEs and SIPs; (c) development of SIPs to implement selected priority actions
identified by individual schools during the preparation of their PDEs; and (d) design of
instruments to be adopted by the CREDEs to monitor and evaluate the PDE implementation;
and
(ii)   School Councils and School/Community Partnership. School councils, parent associations
and student organizations have been in existence in Ceara schools for some decades now.
However, the redefinition of their roles has been lately the object of some concern and minor
adjustments. Under the Project, SEDUC's CAGE will undertake a more decisive initiative to
redesign and reinvigorate these school-centered institutions by: (a) developing leadership
training programs for school councils and student organizations; (b) designing operation
manuals for both types of associations; and (c) establishing mechanisms for mobilizing both
school and community members to support school efforts, including PDE elaboration and
implementation processes.
Financing. This sub-component will finance: (a) PDE innovative proposals, which could include
educational material and equipment; (b) training and monitoring activities; (c) technical assistance to
support the design of operational and monitoring instruments and the development of videotaped
guidance and messages; (d) micro-regional and statewide meetings; (e) production and printing of
materials to support school-based management and participatory activities; and (f) exchange of
experiences among schools and micro-regions.
Subcomponent 4.2 - Strengthening Institutional Modernization - US$10.1 million
Objectives. The main objective of this sub-component is to carry out institutional modernization and
strengthening of the education sector at the central, regional and municipal levels. In particular, the
sub-component aims to: (a) upgrade and consolidate the State Education Evaluation System
(SPAECE); (b) improve the planning and information systems to support the re-organization of the
public (both state and municipal) school systems; (c) establish and implement staff development
programs at the central, regional and municipal levels; and (d) develop evaluation studies to
determine the impact of the Project and of selected project interventions.
Implementation arrangements. SEDUC's Education Planning and Policy Unit (CPPE) will be
responsible for implementing this sub-component, partly in coordination with CAGE.  The
implementation of actions to foster policy development and changes on a long-term basis should
provide continuous support and upgrading of processes and procedures for strengthening
decentralization at the regional and school levels.  The implementation of the institutional
strengthening activities will take a gradual approach by testing selected activities in the CREDEs.
This strategy will allow for the simultaneous assessment of project components, particularly the
Project innovations which will require the established capability of those involved in the process.
36



The main activities planned for this sub-component include:
(i)   Planning, Information and Evaluation System. Planning, information and monitoring
processes/procedures will be developed under the Project. Emphasis will be given to the: (a)
upgrading of statistical data, analysis and dissemination services; (b) re-organization of the
state and municipal schools and CREDE network; (c) statewide implementation of the
SPAECE; and (d) development of impact evaluation studies of the Project and of selected
activities. The following activities are considered:
+ Re-organization of the state and municipal school network. To maximize efficiency and
synergy factors, SEDUC has developed efforts to organize a state and municipal school
network. This implies organizing the system to avoid duplication and overlapping of
responsibilities. The microplanning exercise that supports the reorganization of both state
and municipal schools within each micro-region and CREDE follows the guidelines jointly
provided by SEDUC's CAGE and CPPE. Four organizing principles (inter-communication,
shared learning and practices, co-responsibility and participatory decision-making) will be
applied at five different levels: school, school cluster, Municipal Education Secretariat,
CREDE, and central SEDUC. Within each level, these principles will be applied both
horizontally (to generate internal institutional identity, cohesiveness, learning opportunities
and ownership) and vertically (to open broader cooperative channels and maintain flows of
communication and learning with similar institutions). Periodic meetings, printed and
electronic information, a newsletter, exchange of personnel and procedures, internships,
seminars and workshops are some of the instruments that will be used to create and
invigorate the network. The expected result of these activities would be an education system
with increased inter-complementarity between state and municipal schools, abolishing the
two-system barriers and promoting the idea of better micro-regional planning,
implementation and evaluation strategies.
* SPAECE implementation strategy. SPAECE, which has been in operation since 1997, will
be supported by the Project and will include cognitive achievement by subject matter, to be
measured across variables such as age, type of school and education, modality, grade, gender,
and geographical area. In addition, data relative to school inputs, family and community
characteristics, and social and economic environment would control for school and non-
school factors. The universalization of SPAECE will be done in close collaboration with
MEC/INEP, which has developed SAEB, a successful system of evaluation based on a
national sample of schools and students. The state-based SPAECE will be applied in the
years in which the nationwide SAEB will not be carried out. Initially, SPAECE will include
all state schools, but municipal and private sectors will be encouraged to join the system; and
* Studies and impact evaluations. This sub-component will also support the development of
impact evaluation studies of the Project and of selected activities, including the carrying out
of annual workshops with stakeholders to be held throughout the life of the Project. SEDUC
has already indicated a set of studies to be carried out during Project implementation to
determine the status and effectiveness of selected interventions supported by the Project: (a)
evaluation of the accelerated methodologies to reduce age-grade distortions; (b) evaluation of
the training programs conducted by the universities to give a higher education degree to
targeted teachers; and (c) the impact of the SAP in increasing school performance. During
37



the preparation of the annual action plan, SEDUC and the Bank will agree on the impact
evaluation studies to be developed each year and the corresponding terms of reference. Out
of its own resources, SEDUC has already hired CENPEC to evaluate all the state education
programs. This report would be available to the Bank by June 2000, and would be discussed
at the project launch seminar; and
(ii)   Staff Development Activities. The staff training program is an integral part of the process of
introducing new attitudes and technologies to the education sector at the central, regional and
municipal levels. The administrative staff will be brought up to date regularly on innovations
and administrative technologies developed in the sector. Technical and managerial training
must be provided not only for those to whom responsibility is being transferred (CREDEs and
municipalities, mainly) but also to central level officials who will need to have clear
knowledge on how to support local implementors more effectively.  The design and
implementation of the staff development program will follow the policies and modernization
processes adopted by SEDUC to improve, in a timely and coordinated manner, the skills of
administrators and technical, administrative and pedagogical personnel. Terms of reference
for a systematic staff development program will be a condition for project effectiveness.
Financing. Specifically, this sub-component will finance: (a) consulting services to help improve the
state planning system, the process of data collection, systematization and analysis of education
indicators; (b) technical assistance and consultant services to develop impact evaluation activities and
selected studies; (c) establishment of a continuous staff development program for those involved in
the implementation of education programs at the central, regional and municipal levels; (d) provision
of computers and other equipment for SEDUC and CREDEs; and (e) administrative expenses.
Subcomponent 4.3 - Building up Social Participation and Mobilization - US$1.2 million
Objective. This sub-component aims at: (a) raising societal awareness of the socio-economic and
developmental value of basic education and local schools; and (b) promoting key stakeholder
participation in and support to education and school-associated reform initiatives. Studies and
widespread first-hand evidence have shown how social mobilization and civil society partnership
have become one of the cornerstones for successful educational improvements. This is a two-way
street: as people grow aware of their rights and feel eager to actively participate, public managers
discover the value of that partnership and seek to develop social marketing strategies. SEDUC's
achievements in this particular respect seem to be a meaningful start and source of inspiration for
other state and municipal secretariats.
Implementation arrangements. Mainly under SEDUC leadership, but with municipal participation as
well, a variety of community and social expressions such as meetings, partnership development with
business associations, school and teacher awards, radio and television messages, posters,
publications, videos, etc., will be developed. A diversity of stakeholders need to be reached,
including insiders (system professionals, teachers, parents, students, directors) and outsiders
(community leaders, politicians, business people and media professionals). The communication and
mobilization program will use social research techniques and mass media publicity in the design,
execution and monitoring of the program.
Financing. This sub-component will support: (a) institutional communication activities to generate a
flow of information on and practical support for education in public opinion and within and among
38



the different institutions involved in consuming, planning, financing, managing and evaluating
education services; (b) technical assistance to design campaigns; and (c) school-based campaigns.
Project Management - US$9.0 million
This component will finance: (a) Project administrative expenses; and (b) equipment, vehicles, office
supplies and technical assistance for supporting project administration.
39



Annex 2
Table 1: Summary of Issues Addressed by Education Projects in Ceara
Initial!preschool Education (0-6 yr)
1. ECD Program
(a) formal programs               g  a        giries
(b) non-formal programs          municialI ies
Fundamental Education (l" - 8 )
1. Quality Improvements
Munciplites ot      FtCa
(a) school Inputs                 c        by
(b) teacher development             i         t
(a) reduce age/grade distortion  A
2. Access to Education
(a) distance ed. (TV education)    A   c t
3. Equity Issues in Municipal         54 pooret
Schools                       i    unic  ities
Secondary Education (9thto-I It
1. Access (formal programs)
2. Quality/School Inputs
3. Teacher Development                 r
4. Distance Education (TV                      
education)foalr
Institutional Strengthening
1. PDE/PME (school autonomy)          cvrdb
2. SEDUC (Central)
3. CREDEs (Regional)
4. Communication Campaigns
5. Evaluation and Monitoring
6. MIS
40



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
Brazil: Ceara Basic Education Quality Improvement Project
Local    Foreign      Total
Project Cost By Component                            US $ million
1. Improving School Quality and Efficiency                    59.6        6.1       65.7
1.1 Enhancing Teacher Development and Early Childhood    18.3       0          18.3
Development (ECD) Programs
1.2 Assuring Basic Operational Standards for Schools     19.2       4.6       23.8
1.3 Reducing Age-grade Distortions through Accelerated   21.0        1.0      22.0
Programs
1.4 Strengthening the Pedagogical Monitoring and Support  1.1       0.5         1.6
System (SAP)
2. Expanding Access                                            20.1       2.0       22.1
2.1 Improving Access to Basic Education for Dropouts and  20.1       2.0       22.1
Excluded Youth
3. Upgrading Education in Poorer Municipalities through a      19.7       0.9       20.6
Municipal Education Development Program (PRODEM)
4. Promoting Decentralization and Institutional Development    24.6       3.0       27.6
4.1 Fostering School Autonomy Strategies                  16.3       0.        16.3
4.2 Strengthening Institutional Modernization             7.1        3.0       10.1
4.3 Building up Social Participation and Mobilization      1.2       0          1.2
Project Administration                                          9.0       0          9.0
Total Baseline Cost                                           133.0      12.0      145.0
Project Contingencies                                           4.1       0          4.1
Bank Fee                                                        0.9       0          0.9
Total Project Costs                      138.0       12.0      150.0
41



Annex 4: Economic and Fiscal Analysis'
Brazil: Ceara Basic Education Quality Improvement Project
1 - Background
Although growing above the national average in recent years, Ceara remains among the
country's poorest states, with a per capita income of roughly 40% the Brazilian average.
Poverty in Ceara has been historically acute and, in spite of recent progress, remains severe
and deep. Using a "food only" poverty line of R$ 65 per month per capita, the state
headcount poverty rate is 49% of the total population of 6.8 million, which compares to
23% for all Brazil. As indicated in a recent World Bank study, education is the most
important determinant of the probability of being poor in Ceara and 84% of the poor live in
households where the household head has less than four years of schooling (World Bank
1999b). This study recommends improvements in education as the top priority action for
the state.
During the last decade, the state government has been striving to overcome poverty and
backwardness and has achieved some encouraging results. The state GDP increased at an
annual average rate of 5.8% in 1970-97, and primary education coverage expanded from
56% in 1988 to 97% in 1998. In spite of this progress, main challenges still need to be
addressed in order to assure a sustainable economic development for Ceard, and the
principal one is to advance the qualification of its human resources.
The main objective of the Ceara Basic Education Quality Improvement Project is to
improve the quality and effectiveness of the state's public educational system. To this end,
the Project will expand and enlarge key primary education inputs, reform school and
system processes and management, support special acceleration classes to reduce age-grade
distortion, educate a large number of young adults, increase initial and preschool coverage
rates and its performance levels, and support school- and community-based initiatives.
Almost all Project activities (teacher training, acceleration classes, improving school
management, etc.) will be open to both state and municipal schools and management units.
This annex presents a cost-benefit exercise for the Project and discusses its fiscal
implications. The analysis is done comparing expenditures and incomes with and without
the Project, and for that purpose student flows are computed for each situation. The next
two sections present the Project's components and costs, main impacts, and net benefits. In
Section 4 we analyze how sensitive our estimate for the Project's economic rate of return is
to our assumptions regarding the Project's effectiveness in improving the system's
efficiency and the monetary benefits to students of receiving a better education. Section 5
examines the fiscal implications of the Project.
Netting out costs and benefits, we estimate that the Project has an economic rate of return
(ERR) of 23.0%. A Monte Carlo analysis based on symmetrical distributions for the rate of
reduction in repetition rates and income increases due to better education indicated that
'A complete set of the Economic and Final Analysis is available in Project files (Project Team, 1999).
42



there is a 98.1% probability that the project's ERR is above 10%. Our sensitivity analysis
indicated that the three most critical variables are, in this order, the rate of repetition of the
Tempo de Avanqar program and the increases in income received by workers who have
completed primary and secondary education. If we reduce the income of workers with
complete secondary education by 5%, the Project's ERR falls to 15.2%. If the Project
produces no improvement in the efficiency of secondary schools, the ERR comes down to
17.8%. These results indicate that even if the Project is not as successful as we expect, it
will still yield significant net benefits.
We estimate that the Project's fiscal impact will be neutral for the municipalities, positive
for the federal government and negative for the state. At the municipal level, two forces
will be at work: (a) expenditures will rise as better trained teachers are promoted and
receive higher wages, new books and equipment are replaced, and the municipalities share
the costs of some of the project's initiatives; and (b) resources are freed as enrollment falls.
Our estimates indicate that the resources to be freed are more than sufficient to cover the
increase in expenditures. At the federal level, the Project brings unambiguous benefits, as
the reduction in enrollment in primary schools and the increase in average state expenditure
per student decrease the need for transfers. Finally, the state, on the one hand, benefits
from the increase in average municipal expenditures per student, which lowers the need for
intra-state transfers, but, on the other hand, faces an increase in its indebtedness and a rise
in its recurrent expenditures with basic education. We estimate that the net increase in state
government's expenditures will be significant in the medium term (2003-06), requiring the
government to allocate a larger share of its revenues to basic education. Otherwise, it may
face an excess demand for secondary education.
2 - Components and Costs
The Project is structured in four main components:
[I] Improving School Quality and Efficiency. With a total allocation of US$ 66.8 million
(44.5% of the total), this component contemplates four main initiatives: (a) to improve
teacher qualifications, (b) to upgrade school facilities; (c) to speed up student flow,
reducing age-grade distortion; and (d) to improve and expand the system of pedagogical
evaluation.
Roughly 34.4% of the component's total funds will be spent on training, 27.7% on teaching
and learning materials and 24.1% on civil works.
[2] Expanding Access. This component will support an expansion in distance education
through TV-mediated programs for students in 51h to 8th grade and a program of accelerated
learning for adults and young adults, aged 15 to 39, outside school, who will complete the
first four classes of primary education in two years. It answers for 14.7% of the Project's
total resources. Half of the funds in this component will be directed to buying and
producing books. The remaining funds will be used to buy equipment, produce TV classes
and provide teachers and students with appropriate teaching and learning materials.
[3] Upgrading Education in Poorer Municipalities through the Municipal Education
Development Program. This component, to which 13.4% of the Project's resources were
43



allocated, will target the poorest municipalities in Ceara, supporting demand-driven
initiatives to enhance the coverage of initial education and improve the quality and
efficiency of primary schools.
[4] Promoting Decentralization and Institutional Development. This component will
support the preparation and monitoring of School Development Plans (PDE) and the direct
transfer of funds to schools. Furthermore, it will seek to improve the management of
schools and of the educational system, both at the state and municipal levels. Areas of
intervention include (a) to improve school management through the training of and support
to school directors; (b) to improve the organization, management and operation of the State
and Municipal Education Secretariats; (c) to strengthen the Regional Education
Development Centers (CREDE); and (d) to extend the implementation of the State
Educational Evaluation System (SPAECE). Funds in this component will finance training,
the acquisition of equipment, and the implementation of the SPAECE. The overall
allocation to this component amounts to US$ 27.8 million, or 18.5 % of the total.
An extra US$ 4.5 million have been allocated to finance management of the Project, while
US$ 7.2 million have been set aside for contingencies. World Bank's credit fees in the
amount of US$ 1.5 million account for the remaining resources.
In addition to the expenses directly incurred by the Project, two other kinds of expenditures
are relevant for our analysis. The first concerns future expenditures with the replacement of
equipment and materials, such as computers and books, which will be essential to guarantee
that the initiatives financed by the Project and expected to be permanent (some are not) are
not discontinued once the Project is over.  The second encompasses new recurrent
expenditures that the Government (state and municipalities) will incur as a consequence of
the Project. The four most important will be higher salaries for teachers and staff trained as
part of the Project;2 the replacement of books, equipment and materials; the municipal
counterpart to some of the Project's expenses; and maintenance of the facilities built or
rehabilitated by the Project. To estimate those expenditures, we assumed that:
[1] 30% of the books would be replaced at every five years; that all learning and teaching
materials would be replaced at every eight years; that new TV programs would have to be
produced after eight years; and that equipment would last for five years, except for
vehicles, that would need to be replaced only after ten years.
(2] Maintenance expenditures would amount to 1% of the value of the facilities built or
rehabilitated, and that these would depreciate linearly over 50 years.
[3] After receiving training at secondary level, teachers of municipal schools would be paid
an additional half minimum wage. At the state level, we assumed that the teachers
receiving higher education would get a salary increase of R$ 252.68 (per month); but that
even in the absence of the project 40% of them would privately manage to obtain
university-level education.  Finally, we assumed that the 60 professionals receiving
postgraduate education would afterwards be paid an extra R$ 437.92 per month.
2 We considered only mandatory salary increases.
44



Using these assumptions, we derived the figures under the heading "Implied Replacement
and Recurrent Expenditures" (see project files). These costs are particularly relevant in the
case of the first component, "Improving School Quality and Efficiency", reflecting the
increment in teacher salaries as a result of better training. For the second component,
implied costs are a result mainly of the need to replace books and other teaching/learning
materials and to produce new TV programs in the future.
3 - Impacts
The Project has impacts of three different sorts. First, the speeding up of student flows will
accelerate the entry of students in the labor market. The Tempo de Avangar component
directed to students with complete primary education, who will complete secondary school
in one year, is particularly relevant in the short run, even if we consider, as we did here, that
their salary increases may be just half of that accruing to the students graduating from
regular classes. In the medium term, the main impact comes from the expansion of access,
that generates a substantial increase in the number of workers with four and eight years of
schooling. In the medium to long term, the principal gain arises from the improvement in
the efficiency of Ceara's education system. In particular, we anticipate that the Project will
reduce repetition and dropout rates, leading to a significant increase in the number of
students completing secondary school, above and beyond the one resulting from the Tempo
de Avanqar program.3 This will be essential to support Ceara's rapid economic growth and
to reduce poverty. The Project's concern with strengthening municipal schools and
management units will assure that these benefits are well distributed throughout the state.
We assumed that with the Project repetition and dropout rates of students not included in
the special Acceleration Classes or in the Tempo de Avanqar program would decline
uniformly between 2000 and 2007, as shown in Table 1. The first would come down
exponentially, at a rate of 3% per year, while the second would fall linearly by a constant
fraction.4 Repetition rates for students in the special Acceleration Classes and in the Tempo
de AvanVar program were assumed to be 15% for all years and classes, and dropout rates to
be the same as those applying to students in regular courses.
3 In 1997, only 28% of the labor force in Fortaleza's metropolitan area had complete secondary education.
4 Quantifying the impact of improving teacher training and school facilities and management on student
performance is obviously difficult. Nonetheless, see Barros et al. (1999a), Determinantes do Desempenho
Educacional no Brasil, for evidence that improving teacher training and, especially, school facilities has a
positive statistically significant impact on student attainment (measured in number of grades completed).
45



Table 1: Transition Rates in 2007
L  Level/Grade               ReRate                     7          Dropout Rates
Without Proect )   with Prjetct   Without Project (a)  With Project
Primary
I st              0.42               0.33              0.02              0.01
2n-d               0.24              0.18               0.02              0.02
3rd                0.23              0.18              0.02               0.02
4Lh0 0.19                            0.15              0.05               0.04
5- tn0.23                            0.18              0.07               0.06
6th                0.19              0.15               0.08              0.06
7 th               0.17              0.13              0.07               0.06
8z th0.14                    0.11               0.15              0.11
Secondary
Ilast             0.23               0.18              0.13               0.09
2ndl      1        0.20              0.16               0.08              0.04
3-I               0.11               0.08              0.04               0.02
(a) Assumed to stay constant at 1997 levels
We did an exercise demonstrating how we expect enrollment to evolve with and without
the project.5 We identified several relevant impacts of the Project on enrollment trends:
*  A substantial decline in enrollment in primary education, both compared to current
levels and to those that would prevail in the absence of the Project;
*  An equally impressive expansion in enrollment in secondary education. Note, though,
that this increase is expected to happen even if the Project is not implemented. The
Project will only magnify a trend that is already present. Furthermore, the Tempo de
Avanqar and the Classe de Aceleraqdo programs will accelerate the flow of students
through secondary school, so that enrollment will increase very substantially in the
medium term and then decline below the level expected to prevail without the Project
between 2006-08;
*  A  large increase in the number of students completing primary and secondary
education, with a consequent expansion in incomes. Students will also benefit from the
reduction in the time necessary to reach each grade, so that, for a certain education
level, they will be able to enter the labor market younger.
These changes in student flow will have monetary implications of two sorts: (a) a change in
public and private recurrent expenditures; and (b) a change in income flows, as students
receive a higher income due to their better education. For some of those students, the
Project will mean entering earlier in the labor market. Others will tend to postpone their
5 One important shortcoming of our exercise is that no allowance is made for demographic changes in the
number of students entering the first year of primary education, which we assume to remain constant at
160,000 throughout the period 2000-35. (see Project files - Table Bi - Project Enrollment without
Implementation of Project).
46



entry, as they stay in the system to achieve higher levels of education. To estimate the
impact of the Project on household and public expenditures, we assume, in addition to the
above, that:
(a) Households partly cover expenditures with books and transportation in secondary
school;
(b) Enrollment at state and private primary schools will remain constant at, respectively,
478,438 and 245,117 (1999 figures).  Therefore, all the decline in primary school
enrollment will take place at the municipal level;
(c) Enrollment in private secondary schools will stay constant at 51,177 (1999 figure), so
that all the expansion in enrollment will fall on the public (state) system;
(d) Municipalities will continue to spend the mandated amounts with primary education,
which are fixed as a proportion of tax revenues and transfers, with per student expenditures
increasing as the economy and tax revenues expand and enrollment comes down. We
projected state GDP to grow an average 5.3% p.a. in 2000-03,6 and 5% p.a. afterwards.
The Project would, therefore, have no impact on overall expenditures at municipal level,
but would improve the quality of education, since it would allow municipalities to spend
more per student.
(e) Per student expenditures of the state government with primary and secondary schools
will change at the same rate, and will be the same with and without the Project.
(f) Total expenditures with basic education by the state government will increase with GDP
until 2013. From 2014 onwards, these expenditures will increase so that the expenditure
per student in primary education in Ceara (municipal plus state) will be the minimum
between 90% of the national average and 12.2% of the state per capita GDP.7 This results
in lower and more reasonable expenditure levels than if we assumed that these would
continue to expand at the same rate of GDP.
(g) The minimum-spending floor for every student enrolled in primary education
guaranteed by FUNDEF (Education Development and Teacher's Incentive Fund), currently
at R$ 315, would increase with GDP until 2007 and with GDP per capita after that.8
6 This rate was extracted from Ceara's recently published PPA (Multi Year Investment Program).
7 This was obtained assuming an annual expansion of the population of 1.5%. Simply assuming that the state
government total expenditures with basic education will indefinitely expand at the same rate of GDP would
lead to unrealistically high levels of expenditures per student. The ratio of 12.2% between expenditure per
student and per capita GDP is comparable to the Asian average of 11% observed in 1990. See Alain Mingat,
1999, "Custo e Financiamento da Educacao nas Economias Asiaticas de Alto Desempenho", in
Financiamento da Educacao na America Latina, Programa de Promocao da Reforma Educativa na America
Latina e Caribe, I st Edition.
s The Education Development and Teacher's Incentive Fund, or FUNDEF, which has come into effect
nationwide as of January lO 1998, provides two minima for educational expenses with primary education: (a)
15% of the VAT tax collection and Constitutional transfers, or (b) R$ 315 per student per year. In those states
where the first criterion amounts to less than R$ 315 per student, the federal government transfers the
necessary funds to reach that amount. A similar process occurs between the state and its municipalities.
47



Using these assumptions and the projections for total enrollment, we projected enrollment
in public schools and recurrent expenditures per student with and without the Project. Note
that, as remarked before, the Project will increase municipal expenditures per student,
which will gradually approach unit expenditures by the state government. This will have
fiscal implications for both the state and the federal government. For the state, it will mean
that fewer resources will have to be transferred under the state FUNDEF program. The
federal government will benefit in two ways. One, because it will spend less with food,
books and cash transfers for primary schools. Two, because the increase in the average
expenditure per student in Ceara will reduce the need for transfers under the federal
FUNDEF program. On the other hand, the Project will put a burden on state and
households finances, as a result of higher expenditures with secondary education. At the
peak, to happen around 2010, total enrollment in public secondary schools is expected to
treble in comparison to current levels.9
In Table 2 we present a breakdown of the changes in recurrent expenditures arising from
implementing the Project, according to level of Government and as to whether they are a
result of the speeding up of student flows or from the changes in repetition rates of regular
students.
To measure private rates of return to education, so as to estimate the Project's impact on
incomes, we estimated standard Mincerian wage equations, using data from the 1997
PNAD (Pesquisa Nacional por Amostragem de Domicilios), for Ceara's urban areas, for
Fortaleza's metropolitan region, and for urban areas outside the metropolitan region. The
equation used in the three cases is:
Log Y =   13i i ED i + y1 age + 72 age2 + a gender + k color + 1
where Y is the hourly wage received in all occupations the week before the survey and EDi
(i = 1 to 17) is a dummy equal to I if i is the last grade level of education completed by the
individual and 0 otherwise (i.e., a worker with complete primary education will have ED8 =
1 and ED1 = 0 for all i 8). The equation was estimated for all workers with positive
income and age between 15 and 65. Although we do not have information on the
composition of enrollment according to gender and color, dummy variables for these
characteristics (equal to 1 for female and non-white workers, respectively) were included in
the regression to avoid possible biases in the estimation of the remaining parameters.
9 Without the Project, enrollment in secondary public schools is expected to peak also in 2008, with a 156%
increase with respect to 1999 levels.
48



Table 2: Change in Recurrent Expenditures (R$ 1000)
Due to Speeding Up Student Flow         Due to Other Actions
Year   State  Federal Private  Total   State   Federal  Private Total
2000         0       0       0        0       0          0        0         0
2001         0   -2662   8791    6129         0        42       389      431
2002     27222  -34482  16785    9524    1571         668      1266     3504
2003     51331  -66262  21255    6324    5091        1681      2538     9310
2004     61958  -90303  18033  -10311   10052        3130      3672    16854
2005     44977 -100781   2680  -53125   14227        4768      4814    23810
2006     -4723  -73265 -11721  -89708   17890        5575      6213    29677
2007    -48489  43673 -19729 -111891   22486         5493      8342    36320
2008    -73974  -23397 -18894 -116264   30176        3570    11608    45355
2009    -73504  -13536 -13194 -100234   43651         628    14117    58395
2010    -55948   -9934  -7641  -73523   56734        -2644    14941    69032
2011    -35905   -7943  -3903  -47751   64655        -5674    14791    73772
2012    -20598   -6603  -2137  -29338   68319        -9209    14272    73382
2013    -12557   -5115  -1472  -19145   69691    -12843    13995    70843
2014     -9208   -3530  -1242  -13980   71739    -16699    13869    68910
2015     -7965   -2187  -1072  -11223   72943    -20668    13796    66071
2016     -7039   -1239   -847   -9125   73514    -24442    13586    62658
2017     -5634    -656   -600   -6890   73363    -27557    13178    58984
2018     -4071    -330   -384   -4785   72303    -29903    12651    55051
2019     -2671    -159   -226   -3056   70674    -31664    12152    51162
2020     -1612       -3   -124   -1739   69274    -33054    11778    47998
2021      -911       -1    -64    -977   68682    -30394    11541    49830
2022      -488        0    -32    -520   69008    -27410    11410    53007
2023      -249        0    -15    -264   69655    -26949    11344    54049
2024      -120        0     -7    -127   70559    -27822    11313    54049
2025       -57        0     -3      -60   71713    -28721    11299    54291
2026       -25        0     -1      -26   72986    -29648    11293    54631
2027        -9        0      0      -10   74309    -30608    11291    54992
2028        -3        0      0       -3   75647    -31601    11290    55336
2029         0        0      0        0   76982    -32629    11290    55644
2030         0        0      0        0   78306    -33693    11290    55904
2031         0        0      0        0   79608    -34794    11290    56104
2032         0        0      0        0   80883    -35934    11290    56240
2033         0        0      0        0   82128    -37113    11290    56305
2034         0        0      0        0   83336    -38334    11290    56292
2035         0        0      0        0   84504    -39598    11290    56196
Obs. By assumption, the impact on municipal recurrent expenditures is nil in both cases.
OLS estimates of the parameters and of the standard deviation of the estimators are
presented in Table 3. The results show that the return to education is very high in Ceara,
particularly in urban areas outside Fortaleza's metropolitan region, as shown in Figure 1.
The high returns are particularly pronounced for higher education, but also relevant for
lower levels of instruction. Note, in particular, the discrete gain in earnings for workers
who have completed secondary school. The regressions also show, incidentally, that in the
metropolitan region there is less color and gender discrimination than in other urban areas.
49



Table 3: Earnings Equation for Ceara
Fortaza   t      aAreaW
Urban Ceai         Urban NonMetopoiltan       Unrestrited Model      Rsid  Model
Areas
Varable   Parameter   Standard      Parameter   Standard  Parameter  Standard  Parameter  Stadard
Estimate   Deviation     Estimate    Deviation   Estimate  WDeiion   EstimateS  DQiIon
Constant      -0.474      0.078        -0.573       0.170    -0.104      0.086      -0.104       0.086
EDi            0.104     0.048          0.120      0.091     0.071       0.059       0.071       0.059
ED2            0.355     0.047          0.347       0.096    0.251       0.052       0.227       0.041
ED3            0.334     0.043          0.366      0.088     0.206       0.049       0.227       0.041
ED4            0.490     0.037          0.397       0.080    0.391       0.040       0.391       0.040
ED5            0.627     0.046          0.714       0.107    0.403       0.048       0.403       0.048
ED6            0.700     0.055          0.780       0.133    0.465       0.056       0.460       0.044
ED7            0.669     0.052          0.754       0.117    0.455       0.055       0.460       0.044
EDa            0.830     0.042          0.816       0.099    0.644       0.043       0.644       0.043
EDg            1.029     0.069          1.273      0.174     0.730       0.069       0.730       0.069
EDio           0.989     0.064          0.964      0.163     0.799       0.064       0.800       0.064
ED,i           1.334     0.034          1.342       0.079    1.151       0.037       1.151       0.037
ED12           1.821     0.144          2.087       0.391    1.530       0.136       1.530       0.136
EDi3           2.104     0.144          3.015      0.780     1.789       0.122       1.789       0.122
ED14           2.029     0.136          1.280      0.452     1.959       0.122       1.960       0.122
EDM5           2.273     0.056          2.272      0.136     2.102       0.057       2.102       0.057
ED16           2.400     0.089          2.027       0.239    2.352       0.085       2.353       0.085
ED17           2.771     0.117         3.029       0.324     2.471       0.110       2.472       0.110
Age            0.073                    0.070       0.008    0.066        0.004      0.065       0.004
Age2        -0.00073                 -0.00069     0.00009        -    0.00005    -0.0006       0.00005
0.0006
Gender        -0.419                   -0.435       0.047    -0.406      0.021      -0.406       0.021
Color         -0.131                   -0.215       0.049    -0.072       0.022     -0.072       0.022
R2            0.4551                  0.4046                0.4806                  0.4806
N           5979                        1293                  4685                   4685
Source: Based on data from PNAD 1997.
Note: EDI to ED17 are dummy variables equal to I if worker completed the respective grade (I to 8 correspond
to primary education, 9 to 11 to secondary and 12 to 17 to university); and gender and color are dummy
variables equal to I for female and non-white workers, respectively.
In what follows, we use the equation estimated for Fortaleza to assess the impact of the
Project on incomes. This choice was predicated on the perception that the very high return
to education outside the metropolitan region will likely come down as the supply of
educated workers increases.'0  A  somewhat unexpected result, presented in the second last
model in Table 5, was that the estimates for the marginal rates of return to completion of
the third and seventh grades are negative (i.e., the coefficients for ED3 and ED7 are lower
than for ED2 and ED6, respectively). We decided to fix these negative marginal rates as
zero, equating the coefficients of ED2 and ED3 and ED6 and ED7, respectively. An F-test
for this joint hypothesis does not reject the pairwise equality of these coefficients. Our
preferred model is then the second (restricted) one presented in Table 5. Using these
estimates for the labor market returns to education and projections for the number, age and
'° One may want to keep in mind, though, that the Project's rate of return would have been higher had we
used the equation for all of Ceara's urban areas.
50



last grade completed by students leaving school each year, and assuming that half of these
are males and 67.9% non-whites (which reflects the current composition of the labor force),
we projected the changes in income resulting from the program.
Figure 1: Average hourly wages for different
education levels
70 -
60 -                                                    -Urban Ceara
50 -
40 -u- Urban Non-
30 -                                                        M etropolitan
20 t-* -<                                                   Areas
1-0 ---- Fortaleza
M etropolitan
0 -             E       ,                                 Area
0   1   2   3   4   5   6   7   8   9  10  11
Last Grade Complete
We have, then, all the figures necessary to assess, at least to a first approximation, whether
the Project is worth implementing. These are presented in Table 6: (a) the Project's direct
and implied costs, (b) the changes in expenditures at the different levels of Government and
for students' households resulting from changes in student flows, and (c) the Project's gross
benefits, arising from an increase in overall incomes due to workers' better education and
earlier entry into labor markets. Several facts are worth noting:
[1] The savings the state will make as a result of lower (FUNDEF) transfers to the
municipalities will not in general be sufficient to offset the increase in expenditures
resulting from a larger enrollment in secondary schools. That is, the state's expenditures
with basic education, other than those directly related to the Project, will go up almost
every year as a result of implementing the Project;
[2] In the medium term, the Project will result in very substantial savings for the federal
government;
[3] The Project's net impact on incomes for students in regular courses (i.e., not in
Educa,do Contextualizada, Tempo de Avan,ar and Classes de Acelera,do) will be negative
until 2012. This reflects the opportunity cost to students of delaying their entry into the
labor market. In the long term, however, this impact is the one that generates the largest
increase in earnings;
[4] The gains arising from speeding up student flow (only the Tempo de Avan,ar program
was considered here) are very substantial. With time, however, they lose importance in
absolute and relative terms;
51



[5] Benefits from expanding access to education are very important in the medium term, but
become relatively less meaningful with time;
[6] Net public benefits turn positive in 2004, when the Project ends, but turns negative
again in 2009-12, growing rapidly after that; and
[7] The flow of net private benefits, which considers only the direct costs and benefits of
households, is positive in every year, indicating the high rate of return to education in
Ceara, as suggested in Table 5 and Figure 1.
Netting out costs and benefits, we estimated that the Project has a social economic rate of
return (ERR) of 23.0%. This is a relatively high value, that recommends moving ahead
with the Project. Before concluding, however, it is important to assess how robust is this
estimate to the assumptions made above. We turn to this in Section 4.
52



Table 4: Net Benefits (R$ 1000)
Project Costs         hange in Recuent Costs             Inctrease in InoDmes    Net Public Net Private
Year  Oct   Impied  Munic.   State   Federal  Private   T.A.(*)   Exp. of   Other   Benefit   Benefit
~~~~~~~~~~~Access                           
2000   63905      1000      0         0        0         0                   0          0   -64905          0
2001   70627      6705      0         0    -2620      9180     20568         0       -350   -63674      11038
2002   59875      8851      0    28793   -33815    18050       41533      2379      -1777   -39619      24085
2003   48398    14151       0    56422   -64581    23793       57880    10079       -5010   -15235      39156
2004   42196    20695       0    72011   -87173    21706       68575    23480    -11041    11581        59308
2005       0    28270       0    59205   -96013       7493     52751    49266    -21282    81779        73241
2006       0    34655       0    13167   -67690    -5508       33607    59365    -37553    80795        60927
2007       0    29933       0   -26003   -38181   -11387       19278    64334    -62094    67156        32905
2008       0    27751       0   -43797   -19827    -7285       11456    66496    -89812    31299        -4575
2009       0    29233       0   -29854   -12909        923      7725    68649   -102306   -13326    -26856
2010       0    31372       0       786   -12578      7301      6877    70786    -90607   -39824    -20245
2011       0    34513       0    28750   -13616    10888        6859    72901    -55899   -36673        12974
2012       0    31248       0    47721   -15812    12135        7021    74990       -8817    -2097      61060
2013       0    28891       0    57134   -17958    12523        7215    77046      38348    42019    110086
2014       0    27593       0    62532   -20229    12627        7411    79064      92800    96751    166648
2015       0    29059       0    64978   -22855    12724        7604    81036    135403   140135    211318
2016       0    34008       0    66475   -25681    12739        7792    82958    174920   178129    252932
2017       0    33096       0    67729   -28213    12578        7976    84823    217482   225090    297703
2018       0    29397       0    68232   -30233    12267        8153    86627    265017   280133    347529
2019       0    26887       0    68003   -31823    11926        8323    88362    361357   383048    446115
2020       0    29169       0    67661   -33056    11654        8487    90023    366233   389316    453089
2021       0    34485       0    67771   -30395    11477        8643    91605    405001   421911    493772
2022       0    32451       0    68520   -27411    11377        8790    93103    439828   456784    530345
2023       0    28102       0    69406   -26949    11328        8929    94512    464720   486274    556833
2024       0    26947       0    70439   -27822    11306        9059    95827    491545   515562    585125
2025       0    32223       0    71656   -28721    11296        9179    97043    530005   549772    624930
2026       0    35655       0    72961   -29648    11292        9289    98156    544900   562085    641052
2027       0    30750       0    74300   -30608    11291        9389    99162    574767   597585    672027
2028       0    27194       0    75644   -31601    11290        9478   100059    610516   637525    708762
2029       0    26858       0    76982   -32629    11290        9555   100842    646822   674716    745928
2030       0    30371       0    78306   -33693    11290        9621   101508    683644   708499    783484
2031       0    33695       0    79608   -34794    11290        9676   102056    720945   742877    821386
2032       0    31805       0    80883   -35934    11290        9718   102483    758681   782838    859593
2033       0    31266       0    82128   -37113    11290        9749   102789    796810   821777    898057
2034       0    28593       0    83336   -38334    11290        9767   102971    835286   863138    936734
2035  -20594    29877       0    84504   -39598    11290        9773   103029    874064   921387    975576
4 - Sensitivity Analysis
To assess how robust is our rate of return estimate to the assumptions made with respect to
the reduction in repetition rates and the return to education, we conducted a Monte Carlo
analysis to estimate the distribution of the Project's economic rate of return (ERR), given a
set of assumptions about the distributions of those parameters (Table 7). We assumed that
the annual decline in repetition had an equal probability of falling anywhere between 2%
and 4%, and that the reduction in each grade was independent from those in other grades.
Since we assumed that the improvement in efficiency would be the same every year, these
53



rates should be interpreted as average annual reductions. The distributions for the increase
in earnings resulting from an additional year of schooling were extracted directly from the
restricted model presented in Table 2.  We also assumed that repetition rates in
Acceleration Classes and in the Tempo de Avanqar program had independent identical
distributions U[0.1, 0.2].
Table 5: Basic assumptions to estimate the distribution of the ERR of the project
Parameter           (     Value                   Distribution
Annual decline in repetition rates  0.03        Independent and identically distributed
in each grade of primary and                      random variables with common
secondary school                               distribution U[0.02, 0.04]
Income premium for each     Parameters for    Independent normal distributions with
additional year of schooling    restricted model in mean and standard deviations of restricted
Table 4                model in Table 4
Repetition rates in Acceleration   0.15         Independent and identically distributed
Classes and in the Tempo de                       random variables with common
Avanqar program                                 distribution U[O. 10, 0.20]
In Table 6 we present basic descriptive statistics for the distribution of the project's ERR,
based on a Monte Carlo exercise with 3,000 runs. This distribution is presented graphically
in Figure 2. From these results we derive that there is a 98.1% probability that the ERR for
the Project is above 10%, and 92.7% that it is higher than 15%.
Table 6: Descriptive Statistics for Distribution of Economic Rate of Return
Minimum =       -1.7%        25% Perc =       20.0%        65% Perc =    24.9%
Maximum =       34.0%         30% Perc =      20.9%         70% Perc =    25.5%
Mean =       22.7%        35% Perc =       21.5%        75% Perc =    26.1%
Std Deviation =      4.9%        40% Perc =       22.2%        80% Perc =    26.8%
5% Perc =      13.6%        45% Perc =       22.7%         85% Perc =    27.5%
10% Perc =      16.5%        50% Perc =       23.3%         90% Perc =    28.3%
15% Perc =      18.2%        55% Perc =       23.9%         95% Perc =    29.5%
20% Perc =       19.1%        60% Perc =      24.4%0o
54



Figure 2: Distribution of Economic Rate
of Return
L* C         N- 0   O) CD      (N  LO CUCO -
I '       -  M(' (N ('   e e
Economic Rate of Return
We also conducted a sensitivity analysis of the results, which showed that the three most
influential parameters were the rate of repetition in the Tempo de Avanqar program (RRTA)
and the increases in earnings of students completing primary(EDg) and secondary (ED,,)
education. For the samples in our Monte Carlo analysis in which the ERR was above the
percentile 95%, the median of these three parameters were, respectively, (RRTA=) 12.2%
(as opposed to 15% in the average case), (EDg=) 0.69 (as opposed to 0.644 in the base
case), and (ED,,=) 1.2126 (i.e., a 49% increase over the income of an equivalent worker
who had completed the second grade of secondary education)."
These results highlight the fact that although largely targeted at primary education, the
project is expected to also improve the efficiency of secondary schools and the number of
students completing secondary education. Therefore, part of the project's benefits results
from its effects on the efficiency of secondary school. The relevance of this assumption
may be weighted by the conclusion that if we assume that the program has no effect on
repetition and dropout rates in secondary school, then its ERR falls to 17.8%. 12 In the same
fashion, if we reduce the income of workers with complete secondary education by 5%, to
account, for instance, for the larger supply of workers with this qualification, the project's
ERR falls to 15.28%. This highlights the fact that while the Project is very important to
support a rapid expansion of Ceara's economy (World Bank, 1999b), the reverse is also
true (i.e., the faster the economy grows, the more attractive the project becomes).
5 - Fiscal Analysis
Overall expenditures with education by the state government, financed out of tax revenues,
averaged in 1995-97 25.06% of net tax revenues, reaching 30.18% in 1998. As shown in
Table 7, most of those funds went to finance basic education. Preliminary data for 1999
" This compares to the observed increase of 42%.
12 On the other hand, a possible source of underestimation of the ERR is that no allowance is made for
continued schooling; i.e., the possibility that individuals finishing secondary school may continue studying
and go into higher education, for which rates of return are particularly high (see Figure 1).
55



suggests that the record level of expenditures with basic education in 1998 was not
sustained, in real terms, in 1999. Still, the state government continued to direct a higher
proportion of its net tax revenues to basic education in 1999 than it did in 1995-97.
Table 7: State Government Recurrent Expenditures with Basic Education
Financed by Tax Revenues
Year      RS million   % Total Expend. with  % Net Tax    % State GDP
Education         Revenues
1995        277.6           82.0%             20.5%
1996        339.5           84.1%             21.1%
1997        361.3           82.9%             20.8%
1998        510.9           86.9%             26.2%           2.5%
1999P       508.5            n.a.              23.3%          2.4%
Source: State Secretariats of Planning, and Finance of Ceara.
Note: Figures for 1999 are preliminary.
Unfortunately, no comparable figures seem to be available for municipal expenditures with
education. An attempt to assess how much the municipalities spend on education and how
this compares to their total revenues and expenditures is presented in Table 8. The
municipalities in Ceard, especially if Fortaleza is excluded, collect only a small share of
their revenues from local taxes. Most revenues accrue in the form of inter-governmental
transfers. Of these, FUNDEF transfers play an important role, answering for about 14% of
total municipal revenues (excluding Fortaleza). This largely explains why education
answers for approximately 23% of the recurrent expenditures of Ceara's municipalities,
excluding Fortaleza.
As remarked above, the Project will have fiscal implications for the three levels of
Government. At the municipal level, two forces will be at play: (a) expenditures will rise,
as better trained teachers are promoted and receive higher wages, new books and equipment
are replaced, and municipalities share the costs of some of the initiatives undertaken as part
of the Project; and (b) resources are freed as enrollment falls. At the federal level, the
Project brings unambiguous benefits, as the reduction in enrollment in primary schools and
the increase in average state expenditure per student decrease the need for transfers.
Finally, the state, on the one hand, benefits from the increase in average municipal
expenditure per student, which lowers the need for intra-state transfers, but on the other
hand faces an increase in its indebtedness and a rise in recurrent expenditures with basic
education.
56



Table 8: Fiscal Accounts of Ceara's Municipalities -- 1998
Recurrent Revenues
Total              Exduding Fortaleza
R$ million   % State GODP   R$ million   % State GDP
Total                 1742.2         8.4%      1180.7         5.7%
Tax Rev.               176.5         0.8%        26.9         0.1%
Rec. Transfers        1481.1         7.1%      1126.7         5.4%
FPM                    531.6         2.6%       422.8         2.0%
ICMS                   282.8         1.4%       155.9        0.7%
Other                  666.7        3.2%        548.0         2.6%
FUTNDEF                163.4        0.8%       163.40         0.8%
Other Rev.              84.6         0.4%        27.1         0.1%
Expenditures
Total              Excluding Fortaleza
___________ R$ million  % GPD       RS million    % GDP
Total                 2010.3         9.7%        1416.3        6.8%
Recurrent             1605.1        7.7%         1104.1        5.3%
Personnel              691.2         3.3%        468.2         2.3%
Other Rec.             913.9        4.4%         635.9         3.1%
Capital                405.3         1.9%        312.1         1.5%
Education ( )          290.4         1.4%        254.5         1.2%
Sources: IPLANCE and STN/MF
(*) Estimated as 15% of FPM, ICMS and Lei Kandir transfers plus FUNDEF transfers
Estimates for fiscal savings at federal level were presented in Table 2 and, as shown, will
amount to substantial funds in the medium term. In Table 9 we assess the relevance of the
Project's fiscal impact at the state and municipal levels, in absolute value and as a
proportion of total recurrent expenditures with basic education. These were derived in two
ways:
11] We produced a first estimate by multiplying enrollment in primary and secondary
municipal and state schools by the corresponding expenditures per student. For municipal
schools, these figures underestimate total expenditures, since they do not include FUJNDEF
transfers nor take into account non-mandatory expenses.13 For state expenditures, estimates
are reasonably precise for 2000-03, when they amount to R$ 2.26 billion, somewhat less
than the R$ 2.54 billion which the state PPA estimates will be spent on basic education in
this period; and
[2] We derived a second estimate based on a projection of tax revenues (kept constant as a
% of GDP), which are partly earmarked for basic education. In general, these produced
higher values than the ones generated by our first method. For the municipalities, this
divergence is largelyr explained by the fact that these second estimates included intra-state
FUNDEF transfers.
" The municipalities are reckoned to spend at least 10% more on education out of non-earmarked funds.
14 Comparing the two estimates in the case of state expenditures we also see that in the medium term (2007-
010) the Project will demand an increase in the proportion of Government expenditures allocated to basic
education.
57



The estimates in Table 9 indicate that the Project's fiscal impact will be small for the
municipalities -- of less than 3% considering their overall expenditures with education.
Therefore, the additional expenses generated by the Project may be easily financed with the
funds saved as a consequence of the drop in enrollment caused by the Project. Obviously,
although true on average, this needs to be the case for every single municipality.
The Project's fiscal impact is much more significant for the state than for the
municipalities, particularly in 2003-08. To some extent, this is due to the substantial short-
term impact on secondary education enrollment accruing from the Tempo de AvanVar
program. 15 The fiscal impact for the state peaks in 2005, when the pressure on expenditures
with secondary education is still present, the Government incurs in larger payroll
expenditures as a result of paying higher wages to teachers completing higher education
and the loan begins to be serviced. Another period with a large fiscal impact occurs in
2011-15, when the loan is still being serviced and a new surge in secondary school
enrollment takes place as a result of the system's higher efficiency.
1s Note, though, that, as indicated, the program will essentially anticipate expenditures that would occur
anyway. Note, in addition, that a large share of the overall increase in state expenditures results from the
larger enrollment in secondary education, and, therefore, is only indirectly related to implementation of the
Project, which is targeted mainly at primary education.
58



Table 9: Fiscal Implications of the Project (R$ million)
Recurrent Expendituies Wh Basic Educaton                Change In Expenditures wih Uw Project                    Project Coss Recurrent
Expendhitrs with Bask Educafio
Using Unit Expend &   Keeping Rudo to GDP                           Ste                           Munacipal    Measuring         Measuring
Enrollnent(1)     constant at t999 level                                                                  Denominator wth Denoninator with
Year  Municipal   State   Municipal      State        Stath                                              Totl (2) Cunic.   sa    Mic   sa
(4)                 (5)                 Co       u              Rot                    Totm 16)      2
2000     137       516       306          577         25.6          -         -                    25.6    1.0        0.7%     5.0%/o  0.3%     4.4%
2001     143       533       321          615         28.3         0.1         -                   28.4   6.6         4.6%     5.3%    2.1%     4.6%
2002     153       584       341          654         23.9         0.3       28.8                  53.0   8.6         5.6%     9.1%    2.5%     8.1%
2003     162       629       363          682         19.4         6.4       56.4                  82.2   7.7         4.8%    13.1%    2.1%    12.1%
2004     170       651       381          698         16.9        10.4       72.0                   99.3   10.3       6.1%    15.3%    2.7%    14.2%
2005     179       635       400          733           0         22.5       59.2         31.2    112.9   5.8         3.2%    17.8%    1.5%    15.4%
2006     188       588       420          770           0         25.9       13.2         31.2     70.3    8.8        4.7%    11.9%    2.1%     9.1%
2007     197       939       441          809           0         23.6      (26.0)        31.2      28.8   6.3        3.2%     5.1%    1.4%     3.6%
2008     207       934       463          849           0         20.4      (43.8)        31.2       7.8   7.4        3.6%     1.4%    1.6%     0.9%
2009     217       945       486          891           0         22.4      (29.9)        31.2     23.7    6.9        3.2%     3.8%    1.4%     2.7%
2010     228       957       510          936           0         24.6        0.8         31.2      56.6   6.8        3.0%     8.0%    1.3%     6.0%
2011     239       959       536          983           0         26.7       28.7         31.2      86.7   7.8        3.2%    11.1%    1.5%     8.8%
2012     251       951       562         1032           0         23.9       47.7         31.2    102.9   7.3         2.9%    12.3%    1.3%    10.0%
2013     264       942       591         1083           0         22.5       57.1         31.2    110.9   6.4         2.4%    12.6%    1.1%    10.2%
2014     277       938       620         1138           0         19.7       62.5         31.2    113.5   7.9         2.8%    12.3%    1.3%    10.0%
2015     291       948       651         1195           0         23.3       65.0         31.2    119.5    5.8        2.0%    12.6%    0.9%    10.0%
2016     305       964       684         1254           0         25.2       66.5          0.0     91.7   8.8         2.9%     9.5%    1.3%     7.3%
2017     321       984       718         1317           0         26.8       67.7          0.0      94.5   6.3        2.0%     9.6%    0.9%     7.2%
2018     337       1007      754         1383           0         22.0       68.2          0.0      90.3   7.4        2.2%     9.0%    1.0%     6.5%
2019     354       1031      791         1452           0         20.0       68.0          0.0      88.0   6.9        1.9%     8.5%    0.9%     6.1%
2020     371       1058      831         1525           0         22.4       67.7          0.0      90.0   6.8        1.8%     8.5%    0.8%     5.9%
2021     390       1086      873         1601           0         26.7       67.8          0.0     94.5   7.8         2.0%     8.7%    0.9%     5.9%
2022     409       1116      916         1681           0         25.1       68.5          0.0      93.6   7.3        1.8%     8.4%    0.8%     5.6%
2023     430       1140      962         1765           0         21.7       69.4          0.0      91.1    6.4       1.5%     8.0%    0.7%     5.2%
2024     451       1161      1010        1853           0         19.1       70.4          0.0      89.5   7.9        1.7%     7.7%    0.8%     4.8%
2025     474       1181      1061        1946           0         26.4       71.7          0.0     98.1    5.8        1.2%     8.3%    0.5%     5.0%
2026     498       1202      1114        2043           0         26.9       73.0          0.0      99.8   8.8        1.8%     8.3%    0.8%     4.9%
2027     522       1222      1169        2145           0         24.4       74.3          0.0      98.7   6.3        1.2%     8.1%    0.5%     4.6%
2028     549       1242      1228        2252           0         19.8       75.6          0.0     95.5   7.4         1.3%     7.7%    0.6%     4.2%
2029     576       1262      1289        2365           0         20.0       77.0          0.0      97.0   6.9        1.2%     7.7%    0.5%     4.1%
2030     605       1281      1354        2483           0         23.6       78.3          0.0    101.9   6.8         1.1%     8.0%    0.5%     4.1%
2031     635       1299      1421        2608           0         25.9       79.6          0.0    105.5   7.8         1.2%     8.1%    0.5%     4.0%
2032     667       1317      1492        2738           0         24.5       80.9          0.0    105.4   7.3         1.1%     8.0%    0.5%     3.8%
2033     700       1334      1567        2875           0         24.9       82.1          0.0    107.0   6.4         0.9%     8.0%    0.4%     3.7%
2034     735       1350      1645        3019           0         20.7       83.3          0.0    104.1    7.9        1.1%     7.7%    0.5%     3.4%
2035     772       1366      1728        3169           0         24.1       84.5          0.0    108.6   5.8         0.8%     8.0%    0.3%     3.4%
(1)  Derived by multiplying enrollment in primary and secondary municipal and state schools by the corresponding expenditures per student
(Table 3).
(2)  Corresponds to expenditures implied by the implementation of the Project.
(3)  Including estimates of loan services in the numerator.
(4)  Does not include FUNDEF transfers.
(5)  Includes intra-state FUNDEF transfers.
(6)  Includes credit fee, interest and amortization.
59



Table 9: Fiscal Implications of the Project (RS million)
-  Recurrent Expendltures With ?ai0hneO xp~dIrswt  hePoetP~~ W'                                                         esva
Using vnit Expend. Keepinit Raio to                         State                         Muncipal Mieaing             Measatlag
Enrollment(1)  GDP constant At                                                                      Denominator   Denoutloa or
(A)            199lo" e                                                                           WIg,Awibf
Year Municipal  State Municipal Stiate       Sta7te    Implied   Chant in       Loan   I Total  Total (2)  Mimc. Sitae   Maic.g State
(4)               (5)           Conter-part             Rectturrt    SeOMO (6)
Expend.                      ___
2000     137      516      306      577       25.6        -                                25.6    1.0        0.7%   5.0%     0.3%   4.4%
2001     143      533      321      615       28.3       0.1          -                    28.4    6.6        4.6%   5.3%     2.1%   4.6%
2002     153      584      341      654       23.9       0.3        28.8                   53.0    8.6        5.6%   9.1%     2.5%   8.1%
2003     162      629      363      682       19.4       6.4        56.4                   82.2    7.7        4.8%  13.1%     2.1%  12.1%
2004     170      651      381      698       16.9       10.4       72.0                   99.3   10.3        6.1%  15.3%     2.7%  14.2%
2005     179      635      400      733         0        22.5       59.2            31.2  112.9    5.8        3.2%  17.8%     1.5%  15.4%
2006     188      588      420      770         0        25.9       13.2            31.2   70.3    8.8        4.7%  11.90/o    2.1%   9.1%
2007     197      939      441      809         0        23.6      (26.0)           31.2   28.8    6.3        3.2%   5.1%     1.4%   3.6%
2008     207      934      463      849         0        20.4      (43.8)           31.2    7.8    7.4       3.6%   1.4%      1.6%   0.9%
2009     217      945      486      891         0        22.4      (29.9)           31.2   23.7    6.9        3.2%   3.8%     1.4%   2.7%
2010     228      957      510      936         0        24.6        0.8            31.2   56.6    6.8        3.0%   8.0%     1.3%   6.0%
2011     239      959      536      983         0        26.7       28.7            31.2   86.7    7.8        3.2%  11.1%     1.5%   8.8%
2012     251      951      562      1032        0        23.9       47.7            31.2  102.9    7.3        2.9%  12.3%     1.3%  10.0 o
2013     264      942      591      1083        0        22.5       57.1            31.2  110.9    6.4        2.4%  12.6%     1.1%  10.2%
2014     277      938      620      1138        0        19.7       62.5            31.2  113.5    7.9        2.8%  12.3%     1.3%  10.0%
2015     291      948      651      1195        0        23.3       65.0            31.2  119.5    5.8        2.0%  12.6%     0.9%  10.0%
2016     305      964      684      1254        0        25.2       66.5             0.0   91.7    8.8        2.9%   9.5%     1.3%   7.3%
2017     321      984      718      1317        0        26.8       67.7             0.0   94.5    6.3        2.0%   9.6%     0.9%   7.2%
2018     337      1007     754      1383        0        22.0       68.2             0.0   90.3    7.4        2.2%   9.0%     1.0%   6.5%
2019     354      1031     791      1452        0        20.0       68.0             0.0   88.0    6.9        1.9%   8.5%     0.9%   6.1%
2020     371      1058     831      1525        0        22.4       67.7             0.0   90.0    6.8        1.8%   8.5%     0.8%   5.9%
2021     390      1086     873      1601        0        26.7       67.8             0.0   94.5    7.8        2.0%   8.7%     0.9%   5.9%
2022     409      1116     916      1681        0        25.1       68.5             0.0   93.6    7.3        1.8%   8.4%     0.8%   5.6%
2023     430      1140     962      1765        0        21.7       69.4             0.0   91.1    6.4        1.5%   8.0%     0.7%   5.2%
2024     451      1161    1010    1853          0        19.1       70.4             0.0   89.5    7.9        1.7%   7.7%     0.8%   4.8%
2025     474      1181    1061      1946        0        26.4       71.7             0.0   98.1    5.8        1.2%   8.3%     0.5%   5.0%
2026     498      1202    1114    2043          0        26.9       73.0             0.0   99.8    8.8        1.8%   8.3%     0.8%   4.9%
2027     522      1222    1169    2145          0        24.4       74.3             0.0   98.7    6.3        1.2%   8.1%     0.5%   4.6%
2028     549      1242    1228    2252          0        19.8       75.6             0.0   95.5    7.4        1.3%   7.7%     0.6%   4.2%
2029     576      1262    1289    2365          0        20.0       77.0             0.0   97.0    6.9        1.2%   7.7%     0.5%   4.1%
2030     605      1281    1354    2483          0        23.6       78.3             0.0  101.9    6.8        1.1%   8.0%     0.5%   4.1%
2031     635      1299    1421    2608          0        25.9       79.6             0.0  105.5    7.8        1.2%   8.1%     0.5%   4.0%
2032     667      1317    1492    2738          0        24.5       80.9             0.0  105.4    7.3        1.1%   8.0%     0.5%   3.8%
2033     700      1334    1567    2875          0        24.9       82.1             0.0  107.0    6.4        0.9%   8.0%     0.4%   3.7%
2034     735      1350    1645    3019          0        20.7       83.3             0.0  104.1    7.9        1.1%   7.7%     0.5%   3.4%
2035     772      1366    1728    3169          0        24.1       84.5             0.0  108.6    5.8        0.8%   8.0%     0.3%   3.4%
(I)  Derived by multiplying enrollment in primary and secondary municipal and state schools by the corresponding expenditures per student Table 3).
(2) Corresponds to expenditures implied by the implementation of the Project.
(3) Including estimates of loan services in the numerator.
(4)  Does not include FUNDEF transfers.
(5) Includes intra-state FUNDEF transfers.
(6) Includes credit fee, interest and amortization.
60



Annex 5: Social and Beneficiary Assessment
Brazil: Ceara Basic Education Quality Improvement Project
Education and Social Development
A wealth of empirical studies worldwide have firmly established the positive relationship
between higher levels of education and improved socioeconomic status. Brazil is no
exception. There is ample Brazil-specific evidence that high levels of parents education
are positively associated with better health and education outcomes for their children, even
holding socioeconomic level constant. For example, the 1996 National Demographic and
Health Survey (Pesquisa Nacional sobre Demografia e Sazude) found that the prevalence
of growth retardation was much higher among children of mothers with lower levels of
schooling, even after the education level of the father (a proxy for socioeconomic status)
was accounted for.'
Beneficiary Population
The principal beneficiaries of the Project will be the school-age children currently enrolled
in or soon to enter public primary school. In 1998, this included 1.1 million students
between 0 and 6 years of age and 1.3 million 7 to 14 year-olds. By 2004, the Project
should reach approximately 122,000 students from 0-3 years of age, 188,000 in the 4-6
year old group, 672,000 of the 7-14 year olds, and 300,000 from 15 to 39 years of age.
Through Project interventions, these young people -including children belonging to the
native ethnic groups described in the Appendix A of this annex--will benefit from better
managed schools, adequate learning materials and programs, better prepared and
motivated teachers, and higher quality education. This should have a life long impact in
terms of improved opportunities and higher quality of life.
Major stakeholders under the Project include teachers, directors, parents, and municipal
and state education secretariat staff.  Improved collaboration among the different
education levels (central, municipal and local) should positively affect school management
and classroom teaching and learning.
While the benefits of the Project will include the entire school-age population, some
interventions will be targeted to the 54 poorest municipalities of the State. These include
school basic operational standards, implementation of school development plans,
expansion of early childhood development activities, innovation in rural education through
the Escola Ativa model and other activities supported by the Municipal Education
Development Fund.
1 Monteiro, D'Aquino Benicio and Marins de Freitas, Melhoria em Indicadores de Sauide Associados a
Pobreza no Brasil dos Anos 90: Descricdo, causas e impacto sobre desigualdades regionais. October
1997.
61



Studies on Quality and Equity of Schooling
This Beneficiary Assessment examines the results of three local studies.2 Most of the key
findings come from the first, most recent study, conducted in May 1996, which included a
set of 248 interviews involving adults, young people, teachers and principals at 19 schools
located in eight municipalities in Ceara.3  The schools were selected on the basis of
differences in size (small/medium/large), administrative type (48.4% state/ 51.6%
municipal), and location (rural/urban). The group of 248 interviewees was comprised of
124 (50%) adults (fathers, mothers, unemployed persons, and commnunity leaders); 74
(29.8%) children and young people (successful and unsuccessful students and dropouts);
33 (13.3%) teachers; and 17 (6.9%) principals. Some 76.2% of the interviewees were
from urban, and 23.8% from rural areas. The analysis focused on educational services in
the context of quality, access and management, the three central themes of the Ceara Basic
Education Quality Improvement Project.
Stakeholder Perspectives
Quality
Quality of schools: non-qualified demand
Principals and teachers regard the lack of parental monitoring of children as one of the
main elements contributing to student failure. Lack of parental support is attributed to the
fact that illiterate fathers and mothers, or those who received little schooling, do not feel
adequately prepared to assist their children with academic activities. Zaluar (1992) makes
it clear that low income and lack of schooling are barriers that make it difficult for parents
to pass on to their children ideas and encouragement regarding the possibility of
advancement because they lack knowledge or because they doubt that 'such possibilities'
actually exist. Other factors cited by principals and teachers in relation to poor parental
participation or their lack of demand for high-quality schooling, in addition to illiteracy,
included: the night shift, constant changes of address and moving from town to town, the
precarious socio-economic status of the community, the need to work, and the teaching
methods adopted.
Student-teacher relations: poor supportfor low achievers and low student e-xpectations
Communication between the families and the schools is, above all, characterized by the
mediation of the teacher. The teacher-student relationship, from the parents' perspective,
takes on a broader dimension than any other aspect in the teaching-learning process. Both
parents and students view the teacher as the key figure in the teaching-learning process.
They admire teachers who treat them with respect, who patiently and carefully explain and
"give advice" when necessary.
2 Summary of the key results of three studies sponsored by the World Bank (Annex 9): Vieira, Matos &
Holanda, 2000; Vieira, Moreira & Maia, 1999; and Vieira, Farias & Ibaflez, 1999. Refer to these studies in
Project files for more complete information.
3 The municipalities included in the study were Barreiras, represented by 5.2% of the interviewees;
Beberibe, 6.5%; Caninde, 15.3%; Caucaia, 23.4%; Fortaleza, 22.2%; Pacatuba, 10.9%; Paraipaba, 9.3% and
Umirim, 7.2%.
62



However, the study indicates that schools still deal poorly with students with specific
learning difficulties, and this contributes as a decisive factor towards grade repetition and
dropout (Gurgel, 1997). Teachers, in their testimony, stated that they separate "strong
students from weak students" within the classroom or by transferring weak students to
other classes4. Students spoke of feelings of failure, backwardness, and incompetence
resulting from grade repetition, and revealed strong sentiments of low self-esteem. Some
58% stated that they had experienced failure. Reasons for dropout, according to the young
people interviewed, tend to be different for boys and girls (girls cite pregnancy, courting
or marriage; boys cite work, fatigue, incompatible schedules). Young people also cited
teacher-provoked "humiliation" in the classroom as a common reason for failure, where
teachers distinguish those who know less from those who know more. The young people
regarded teachers' attitudes and behavior towards students as a decisive factor in their
success or failure.
Expectations for level of school completion were: 28% would complete 8th grade of
fundamental education; 31% would complete secondary school; and 28% of them
university; the remainder chose not to respond. Students invariably associated the more
advanced grades of schooling with the prospect of getting better jobs. For most, it was a
dream to continue in school, despite all the difficulties.
Quality differences between school networks
In the opinion of the majority of principals, it is the municipal-school network that pays
the lowest wages. A small number of them believe, in comparing the three school
networks (municipal, state and private), that the state-school network pays the highest
wages, and they expect wages of state school teachers to be increased. Some felt that
although the private-school network offers good wages, it demands more of the teachers,
and they even went so far as to make comparisons between the responsibilities of those
who work concomitantly in the state-school and private-school networks, and whose
performance is ideal only in the latter. They stated that this is because private schools
require their teachers to be competent and up-to-date in the face of a competitive market.
The principals claimed that the state-school network is not better because there are still
many staff members recruited under patronage mechanisms ("clientelismo"), although
they affirmed that there are greater numbers of graduate and post-graduate teachers in the
state and municipal schools.
With respect to organization, 13 of the 17 principals interviewed regarded the private
network as better organized, although some stated that such organization is not found in
private schools in the outlying areas. They attribute charging of fees to parents as the
decisive factor for such organization. In this regard, they believe that, besides increased
parental participation, the State and Municipal Education Secretariats must provide greater
support and advisory services for the schools. The majority believe that the state system is
4 Aside from this commonly applied procedure, 39% of the schools surveyed were providing parallel remedial
classes, and 11% offered accelerated classes.
63



better than the municipal system, in terms of retraining of teachers, wages, meetings,
group work and organization.
In synthesis, adults, teachers and principals identify positive aspects in the private school
network, in terms of staffing and support for the work of teachers. On the other hand, it is
in the state schools that the greatest advantages are to be found, especially with regard to
organization of the work and the presence of more qualified teachers. Municipal schools
were the ones most criticized by the interviewees, and it is here that the greatest public
investment is required to improve teaching.
Television-mediated teaching: a themefraught with controversy
The most frequent criticisms expressed referred to: the excessive speed with which
television-classes are presented, delays in the delivery of manuals, technical problems
with transmission, and a lack of training for teachers. In general, this was one of the
themes that elicited the greatest controversy among the beneficiaries, and there were both
favorable and unfavorable comments on the subject.
The students were among the most enthusiastic exponents of TV-mediated teaching.
However, even they expressed reservations with respect to certain operational or logistical
aspects, such as the quality of the image and sound of the lessons transmitted. The critics
of the TV-teaching system saw it as a passive way of confronting teaching issues. There
were, however, contradictions in the opinions expressed.  Some pointed out the
deficiencies, but added that if the teacher had mastery over the content, then the situation
would be more favorable. There was no consensus among the interviewees. Often the
same arguments used to justify the use of television were used to support contrary
arguments. It would be interesting to deepen our knowledge on the issue, thus providing
more inputs in support of public policies in the area of new teaching technologies.
Community participation in schools: an ongoing initiative
In the municipalities surveyed, only 25% of the adults said they participate in the school
on a day-to-day basis. They noted that meetings take place even less frequently and when
held, are used to discuss subjects of a practical nature: uniforms, agenda, resources,
adjustments for the school, the need to purchase gas or charcoal, to paint the building, etc.
Thus, attendees feel they are subjected to demands and are merely attending informative
meetings. They have no perception of participating in the decision-making resolutions
adopted. Some (48%) claimed that the obstacles that hamper their participation relate to
their work; others (12%) claimed that the schools do not attempt to make community
participation feasible. A case in point is the fact that during the period of the survey,
School Councils existed in only 6% of the schools surveyed. The lack of communication
and the way in which beneficiaries are occasionally treated leads many of them to feel
alienated.
There are constant complaints from principals and teachers that fathers do not want to
participate in monitoring their children, nor in day-to-day school affairs. The managers
claimed that only 30% of the fathers know much about the school. There is a widespread
prejudice among men that "meetings are something for women. " Principals and teachers
reported the existence of financial, health and dysfunctional family problems among
64



families served. In view of such difficulties, participation becomes restricted to school
events and a response to calls from teachers regarding child-specific problems.
Access
Barriers to school access still persist. Among the factors responsible for such difficulties,
adults cited: the incapacity of small schools to satisfy demand, geographical distances,
lack of school transport, and problems of violence on the road between home and school.
Although the adults showed relative satisfaction regarding access to schools, they reported
that they had encountered obstacles to placing their children in the final grades of
fundamental school and in secondary school. They noted a shortage of places in the
"better quality" schools - i.e., the state schools. Parents prefer to enroll their children in
the state schools since municipal teachers earn little and often go on strike. In addition to
these problems, there were complaints about favoritism in the allocation of places, and the
adults interviewed detected a trend towards overcrowding of the schools, with too many
students and too few teachers.
Management
Some 70.6% of the adults interviewed lacked knowledge about state and municipal
educational policies. Those with some knowledge based it upon media messages
broadcast by the Government, rather than as a consequence of greater proximity between
the parties involved (Government and the school). The interviews conducted with the
beneficiaries indicate that, as yet, there has not been any perceptible incorporation of the
new concept of school management in the ongoing relations that are being established
between the governmental agencies and the school community.
Principals and teachers also had difficulty expressing the priorities of educational policies.
The majority of the principals (72%) stated that they had "little" or "indistinct" [mais ou
menos] knowledge of them. The testimony of those who claimed to know "a lot" about
them  (28%) reveals significant gaps.  Their information, interviews revealed, is
insufficient and is generally obtained through training provided by the State Basic
Education Secretariat. In general, the principals complained of a lack of planning
underlying the actions of SEDUC, and reiterated that communications tend to be issued
"at the last minute." Many teachers felt that they are undervalued and they do not
participate in the planning and decision making.
Principals and teachers agreed that SEDUC should be more closely involved with the
schools. They complained of the lack of technical assistance, particularly in relation to the
drafting of pedagogical projects [curriculum]. With a view to improving SEDUC's
actions, they suggested that there should be: a greater number of supervisors in the
schools; permanent advisory services for the clarification of doubts; greater integration
with field visits; frequent meetings and planning sessions; investment in professional
training; and enhancement of the pedagogical practices of teachers.
For principals, part of their management difficulties relate to the scarcity of resources and
financial autonomy, exacerbated by a general insecurity with respect to transfers of
financial resources for maintenance of the schools. Other problems that they face, in their
view, relate to: the declining participation of parents; shortages of staff and of teachers;
65



and lack of space; of teaching materials and of school lunches.
Teachers meetings take place once a month. Some of those interviewed complained of
having to devote a day off, but 35% stated that the results of meetings are positive and that
they feel "more united" when they have exchanged experiences and when there is a
general discussion of school problems. The themes of meetings frequently focus on issues
such as: discipline; teaching; student behavior; administrative issues; exchanges of
experiences; and parental monitoring of school activities.
The beneficiaries expressed positive views with respect to the election of principals. They
observed that the process has ushered in greater democracy in internal school relations,
especially regarding the posture of certain principals who had been in office for a long
time and whose treatment of students and teachers was inappropriate.
The positive views on educational policy converge in the recognition that advances have
been made: there are now greater retraining opportunities for teachers; there is more time
for class preparation; some buildings and installations have been refurbished; and, as has
been mentioned, there are elections for principals.
Implications for the Project
Any project that embarks on education reforrn must take stakeholders' perspectives into
consideration. Analysis of the interviews with beneficiaries indicated that there are many
points to be improved upon with respect to quality, access, and school management.
Improve educational quality and access. On a positive note, the studies revealed that
there is a widespread belief in the value of education and in the need to improve the
quality of basic education. Available evidence suggests that although economic pressures
on poor families and limited access to higher levels of fundamental education (5h to 8th
grade) continue to be problems, poor quality of education is the first reason for school
failure and dropouts. There is also a fair degree of unanimity in opinions about what
needs to be improved: the physical conditions of schools, the characteristics of materials
and equipment, the relevance of the curricula, the quality of teachers. All these elements
are included in the design of the Ceara Basic Education Quality Improvement Project.
Focus and improve teacher training. The teacher was identified as a key figure in the
education process, not only in the classroom but as a conduit between the school and the
community. Adults, as well as students, referred to the teacher's central role in school
life, suggesting that efforts should be placed on teacher training to deal with family issues.
From the stakeholders' point of view, changes in the pedagogical aspects are not so
evident, implying that greater attention should be given to ensuring that teacher training
makes a direct impact on classroom leaming. The training should consider how to work
with course content and how to relate it to the realities of the students' lives, thereby
making school more meaningful.
Improve television programs as a teaching tool. TV-mediated programs have been
identified as a way to improve education quality, especially outside the capital city, and
are useful tools to bring information to and raise educational standards in small towns and
rural areas, thereby increasing equity. However, in several studies carried out, the school
66



community has criticized aspects of the use of television as a teaching resource, Among
the problems mentioned, the following stand out: low performance of the beneficiaries in
the learning process; difficulties relating to maintenance; problems with the distribution of
teaching materials; and the poor quality of the equipment used. As many changes are
taking place by virtue of the universal nature of the public educational TV system,
television teaching continues to be a focus of attention for those responsible for
formulating policy and for the beneficiaries. Given that the Project proposes to invest
significantly in the expansion of television programs, it is recommended that a specific
evaluation study be conducted among the beneficiaries, including an assessment of the
results of this type of teaching among the students.
Provide greater support to schools. School teams mentioned the need for more technical
support to carry out their new role. They resent the lack of support from the central-
government agencies, particularly regarding initiatives such as the of pedagogical projects.
In the context of decentralization, it is essential that the secretariats organize efforts to
promote support for the schools. This includes political and financial support for schools,
to guarantee more productive and rational forms of transfer and management of resources.
This will be provided in part by the CREDEs.
Strengthen the municipal school network. Stakeholders identified the municipal school
system as frail and in need of substantial improvements. In view of this, and to guarantee
the "quality standard" referred to in the Constitution, efforts should be concentrated on
strengthening the municipal school network. The situation should be monitored closely to
record the progress achieved and problems encountered.
Encourage closer school-community relations. Although the new school-management
initiatives currently underway include the aim of fostering greater community
participation, the study detected that the ties between schools and families are still weak.
It is thus necessary to develop new relations between school staff, parents and community
leaders. More emphasis should be given to strengthening the links between the school and
the community.
Promote more inclusive policy discussions and implementation. The decentralization
strategies in process seem to be welcome, although communication between SEDUC and
schools should be improved. The interviews indicated that educational policy initiatives,
such as the establishment of School Councils, appear to reach the schools in an improvised
manner, which leads to problems in their involvement with the various actions carried out
by the central-government educational agencies. It is thus essential that alternatives be
developed to improve communications between the secretariats of education and the
schools. The secretariat should conduct intense communications initiatives with the
schools and their beneficiaries, to share, jointly plan, clarify and publicize the policies
implemented.
Clearly, these are but a few of the findings and recommendations resulting from this
beneficiary assessment study. The research provides other valuable clues for enhancing
our knowledge on how educational policies reach their target groups. It is important that
this process of hearing the schools - of listening to the voice of the forgotten - should be
more than an episodic exercise. It should be a process of constant improvement of the
67



communication processes between the parties involved, thereby enabling education to
fulfil its role as an agent for change in the construction of a developed society.
The following table summarizes the issues raised and recommendations to be considered
in the design of the project.
Findimgs/L%sues                              Recommeudatiwa 
- Due to the population's low level of education, the  - Promote parent education, through alternative
demand for quality education is low, as is the  modalities such as distance learning, parent
participation rate of parents.                  schooling, etc.
- Students have a low level of interest in school  - Teacher training should target the specific
itself (disconnect between student needs and school    needs of the population attending school.
curriculum; low self-esteem of students).
- Students have low expectations for continuation of - The curriculum should be in accordance with
their studies.                                  the real needs and work expectations of the
students.
- There are still problems of age/grade distortion,    - Establish alternative mechanisms of curriculum
dropout and repetition, related to the poor     organization, such as learning cycles and
functioning of schools, as well as to students'  accelerated classes.
problems (need to work, pregnancy and adolescent
marriages, etc.).
- The basic working conditions are still precarious in  - Establish basic standards of sustainability and
a number of public schools. Some of them do not    quality for schools.
have electricity, water and telephone services
(Vieira, Moreira & Maia, 1999 for study on
education quality and equity). Most of the schools
do not have a library, sports grounds and other
facilities.
- Among the problems identified in relation to  - Establish initial training programs for public
teachers, it can be noted that many of them do not    school teachers, involving initiatives agreed by
have basic training ("leigos" teachers at the  the state, municipalities and universities.
municipal schools and secondary level teachers at
the state schools).
68



- There still are great differences between state and   - Create institutional mechanisms that allow the
municipal schools. The municipal schools have  effective improvement of municipal schools,
worse conditions in terms of salaries and teacher  mainly in the poorest municipalities (Vieira,
incentives, working conditions, physical       Moreira & Maia, 1999, for education quality
infrastructure, capacity building and school   and equity in Ceara).
organization.
- TV-mediated programs, which are used by the  - Carry out a qualitative assessment of the TV-
majority of students attending 5th to 8'h grade at  mediated programs to promote the revision and
public schools, are controversial.             improvement of the didactical material
(programs and manual) and capacity building
of the teachers.
- Solve problems already identified, such as the
transmission signal of the image, quantity and
timely delivery of support manuals.
- Schools do not always have a culture of      - Promote a closer relationship among schools
participation, either internally (among directors,  and communities through more direct and
teachers and staff), or in its relations with the  active mechanisms of participation (school
community.                                     councils that are actively involved, not just in
name).
- Prepare school teams for democratic
participation (internal and external).
- According to school staff, policies and decisions    - Improve communication among state and
are usually made at the central level, without  municipal education secretariats and the
consultation at the local level.               education communities in order to improve the
harmony between planning and implementation
of policies and the demands and expectations of
the school.
- Make it possible for the CREDEs to efficiently
promote coordination among the different
levels of the school system, including networks.
- The schools are resentful of the lack of     - Improve the current initiatives of support to
technical/pedagogical support from the central  schools, such as the Pedagogical Monitoring
agencies.                                      and Support System (SAP), especially for
municipal schools.
69



Annex 5 - Appendix A
Ceara Ethnic Groups and the Education Project
Overview
Of the 161 million inhabitants of present-day Brazil, approximately 350,000 (or 0.2%)
directly proceed from native aboriginal roots. Forty percent (or 140,000) of this total stay
in the officially recognized reservations or in the thick of the forests mainly in the Amazon
area. The remaining 210,000 members of these ethnic groups, however, have generally
adjusted to mainstream Brazilian culture, speak Portuguese and live either in the periphery
of small to medium-size cities or in the rural areas. In the state of Ceara (population of 6.8
million) they account for about 15,000 people scattered throughout the state territory. As
Brazil celebrates the 500 years of discovery by the Portuguese, Government and other
agencies' programs and a diversity of studies have both called the attention to the social
plight of these native groups and highlighted their cultural contribution to the making of
modem Brazil.
Ethnic Groups
Around 1982 a movement was launched in Northeast Brazil aiming to organize and
redefine the overall situation and land ownership of native people. This search for identity
has led over the years to the identification of ten remaining ethnic groups in Ceara,
namely: Jenipapos, Kalabacas, Kanindes, Kariris, Pitaguarys, Potyguaras, Tabajaras,
Tapebas, Trememrbs and Tupinambas. Other ethnic groups are in the process of being
identified in more remote municipalities. These small groups can be found in the most
diverse environments such as the Tremembes (Almofala) and Tapebas (Caucaia) along the
coast, the Kanindes in the mountainous northern area of Aratuba, and the Kalabacas in the
dry southwestern sertao of Ipueiras and Crateuis.
Recent Developments
Their main concern today in Ceard have to do with land ownership and education. Little
by little the native people of Ceara have regained rights over their lands, generally around
small towns, some of them occupying the place of their ancient settlements and missions
around urban centers including the capital city of Fortaleza. The Tapeba lands in Caucaia
were demarcated in 1997, the most significant victory of the native people in Ceara and
the first devolution made since 1883 when a Provincial decree had abolished all the native
settlements in Ceara. All these people are primarily occupied in three areas: subsistence
agriculture, traditional fishery (sea, rivers and lakes) or low-level urban occupations such
as basic trading, domestic chores and security services. In their identification and
organization efforts they have been supported by the federal and state governments
(including SEDUC) and NGOs.
70



Education
It was only in the mid-1990s that more systematic activities started to support the
development of these native groups. SEDUC has developed for their schools a curriculum
emphasizing three aspects: full exercise of citizenship and cultural values, specially
designed teacher training and guidance, and instructional material. For non-formal early
childhood development there are 22 native Health Agents (see Annex 2, Sub-component
1.1). The state government has conducted vocational training for adults which includes:
traditional medicine, fishing, alternative agriculture, bakery, family health, and pottery
painting. SEDUC carried out an indigenous education census in early 1998. Their 24
"differentiated schools," attended by approximately 4.800 students, are in bad shape and
suffer from  low-level teacher quality and poor educational conditions.  There are
approximately 100 teachers, most of them with only the first four grades of formal
schooling, and only 20% have gone beyond 5th grade. They value education but don't feel
comfortable at regular schools where discrimination is the rule. One of their leaders, the
former Tremembe chief Vicente Viana, said: "We want a school of our own, one in which
we are the leaders".
The Project and the Ethnic Groups
During the preparation of the Ceara Basic Education Quality Improvement Project
information was gathered on the situation of the native ethnic groups. At first they were
labeled as "indigenous people," a misleading term, since further analysis found out that:
(a) they share cultural features with other historically discriminated against minority
groups; (b) they are a heterogeneous group coming from several traditions; and (c) their
inclusion in the Project had been under categories (school construction, teacher training,
instructional material) shared by all other participating population groups. The Project
therefore will support these ethnic groups by building approximately 20 small schools,
training approximately 75 teachers and providing 24 school libraries.  In all these
activities the Project will follow guidelines and cultural specifications discussed and
agreed upon with the community. Mid-term evaluation will be conducted to assess
Project achievements both in outputs and outcomes among these ethnic groups.
71



Annex 6: Institutional Analysis
Ceara Basic Education Quality Improvement Project
A. Background
Organizational setting. The State Basic Education Secretariat (SEDUC), the agency
principally responsible for implementing the Project, has experience in managing World
Bank-financed projects owing to its participation in the EDURURAL and Second
Northeast Basic Education projects, and similar projects sponsored by IDB, UNICEF and
other international agencies. A small Project Executive Group (Grupo Executivo do
Projeto) reporting to the Subsecretary of Basic Education will be created to support and
monitor Project implementation, since direct execution of most components will be
carried out by the SEDUC line units, its 21 CREDEs (Centro Regional de
Desenvolvimento da Educaqdo), and the participating municipalities.
The Ceara State Planning and Coordination Secretariat (SPCS) which is responsible for
coordinating and evaluating all Government programs, has provided leadership and
guidance in steering Project preparation. During Project implementation, SEDUC will
continue to receive support from the SPCS. SEDUC will also work closely with (i) the
State Labor and Social Action Secretariat (Secretaria Estadual de Trabalho e A do Social
- SAS), which oversees municipal initial education programs; (ii) the State Health
Secretariat (Secretaria Estadual de Saride -SESA) which is in charge of the Health
Agents' program; and (iii) the State Attorney General's Office (Procuradoria Geral do
Estado -PGE) which is responsible for procurement.
Recent institutional reforms. The current Ceara administration has taken impressive
actions to streamline, rationalize and upgrade education management since taking office in
1995. In the first phase (1995-96), SEDUC's central administration was reduced from
1,400 to 400 staff, with the majority of the displaced staff transferred to front-line
positions in the schools and regional offices. In the second phase (1997-98), the SEDUC's
regional branches were restructured and upgraded into CREDEs, with clearer
accountabilities and more professional staffing (for the first time, positions were filled
through competitive examination). Also for the first time, the CREDEs now have explicit
responsibility for outreach, joint infrastructure planning, the provision of teacher training
and other support to the municipal school systems within their micro-region. This is a key
advance given that one of Brazil's most serious education problems is the existence of a
dual system at basic education level, namely a stronger state system and generally weaker
municipal education systems. Finally, two new specialist positions in literacy teaching and
numeracy teaching, called Teaching Coordinators (Professores Coordenadores do Ensino
- PCE) have been introduced in the CREDEs to provide closer and stronger pedagogical
support to schools in the micro-region. Finally, a more systematic, comprehensive and
cooperative system of school supervision (SAP) has been introduced.
The third phase of the SEDUC's modernization program (1998-present) is focused on the
school level and aims at achieving a transformation in both: (a) the quality of teaching and
learning in the classroom; and (b) the autonomy and effectiveness of school management.
72



SEDUC' s strategy for classroom quality focuses on heavy investments in teacher
development, an innovative new program (sponsored by the business community) to
reward teachers financially for their students' academic success; special "accelerated
programs" and educational TV to help over-age students complete primary and secondary
equivalency; and tighter supervision and more effective pedagogical support from the
CREDEs through the redesigned SAP system.
To increase school autonomy and improve management effectiveness, the SEDUC's
strategy has involved: (a) a fundamental change in the way school directors are selected;
(b) mandatory school development planning (Plano de Desenvolvimento da Escola -
PDE); (c) universal student achievement testing with results fed back to schools; and (d)
deeper and more comprehensive performance feedback to schools through the SAP
program including the involvement of parents and community members in school
performance evaluation.
Since 1998, school directors (who in the past were appointed) have been elected directly
by the school community, from a pre-screened shortlist prepared by SEDUC of candidates
who have met all technical criteria and passed a competitive examination. Under the new
system, for the first time, candidates from municipal school systems or candidates with
management experience in other sectors are also allowed to compete for director positions.
And, to further increase directors' accountability to the community, tenure has been
limited to three years, after which directors must be re-elected for a maximum of one
additional term. In the context of Northeast Brazil's long tradition of political patronage
jobs in the education sector, these reforms (and the similarly transparent and technocratic
new process for selecting CREDE personnel) are close to revolutionary. They have
already built a positive public perception that the state education system is being managed
in a new and apolitical way, though it is still too early to judge the impact of these changes
on system and student performance.
Decision-making process- At the central level, major policy decisions are debated and
taken by the SEDUC Management Team (Nuicleo Gestor), composed of the Secretary of
Basic Education, Deputy Secretary, and the Coordinators of SEDUC's four key units:
Education Planning and Policy (CPPE), Technical-pedagogical Development (CDTP),
Education Coordination and Management (CAGE), and Monitoring and Control (CMC).
At the regional level, the 21 CREDEs have coordinating councils which replicate the
SEDUC structure and which include representatives of the Municipal Education
Secretariats within that CREDE (typically about 8-10 municipalities per CREDE). At the
municipal level (184 municipalities), decisions are made by the elected mayors and their
Municipal Education Secretariats, in a few cases with Municipal Education Councils. At
the school level, within the state school system, each school has a Committee, composed
of the school director, teachers and community and parent representatives, which
participates in the preparation of PDEs and budget decisions at school level. In municipal
school systems, the degree of school autonomy and existence of school-level governing
bodies varies across municipalities.
Overall assessment of SEDUC's capacity to implement the project. The appraisal team
has concluded that the government of Ceara will be able to implement the Project
provided that: (a) some components will be carried out gradually (see Annex 2); (b) the
73



Government will close some capacity gaps even before effectiveness; and (c) the Project
will undertake further capacity building steps during its first implementation years, as
detailed in the tables below. In addition, the Government understands that to advance its
institutional reforms, improve management capacity and increase the efficiency of the
system at all levels, it will be necessary to modernize processes and mechanisms and put
into action a staff development program to continue upgrading staff members' technical
skills and broaden the knowledge regarding education innovations relevant to the state.
Despite the substantial progress made in the sector over the past five years, and the recent
changes in the decision-making process, to help ensure the adoption of new processes and
procedures and the long-term sustainability of the proposed actions, the Project will
support: (a) review of the institutional arrangements of selected units to identify and
correct overlapping activities and establish modern procedures and mechanisms to
monitor and evaluate education activities and projects; (b) training programs for: (i)
managers at the central, regional, municipal and school levels to consolidate the
decentralization process and the exercise of decision making in a decentralized fashion;
(ii) upgrading the technical skills of those involved in the quality components, mainly in
the areas of evaluation and education assessment; and (iii) enabling staff to take full
advantage of information technology equipment and software to be made available under
the Project; and (c) provision of equipment and vehicles to facilitate service delivery.
Detailed terms of reference for establishing a systematic staff development program are
being prepared and will be a condition for effectiveness.
B. Institutional Assessment and Capacity Building Analysis
Objectives and Methodology.  A detailed institutional analysis was undertaken to
detertnine if the Government, and especially the State Basic Education Secretariat, have
the core capacity required to implement the Project and to propose measures to strengthen
this capacity, if necessary.  The assessment also aimed at determining what further
capacity needs to be built during Project implementation to strengthen the SEDUC's long-
term capacity to deliver education services. Although the institutional assessment focused
mainly on SEDUC, relevant institutions and agencies related to Project implementation
were also examined for the purpose of this analysis.
The following factors were observed to define the level of capacity existent in the
Government, and in SEDUC, to implement the Project:
(a) all important functions have an organizational home within the sector;
(b) the sector, and its organization, have effective leadership;
(c) the sector, and its organizations, have financial resources with which to procure
the inputs necessary to carry out their functions;
(d) adequate human resources are available to be procured; and
(e) work practices followed in SEDUC and other agencies in the sector's
organizations are adequate to support Project implementation and long-term
goals of the sector.
Using this operational definition, and starting with the Project's development objectives as
formulated in the logframe (Annex 1), the preparation team focused first on the
74



t'v   identification and analysis of all the institutions/agencies within the education sector or
other sectors which would directly or indirectly affect project implementation. The team
sought to answer the questions, "Whose capacity within SEDUC and other agencies
related to project implementation is in question?" and "capacity to do what?" The team
identified the three state Secretariats of Education, Planning, and Finance, and the units
within each of them, as primarily responsible for the implementation of the Project, and
confirmed the development tasks assigned to them. Bearing in mind the five capacity
factors listed above, the team then asked the following questions:
(a) Is the unit in question the right organizational home for the specific
development functions and tasks assigned to it by the Government?
(b) What is the quality of leadership and management in the unit?
(c) Does the unit have sufficient funds to cover operating costs associated with the
implementation of activities assigned to it?
(d) Does the unit have the right number of people, with the right mix of skills, to
implement these activities?
(e) Are the unit's key work practices (techniques, methods, and procedures)
effective and efficient?
Four alternatives were considered for addressing capacity constraints:
* To change work practices and procedures, where such change can improve the
capacity of the unit without having to allocate it more resources.
* To spread planned activities over a longer period (which included the
introduction of phased approaches in some components).
* To reallocate financial and human resources among the various units so as to
match the magnitude of the assigned work.
* To provide training and financial resources under the Project to help increase
the units' capacity, to realistic and sustainable levels of productivity.
In a few cases, even after considering all of these alternatives, it still appeared that
financial and institutional capacity would not be sufficient to meet project implementation
goals or be sustainable after project completion. In these cases, the Government decided
to reduce the scope of the component and the magnitude of resource requirements. For
example, the proposed Municipal Education Development Program  (PRODEM)
(Component 3) which was originally conceived to provide support to Ceara's 92 poorest
municipalities, was scaled back to focus on the poorest 54 municipalities. An earlier
objective of building a network of community technology centers across the state, to
provide work-oriented training for adults, was dropped on institutional capacity and
sustainability grounds.
The application of this methodology resulted in the following tables, prepared by SEDUC
staff. For each key unit, major organizational functions, including new functions required
for project implementation are identified, as well as key capacity gaps. Steps agreed with
the Government for addressing these gaps are outlined, as well. These agreed actions
form the basis for a systematic staff development plan, which is being prepared as a
condition of effectiveness.
75



C. Institutional Capacity Assessment, by Unit
Table 1
SEDUC Education Planning and Policy Unit
(Coordenadoria de Planejamento e Politica Educacional -CPPE)
*  Organizational Setting      *  Sub-unit responsible for strategic   Sk Finalize the administrative reform of
Responsible for data collection,  planning and policy still needs to  the State Basic Education Secretariat
planning, evaluation, student     be put in place.                    and re-allocate staff.
assessment and definition of   *  Deficient communications
education policy. Responsibility  mechanism between SEDUC and
for research and evaluation       the other sectors.
recently transferred to this unit.
*  Leadership & Management   *  There is sufficient clarity and   >  Management and leadership training
vision and leadership to           will be supported by the Project.
coordinate planning and
evaluation activities. However,
management should be improved
to provide timely statistic data and
information for decision making.
*  Human Resources             *  Although much of the unit's work   >  Develop a training program to upgrade
is contracted to outside research  the skills of the current staff in program
centers, CPPE needs a small        planning and impact evaluation.
number of staff with research and   >  1-2 staff with strong analytical and
analytical skills sufficient to plan,  research skills should be added to
oversee and disseminate            CPPE.
contractors' work. Staff skills also
need to be upgraded to the new
requirements of the unit for
program monitoring and impact.
*  Material Resources          *  Computer hardware and software   >  Computer equipment, intranet and
are outdated and insufficient to   internet connections will be provided
support the unit's analytical work.  by the Project.
*  Practice                   *  The unit should focus on more    >  Systematic targets should be set to
rapid transfer of information and  shorten the time CPPE takes for
results to the decentralized units.  producing and diffusing educational
statistics, evaluation results, and
relevant research findings to the
decentralized units (CREDEs).
76



Table 2
SEDUC Institutional Advisory Unit-
(Assessoria Institucional-ASIvN)
;g1;  *   plCt                   VpAdy...  -a~             }a- f.-;.cltyWciltii~g Nasures: 
*  Organizational Setting          ASIN is very new. Definition of   >  Establish responsibilities and
Supports the Secretary of Basic    norms and responsibilities is still  disseminate this information to all
Education in all legal matters     underway.                           SEDUC's units.
regarding contracts and technical
agreements for schools and
educational agencies and other
intervening institutions.
Responsible for auditing
activities.
*  Leadership & Management   *  The team makes major decisions    >  Establish management development
in a collegiate fashion.           and training programs for those
involved in this unit (will be provided
by the Project)
*  Human Resources             *  Overload of activities because   >  Negotiate an increase in the number of
many staff members only work       qualified personnel or establish salary
part time.                         incentives to encourage staff to work
on a full time basis.
>  Training program for the staff, mainly
in aspects related to auditing activities
to support decentralization, would be
supported by the Project.
*  Material Resources          *  Insufficient and outdated        >  Computer equipment and work
computer equipment.                environment will be upgraded under
the Project.
*  Practice                    *  In practice, they follow SEDUC's   >  New processes and procedures are
guidelines on auditing. More       being established by SEDUC and the
training and establishment of new  training provided by the Project would
processes are needed, however, to  increase the quality of their work.
improve the quality of their
services.
77



Table 3
SEDUC Technical-pedagogical Development Unit-
(Coordenadoria de Desenvolvimento Ticnico-pedag6gico- CDTP)
*  Organizational Setting     *  Overload of activities, mainly due   >  Clarify the responsibilities of the
Responsible for assuring school   to implementation of the School     various units in implementing SAP.
teaching-learning quality,        Pedagogical Monitoring and      >  Focus SAP implementation on six
including curriculum policy and   Support System-SAP.                 CREDEs initially.
guidance, teacher standards and    *  Heavy bureaucratic processes,  >  Decentralize provision of teacher
professional development, and     mainly those related to teacher    incentives to CREDEs.
the quality of instructional      incentives, which depend on other  >  Decentralize teacher contracting to
materials. In collaboration with  Government's agencies.              CREDE level, with oversight by
the CREDEs, CDTP provides      a  Legal impediments that slow         CDTP.
training and pedagogical support  down contracting of teachers
to the state schools and the      under other administrative
Municipal Education Secretariats.  systems.
Responsible for overseeing the  a  Lack of training programs to
quality of education at all basic  upgrade the technical skills of
levels.                           staff members both at the central
and regional levels.
*  Leadership & Management   *  CDTP has an experienced leader   >  All the innovative programs to be
with the requisite technical       implemented under the Project will be
expertise and makes major          supported by technical assistance from
decisions in a collegiate fashion.  universities and other research
As most of the design and delivery  agencies. This strategy aims to both
of teacher training and other      guarantee the quality of program
crucial resources is outsourced,   implementation and provide in-service
CDTP's ability to analyze,         training to the staff members at the
negotiate and oversee contractor   central and regional levels responsible
quality is critically important.   for those programs.
*  Human Resources            *  Insufficient qualified personnel in   >  Fill current vacancies in the sub-units
several areas, such as Early       with a small number of highly
Childhood Education, Secondary     qualified staff.
Education, Special Education, and  >  Establish a continuous training
Youth and Adult Education.         program for the technical staff and
Although staff in the Basic        provide updated education literature
Education and Teacher Training     (supported by the Project).
sub-units are sufficient in number   >  Organize study tours and visits to
and skill mix, they need constant  innovative programs (supported by the
professional development.          Project).
*  Material Resources         *  Better access to state-of-the-art  >  Upgraded computer hardware and
knowledge and learning materials   software and a modem education
is needed, given CDTP's role as    library (books and journals) will be
technical and development leader.  provided by the Project.
+  Practice                    *  CDTP has a critical role to play in   >  To enable it to become more agile and
the transfer of the latest         proactive, CDTP needs to transfer
pedagogical thinking and practices  more administrative responsibilities
to the CREDEs and the Municipal    and activities to the CREDEs and train
Education Secretariats.            personnel at that level.
>  The professional development
opportunities and computer and
library resources will facilitate this
operational shift in CDTP focus.
78



Table 4
SEDUC Education Coordination and Management Unit -
(Coordenadoria de ArticulaCdo e Gestdo Educacional- CAGE)
la i -ae I-duetii.                       C.pacft A,          Mmfts
*   Organizational Setting            *   CAGE has many overlapping functions   >   The Project will support a review of
CAGE is responsible for coordinating       with other central units. A better flow of  CAGE's mandate, work flow, processes and
and overseeing school development          information and more clearly defined     procedures aimed at reducing overlaps with
planning, basic operational standards,     work processes are needed.                other units and strengthening its service
school autonomy, and coordinated                                                     delivery.
planning of state and municipal systems
through the new "Education
Network"(Redes Educativas). CAGE
prepares guidelines for CREDEs and
schools in these areas and oversees
implementation. CAGE will be
responsible for the new Municipal
Education Development Program. It
collaborates with CDTP on SAP.
*  Leadership & Management            *   CAGE has a strong manager, but needs   >   Develop a new vision for CAGE,
to function more as a catalyst and        emphasizing its role in bringing new
promoter of new management ideas and      management thinking into the education
approaches vis-a-vis the CREDEs and      system, and shifting from a "doer" role to a
Municipal Education Secretariats, rather  promoting and catalytic role.
than a "doer" at the micro-level. In this
new role, the profile of the unit could
result from a smaller number of more
highly skilled and highly paid staff.
*  Human Resources                    *   CAGE's staff lack skills in system    >   Review the staff profile to identify staff
planning and management that are          who might be better suited to work at the
important for their current functions,    CREDE level.
which are principally designing      >   CAGE could benefit from 1-2 higher level
guidelines and providing technical       staff with solid management experience.
assistance to the decentralized units.  >   The unit should pursue some kind of
"twinning arrangement" with outside
Low salaries do not allow CAGE to        sources of management expertise.
attract staff with the degree of desirable   >   Training and exposure to new trends in
management expertise.                     education management (through study
tours, intemship etc.) to upgrade staff skills
will be supported by the Project.
*   Material Resources                *   Insufficient material resources to    >   Material resources, equipment, computers
implement activities. Better intranet    and software for CAGE will be supported
software to facilitate electronic        by the Project to improve service delivery
communication with the CREDEs is
needed.
*   Practices                         *   There is a need to prepare the personnel   >   The redefinition of CAGE's mission and
to be able to provide efficient technical  work practices, to focus on more strategic
assistance to transfer responsibilities to  and catalytic activities, while downloading
the decentralized units and to schools.   more typically administrative functions to
the CREDEs, will address this. The staffing
actions and training programs proposed
._____________________________________         above  will also  help  in  this  regard.
79



Table 5
SEDUC Monitoring and Control Unit-
(Coordenadoria de Monitoramento e Controle- CMC)
*  Organizational Setting     *  Overlapping/gray areas in the   >  Redefine the responsibilities of these
It is CMC's responsibility to     definition of responsibilities of  units in the implementation of Project.
coordinate, monitor and control   CAGE and CMC, mainly in
SEDUC administrative, financial,  relation to the role of both units to
and technological activities, hand  provide infrastructure and equip
in hand with CDTP and CAGE.       schools
*  Leadership & Management   *  There is a clear vision of the work   >  The Project Implementation Manual
to be developed. However, there    will address this issue by indicating
are problems due to overlapping    clear division of responsibilities of
of activities with other units.    each unit in project implementation.
*  Human Resources            *  Personnel not well prepared to  >  Establish training program for the
make better use of computer        current staff (will be provided by the
equipment, internet and intranet.  Project).
*  Material Resources         *  Computer equipment and intranet   >  Upgrade the training of the
and internet not fully used by staff  beneficiaries for using the available
members.                          technological devices and equipment
to support SEDUC's and Project
implementation activities.
*  Practice                   *  Need to upgrade and become      >  Mechanisms to increase the
better informed in Project         communication channels among the
practices and requirements of the  units in SEDUC will be established
mandatory activities.              under the Project.
CMC Human Resources Group
(Nucleo de Recursos Humanos -HR)
*  Organizational Setting     *  Insufficient coordination between   >  Redefine several procedures and
Responsible for all activities    the HR unit and other units in     processes to shorten administrative
related to human resources in     SEDUC, both at the central and     steps (will be supported by the
SEDUC.                            regional/local levels.             Project).
+  Leadership & Management   *  Lack of broad vision and scope of  >  Establish training program in
the unit.                          management of human resources
activities.
+  Human Resources            *  Low or insufficient preparation of  >  Establish training program for current
staff to carry out human resources  staff.
activities. Most personnel have
only a high school degree.
+  Material Resources         *  Physical environment not        >  Provide opportunity and incentives to
conducive to the development of    staff to upgrade their education level.
human resources activities.    >  The Project will establish training
*  Lack of computer equipment and     programs to carry out the human
software to carry out human        resources activities in a more
resources activities.              modernized fashion.
*  Practice                   *  Majority of the activities is   >  Implementation of the human
executed in a manual fashion,      resources Management Information
causing delays to beneficiaries'   System (SIGE/HR) will be supported
requests.                          by the Project.
80



Table 6
Regional Education Development Center
(Centro Re jonal de Desenvolvimento da Educacao - CREDE)
Area of Capaci                      Capacity caps ldentified               Capacity Building Measures
___    _                        _    _   ;   ~~~~~~~~~TakemlAg   -
*  Organizational Setting               * The new CREDE organization (since      >   Re-definition of several procedures
In each of the 21 microregions, the CREDE    1997) is a significant improvement over  and processes to shorten the
is the principal point of oversight for the state  the previous Delegacias Regionais, and  administrative steps will be supported
school system and collaboration with         education statistics, teacher training, and  by the Project.
Municipal Education Secretariats, towards    coordination with the Municipal     >   SAP will also be phased in more
the state's goal of a fully coordinated      Education Secretariats are mucb          gradually, starting with six CREDEs.
education system (Redes Educativas) within  stronger. But the units are relatively   The design of SAP evaluation
each microregion. For the state schools, the  new and struggling in many areas to    instruments and procedures in six
CREDE's have key responsibilities for        give adequate priority to monitoring and  CREDEs will make it easier for the
school performance evaluation (through       supporting pedagogical quality at the   remaining CREDEs to adopt the new
SAP), and management of human, financial    classroom level, and "whole-school"      system.
and physical resources.                      performance evaluation through SAP,
on top of myriad other administrative
duties.
+  Leadership & Management              *   CREDE director positions have been   >   Although technically qualified,
filled through competitive examination  CREDE directors would benefit from
on the basis of technical qualifications.  management and leadership training as
This is a big advance,                  well as study tours and other programs
to keep updated professionally.
*  Human Resources                      *   Usually the CREDEs have absorbed the   >   Better selection and training of
personnel working at the schools, in the  personnel assigned to these units will
former regional structures (Delegacias  be fostered by SEDUC.
Regionais) or displaced from the central  >   Creation of a management specialist
level. Many have the relevant skills.   position will be considered.
However, some CREDEs report that the   >   Development programs to upgrade the
new specialist teacher positions (for   managerial skills of CREDE,
literacy and numeracy) are not staffed  municipal education secretaries, and
by individuals with the requisite       school leaders will be developed and
expertise. 'ro improve the CREDEs       supported under the Project.
ability to assist the Municipal Education   >   Study tours and other opportunities for
Secretariats and schools on management  professional updating and renewal will
issues, perhaps a specialist position in  be available to CREDE personnel and
this area should be established.        Municipal Education Secretariats,
supported under the Project.
*   Material Resources                  *   The CREDEs need updated computer     >   Equipment and other materials will be
hardware and software to support their  provided to the CREDEs under the
activities. The lack of transportation to  Project.
permit better supervision of schools is    >   Additional vehicles will be assigned to
another major weakness.                 the CREDEs for supervision and
distribution of materials to the state
schools.
*  Practice                                 Although significant improvements    >   The Project will provide a series of
have been made in changing the practice  training programs and incentives to
of the CREDEs in their provision of     change the current management/
services to state schools and the       administrative culture and increase
municipal systems, there is a need to   accountability and result-oriented
establish a culture of accountability and  management practices.
a stronger focus on results and     >   The Institutional Component (see
outcomes.                               Component 4) will also support the
Administrative processes and             establishment of procedures and
procedures at the CREDE level also      mechanisms to facilitate and
need review and simplification.          standardize the activities at the
.__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   C R ED E     level.
81



Table 7
State Attorney General's Office - Central Procurement Unit
(Procuradoria Geral do Estado- PGE, Unidade Central de Licita!vdo)
"ArtaofO        Caact           Cp      ityG s I de ntifidCRc~ld <e
*Organizational Setting            Delays exist in processing the     >   A specific team will be assigned to
The PGE's Central Procurement        requests of the various                provide support to implementation of
Unit, created by Law No.             Governiment units due to lack of       the Project by SEDUC.
10880/83 and State Decree No.        sufficient personnel with
16397/84, is responsible for all     comprehensive technical
procurement activities for all state  knowledge in various areas and
governmenit agencies,                related legal/technical aspects
involved in the projects to be
executed by the Government
agencies.
*  Leadership & Management           Unit is managed by high-level      >   It was agreed that the team assigned to
personniel within the Government      be responsible for this project would
hierarchy, but there is a wide gap    receive special training program to
between management staff and          comply with project requirements.
technical personnel.
*  Human Resources               *insufficient personnel to attend          To avoid delays in project
promptly to all procurement           implementation, SEDUC already
requests of the various               established a core group with
Government agencies.                  comprehensive knowledge of the
legal/technical aspects involved in
projects implemented by the education
sector.
Training in World Bank procurement
procedures and guidelines used by the
institution will be provided by the
_________________________________                        ~~ ~~~~Project.
*  Material Resources                Insufficient computer equipment        Computer equipmnent and software,
and software to support the unit's    will be supported by the Project.
work.
*  Practice                          The PGE's capacity to support the      SEDUC has conducted negotiations to
Project in procurement needs to be    establish better coordination between
strengthened by changing past         the PGE and the assignment of a
practices and strengthening           special SEDUC teamn to carry on the
__________________________  coordinating mechanisms.               procurement plan of the Project.
82



Brazil
State of Cearai
(Estado do Ceara)
Basic Education Secretariat - SEDUC
(Secretaria de EducaVJo Bdsica)
Organizational Structure
(Estrutura Organizacional)
oTAm
WaftI 
NOL[    ftMWl ~, l)4~                   l3
1l~~~~~~~~~af                                                  IIL_
|SECRETARI AS|
DE EDUOCAAO
ESCOLA  ESOLA    ESCOLAESCOLA                ESCOLA
83



Annex 7: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Brazil: Ceara Basic Education Quality Improvement Project
A. Procurement Arrangements
Procurement for the proposed project would be carried out in accordance with World
Bank "Guidelines: Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits", published in
January 1995 (revised January/August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999); and
"Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers"
published in January 1997 (revised in September 1997 and January 1999); and the
provisions stipulated in the Loan Agreement.
1. Procurement methods: The methods to be used for the procurement described below,
and the estimated amounts for each method, are summarized in Table A. The threshold
contract values for the use of each method are fixed in Table B.
Procurement of Works
Works procured under this project could include rehabilitation and construction of
educational facilities, totaling US$7.8 million equivalent. Contracts would be procured
using National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures, using standard bidding documents
agreed in advance with the Bank. Small works, estimated to cost less than US$350,000
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount of US$1.0 million, may be procured on
the basis of at least three quotations received in response to a written invitation, which will
include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required
completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant
architectural drawings, where applicable. Small civil works may also be procured under
categories "School Grants" and "PRODEM Grants", described in the following
paragraphs.
Procurement of Goods
Goods procured under this project would include educational materials (such as textbooks,
supplementary books, didactic materials), computer equipment and software, school
furniture, printing services, vehicles, and necessary goods to be procured by CREDEs to
support educational or school-related activities, totaling US$44.5 million equivalent. To
the extent possible, contracts for these goods will be grouped into bidding packages of
more than $350,000 equivalent and procured following International Competitive Bidding
(ICB) procedures, using Bank-issued Standard Bidding Documents (SBDs). Contracts
with estimated values below this threshold per contract and up to an aggregate amount of
US$7.0 million may be procured using National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures
and standard bidding docurnents agreed with the Bank. Contracts for goods which cannot
be grouped into larger bidding packages and estimated to cost less than US$100,000 per
contract, up to an aggregate amount of US$15.2 million, may be procured using shopping
(National /International) procedures based on a model request for quotations satisfactory
to the Bank and included in the Project Implementation Manual (MIP).
84



Selection of Consultants
Consulting services will be contracted under this project for teachers training, Municipal
and State Education Secretariats' staff training, CREDEs' staff training, technical
assistance, studies, seminars, production of televised educational programs, and other
relevant activities. These services are estimated to cost US$24.3 million equivalent.
Firms. All contracts for firms would be procured using QCBS and Bank Standard Request
for Proposals, except for small and simple contracts estimated to cost US$200,000
equivalent or less that would be procured using Least Cost Selection. Contracts estimated
to cost less than US$100,000 may be procured using Selection Based on Consultants'
Qualifications.
Finally, because of the nature of the teacher training activities, some contracts may be
awarded on the basis of Single Source Selection, as per paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the
Consultant Guidelines, subject to Bank's prior approval on a case by case basis and up to
an aggregate amount of US$13.5 million. The Borrower is proposing to use universities
(the eligibility criteria will be observed), located in the various regions of the state, to
assist SEDUC with the delivery of the higher education programs. The main reasons are
to facilitate access to local teachers and guarantee the relevance of the programs to each
specific region while preserving the state perspective and the objectives and goals of the
education system.
Individuals. Specialized advisory services would be provided by individual consultants
selected and hired in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the
Consultant Guidelines, up to an aggregate amount of US$2.5 million equivalent.
Training
Training programs for teachers, State and Municipal Education Secretariats staff,
CREDEs staff and other education-related actors will be strongly supported by the project.
The expenses to be financed under this category include, inter alia, travel, subsistence and
logistics, up to an aggregate amount of US$ 18.4 million.
School Grants
In this category, grants will be made up to US$80,000 equivalent per school and up to an
aggregate amount of US$24.5 million. Contracts for small rehabilitation works and for
goods to improve school quality, consisting of, inter alia, educational materials, school
and classroom equipment, school supplies, and materials for physical maintenance will be
procured by obtaining quotations from at least three qualified contractors and suppliers,
with community participation, or through other local arrangements acceptable to the Bank
and described in the MIP. These contracts will be procured at the school level.
85



Municipal Education Development Program - PRODEM Grants
This category will finance subprojects presented by the poorest municipalities. Contracts
for small rehabilitation works and for goods to improve municipal school quality will be
procured by obtaining quotations from qualified suppliers and contractors in accordance
with procedures acceptable to the Bank, described in the MIP, up to an aggregate amount
of US$20.6 million.
Administrative Expenses
Administrative expenses refers to the management and supervision of the Project,
including maintenance and supplies, communication services and spare parts for office
equipment and vehicles, and audit services for school grant procurement ex-post reviews.
These activities are estimated to cost US$9.0 million equivalent.
2. Prior review thresholds: The proposed thresholds for prior review are based on the
procurement capacity assessment of SEDUC's Procurement Team and are summarized in
Table B.
B. Assessment of the Agency's Capacity to Implement Procurement
An assessment of the capacity of SEDUC's Procurement Team (CLS) to implement
procurement actions for the Project has been carried out and was approved by the
Regional Procurement Advisor on December 17, 1999. The assessment reviewed the
organizational structure of the SEDUC's CLS and the interaction between this
procurement team and other procurement-related actors. The overall risk has been
considered as AVERAGE. As per LACI Implementation Handbook - LIH, the project
was certified as a "B", indicating that the Project satisfies the Bank's minimum
procurement management requirements.
CLS will have primary responsibility for carrying out procurement activities. SEDUC has
implemented the Second Northeast Basic Education Project (LN3604-BR), closed on
December 31, 1998, and will be implementing the FUNDESCOLA II Project (LN4487-
BR). Other Government departments that will handle project-financed procurement are the
Building, Roads and Transportation Department (Departamento de Ediflcacoes, Rodovias
e Transporte - DERT), for civil works, and the State Attorney General's Office
(Procuradoria Geral do Estado), which is in charge of reviewing all processes procured
through National and International Competitive Bidding.
The risks identified in the assessment include: (a) the CLS is not satisfactorily staffed and
trained; (b) lack of substantial knowledge on the Bank's procurement procedures and
insufficient language (English) skills; (c) no procurement plan; (d) need to improve
procurement filing system at SEDUC; and (e) need to establish a well-coordinated
document flow, indicating the unit members to monitor the procurement processes in each
agency.
The plan to address such deficiencies includes: (a) hiring new staff for the CLS, preferably
with English skills; (b) promoting training (after the procurement team is completed); (c)
86



preparing the procurement plan at the beginning of each year; (d) establishing document
flow, to be included in the MIP; (e) monitoring procurement actions and evaluation of
contracts awarded under the project.
The MIP will include, in addition to the procurement procedures, the standard Bidding
Documents to be used for each procurement method, as well as model contracts for works
and goods procured on the basis of three quotations or shopping. It will also include
detailed procedures for the transfers to schools and CREDEs as well as for the subprojects
of the PRODEM.
C. Procurement Plan
The Borrower shall submit the revised procurement plan for the first year of Project
implementation by negotiations. At the beginning of each calendar year, the Borrower
will update the Procurement Plan with a detailed procurement schedule for the coming
year.
D. Frequency of Procurement Supervision
In addition to the prior review supervision to be carried out from Bank offices, the
capacity assessment of the CLS has recommended one full supervision mission to visit the
field to carry out post-review of procurement actions.  Based on the overall risk
assessment (AVERAGE), the post-review field analysis should cover a sample of not less
than 1 in 10 contracts signed.
E. Procurement Audits
The Project will hire a specialized consulting firm to carry out annual procurement audits
in accordance with Terms of Reference satisfactory to the Bank to review on a sample
basis how the procurement of the project is carried out in particular the transfers to schools
and CREDEs and the subprojects of the Municipal Education Development Program
(PRODEM). The procurement audit reports should be submitted to the Bank as soon as
issued.
F. Financial Management Arrangements
The financial management systems of were reviewed by a Bank Financial Management
Specialist during pre-appraisal for compliance with OP/BP 10.02 and the Loan
Administration Change Initiative (LACI) Implementation Handbook. Based on this
review, the project was certified as a "B", indicating that the Project satisfies the Bank's
minimum  financial management requirements.   However, the Project financial
management system cannot currently generate quarterly project management reports
(PMRs). In the event that the financial management system is not ready to generate PMRs
by loan effectiveness, disbursements would be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure (SOEs), except for goods above US$350,000 equivalent, and contracts with
consulting firms above US$100,000 equivalent and with individuals above US$50,000. In
theses cases all contracts information has to be attached to the Summary Sheet (SS). The
information required for the compilation of SOEs would be maintained by the CLS in the
87



MIS database. An action plan was prepared and agreed for the project adequate the
system to generate the PMRs (Financial, Monitorable Indicators and Procurement). The
annual financial audit will include a separate opinion on the eligibility of expenditures
disbursed on the basis of PMRs.
G. Special Account
In order to facilitate project implementation, the Borrower will establish a special account
in US Dollars, in a commercial bank, with an authorized allocation based on projected
disbursements for four months, so as to initiate disbursements under the traditional
disbursement methodology.
H. PMRs- Based Disbursement
Once the Bank approves the Borrower's financial report system for PMR-based
disbursements, which should follow the following procedures:
*  All withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into a special
Account based upon Table C. Each such deposit into the Special Account will be
withdrawn by the Bank from the loan account under one or more of the eligible
categories.
*  Each application for withdrawal from the Loan Account for deposit into the Special
Account must be supported by a Project Management Report.
- Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account an
amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and (b) the amount which
the Bank has determined, based on the Project Management Report accompanying that
application, is required to be deposited in order to finance eligible expenditures during
six-month period following the date of the Financial Management Report; and (c) the
amount deposited, when added to the amount indicated by the Project Management
Report to be remaining in the Special Account, cannot exceed the amount of $
18,000,000.
*  In the case of a faster than expected draw-down of the special account, an interim
PMR may be submitted to request a supplemental disbursement prior to the next
scheduled  quarterly  disbursement request.    All supporting  documentation
authenticating the expenditures reported in the PMRs will be maintained by the GEP
in the Project and made available for review by auditors and Bank missions as
requested.
I. Auditing Arrangements
Following on the arrangements it has been agreed that the project will have the auditors
appointed no later than three months after effectiveness, and that the auditors will provide
a management letter after six months after implementation on the adequacy of the
accounting and internal control systems to monitor expenditures and other financial
transactions and ensure safe custody of project-financed assets. The FMS/OPR will be
following up on the progress of such hiring. The special account will be audited in
88



conjunction with the annual financial audit of the Project accounts for the period January 1
to December 31st of the year carried out by a qualified auditor according to terms of
reference acceptable to the Bank and selected in accordance with Bank guidelines. The
audit report will be submitted to the Bank no later than June 30th in the year following the
year for which the Project accounts are audited.
89



Annex 7, Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category                                  Pro1urem eRtMethd04    _              _  T;a Cest
.___________________              ICB            NCB            Other            N.B.F
1. Works                                                        1.8            1.0a,            5.0                7.8
(0.9)         (0.5)                               (1.4)
2. Goods                                        22.3            7.0          15.2                                44.5
(15.6)         (3.5)          (7.6 _)                           (26-D
3. Consultants' Services                                                      19.1ct            5.2               24.3
(19.1)                             (19.1)
4. Trainingd'                                                                 18.4                                18.4
,_____________________________   ________ _           (1   1.0)                           (11.0)
5. School Grants e                                                            15.0              9.5              24.5
15.0)                             (15.0)
6. PRODEM Grants                                                             (12.3              8.3               20.6
7. Administrative Expenses /                                                   90(12.3                          (12.3)
9.0                              9.0
(3.6)                            (3.6)
Bank Fee                                                                       0.9                                 0.9
(0.9)                               (0.9)
TOTAL                                          22.3             8.8          90.9              28.0             150.0
(15.6)           (4.4)        (70.0)                              (90.0)
N.B.F.: Not Bank-financed.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan. All costs include contingencies.
Footnotes:
a! Three Quotations: Small works procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations
obtained from three (3) qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation . The award shall be made to the
contractor who: (a) offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and (b) has the experience and resources to
complete the contract successfully.
b/ Shopping (National and International)
c/ Consultants' Services: Contracts awarded to finms using Quality-and Cost-Based selection (QCBS), Least Cost
Selection, Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications, Single-Source selection, and to individual consultants. Details
provided in Table A-l.
d/ Training: This category will finance travel, subsistence and logistic-related expenses. Services will be contracted by
SEDUC or CREDEs, through local procedures acceptable to the Bank and included in the MIP.
e/ School Grants: This category will finance school improvement projects, allotments for schools to meet Basic
Operational Standards (PBF), and yearly allotments for schools to maintain PBFs. The maximum allotment would be
US$80,000 per school.
ft PRODEM Grants: Contracts for small works and goods will be procured by obtaining quotations from qualified
contractors and suppliers or through other local arrangements acceptable by the Bank and included in the MIP.
g/ Administrative Expenses: Incremental operational costs related to the management and supervision of the Project,
including maintenance and supplies, communication services and spare parts for office equipment and vehicles.
90



Annex 7, Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(in US$ million equivalent)
Consultant                                                                           Total Cost
Services                               Selection Method                             (including
Expenditure                                                                         contingencies)
Category
QCBS    QBS         SFB      LCS        CQ      Other   N.B.F.
A. Firms             2.1                          0.5       0.5      13.5       5.2         21.8
(2.1)                        0.5)     (0.5)    (13.5)                 (16.6)
B. Individuals                                                        2.5                   2.5
_____ _    __ ____    ___(2.5)      (2.5)
TOTAL                2.1                          0.5       0.5      16.0       5.2         24.3
(2.1)                        (0.5)    (0.5)    (16.0)                 (19.1)
Note: QCBS: Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS: Quality-Based Selection
SFB: Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS: Least-Cost Selection
CQ: Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
OTHER: Single Source Selection, Individual Consultants.
N.B.F.: Not Bank-financed.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan.
Annex 7, Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure           Contract Value           Procurement         Contracts Subject to
Category              (Threshold)              Method                Prior Review
US $ thousands                                   US $ millions
1. Works                      >350 < 5,000             NCB             First 2 contracts
<350               Three Quotations    None (Post Review)
2. Goods                      >350                      ICB            All
>100 < 350               NCB            First 2 contracts
<100                   Shopping         None (Post Review)
3. Consultants
Firms                      >200                     QCBS            All (including Technical
Evaluation)
>100 <200                LCS            All (except for
Technical Evaluation)
<100                   LCS, CQ          Review of TOR only
Individuals                 > 50               See Section V of     All (TOR, contract, CV)
Guidelines
<50                See Section V of     Review of TOR only
Guidelines
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment:
High
Average      X
Low
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 12 month(s) (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review) reviewing a sample of 1 in 10 contracts signed.
91



Annex 7, Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category             Amouit in USS mi               Fnancng cetge
I. Works ( except works for School                1.4              50% of local expenditures
Subprojects and PRODEM Subprojects)
2.Goods (except goods for School                  26.7             100% of foreign expenditures, 100%
Subprojects and PRODEM Subprojects)                              of local expenditures (ex-factory
cost) and 50% of local expenditures
for other items procured locally
3. Consultants' Services                          16.0             100% of foreign expenditures and
100% of local expenditures
4. Training (except for School Subprojects        11.0             100% of foreign expenditures and
and PRODEM Subprojects)                                          60% of local expenditures
5 School Grants                                   14.0             100% of foreign expenditures and
100% of local expenditures
6. PRODEM  Grants                                 12.3             100% of foreign expenditures and
100% of local expenditures
7 Administrative Expenses                         3.6              40% of local expenditures
8. Bank front-end fee                             0.9
9. Contingencies                                  4.1
Total                             90.0
92



Annex 8
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Brazil: Ceara Basic Education Quality Improvement Project
Project Schedule                                            Planned                  Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)                    20                        24
First Bank mission (identification)                        09/15/98                   09/15/98
Project Concept Document Review Meeting                    06/15/99                   06/15/99
Project Appraisal Document Review Meeting                  09/19/99                   03/03/00
Appraisal mission departure                                 11/02/99                  02/03/00
Negotiations                                               03/27/00                   06/26/00
Board presentation                                         05/19/00                   12/21/00
Planned Date of Effectiveness                              08/15/00                   03/30/01
Project Team Participants
Bank staff and consultants who worked on the Project included:
Name (in alphabetical order)                                      Specialty
Aguiar, Rui Rodrigues,                     SEDUC Education Planning and Policy Unit, Coordinator
Albuquerque Filho, Jaime Cavalcante       SEDUC, Deputy Secretary
-Amaral, Susana                             World Bank, Disbursement
Baigorria, Jose                           World Bank, Procurement
Bemardes, Laudo                           Consultant, Management and Operation
Bonini, Maria Silvia                      CENPEC, Consultant (Accelerated Classes)
Borges, Dulce                             UNESCO, Teacher Development
Bruns, Barbara                            World Bank, Economist
Carmo, Lindalva Pereira do                  SEDUC, Technical pedagogical Development Unit, Coordinator
Castelar, Armando                         Consultant, Economist
Cavalcante, Monica Clark Nunes             State Planning and Coordination Secretary
Coelho, Sylvia Maria de Aguiar            SEDUC Educational Research and Evaluation Nucleus, Director
Correa, Tulio                             World Bank, Financial Management
Genta-Fons, Teresa                        World Bank, Lawyer
Guedes, Andrea                            World Bank, Operations Officer
Hobbs, Cynthia                            World Bank, Educator
Ibaflez, Nohemy Rezende                   SEDUC Teacher Training Nucleus
Imperatriz, Fabiana                       World Bank, Project Assistant
Jesuino, Maria Luzia Alves                SEDUC Education Coordination and Management Unit,
Coordinator
Klein, Ruben                              CESGRANRIO, Consultant, Researcher
Lannon, Margarita                         World Bank, Program Assistant
Lavor, Carlile.                           State Health Secretariat "Health Agents" Program, Director
Lemos, Meirelene Lopes                    State Labor and Social Action Secretariat. PROARES Program
Maia, Maria Eneida Machado                SEDUC Project Executive Group (GEP)
Marques, Daniela                          World Bank, Operations Analyst I Procurement
Moreira, Maria Leticia Mota                SEDUC Project Executive Group (GEP)
Moreira, Maria Neuman Ribeiro             SEPLAN Project Preparation Team, Coordinator
Millan, Patricio                          World Bank, Task Manager
93



Naspolini, Antenor                        SEDUC, Secretary of Education
Naspolini, Estela                         UNICEF, Early Childhood Development
Neto, Jose Rafael                         SEPLAN Project Preparation Team
Pereira, Antonio                          Consultant, Educator
Rodrigues, Maristela                      MEC/Fundescola, Education Management
Ribeiro, Maria de Jesus Arauijo           SEDUC Early Childhood Education Nucleus
Ribeiro, Rosilane                         State Labor and Social Action Secretariat. Planning Assistant
Sabella, Mariangeles                      World Bank, Lawyer
SetiTbal, Maria Alice                     CENPEC,Consultant (Accelerated Classes)
Santos, Madalena dos                      World Bank,Task Manager, Educator
Sarriune, Edilson, Azim                   State Labor and Social Action Secretary
van Praag, Morag                          Disbursement Specialist
Vieira, Sofia Lerche                      Consultant, Education / Social Assessment
Xavier, Ant6nio Carlos                    MEC/Fundescola, Education Management/PDE/PDF
94



Annex 9: List of Documents in Project File
Brazil: Ceara Basic Education Quality Improvement Project
Araiujo, Ana Maria Matos & Ana Maria Portela Vidal, 1997. Populagdo e Desenvolvimento
SustentAvel. Subsidios as Politicas Puiblicas. Fortaleza: IPLANCE.
Barros, Ricardo, & Rosane Mendon,a, 1996. A Educacao e o Processo de Determinacao de
Salarios no Nordeste Brasileiro. Rio de Janeiro : Instituto de Pesquisa Econ6mica Aplicada -
IPEA.
Barros, Ricardo Paes de, et al., 1999a. Determinantes do Desempenho Educacional no Brasil.
Rio de Janeiro: Instituto de Pesquisa Econ6mica Aplicada - IPEA.
Barros, Ricardo Paes de, & Rosane Mendon,a, 1 999b. Cost and Benefits of Preschool Education
in Brazil. Rio de janeiro : IPEA. This study was a background paper for World Bank, 1999a.
Barros, Ricardo Paes de, & Rosane Mendonca, 1997. Impacto de Tres Inovaces Institucionais
na Educacao Brasileira Rio de Janeiro: IPEA/Banco Interamericano de Desenvolvimento.
Cruz, Silvia Helena Vieira, & Sofia Lerche Vieira, 1997. Avaliacao do Projeto "Educacao
Infantil no Ceara" no Contexto da Mid-term Review. " Fortaleza: Fundo das Na,ces Unidas
para a Infancia.
Dallago, Maria Lacia Lopes, coord., 1995. Avaliacao do Telensino do Ceara. Fortaleza
Funda,ao de Teleducacao do Ceara.
Gurgel, Paulo Roberto, 1997. Ditos sobre a Evasao Escolar - Estudo de Casos no Estado da
Bahia. Brasilia; MEC/Serie Estudos.
Ministry of Education and Culture (MEC), 1999. Informacoes Educacionais. Estado do Ceara.
Brasilia: MEC/INEP.
Ministry of Education and Culture (MEC), 1997. SAEB 97 - Primeiros Resultados. Brasilia
MEC/INEP.
State Government of Ceara, 2000. Mensagem a Assembleia Legislativa, 2000. Fortaleza
SEPLAN.
Secretariat of Basic Education, 1999a. Avaliacao Institucional: Uma Inovacao nas Escolas
Publicas do Cear. Fortaleza: SEDUC.
Secretariat of Basic Education, 1999b. Sistema Permanente de Avalia,ao do Ensino do Estado
do Ceara. Documento Sintese - SPAECE/98. Fortaleza: SEDUC.
Secretariat of Basic Education, 1998a. Politica de Forma,co Docente. (Versao Preliminar).
Fortaleza: SEDUC.
95



Secretariat of Basic Education, 1998b. Projeto de Qualificacao da Educacao Basica.
Subcomponente - Ampliacao e Melhoria da Teleduca,co do Ceara. Fortaleza: SEDUC.
Secretariat of Basic Education, 1998c. Relat6rio de Pesquisa. Avalia,co dos CREDEs/1997.
Fortaleza: SEDUC.
Secretariat of Basic Education, 1997a. Acompanhando o Desenvolvimento Infantil: Um Novo
Horizonte na Parceria com Agentes de Saude. Fortaleza: SEDUC/Comissao Interinstitucional
de Educacao Infantil do Estado do Ceara.
Secretariat of Basic Education, 1997b. Integracao Interinstitucional na Educacao Infantil no
Estado do Ceara. Fortaleza: SEDUC/Comissao Interinstitucional de Educacao Infantil do Estado
do Ceara.
Secretariat of Basic Education, 1997c. Leis Basicas da Educacao. Fortaleza: Secretaria da
Educacao Basica.
State Government of Ceara, 1998a. Plano Estrategico de Capacitacao da Populacgo Cearense,
1999-2003. Subsidios para Conclusao. Fortaleza: Secretaria de Planejamento e Coordenagdo -
SEPLAN.
State Government of Ceara, 1998b. 4 Anos de Atividades. Fortaleza: SEDUC.
State Govermment of Ceara, 1995. Plano de Desenvolvimento Sustentavel. 1995-1998. Fortaleza:
SEPLAN.
Vicira, Sofia Lerche, coord., Kelma Lopes de Matos & Mauricio Holanda, 2000. Ceara -
Qualidade. Acesso e Gestao na Escola: Uma Visao dos Usuarios. Brasilia: Banco
Mundial/Departamento de Desenvolvimento Humano.
Vieira, Sofia Lerche, coord., Maria Neumann Ribeiro Moreira & Maria Eneida Machado Maia,
1999. Qualidade e Eqiuidade no Ceara: Dimensionando Disparidades Educacionais. Relat6rio
Final. Fortaleza, SEDUC.
Vieira, Sofia Lerche, coord., Isabel Sabino de Farias & Nohemy Rezende IbaAez, 1999. Ceara -
Experiencias na Formnaco de Professores. Brasilia: Banco Mundial/Departamento de
Desenvolvimento Hurnano.
Vieira, Sofia Lerche, coord., 1998a. Eleicao de Diretores. 0 Que Mudou na Escola? Estudo de
Avaliacao de Impacto. Fortaleza: SEDUC/Universidade Estadual do Ceara.
Vieira, Sofia Lerche, coord., 1998b. Entrevistas com Dirigentes. Subsidios ao Plano Estrategico
de Capacitar,co da Populacao Cearense. Fortaleza: Governo do Estado do CearalBanco Mundial.
World Bank, 1999a. Brazil: Boosting Poor Children's Chances. Early Childhood Development
Services for Poor Children in Brazil. Washington, DC : The World Bank/Latin America and the
Caribbean Regional Office.
96



World Bank, 1999b. Brazil: Poverty Reduction. Growth and Fiscal Stability in the State of
Ceard. A State Economic Memorandum. Washington, DC: The World Bank/Latin America and
the Caribbean Region. (Report No. 19217-BR).
World Bank, 1997. A Call to Action : Combating School Failure in the Northeast of Brazil.
Washington, DC : Ministry of Education /UNICEF/Northeast Basic Education Project.
Xavier, Antonio Carlos da R., & Jose Amaral Sobrinho, 1997. A Gestao da Educacao e da
Escola. Brasilia: Projeto Nordeste.
97



-   -   -   - -   =   -   - -   0   -   - -   -   -- -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -                     -   -                -      
-.  ..              4    4-                        -           - -     -   - .    .      .    .-                                                    
A  Az~~~~~~~~r
9  -                    -   -         9                                 3393    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~        0       0    ~     ~    ~ ~ o
00~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
C-)~ ~ ~~~~~C
~~~8                    - -89- -                          -    -      ------
T    9                                                         zj    2       0    n               In!"  2 
-   -   0                                                                                           - -               - - -              - - -               -F



*           I   =       -       I       II
-   2   2   2  2  2   2   2   2   2   2   2   2   2   2   2    2   2   2   2   2   2   2   2   2
-  -  6'  6'  6,  6'  6'  6'  6'  6'
ooooo.  - -   C 2 22 B 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2   2 2 2 2 
-   I-,   -  -
- S 2 2 2 o-=    2 2 2 2 2 5          2 2       -            - - -' a
=   -   -     0   -   0   -   2   -  -   -  -  -   -  -
SpO  : - U   -   -   :22  2:2  2:2  2 2 3
020
o 2 2 2o: on22 2 2 22    a,. P
-  -  0    2
22K 02  22
i:  w;wH                           ioooao
o   2 so      P   00                               -,
-           p   -               P    -       0                =   0    =
o       2         0=          p02  PS   5--
P                 0                  22        a     222    - = 0       0
-.                0                      F       F       F    S    F
p       0   2  2   2   -
2-. B   B   B   B   2        52 B 222          1
-     0           2       22         0         - =     00
=2.5  2 a - - =  2 200a                 0=223022
0002K 00020  00 oBZt2ao 00   2;  0
- - - C             o=oo    2                        - -
=oon                       4     2 o             = K = -        o 2
p                                              0   -   =
:o-.      2   CF   22 C 3        =   K           ,,,     -          2 2
=         - -   C         -     -        -2  Pa
2E
-E                -                S   '                             ; a
=         -   -=          0
-.       1,     -                  0  0
'0                            0                 -'         -     -                  0         0    5
2   22    2  2  2   2  ..2    2  2  2  2  2  2  2  2  2   2  2   2  2  2   2  2  2  ±  2  2  B  2
o 22 222    2 2 8 2 22228  BBS: B B 222  22 8 222  22222
0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
0 00000  00 0   0000  02200  0 00 00 0 0 0 0 00 0 0 0000
0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0  0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0
0 oo 2 0 00 0 0 00 0000000000  00 0 0 0 0 00 0 0 00 00
22 22 2 22 3 22 22822222  2 22 22 2 o 2   02222222
0   5 5               2 B 2          : SsSi          t ±2 2 2
2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 3 2 2 2 B B 2 2 2 22 2 B 2 8 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2
0 F 00000   0 0 -   - 0 0 0   0 0 0 P 0 0 -
0   0   0   0   =   0   -
22 22 22 2 222
0   0   0   0   o   6'   a   o    C   a   0   o   o   0   a   o   0   0   0  0   o    p   a    C   o  0   a  0    o  0   o   0
2   2   B   2   B   2   B   B   B   2   B   2   2   2   B  2   2   B   2   B   2    2   2   2   2   2   2   2   2   2   2   2   2   2   2



Dilterente etwe,f expected
and actual
Original Amourt in US  Millions                  disbursemenms'
Project l                 FY      Borrower                             PurpOse                                          IBRD             IDA          CanceU. U,dib.               Orig      Fr. R.eod
BR PE-iS05                t192   GOVERNMEtNT 0f 8RAZIL                 MATO  ROOSSO NAT RES                            205 00            0 00           0 D0          53 09        53 O05
Tettl:      5,10363            000          10430        3,47082      1.52755         1129
Active             Closed
Projects           Projects              Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD  and IDA):                 2,619.45          18,377.82           20,997.27
of which has been repaid:                 216.08          13,689.98           13,906.06
Total now  held by IRD  and IDA:                5,877.24            4,747.22           10,624.46
Amount sold:                 0.00              45.83               45.83
of which repaid:                0.00              45.83               45.83
Total Undisbursed:             3,473.82                59.38           3,533.20
a Actual disbursements to date minus intended disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
100



Annex 11: Country at a Glance
Brazil: Ceara Basic Education Quality Improvement Project
Latin    Uoo.r-                                       9f9S99
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                           America   middle. 
Brazil  & Carib.  Income       Development diamond,
1998
Pooulation. mid-year (millionsI                       165.9       502      5S8                   Life expectancy
GNP oar cacita (Atlas method. US$)                    4.570     3.940     4.860
GNP (Adlas methood. USS billionsl                     758.0      1978     2 862
Averoae annual growth. 1992-98
Pooulaion (%l                                           1.4       1.6        1 4
Labor force (%l                                        1t7        2.3        2 0     GNP                               Gross
Most recent estimate itatest vear available. 1992.981                                capita                        pmrmiment
Povertv (% of oooulaeton below rrational oovertv fine)  17
Urban oouiation /% of total oooulationi                80         75        77
Lfe exsectancv at birth (vesrs)                         67         70        70
Infant mortalitv (oer t.000 live birthsi                34         32        27
Child malnutrilion (% of children under 51               6          8                          Access to safe water
Access t1 safe water (% of oulaftionl                   69         75        79
illiteracv (% otooDulatiOn aoe 15+                      16         13        1t1
Gross orimarv enrollment t% of school-arae oouleion)   123        113       108              Brazil
Male                                                                                       Upper-middle-income gmup
Female
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1977     19S7      1997      1998
Economic ratios
GOP fUSS biiiion)l                           176.2    294.1     820.4     750.8
Gross domestic investment/GOP                221       22.3      21.3      21 2                      T
Exoorts of oooos and servicesfGDP              7 3      9.5       7.6        6.9                      rade
Gross domestic savinoslGDP                   21.4      25,6      18,6       18.8
Gross national savinasiGDP                    19 7     21.8      16.9       16.6
Current account balancelGDP                   -2.9     -0.5      .4.1      -4,7
Interest cavments/G6P                          1.2      2 1       1.2        1.4     Domestic   |                 Investment
Total debt/GDP                                23.9     40.7      23.6       28a2     Savings
Total debt service/exoorns                    42 5     41.7      57.4      67.7
Present value of debt/GOP                                        22.5
Present value of debtlexoorts                                   277.4
Indebtedness
1977-47  19SS 98     1997      1998   1999-03
/averaoe annual agowthI
GOP                                  3.0       2.4      3.2       0.2       3.0                Brazil
GNP oer caoita                      05        0.5      1.9      -1.4        1.0               Upper-middle-income group
Exoons of aoods and services        10.1       4.8      1.8       0.2       6.2
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977     1987      1997      1998       Growth ratse of output and investment (%)
(% of GDP)
Aariculture                                   14.7     10.0       8.1        8.6
Industrv                                     38.6      45.9      35.2      37 5      8
Manufacturing                               29.3     32.0       22.8      24.3     4
Services                                     46.7      44.1      56.7      53.9      o8    9    9O
Private consumotion                           69.2     62.3      63.2      68.5    -4             94   95   96   97   go
General oovernment consumotion                 9.4     12.2      18.1       12.7                     GD1    -GDP
Imoorts of goods and services                  7.9      6.2      10.2       9.2
(average annual arowfhl                   1977-87  1988-98       1997      1998      Growth rates of exports and imports (%)
Aariculture                                    3.5      2.5        1.9      0.5    40
Industrv                                       2.7      1.8       5.5       0 5
Manufacturino                                2.3      0.7        3.8       0.5    20
Services                                       3.2      2.6       3.5        1.2
Private consumotion                            3.6      5.3       2.4       -3.4                   4    95    B    97   98
General oovernment consumDtion                 4.0     -1.5       8.0        2.1
Gross domestic investment                     -1.3      2.1       6.2        0.1    20
ImDoos of goods and services                  -2.6     13.4      13.9       8.9              -     Exports    ' mports
Gross national oroduct                         2.7      2.0       3.3        0.0
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four kev indicators in the countrv (in bold) comoared with its incoma-roun averaoe, If data are missina the diamond will
be incomDlete
101



Brazil
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prices                              1977    1987       1997      1998      Inflation (%)
(% change)                                                                         3,000
Consumer prices                                ..   228.3         6.9      2.7      2,000
Implicit GDP deflator                        46.2   204.1         7.8      0.0      1,000                      _        _
Government finance
(% of GOP, includes current grants)                                                          9    94   95   96   97   98
Current revenue                                 ..    10.4       18.6     21.2    -1,000
Current budget balance                         ..    -1.4        -1.8     -4.6                   GDP deflator  -   CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                         ,.     2.8       -2.7     -5.7
TRADE
(US$ millions)                               1977    1987       1997      1998      Export and importlevels (USS milnlons)
Total exports (fob)                             .,  26,225    52,990   47,176      eo.000
Coffee                                        ..   2,185      3,094     2,505
Soybeans                                           2,325      5,729    4,580      60000Iw
Manufactures                                   .   14,331    32,736    27,601
Total imports (cif)                                 15,053    61,354    53,012     4000
Food                                                 500      3,290     2,961    103d                             _
Fuel and energy                               ..   4,674      3,220     3,903
Capital goods                                  .   3,958    26,232    25,262         o
Exwort orice index /1995=100)                   ..      78        96        92             2   93  94  95  96  97  98
Imoort Drice index t1995=100)                   ..     81         95        84              *Exports      U Imports
Terms of trade f1995=100)                               97       101       108
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1977    1987       1997      1998      Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
(USS millions)
Exports of goods and services              13,003   28,073    56,831    55,479      2
Imports of goods and services              14,646   17,749    74,147    70,517
Resource balance                           -1,643   10,324   -17,316   -15,038      o
Net income                                                       0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2 93   94
Net income                                 -3,469  -11,699   -18,331   -21,794
Net current transfers                           4      -43     2,216     1,886      2
Current account balance                     -5,108   -1,418   -33,430   -34,946                      I      'l       l
Financing items (net)                       5,629      363    25,629   26,455
Changes in net reserves                      -521    1,055      7,801    8,491     .
Memo:
Reserves includino aold (US$ millionsl      7.256    6.420    51.729    43.366
Conversion rate (DEC. local/USS)         5.14E-12  1.43E-8        1.1      1.2
EXTERNAL DEST and RESOURCE FLOWS
1977    1987       1997      1998
(US$ millions)                                                                      Composition of total debt, 1998 (US$ millions)
Total debt outstandingand disbursed        42,037  119,820   193,663   212,069                     A: 6.298
lBRD                                      1,371    9,384     5,743    6,298           G,   _            5,260
IDA                                           0        0         0         0          G: 49.229               9, 5284
Total debt service                          5,737   11,956    38,091    44,049                     _: 12,644
IBRD                                        204    1,555     1,428     1,373
IDA                                           0        0         0         0
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                               5       35        63        80
Official creditors                          415       10    -1,820    -2,571
Private creditors                         5,708     -690    19,890   -26,999
Foreign direct investment                 1,833    1,225    19,652   23,737
Portfolio equity                              0       78     5,300    -1,852                              F: 133,324
World Bank program
Commitments                                 319    1,394      1,104    1,291      A- IsRO                      E- Bilateral
Disbursements                               299      915      1,416    1,240      B-IDA     D-Othermultilateral   F- Private
Principal repayments                        101      867      1,049      995  rC - OF                          5 -
Net flows                                   198       48       368       245
Interest payments                           104      688       380       378
Net transfers                                95    -641        -12      -133
Development Economics                                                                                                 9/9/99
102



MAP SECTION






.   4po                                 40, AL(39                                                          7 VENEZUELA >1   I     5
COLOM3IA S      -                         ABIantc Oceon
B R A Z i-L                                                        2°-          +StSxk E   a
CEARA BASIC EDUCATION                                                                           '
QUALITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT                                                                                                      ,                    .
''tS  Vasl       m   B  R A  Z  I L  '                 /
The 21 CREDEs (Regional Education Development Centers) are                                            PERU Lr
identified by different colors. E
-EJ                 3° O             Ai)-ntic Ocecn
T.P-hb                                                                                 MH                                                                                  STATE BOUNDARIES
¢NTERNATIO NA
7       '                      TorSP,IrA  k            BBBRoTPotNB *UO'                      jf     ,,      t                                 AI   OD
OUNDARIES
Thebound:nrxs.co/om.    sj'L                                                                                                           fu   <   I<O,rra;>,Qi._ ,  REDEUNDRE
37'
imply~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~     ,                                                                      a      n  t r   oe o i   Kc2,f,
OC~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                     ICu Ito,,ny 'ert ry.OO ,fAf i   s.    
4' T. Pr pric                                                                                                                                                                              41of   RBB  ' S  P E R  N A  I B U0
n       bondris                            /       TohlOMETRS                                                                                                         
6. 41o   ;   40'   ros ig einz  39u  3f3  37 G.
7-~~~~~~~~~~d
The bessdo,,ee, ~~~~~~~~                                                                               COEDE SOUNDA~~~~~RIOES   A     D
eeSOe,flRB,OfleosdOy                       TOOSOSOOS  ~~~..              -
sthe, isforooIien~~~~~~~DhNORT
o Al coop So soT~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PAR                                                                         
The WoolS Book Groep, ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~                                          ELCEDCTISAN   OWS7
Th. b-ooe    -(,CRD BIOUNTERIS 
d....m ..41....0'.. 3I                                                                                                                 30
0                                                                                                                                                                                               65



