Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4591-BR
Loan Agreement
(Ceará Basic Education Quality Improvement Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
and
STATE OF CEARA
Date August 6, 2001
LOAN NUMBER 4591-BR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 6, 2001, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and STATE OF CEARA (the Borrower). 
WHEREAS (A) the Federative Republic of Brazil (the Guarantor) and the Borrower, 
having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), have requested the Bank to assist in the 
financing of the Project; and
(B) 
by an agreement of even date herewith between the Guarantor and the Bank 
(the Guarantee Agreement), the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the payment 
obligations of the Borrower in respect of the loan provided for in Article II of this 
Agreement (the Loan); and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Currency Pool Loans" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended 
through October 6, 1999) (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement:
Page  2
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Basic Education" means the education provided in Brazil as pre-school 
education (educação infantil), fundamental education (ensino fundamental), and 
secondary education (ensino médio), as described in Articles 21, 29, 32, and 35 of the 
Brazilian Federal Law No. 9.394 dated December 20, 1996; 
(b)
"Basic Operational Standards" means the Padrões Básicos de Funcionamento 
detailed in the Implementation Letter (as hereinafter defined);
(c)
 "CREDE" means Centro Regional de Desenvolvimento da Educação, any of the 
Borrower's regional education development centers;
(d)
"Eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (7) set forth in the 
table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(e)
"Eligible Expenditures" means the expenditures for goods, works and 
services referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(f)
"Implementation Letter" means the letter of even date herewith from the 
Borrower to the Bank containing technical criteria, procedural aspects and Performance 
Indicators (as hereinafter defined) to be used in the implementation of the Project;
(g)
"Implementing Agencies" means the political and administrative agencies 
of the Borrower, and any other public or private entity, with which SEDUC (as 
hereinafter defined), enters into a Joint Implementation Agreement (as hereinafter 
defined), for the execution of any activities under the Project;
(h)
"Joint Implementation Agreement" means any of the agreements or written 
administrative arrangements referred to in Section 3.05 of this Agreement;
(i)
"Municipality" means a political subdivision (Município) of the Guarantor 
located in the territory of the Borrower;
(j)
"Participating Municipality" means any of the Municipalities selected to 
participate in Part C of the Project in accordance with the provisions of the PRODEM 
Guidelines;
(k)
"Participating School" means any of the Basic Education schools of the 
Borrower selected to participate in Part D.1 of the Project in accordance with the 
provisions of the Project Implementation Manual;
(l)
"Performance Indicators" means the matrix setting forth the performance 
indicators for monitoring the progress of the Project and the achievement of its 
objectives set forth in Annex B to the Implementation Letter;
(m)
"PRODEM" means Programa de Desenvolvimento da Educação Municipal, the 
municipal education development program to be established by the Borrower under Part 
C.1 of the Project;
(n)
"PRODEM Guidelines" means the guidelines set forth in the Annex to the 
Project Implementation Manual (as hereinafter defined) for the operational, technical, 
financial, and procedural aspects of the financing of PRODEM Subprojects (as 
hereinafter defined), in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.03 (b) (iii) of 
this Agreement;
(o) 
"PRODEM Grant" means any of the grants made by SEDUC (as hereinafter 
defined) to a Participating Municipality (as hereinafter defined), for the financing 
of a PRODEM Subproject (as hereinafter defined);
(p) 
"PRODEM Subproject" means any of the projects referred to in Part C.1 of 
the Project;
(q)
"PRODEM Subproject Agreement" means any of the agreements referred to in 
Section 3.06 (a) (ii) of this Agreement;
(r)
"Project Executive Group" means Grupo Executivo do Projeto, the group 
established within SEDUC, and operating pursuant to the provisions of the Borrower’s 
Page  3
Portaria No. 259/2000-GAB dated April 26, 2000, set forth in Section 3.04 (a) of this 
Agreement;
(s)
"Project Implementation Manual" means Manual de Implementação do Projeto, 
the project implementation manual referred to in Section 3.03 (b) of this Agreement;
(t)
"Project Management Reports" means each report prepared in accordance 
with the provisions of Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(u)
"SAP" means Sistema de Acompanhamento Pedagógico, a pedagogical 
monitoring and evaluation system to be implemented by the Borrower under Part A.4. of 
the Project;
(v)
"School Grant" means any of the grants made by SEDUC (as hereinafter 
defined) to a Participating School for the financing of a School Subproject;
(w)
"School Subproject" means any of the projects referred to in Part D.1 (a) 
of the Project, to be carried out by a Participating School pursuant to the provisions 
of the annual school investment plan (Plano Anual de Investimento Escolar) approved by 
SEDUC;
(x) 
"School Subproject Agreement" means any of the agreements to be referred 
to in Section 3.06 (a) (i) of this Agreement;
(y)
"SEDUC" means Secretaria da Educação Básica do Estado do Ceará, the 
Borrower's Basic Education Secretariat or any successor thereto; and
(z)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement. 
Section 1.03. Each reference in the General Conditions to the Project 
implementation entity shall be deemed to be SEDUC.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, various currencies that shall 
have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of ninety million Dollars 
($90,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each 
withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made 
(or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan and in respect of the fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2006 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to one 
percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan equivalent to nine hundred thousand Dollars 
($900,000). On or promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount of said fee.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.06. (a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of 
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest 
Period equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the 
preceding Semester, plus three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%).  On each of the 
dates specified in Section 2.07 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest 
accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, 
calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined 
Page  4
in respect of such Semester.
(c)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately preceding each date specified in Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in which this 
Agreement is signed.
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum, of 
the outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30, 
1982, excluding such borrowings or portions thereof as the Bank 
has allocated to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans 
which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest 
rates determined otherwise than as provided in paragraph (a) of 
this Section.
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar year.
(d)
On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice 
to the Borrower and the Guarantor, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section 
shall be amended to read as follows:
"(a)
The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for 
each Quarter equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined 
in respect of the preceding Quarter, plus three-fourths of one 
percent (3/4 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section 
2.07 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on 
the principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest 
Period, calculated at the rates applicable during such Interest 
Period."
"(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank 
shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the Cost of 
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Quarter."
"(c)
(iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period commencing on January 
1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on February 15 and August 15, in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.09. The Secretary of Basic Education of the Borrower and any person or 
persons whom he or she shall designate in writing is designated as representative of 
the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken 
under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project, through SEDUC, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity 
with appropriate administrative, financial, educational, and environmental practices, 
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the Project.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
Page  5
shall carry out the Project and shall cause: (i) the Participating Schools to carry 
out Part D.1 (a) of the Project; and (ii) the Participating Municipalities to carry 
out Part C of the Project, all in accordance with an operational manual acceptable to 
the Bank (the Project Implementation Manual). 
(b) 
The Project Implementation Manual shall include, inter alia: (i) the 
procedures to be followed by SEDUC in the carrying out of the Project; (ii) the 
criteria and procedures for: (A) the selection of Participating Schools; (B) the 
preparation, review, approval and implementation of School Subprojects; and (C) the 
provision of School Grants;  (iii) the PRODEM Guidelines, including: (A) the criteria 
and procedures for the selection of Participating Municipalities; (B) the criteria and 
procedures for the preparation, review, approval and implementation of the PRODEM 
Subprojects; and (C) the procurement and contracting procedures applicable to goods, 
works and consultants' services procured by Participating Municipalities under the 
PRODEM Subprojects, including the maximum amount authorized for the procurement of 
goods under each PRODEM Subproject; (iv) the terms of reference, functions and 
responsibilities for staff responsible for Project management, coordination and 
monitoring and evaluation at the state, regional and municipal levels; and (v) the 
terms, conditions and standard format of the School Subproject Agreements, PRODEM 
Subproject Agreements and the Joint Implementation Agreements. Except as the Borrower, 
through SEDUC, and the Bank may otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend, 
suspend, abrogate or waive or otherwise fail to enforce the Project Implementation 
Manual, including the PRODEM Guidelines or any provisions thereof.
Section 3.04. The Borrower, through SEDUC, shall:
(a) 
maintain throughout Project implementation, the Project Executive Group, 
reporting to SEDUC's Subsecretary of Basic Education, with functions and 
responsibilities acceptable to the Bank, and with technical and professional staff, 
including the following key staff: (i) an education expert; (ii) a financial expert; 
and (iii) a legal expert, all with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the 
Bank. In discharging its Project management responsibilities, the Project Executive 
Group shall seek overall policy advice from SEDUC's management team; and
(b) 
provide promptly, as needed, the facilities, services, support staff and 
other resources required by said Group to carry out its functions and to discharge its 
responsibilities in a timely and efficient manner.
Section 3.05. The Borrower, through SEDUC, shall: 
(a) 
enter into agreements or written administrative arrangements with 
Implementing Agencies for all Project activities the execution of which falls outside 
the jurisdiction of SEDUC. All said agreements or written administrative arrangements 
shall be on the terms and conditions detailed in the Project Implementation Manual; 
and 
(b) 
carry out its obligations and exercise its rights under the Joint 
Implementation Agreements in such manner as to protect the interest of the Borrower 
and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Project and, except as the Bank may 
otherwise agree, shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any of the Joint 
Implementation Agreements, or any provision thereof.
Section 3.06. The Borrower, through SEDUC, shall: 
(a) 
enter into agreements with: (i) the Participating Schools for the 
carrying out of School Subprojects, referred to under Part D.1 (a) of the Project (the 
School Subproject Agreements); and (ii) the Participating Municipalities for the 
carrying out of PRODEM Subprojects under Part C.2 of the Project (the PRODEM 
Subproject Agreements). All said agreements shall be on the terms and conditions 
detailed in the Project Implementation Manual; and
(b) 
carry out its obligations and exercise its rights under the School 
Subproject Agreements and the PRODEM Subproject Agreements, in such manner as to 
protect the interest of the Borrower and the Bank, and to accomplish the purposes of 
the Project; and except as the Bank may otherwise agree, shall not assign, amend, 
abrogate or waive any of the School Subproject Agreements, PRODEM Subproject 
Agreements, or any of their respective provisions thereof.
Section 3.07. The Borrower, through SEDUC, shall: 
(a) 
evaluate the results of the pilot implementation SAP program referred in 
Part A.4 (b) of the Project with the Bank and shall, thereafter, extend the 
Page  6
implementation of the SAP program referred in Part A.4 (c) of the Project; and
(b) 
develop and furnish the Bank with an action plan to upgrade the existing 
televised education programs for students grades 5 to 8 (Telensino) in places where 
schooling at this level is available.  Upon approval by the Bank of such action plan, 
the Borrower, through SEDUC, shall proceed to implement it, as stated under Part B.1 
of the Project.  
Section 3.08. The Borrower, through SEDUC, shall during the execution of the 
Project:
(a)
cause the Project Executive Group to maintain policies and procedures 
adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis and in accordance 
with the Performance Indicators the carrying out of the Project (including the School 
Subprojects and the PRODEM Subprojects) and the achievement of its objectives;
(b) 
furnish to the Bank, not later than September 30 of each year: (i) an 
annual action plan, satisfactory to the Bank which shall specify the activities to be 
carried out by the Borrower during the next calendar year; (ii) an annual procurement 
plan for the goods, works and consultants' services to be procured in accordance with 
the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and (iii) a progress report on the 
execution of the Project during the previous calendar year, said report to be of such 
scope and detail as the Bank may reasonably request and to include the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section;
(c)
furnish to the Bank, not later than one month before the reviews referred 
to in paragraph (d) of this Section, a report, of such scope and detail as the Bank 
may reasonably request, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project, 
including the School Subprojects and the PRODEM Subprojects, including the results of 
the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out 
of the Project, including the School Subprojects and the PRODEM Subprojects, and the 
achievement of its objectives; and
(d)
carry out, jointly with the Bank, an annual review, and by no later than 
October 31, 2003, a mid-term review of the progress of the Project and the attainment 
of its objectives on the basis of the reports referred to in paragraph (c) of this 
Section, and shall, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of its objectives, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said reports and the Bank's views on the 
matter.
Section 3.09. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower, through SEDUC, shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may 
be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the 
continuing operation and maintenance of the facilities provided by the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.10. The Borrower, through SEDUC, shall:
(a)
by not later than September 30, 2001, procure specialized consultants' 
services under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank and in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, for the carrying out of an 
annual procurement audit of the School Subprojects and the PRODEM Subprojects approved 
for financing under the Project;
(b) 
by not later than August 31 of each year of Project execution, carry out 
the audits referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section; and
(c)
promptly thereafter, furnish the reports of such audits to the Bank, for 
its review and comments.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants 
Page  7
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain in SEDUC a financial management 
system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format 
acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures 
related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall: 
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, 
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited; and (B) 
an opinion on such statements, records and accounts and report of 
such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such records 
and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said auditors, 
as the Bank may from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such 
expenditures; 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Bank for the strengthening of the financial management system referred to in paragraph 
(a) of said Section 4.01 in order to enable the Borrower, not later than December 31, 
2000, or such later date as the Bank shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project 
Management Reports, acceptable to the Bank, each of which: 
(i)
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following the period covered by 
said report; and (B) shows separately expenditures financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan during the period covered by said report 
and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan during the six-month period following the period covered 
by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report; and (B) 
explains variances between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and 
(iii) sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
Page  8
expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan, as at the end of the period covered by said report. 
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than 45 days after the end of each 
calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions: 
(a)
the Project Implementation Manual, including the PRODEM Guidelines, has 
been approved by SEDUC and the Bank;
(b)
the key staff of the Project Executive Group have been appointed and are 
in place, as provided in Section 3.04 of this Agreement; and
(c)
the terms of reference for the implementation of the staff development 
programs under Part D.2 (c) of the Project have been approved by the Bank.
Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
to be furnished to the Bank, namely that this Agreement has been validly registered 
with the Central Bank of Brazil.
Section 5.03. The date November 6, 2001, is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Secretary of Basic Education of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For the Borrower:
Secretaria da Educação Básica do Estado do Ceará
Centro Administrativo Gov. Virgílio Távora
Av. José Américo, s. no.
60.839-900 Fortaleza, Ceará
Brazil
With copies to:
Ministério do Planejamento, Orçamento e Gestão
Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais
Esplanada dos Ministérios, Bloco "K", 5o andar
700040-906 Brasília, D.F.
Page  9
Brazil
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Ceará, Brazil, as of  the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
By /s/ Maria Madalena R. dos Santos
Authorized Representative
STATE OF CEARA
By  /s/ Tasso Ribeiro Jereissati
Authorized Representative 
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
A.
General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of
the Loan Allocated
   % of
   (Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
Dollar Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Works (except
1,400,000
50% of local
works for School
expenditures
Subprojects and
PRODEM Subprojects)
(2)
Goods
     26,700,000
Both for (a) and (b),
100% of foreign
  (a)
 For Part B.1
expenditures, 100% of
 of the Project; and
local expenditures
(ex-factory cost) and
  (b) All other goods
50% of local
(except for School
expenditures for other
Subprojects and
items procured locally
PRODEM Subprojects)
(3)
Consultants’ Services
     16,000,000
100% of foreign
(except for School
expenditures; 100%
 Subprojects and
of local expenditures
 PRODEM Subprojects)
(4)
Training (except for 
     11,000,000
100% of foreign
School Subprojects
expenditures; 60%
and PRODEM Subprojects)
of local expenditures
(5)
School Grants
     14,000,000
100% of foreign
expenditures; 100%
of local expenditures
(6)
PRODEM Grants
     12,300,000
100% of foreign
expenditures; 100%
of local expenditures
(7)
Administrative Expenses
3,600,000
40% of local
expenditures
Page  10
(8)
Unallocated
4,100,000
(9)
Fee
  900,000
Amount due under
Section 2.04 of this
Agreement
TOTAL
     90,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Guarantor for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Guarantor;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Guarantor or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Guarantor;
(c)
the term "Training" means the costs of hiring trainers and contracting 
training institutions for the provision of training under the Project, including 
travel,  per diem and other administrative expenses for the preparation and delivery 
of Project-related training activities; and
(d)
the term "Administrative Expenses" means administrative costs incurred in 
the daily implementation, management, monitoring and evaluation of the Project, 
including maintenance and supplies, communication services and spare parts for office 
equipment and vehicles.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: 
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
$2,500,000, may be made in respect of Category (2), (3) and (5) set forth in the table 
in paragraph 1 of this Schedule on account of payments made for expenditures before 
that date but after January 1, 2000;
(b)
any expenditures under Category (2) (a) unless the action plan referred 
in Section 3.07 (b) of this Agreement has been approved by the Bank; 
(c)
any expenditures under Category (5) unless the Bank has approved the 
first five School Subproject Agreements; 
(d) 
any expenditures under Category (6) unless the Bank has approved the 
first five PRODEM Subproject Agreements; and 
(e)
any expenditures that have been financed, or that may be financed, under 
Loan Agreements 4311-BR and 4487-BR entered into between the Federative Republic of 
Brazil and the Bank on June 7, 1998 and December 16, 1999, respectively.
4.
The Bank may require that withdrawals from the Loan Account be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditures for expenditures under contracts for: (a) goods costing 
less than $350,000 equivalent; (b) services for consulting firms costing less than 
$100,000 equivalent per contract; (c) services for individual consultants costing less 
than $50,000 equivalent per contract; (d) School Grants with the exception of the 
first five Grants; and (e) PRODEM Grants with the exception of the first five Grants, 
all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower.
B.
Special Account 
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in a 
commercial bank acceptable to the Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment.
2.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts to be deposited into 
said Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
until the Bank shall have received: (i) the first Project Management 
Report referred to in Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement; and (ii) a request from the 
Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, withdrawals shall 
Page  11
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and 
(b)
upon receipt by the Bank of a Project Management Report pursuant to 
Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement, accompanied by a request from the Borrower for 
withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, all further withdrawals shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1. 
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a)
if the Bank determines at any time that any Project Management Report 
does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 of this 
Agreement; 
(b)
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals should be 
made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of: (A) the records and accounts for the Special Account; or (B) the records 
and accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were made on 
the basis of Project Management Reports. 
5.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the 
Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part 
the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Bank shall 
determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account 
may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall 
notify the Borrower of its determination.
6.
(a)
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or 
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the 
Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) of 
this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement.
Annex A to SCHEDULE 1 
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are Not Made 
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
For the purposes of this Annex, the term "Authorized Allocation" means the 
amount equivalent to $9,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited 
into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, however, 
that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited 
to the amount equivalent to $2,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from 
the Loan Account, plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered 
Page  12
into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal or 
exceed the equivalent of $4,500,000.
2.
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish 
the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis 
of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested. 
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank 
shall specify.  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn 
by the Bank from the Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.
3.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the General Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify 
by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to 
the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on 
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in 
making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
Annex B to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are Made 
On the Basis of Project Management Reports 
1.
Except as the Bank may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all 
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each such 
deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account 
under one or more of the Eligible Categories. 
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Loan Account for deposit into the 
Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into 
the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and 
(b) the amount which the Bank has determined, based on the Project Management Report 
accompanying said application, is required to be deposited in order to finance 
Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of such report; 
provided, however, that the amount so deposited, when added to the amount indicated by 
said Project Management Report to be remaining in the Special Account, shall not 
exceed the amount of $18,000,000.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to improve the quality, efficiency and equity in 
the provision of Basic Education services.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objective:
Part A:
Improving School Quality and Efficiency
Page  13
1.
Enhancing of teachers’ professional performance and of early childhood 
development programs, through the carrying out of: (a) secondary and higher education 
training programs; (b)  in-service training programs; and (c) training programs for 
community health agents, who will then train parents and community workers to provide 
non-formal initial education oriented towards the expansion of non-formal early 
childhood development activities.
2.
Upgrading of Basic Education state schools to attain Basic Operational Standards 
through: (a) the design and dissemination of information on Basic Operational 
Standards; (b) the provision of training for CREDE staff to carry out such upgrading; 
(c) the construction and rehabilitation of classrooms and schools; (d) the provision 
of furniture and equipment; (e) the provision of school and classroom libraries; (f) 
the provision of school laboratories and equipment; and (g) the provision of 
learning-teaching materials for schools and classrooms.
3.
Design and implementation of innovative programs to strengthen the academic 
performance of over-age students and reduce age-grade distortions in Basic Education, 
through: (a) an accelerated program for students in grades 1 to 4 to be coordinated by 
SEDUC’s technical-pedagogical development unit (Coordenadoria de Desenvolvimento 
Técnico-Pedagógico) with technical assistance from the education and culture research 
center (Centro de Pesquisa em Educação); and (b) an accelerated program (Tempo de 
Avançar/Telecurso 2000) for students in grades 5 to 8 and in secondary education.
4.
Implementation of the SAP program, through: (a)  the provision of technical 
assistance and training for SEDUC and CREDE staff; (b)  the pilot implementation of 
SAP procedures in six CREDEs; and (c) the extension of such implementation of SAP 
procedures to the remaining CREDEs.
Part B:
Expanding Access to Basic Education
Implementation of a strategy to increase access to Basic Education, through the 
carrying out of distance and presence basic education programs, including: 
1.
upgrading the existing televised education programs for students grades 5 to 8 (
Telensino) in places where schooling at this level is available; and
 2.
 carrying out tailored education programs specially designed to assist people 
aged 15-39 to develop relevant skills and abilities required to enter the labor market 
(the Educação Contextualizada program).
Part C:
Upgrading Education in Poorest Municipalities
1.
Establishment and operation of PRODEM, for the financing, on a grant basis, of 
projects for, inter alia, the following activities: (a) the carrying out of formal and 
non-formal initial education and pre-school programs; (b) the rehabilitation and 
furnishing of primary education schools to ensure Basic Operational Standards; (c) the 
provision of training and teaching-learning materials for multigrade and accelerated 
classes; (d) the implementation of school development plans; and (e) the provision of 
technical assistance to implement school development plans.
2.
Provision of technical assistance to Participating Municipalities for: (a) the 
identification and development of PRODEM Subprojects; (b) the monitoring and 
evaluation of PRODEM Subprojects; and (c) the dissemination of results achieved under 
the PRODEM Subprojects.
Part D:
Decentralization and Institutional  Development
1.
Promotion of school autonomy through: (a) the design and implementation of 
school development plans based on which school-initiated projects shall be presented 
for financing on a grant basis; and (b) the redesigning and reinvigoration of 
school-centered institutions such as school councils and student organizations.
2.
Institutional modernization and strengthening of the education sector at the 
central, regional and municipal levels through: (a) the upgrading and consolidation of 
the Borrower's education and evaluation system (Sistema Permanente de Avaliação da 
Educação Básica do Ceará SPAECE); (b) the improvement of planning, information and 
evaluation systems, including the carrying out of studies to evaluate the impact of 
the Project activities; (c) the carrying out of staff development programs to upgrade 
the administrative, managerial and technical skills of central, regional and municipal 
staff responsible for the implementation of education programs; and (d) the carrying 
out of studies to evaluate the impact of Project activities.
Page  14
3.
Raising social awareness of the socio-economic and developmental value of Basic 
Education and local schools, and promotion of participation by key stakeholders in 
education and school associated reforms, through the carrying out of workshops, public 
opinion campaigns, and school-based campaigns.
Part E:
Project Management
Strengthening the capacity of SEDUC and the Project Executive Group to carry out 
the management of the Project through the provision of technical and material 
assistance for Project administration.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2005.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
 Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(expressed in Dollars)
On each February 15 and August 15
beginning August 15, 2006
through  February 15, 2016
4,500,000
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage 
specified for the applicable time of prepayment below:
Time of Prepayment
Premium
The interest rate (expressed
as a percentage per annum)
applicable to the Loan
on the day of prepayment
multiplied by:
Not more than three years
  0.20
before maturity
More than three years but
  0.40
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but
  0.73
not more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but not
  0.87
more than thirteen years
before maturity
More than thirteen years
  1.00
before maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
Page  15
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as 
applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines 
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B:
(a)
Grouping of Contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $350,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods
In the procurement of goods pursuant to paragraph 1 of this Part B, the 
provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto shall 
apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. For purposes of the 
Guidelines, the term custom duties and other import taxes includes the Borrower's 
Freight Surcharge for the Renewal of the Merchant Marine (Adicional ao Frete para a 
Renovação da Marinha Mercante), established by Decree Law 1.142 of December 30, 1970, 
as amended to December 31, 1987, or any other tax, levy or charge that, in the 
reasonable opinion of the Bank, may substitute it, in whole or in part, after January 
1, 1998.
(c)
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to bid for each contract estimated to cost $10,000,000 equivalent 
or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures applicable to large 
contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
(a) 
Goods estimated to cost less than $350,000 equivalent per contract up to 
an aggregate amount of $7,000,000 equivalent may be procured under contracts awarded 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines; 
(b) 
except as in Part C.4, works shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines; and
(c)
in the procurement of goods and works under this Part C.1, bidding 
documents in a standardized form for the Project shall be used. Without limitation to 
any other provisions set forth in this Schedule or the Guidelines, the following shall 
apply to the procurement of goods and works to be undertaken pursuant to this Part 
C.1:
(i)
contracts shall be awarded to the bidder whose bid has been 
determined to be the lowest evaluated bid, such evaluation to be 
based on price and, whenever appropriate, to also take into 
account factors similar to those referred to in paragraph 2.51 of 
the Guidelines, provided, however, that the bid evaluation shall 
always be based on factors that can be quantified objectively, and 
the procedure for such quantification shall be disclosed in the 
invitation to bid;
(ii)
whenever required by the Bank, the invitation to bid shall be 
advertised for at least three consecutive days in a newspaper of 
wide circulation in Brazil;
(iii)
the arrangements, under the invitation to bid, for joint-ventures 
(consórcios) of Brazilian and foreign firms shall be approved in 
advance by the Bank in each case;
(iv)
the invitation to bid shall not establish, for purposes of 
Page  16
acceptance of bids, minimum or maximum amounts for the contract 
prices; and
(v)
there shall not be, without the Bank's prior approval, issuance of 
any change order under a contract which would increase or decrease 
by more than 15% the quantity of works or goods (and related 
services), as the case may be, without any change in the unit 
prices or other terms and conditions of such contract.
2.
International or National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $15,200,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international or national shopping procedures, acceptable to 
the Bank, in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines.
3.
Community Participation
Goods and works required under Part D.1.(a) of the Project estimated to cost 
less than $80,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$24,500,000 equivalent, shall be procured in accordance with the procedures set forth 
in the Project Implementation Manual which provide that: (a) works will be procured in 
accordance with the procedures referred to in paragraph 4 below (procurement of small 
works), or through community participation procedures as set forth in paragraph 3.15 
of the Guidelines; and (b) goods and related services will be procured in accordance 
with the procedures referred to in paragraph 2 above (shopping procedures), or, if 
such procedures are not feasible, through direct contracting procedures.
4.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $350,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, 
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) 
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation 
shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and 
relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience 
and resources to complete the contract successfully.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines.  Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions 
of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to: (a) each contract for goods procured under Part B.1 of this 
Section; (b) the first two contracts for goods procured under Part C.1 (a) of this 
Section estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than $350,000; 
and (c) the first two contracts for works procured under Part C.1 (b) of this Section 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $350,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$5,000,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Page  17
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of this Section.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Least-cost Selection
Services estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Single Source Selection
Services under Part A.1. of the Project costing in the aggregate not more than 
$13,500,000 equivalent may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
4.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines costing in the aggregate not more than $2,500,000 equivalent 
shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be awarded 
only after said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
Page  18
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply, provided, however, that the terms of reference for such contracts and any 
single-source selection of consulting firms shall be subject to the Bank’s prior 
approval.
