Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Rpot No. 11080
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
GHANA
HEALTH AND EDUCATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1653-GH)
AUGUST 31, 1992
Population and Human Resources Operations Division
Western Africa Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Cedis
US$ 1 = 60 Cedis
(October 1985)
US$ 1 = 410 Cedis
(June 1992)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
DCA          =     Development Credit Agreement
DHMT         =     District Health Management Team
GES          =     Ghana Education Service
GOG          =     Government of Ghana
GSC          =     Ghana Supply Corporation
HERP         =     Health and Education Rehabilitation Project
MDPI         =     Management Development & Productivity Institute
MFEP         =     Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
MOE          =     Ministry of Education
MOH          =     Ministry of Health
PAB          =     Public Agreements Board
PCR          =     Project Completion Report
PER          =     Public Expenditure Review
PHC          =     Primary Health Care
PHN          =     Population, Health, & Nutrition
PML          =     Princess Marie-Louise Hospital
PMU          =     Project Management Unit
PNDC         =     Provisional National Defense Council
SCC          =     State Construction Corporation
SDR          =     Special Drawing Right
UNDP         =     United Nations Development Programme
UNFPA        =     United Nations Population Fund
UNICEF       =     United Nations Children's Fund
WHO          =     World Health Organization



FOR OFFCAL4 USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Ofice aE DOectnvCewal
Op.atm Evatknti n
August 31, 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report - Ghana: Health and Education
Rehabilitation Proiect (Credit 1653-GH)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report - Ghana: Health and Education Rehabilitation Project
(Credit 1653-GH)" prepared by the Africa Regional Office with Part II of the
report contributed by the Borrower. No audit of this project has been made by
the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
'~~
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discloed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OMCIL US ONLY
PROJECr COMPLETION REPORT
GHANA
HEALTH AND EDUCATION REHABIL1TATION PROJECr
TABLE OPFCONIBITS
Page No.
PREFACE ......................................................                                         i
EVALUATION SUMNMARY  ......................................                                          iii
Part L  PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE ....... 
A. Project Identity                  .............................                                     1
B. Project Background ....                                                                             1
C Project Objectives and Description .....................                                            2
D. Project Design and Organization   ............................ .                                   3
E. Project Implementation                 .............................5 
F. Project Results .................                ..............................                    7
G. Project Sustainability               .............................                                 8
IL Bank Performance                   ..............................                                  9
L  The Borrower's Performance .....................................                                  10
J. Lcssons Learned ................                  ..............................                  11
K. Project Relationships          .....................           .....................              12
L   Consulting Services         .....................           ......................               12
M;   Project Documentation            ....................          ....................             12
PART IL PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECIVE .... 13
A. Health Component  ..............                    .............................                 13
B. Education Component .............                     ............................                17
C. Management Development and Productivity Institute ..................                              27
PART Im   lT TISTICAL  WFRMAION  ...........    ..                             .............         29
1. Related Bank Loans and/or Credits ................................                                29
2. Project Timetable ................                 .............................                  31
3. Credit Disbursements  .............                 .............................                 31
4. Project Implementation .............                  ............................                34
5. Project Costs and Financing  .....................................                                37
6. Complance with Covenants  .....................................                                   40
7. Project Results . ...............................................    42
&  Usc of Bank Resources .............                   ............................                44
Annex I    st of Participants in Completion Miuion  .....................                            47
Annex 2  Ministry of Health Staff Granted Feilowships ...................                            49
hAnx 3  Ministry of Health Staff Granted Short-term  Training .....                   ........       51
Annex4  Communuties which Benefitted from  the Weaning Food
Production Program  ......................................                                53
Annex S  Production of Textbooks Under the Project ....................                              55
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
Of their officil duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






-i-
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
GHANA
HEALTH AND EDUCATnON REHABEUATAnON PROJECT
Ihis is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Health and Education
Rehabilitation Project (HERP) in Ghana, for which Credit 1653-GH in the amount of
SDR13.8 miDion (equivalent to US$15.0 million on November 30, 1985) was approved on
January 23, 1986. The Credit was closed on December 31, 1991 after a one year's extension
from the original closing date. It was fuly disbursed with the last disbursement takdng place
on May 5, 1992.
This PCR was prepared by the Population and Human Resources Operations Division
of the Western Africa Department (Preface, Evaluation Summary, and Parts I and M). Part
ll was prepared by the three Government of Ghana (GOG) beneficiary agencies-the Ministry
of Health (MOH), the Ministry of Education (MOE), and the Management Development and
Productivity Institute (MDPI).
Preparation of this PCR was initiated during the Bank's final Supervision/Completion
Mission in November 1991. It is based, inter alia on the Report and Recommendation of the
President, the Development Credit Agreement, supervision reports, correspondence between
the Bank and the Borrower, internal Bank memoranda, and interviews with and other inputs
from GOG officials and Bank staff involved with the project. A draft of Part I was discussed
with GOG officials during a follow-up mission in early June 1992.



I



- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
GHANA
HEALTH AND EDUCATION REHABEIrTATION PROJECr
(CREDIT 1653-GH)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
1.  The main objectives of the Health and Education Rehabilitation Project (HERP) were to
address the most urgent needs of the health and education sectors by: (a) providing emergency
assistance to the health and education systems and to the Management Development and
Productivity Institute (MDPI); (b) rehabilitating service delivery at the peripheral level of the
public health system; and (c) strengthening the management and planning capacities of the
Ministries of Health and Education.
2.  Project implementation, especially the health component, got off to a very slow start When
the new task manager was assigned to the Ghana field office (about 18 months after
effectiveness), he endeavored to create stronger commitment to the health component. A major
approach was to encourage Ministry of Health (MOH) officials to prepare proposals for new
activities consistent with project objectives. Many of these eventually were carried out during
project implementation. A few other activities were added later. In the case of the education
component, however, changes were relatively minor, basically the addition of some new textbook
titles in the area of social studies.
3.  In spite of the best efforts of the resident task manager, the implementation of the health
component continued basically on an ad hoc basis throughout the life of the project. The
requirement to prepare, say, annual work plans was not included in the project documents, and
never became a feature of the project. The absence of agreed detailed work plans, meant that
senior MOH officials, the Project Management Unit (PMU), and the task manager were
constantly caught up in discussions and exchanges of correspondence on the details of
implementation arrangements as they emerged. In spite of these constraints, much of the
implementation of the health component went reasonably well, albeit at a much slower pace than
desirable.
4.  Another major source of delay throughout the project was the elaborate local process of
procurement approvals. The situation improved somewhat when MOH began using the
procurement services of the Ghana Supply Commission (GSC), which did not need to go through
all these approval layers. Contracts for rehabilitation of health facilities were let to a parastatal,
the State Construction Corporation (SCC), but its performance was extremely poor with many
delays and large cost overruns.
5.  A further problem affecting the pace of obtaining project-financed textbooks occurred when
Government ordered, just about at the time the HERP Credit was negotiated, a large number of
textbooks that had been developed in the early 1970s. This effort was not adequately coordinated
with those being procured under the project.



- iv -
Project Results
6.  The objectives of this project were rather general and non-quantifiable. They entailed
provision of emergency assistance to the two sectors, which the project certainly did; expansion of
service delivery at the periphery, which occurred during the lfe of the project, but was the result
also of many inputs beyond the project and of the overafl improvement in the economy, and
strengthening of the management and planning capacities of the two sectoral ministries and
MDPI, which has shown mixed results. MOH officials uniformly give HERP much credit for the
dramatic improvements in the performance and morale of health staff at various levels. As the
availability of drugs and other supplies improved and staff morale increased, utilization of the
health services has considerably increased. (Although corroborating data in this regard are not
available).
7.  Although most information on the impact of the project is impressionistic, MOH officials
are convinced that specific elements of the health system improved noticeably as the result of
HERP. For instance, work in the critical area of drug supply went much further than originally
intended and extension of immunization coverage occurred as a result of improvements in the
cold chain and provision of low cost transport to field staff. Safe motherhood got considerably
more attention as a result of the project. The impact in nutrition has been mixed. The pilot
effort to provide corn mills to selected communities has provided income generating opportunities
for women, and was considered sufficiently successful that UNICEF has replicated it elsewhere,
the overall national strategy for nutrition is still dominated by the curative approach. HERP did
have a useful impact on selected support systems. For in-service training, which had been badly
neglected, the project helped establish a workable system and supported considerable training as
well.
8.  Less successful has been the project's impact on long term planning and overall management
capabilities. The project's main inputs in these areas were through technical assistance--studies
and fellowships. The finance and manpower studies were seen by MOH officials as being too
complex and very difficult to apply to their situation. On the other hand, MOH gives
considerable credit for developing middle-level leadership in the sector to the project-financed
fellowship program.
9.  In the education sector, the project's objectives were very straightforward: getting more
supplies and textbooks to students, particular at the primary and middle levels. HERP did
produced and distnbuted 6.1 million books that were far more appropriate to the local situation
than previous textbooks had been. A target had been set of having one textbook in each of three
core subjects for every two students. In the end the project produced nearly one textbook per
student in each of these subject areas along with some books in one other subject.
Project Sustnability
10.  Because of the emergency nature of the project, sustainability in the normal sense was not
that much of a consideration. It was felt that vital inputs--largely of "consumables"-were required
simply to prevent the health and education systems from further deteriorating to the point of no
return. Nonetheless the project did introduce cost recovery measures in health, which has been
comparatively successful, and, in conjunction with the -ollow-on EdSAC Project, in education as
well.
11.  In addition, certain systems in health, e.g., rationalized approaches to drug supply, have
been introduced and will hopefully long outlive the project. Various training activities have been
undertaken, the effects of which, unless appropriate follow-on training is undertaken, will begin to
be diluted over time, although the overall strengthening of MOH's in-service capacity will have



- v -
long-term impact. Also, the project had a discernable impact on MDPI's activities through the
creation of a better environment, especially for its management training program.
Fmdings and Lemons Learned
12.  A number of lessons for other projects and to some extent for the Bank's overall work in
Ghana can be extracted from the HERP experiences. First, with regard to project design and
preparation: (a) For a first time borrower, it is essential to examine closely the scope and
coverage of the project to ensure that it will not be unduly taxing on the borrower's
implementation capacity; and (b) Beginning with project identification and certainly during
preparation, every step should be taken with an eye to developing ownership and building
consensus. Second, with regard to project implementation and supervision: (a) Where a project
management unit is felt to be required, strong efforts should be made to ensure that it is
institutionally and physically as closely integrated into the fabric of the host ministry as possible;
(b) A launch workshop, which was not held in this case, can be a key means for developing broad
understanding of Bank procedures and at the same time can focus attention on key actions
needed around the time of effectiveness; (c) The Bank should ensure that adequate procurement
training is provided to newly recruited staff who become task managers, particularly if they assume
responsibility when a project is just beginning to take off; (d) During the early stages of project
implementation, especially in the case of first time borrowers, supervision missions should be
mounted rather frequently; (e) when supervision is undertaken by a task manager based in the
field, there is a tendency to rely too heavily on that person and not to mobilize the range of
technical skills desirable; (f) More attention should be paid by the Bank, e.g., in staff training, to
effective means for dealing with maintenance problems throughout the project cycle (although, in
fact, those associated with HERP did a credible job in this regard); (g) The perils of entering into
contracts with parastatals, which have little need to be competitive, should be obvious from the
performance of the State Construction Corporation (SCC). In the future, construction in the
public sector, certainly in Ghana, should be open to competitive bidding and while it may not be
possible or appropriate to exclude the SCC, its performance record should be subject to scrutiny
through pre- or post-qualification; and (h) When public sector procurement is highly centralized,
as in the case of the Ghana Supply Commission, there is an ideal opportunity for a borrower and
the Bank to engaged in focussed procurement training and institutional development. The value
of doing so was eventually realized, but rather slower than it should have been. Third, with
regard to project conditionalities: (a) Initial deposit of counterpart funds, perhaps equivalent to
half of the first year's requirement, should be made a condition of effectiveness in future projects;
and (b) The preparation of annual work plans acceptable to the Bank should generally be a
condition in legal agreements, with, perhaps, the first year's work plan being discussed during
negotiations.






- 1 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
GHANA
HEALTH AND EDUCATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1653-GH)
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A.    Project Identitv
Project Name:                   Health and Education Rehabilitation Project
(HERP)
Credit Number:                  1653-GH
Credit Amount:                  SDR 13.8 million (US$15.0 million equivalent in
November 1985)
RVP Unit:                       Africa Region, Country Department IV
Country:                        Republic of Ghana
Sector:                         Population and Human Resources
B.    Project Background
1.    After strong positive economic growth through the 1950s and 1960s, Ghana's economy
stagnated in the 1970s and early 1980s. Deterioration in export performance, combined with
disenchantment on the part of donors with Ghana's performance, caused a perpetual foreign
exchange crisis leading to increasingly restrictive import regimes. High rates of inflation eroded
purchasing power, productivity fell substantially, and unemployment increased rapidly. By the
mid-1980s half of Ghana's population of about 12 million was estimated to be living in absolute
poverty. Among the major results of this situation were the rapid decline in social indicators and
the mass exodus of large numbers of educated workers and professionals.
2.    Particularly affected were the health and education sectors, which suffered major losses,
not only in qualified personnel, but also in declining public investment. During the 1970s
education expenditures, for example, averaged 3.4% of GDP--a level that was already below the
5.2% average for other anglophone sub-Saharan African countries. By around 1983-84, however,
expenditure on education fell much further to about 1% of GDP. The result was a crippled
school system with severe shortages of textbooks and basic school supplies compounded by the
exodus of many qualified teachers. In health, overall conditions were poor throughout the late
1970s and early 1980s. Hospitals and other health facilities were essentially non-functional, being
short of essential drugs, equipment, and personnel. Communicable diseases were back to levels
that prevailed decades earlier.
3.    The Provisional National Defense Council (PNDC), which came to power at the end of
1981, developed a wide ranging Economic Recovery Programme with assistance from the IMF
and the Bank. A number of reforms were introduced beginning in early 1983. By 1984 economic
performance showed clear improvement, government revenues increased substantially, and
inflation was down markedly. After suspension of lending for several years, the Bank provided
several reconstruction import credits in support of the recovery program. In mid-1984, a



Population, Health and Nutrition (PHN) Identification Mission recommended Bank support for
rehabilitation of selected urban facilities and of MOH's infrastructure.
4.    Early the following year, the Bank carried out a Public Expenditure Review (PER), which
covered a number of sectors, including health and education. The results of the PER were a
major additional source of guidance in formulating the contents of the first operation in these
sectors, which became known as the Health and Education Rehabilitation Project (HERP). The
PER showed skewed resource allocations that placed more emphasis on hospitals and curative
care than on primary health care (PHC)/preventive care and more emphasis on university training
than primary education. In both sectors, almost all expenditures were going to meet the wage bill,
leaving very little for drugs, equipment, fuel for supervisory visits, textbooks, etc. For instance,
available textbooks represented about 2% of what was required. In view of the fact that
constraints in public expenditures in health and education were expected to continue, the PER
emphasized the need to improve the use of existing resources--human and financial--and to
introduce cost recovery to partially meet the required operating costs.
C.    Prolect Objectives and Description
5.    The growing concern over the state of the social sectors and recognition of their
important contribution to economic growth led the Government of Ghana (GOG) to request
emergency assistance in the form of HERP to prevent their further deterioration. As the
dialogue continued, it was also decided to include, with special reference to the health sector,
support to begin addressing some of the longer term sectoral issues identified in the PER. In
high-level discussions between the GOG and the Bank, it was agreed that the public sector had
enormous needs for in-service training and management upgrading to increase its productivity.
Hence, support for the Management Development and Productivity Institute (MDPI) was also
included in HERP. In the end, it was agreed that the project should:
(a)   provide emergency assistance to the health and education systems;
(b)   expand service delivery at the peripheral level of the public health system, with
special emphasis on immunization, nutrition, and family planning;
(c)   strengthen the management and planning capacities of the Ministries of Health
(MOH) and Education (MOE); and
(d)   strengthen MDPI.
6.    The project was divided into three parts: Part A--health, Part B--education, and Part C--
MDPI. Although the Development Credit Agreement (DCA) defined each in detail, considerable
room was allowed for modification during implementation "as the Borrower and the Association
may agree upon from time to time to achieve [the project] objectives." Part A was the most
extensive, with two-thirds of the Credit or US$10 million allocated to it. It included (a)
strengthening of PHC delivery and outreach activities by re-equipping and providing essential
supplies, such as drugs, to about 100 rural health stations and 11 urban health centers; (b)
rehabilitation of a children's hospital and several health centers; (c) strengthening district health
management teams (DHMTs); (d) improving training systems for PHC; (e) strengthening of key
programs in nutrition (nutrition surveillance, nutrition education, and weaning food production),
immunization (especially by improving the cold chain), family planning (especially by developing a
system to identify high risk mothers); (f) improving capacity to plan and manage PHC (especially
through fellowships, study tours, and a system of radio communication); (g) support for long-range
policy making and planning (especially through studies on health manpower, health financing, and



- 3 -
an improved drug supply system; an inventory of facilities; and preparation of a long-term
investment plan). Most of the remaining US$5.0 million was designated for Part B which
included (a) printing and distribution of textbooks and teachers' guides in English, mathematics,
and science for primary and middle schools; (b) provision of basic school supplies (exercise books,
pens, and pencils); (c) provision of books to secondary school libraries and of books and joumals
to university libraries; and (d) strengthening of MOE's capacity to manage the project and
prepare future projects (by provision of equipment, supplies, and vehicles and by rehabilitation of
depots for textbook storage). US$0.3 million was allocated to Part C for strengthening MDPI's
training, consultancy, and research services through office rehabilitation and provision of
equipment, vehicles, and supplies.
D.    Project Design and Organization
7.    In retrospect, one could argue that the health component of the project was too complex
and too ambitious, and yet, ironically, while some of the medium-term activities added at appraisal
did reasonably well, some of the "emergency" elements experienced substantial implementation
delays and difficulties. The emergency situation in the social sectors drove the initial discussions
regarding both the health and the education components. By and large the education component
never lost sight of this emphasis and directed almost all resources into meeting the serious
shortfall in textbooks, related teachers' guides, and school supplies. In part this single-mindedness
was possible because a dialogue was already getting under way that eventuated in a follow-on
sector adjustment credit in education. In the case of health, however, internal pressure in the
Bank mounted as the project evolved to include sectoral reforms, e.g., in cost recovery, and to
redress imbalances identified in the PER. With the processing timetable basically driven by the
"emergency" nature of the operation, there was little time for thorough technical analysis and
preparation of much of the health component. The Project Brief had outlined highly appropriate
design criteria for the "emergency" aspects of the project: (a) simplicity, (b) implementable
through existing infrastructure, (c) focus on preventing further deterioration of still functioning
institutions, and (d) emphasis on foreign exchange items. If these criteria had been followed, this
first project would probably have been implemented faster and with less intensive inputs from the
Bank. Just as the education component emphasized textbooks as a key missing ingredient, the
health component might have focussed on a fewer things, such as drug supply and transport for
supervision and outreach. Nonetheless, it is not easy to forecast, especially in a first project, the
areas most likely to fail or succeed.
8.    The pressure to add longer-term considerations was not the only thing that resulted in a
complex health component. Another problem was the absence of a health plan and of any clear
position within MOH on what the highest priorities in the sector should be. The development of
such a plan was included in the project, but in the meantime a number of activities were agreed
for inclusion in the project, apparently stemming from the fact that the needs were so great on
every hand. It was not that these activities were unimportant or low priority, for they represented
the internationally agreed core elements of PHC. There were just too many of them, and there
was no time to prepare many of these sub-components. In the rush at least one area--sanitation--
was included that in fact is essentially not part of MOH's mandate and had to be dropped later.
Some Bank staff cautioned about the complexity of the project, including the then Resident
Representative, who argued that it would lead to implementation problems.
9.    Another apparent outcome of the rapid processing of the project was inadequate
commitment on the part of MOH. There was no time to develop effective commitment to the
project and individual activities through any process of consensus generation. Instead, Bank
missions went to individuals and sought their views on what should be included. Afterwards, some
MOH officials indicated that at times Bank staff seemed to be pressing their own personal



preferences. In addition, the project content was finalized with one person who was subsequently
moved to a less central position. Moreover, Bank missions expressed the urgency about the
project that came from the Bank's dialogue with the Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
(MFEP) and other core agencies. In retrospect, MOH officials believe this sense of urgency was
never adequately conveyed to MOH directly, but they felt they had no choice but to go along.
They also express in particular the feeling that various studies were forced on them by the Bank
and the core agencies. This lack of ownership undoubtedly contributed to the limited utilization
of the results of those studies. Thorough discussion of the studies did not occur until a year into
project implementation. The overall health component had to be revisited some two years after
effectiveness in order to get MOH more fully involved in working out project priorities (see para.
14). The above discussion of ownersbip and its importance has to be tempered by the fact that
preparation of the follow-on Second Health and Population Project (Cr. 2193-GH) did entail
from the beginning a number of actions intended to generate greater commitment on MOH's
part, but it, too, has suffered substantial implementation delays.
10.   In general, these issues do not pertain to the education component. Even under the
greatly constrained conditions prior to the commencement of economic recovery, MOE had been
working intensely on the development of a new textbook series, and for many books camera-ready
copy was available. Hence the component was both timely and matched well with widely agreed
sectoral priorities.
11.   Some aspects of the management arrangements for project implementation also appear
problematic in retrospect. It was decided to set up two project management units (PMUs), one in
MOH and the other in MOE, the latter being responsible for Parts B and C. The small number
of staff specified for the health PMU became a bottleneck. The list of staff for the health PMU
included a procurement officer, as there was a great number of procurement actions involved in
Part A, but by not including this post among those needing to be filled as a condition of
effectiveness, the Bank seems to have signaled that this was a lower priority. The post was never
filled until the Second Health and Population Project required it as a condition for its
effectiveness. Putting Part C, which was being carried out by MDPI, under MOE and including
the funds for Part C in the Special Account for Part B were understandable in view of the small
size of Part C. Since MDPI is under another ministry altogether (Ministry of Mobilization and
Productivity), it was, however, an awkward arrangement for both parties. MOE found it hard to
be accountable for MDPI, having no control of its policy or budget. MDPI, in turn, sometimes
found the education PMU to have little interest in the small Part C. Indeed, MDPI made a
serious error early on in that it used Credit funds for 100% of construction costs (rather than
75%), which required nearly two years to rectify and nearly led to suspension of disbursements.
In the end, after some delays and misunderstandings things worked reasonably well.
12.   One or two things seem to have been missed in designing the textbook subcomponent that
did lead to delays in its implementation. Most important was the implication of two existing
arrangements between MOE and book publishers that were involved in development of the books
to be printed through the project. One of these was the Co-publishing Project involving five local
publishers which had invested their own funds in "editorial research and development." Since the
implications of this arrangement were not perceived during preparation, it delayed implementation
by over a year while an arrangement was worked out to reimburse these publishers for their
inputs so that MOE could be free to go out for competitive tenders for printing the books. It
also took a long time to clear the air regarding an existing arrangement with Macmillan related to
14 titles.
13.   The small population element in the project was set up in a very flexible manner and
hence was quite appropriate for the situation. The need for assistance in the revamping and



- 5 -
redesign of the population policy and program had been identified by the Bank. Other sources of
funding, especially UNEPA, were potentially available, however. Hence, to make certain that this
important need was met one way or the other, funds were included in HERP with the notation
that they would be reprogrammed if not needed, which indeed is what happened. This approach
to uncertainties about other donors meeting key needs is worth emulating in other situations.
Another innovative approach used in the project was to start meeting some of the most urgent
emergency needs, largely for exercise books and pens and pencils, by using a PPF advance. No
foreign exchange was available so provision for retroactive funding would not have worked.
E.    Project ImDlementatlon
14.   When the new Task Manager was assigned to the Ghana field office (about 18 months
after effectiveness), he endeavored to create stronger commitment to the health component. A
major approach was to encourage MOH officials to prepare detailed proposals for new activities
consistent with project objectives. They came with a number of ideas that were acceptable to the
Bank for further elaboration, including the rationalization and rehabilitation of the central
medical stores, provision to peripheral health facilities of additional equipment for maternal and
child care, training of key staff in planning and administration, comprehensive rehabilitation of the
Center for Health Statistics, and a nutrition survey. Many of these eventually took shape
although some were funded by other agencies (e.g., the nutrition survey was supported by
UNICEF). A few other activities were added later, especially in safe motherhood, and, at the
Bank's suggestion, strengthening of in-service training for peripheral health staff. At this stage
and subsequently, however, MOH pressed hard for major increases in the number of project-
financed vehicles. Eventually it was agreed that in addition to provision of some new vehicles, the
project would fund a major scheme for rehabilitation of vehicles that were off the road. (At the
time, about three-quarters of all MOH vehicles were not functioning.) To this end a survey was
undertaken to identify those vehicles meeting specific criteria. Hardly any of this scheme was
implemented, however, among other reasons due, reportedly, to the administrative difficulties in
making payments through MOH's field offices. To help increase the mobility of health extension
staff, it was agreed that 1,000 mopeds could be procured. The need for a creative system of
maintenance, e.g., by making them the property of the health workers in exchange for their
maintenance and use for official duties, was encouraged by the Bank, but never put into place.
Instead, although the mopeds are assigned to individual staff, they remain the property of the
institution to which the worker is attached and that institution is responsible for maintenance.
(Changes in the education component were relatively minor, basically the addition of some titles
in social studies, which some MOE officials strongly felt were missing in the original project
design.)
15.   The main risk factor identified at appraisal was the weak implementation capacity of
MOH. In response, considerable technical assistance was included in the component (16 man-
years), but rather little of this was in fact focussed on improving implementation capacity. In the
end, some MOH officials feel that the fellowships provided through the project contributed
markedly to capacity building, especially among the critical Regional Directors of Health Services,
three of whom received advanced training in public health. The relatively limited implementation
capacity in MOH was not, however, as well mobilized as it might have been. The PMU was
perceived as very separate from the ministry, being staffed with "outsiders" and, initially, also being
physically remote from MOH headquarters. Throughout the project there was a gap between the
PMU as the "mobilizers" of resources and the ministry's "users" even though the project director
was responsible for all technical matters in the ministry. In any case, he was not readily able to
call upon the administrative side of the ministry to work with the PMU. During the early stages
of the project, when there were visiting Bank missions, they tended to work closely with the



- 6 -
PMU, which became the sole repository of information on Bank procedures. This also created a
situation where PMU had to argue for Bank procedures against MOH officials who for a long
time were not effectively exposed to them due, for instance, to the lack of any systematic project
launch.
16.   In spite of the best efforts of the resident task manager and even, at times, of core GOG
agencies, the implementation of the health component continued basically on an ad hoc basis
throughout the life of the project. The requirement to prepare, say, annual work plans was not
included in the project documents, and never became a feature of the project. This problem
persisted in spite of the efforts on the part of an ex-minister who was sent to MOH by the Prime
Minister's Office to develop a commitment to the preparation of implementation plans. The
absence of an agreed, detailed work plan, meant that senior MOH officials, PMU, and the task
manager were constantly caught up in discussions and exchanges of correspondence on the details
of implementation arrangements as they emerged. Without any opportunity to examine, say once
a year, the main thrust of the component in the context of a review of the annual work plan, it
was easy for everyone to lose sight of what the main thrust in fact was.
17.   Much of the implementation of the health component, in spite of the above constraints,
did eventually occur, albeit generally after substantial delays. Major delays, in particular, occurred
in the rehabilitation of the Princess Marie-Louis Hospital. The Bank had agreed at appraisal to
the use of the existing contractor, the State Construction Corporation (SCC), under a new
contract. Some of the items covered under the original contract seemed to be re-submitted for
payment under the new contract. The work was of very low quality and the supervising architects
and engineers, under another parastatal, seemed to be very lax. While most of the work was
eventually finished, it is clear that the original contract should have been canceled and a new one
let with a private sector firm. There does not appear to have been sufficient analysis during
preparation and appraisal as to why the SCC had already been on the job nine years.
18.   Another major source of delay, particularly during the early stages of the project was the
elaborate local process of procurement approvals. Often contract awards could not be made until
8-12 months after bid closing. After evaluation was completed by a technical committee, it was
first reviewed by the Ghana Central Advisory Tender Board. The Board's recommendations
were, in turn, reviewed by the Public Agreements Board before being submitted to the PNDC
Committee of Secretaries for ratification, after which final approval was given by the PNDC itself.
(With a resident task manager to whom most procurement decisions were delegated, the Bank's
review, on the other hand, was often completed in one-two days.) Many of these approval steps
are not required when procurement is undertaken by the Ghana Supply Commission (GSC),
which was given increasing responsibility for procurement for MOH during the course of project
implementation.
19.   These procurement delays occurred in both the health and education components, but
since there were so many more procurement actions under the health component, their overall
impact was more noticeable. Delays in procurement of textbooks partially came about because
the availability of paper and ink from a bilateral donor meant that printing contracts had to be let
locally. Although they were to be completed in four to five months, some of these contracts were
not fulfilled in three years and had to be canceled and relet to foreign printers. Another matter
was felt by Bank staff to have contributed initially to the slow pace of obtaining the textbooks.
That was Government's ordering with its own funds, about at the time the HERP Credit was
negotiated, a large number of textbooks that had been developed in the early 1970s. In spite of
intensive interaction with MOE officials during preparation and appraisal, the Bank's textbook
specialists did not learn in advance about the plan to make this major purchase, for had it been
known, there could have been more coordination between the two and HERP's inputs in the



education sector might have been designed differently, e.g., in terms of timing or selection of
books for financing.
F.    Project Results
20.   The objectives of this project were rather general and non-quantifiable. They entailed
provision of emergency assistance to the two sectors, which the project certainly did; expansion of
service delivery at the periphery, which occurred during the life of the project, but was the result
also of many inputs beyond the project and of the overall improvement in the economy; and
strengthening of the management and planning capacities of the two sectoral ministries and
MDPI, which has shown mixed results. MOH officials uniformly give HERP much credit for the
dramatic improvements in the performance and morale of health staff at various levels as a result
of the increase in supplies, provision of transport, and re-equipping of facilities. As the
availability of drugs and other supplies improved and staff morale increased, utilization of the
health services has reportedly increased considerably. Corroborating data that are adequately
comparable from one period to the next are not available, however.
21.   Although most information on the impact of the project is impressionistic, MOH officials
are convinced that specific elements of the health system improved noticeably as the result of
HERP. This is perhaps most notable in the critical area of drug supply, where work went much
further than just the provision of drugs as originally intended: an improved system for
procurement was established; cost recovery, including a system of "cash-and-carry," was introduced;
stores were rehabilitated and an improved system of inventory management developed; a quality
control system and laboratory were launched; a process for developing and updating an essential
drugs list was established; a better system for estimating drug requirements was institutionalized
(albeit not in MOH itself); and MOH got useful feedback on prescribing practices. Extension of
immunization coverage occurred as a result of improvements in the cold chain and provision of
low cost transport to field staff. (Defective solar panels for the refrigerators was a problem,
however.) Safe motherhood got considerably more attention as a result of the project. The
impact in nutrition has been relatively limited in geographical terms. The pilot effort to provide
corn mills to fifty communities has provided income generating opportunities for women and
community-based growth monitoring was also introduced. This was considered sufficiently
successful that UNICEF has replicated it elsewhere. Nationally, however, nutrition activities have
not moved much beyond the country's longstanding curative approaches, and very little
community-based growth monitoring is taking place. HERP did have a useful impact on certain
support systems. For in-service training, which had been badly neglected, the project helped
establish a workable system and supported considerable training as well. The capacities of the
DHMTs were improved through, among other things, team training and increased mobility.
Without doubt, however, the timely and well planned execution and distribution of these various
project-financed inputs would have resulted in more concerted and rapid impact.
22.   Less successful has been the project's impact on long term planning and overall
management capabilities. The project's main inputs in these areas were through technical
assistance--studies and fellowships. The finance and manpower studies were seen by MOH
officials as being too complex and very difficult to apply to their situation--this in spite of the
considerable involvement of MOH officials and other Ghanian specialists in carrying out the
studies. In addition, although dissemination workshops were conducted, working groups or other
mechanisms to follow through on the studies were never established. The fellowship program was
originally focussed on strengthening the Health Planning Division, but very few of those trained
abroad under the project returned to or stayed in that division, in part, perhaps, because a proper
environment for application of their new skills did not exist. The division had no real head and
was basically engaged in budgeting, which would provide little stimulation to anyone genuinely



- 8 -
interested in health planning. MOH feels, however, that the fellowship programme had
considerable impact on increasing the capacities of key MOH managers, especially in public
health, pointing in particular to the three physicians who were appointed to the key posts of
Regional Directors of Health Services as a direct result of their training. In addition, the head of
the Rural Health Training Center benefitted from a project-financed fellowship. The project's
inputs on improving MOH's communication system were also initially seen as being of limited
value because of constant maintenance problems, but recently this problem was essentially solved
through the issuance of a maintenance contract with the firm that supplied the equipment.
23.   In the education sector, the project's objectives were very straightforward: getting more
supplies and textbooks to students, particular at the primary and middle levels. HERP did a good
job. It produced and distributed 6.1 million books that were far more appropriate to the local
situation than previous textbooks had been. A target had been set of having one textbook in
each of three core subjects for every two students. In the end the project produced nearly one
textbook per student in each of these subject areas along with some books in one other subject.
MOE calculates that sufficient books were produced to provide 100% coverage for a number of
titles with the lowest figure being 74%. These coverage figures have to be interpreted, however,
in the light of two facts: the expected life of a textbook is only about three years and the
implementation period extended over nearly twice that period. Hence, at any one time, on the
average, there was about one book for each two pupils. The coverage with teachers' guides was
somewhat less successful. Every teacher should have had all the basic guides, and many did, but
there were some titles that had as low as 63% coverage. The reasons for these discrepancies are
not clear since the number of classroom teachers was known. The small element of HERP
directed at strengthening MOE's planning and implementation capacity had little impact, which
was further dissipated by MOE's decision to create a separate PMU for the follow-on EdSAC
Project (Cr. 1744-GH) under a different Deputy Minister. HERP's modest inputs for MDPI were
well received and are perceived by MDPI officials as having been a major stimulus to increasing
in particular the institute's capacity in training and strategic planning.
G.    Project Sustainabililtv
24.   For the emergency inputs under the project, sustainability in the normal sense was not
that much of a consideration. It was felt that vital inputs--largely of "consumables"--were required
simply to prevent the health and education system from further deteriorating to the point of no
retum. Nonetheless the project did introduce cost recovery measures in the health sector. These
measures succeeded in reaching 12% of recurrent expenditures at first against the agreed target
of 15%, a not insignificant achievement compared to many countries. Later, the percentages
dropped, for the collection of fees could not keep pace with rapid increases in the MOH's
recurrent budget. EdSAC included conditionality regarding cost recovery for textbooks, which
also applied to those purchased through HERP. Pupils in Primary 3 and above are charged user
fees, which are recycled through a revolving fund. About 70% of the projected fees are being
recovered, and MOE will soon republish books for the junior secondary schools from the
revolving fund.
25.   In addition, certain systems in health, e.g., rationalized approaches to drug supply, have
been introduced, many of which can be expected to continue functioning for many years to come.
A test of how well the new approaches to drug supply have been institutionalized will come soon,
however, since the MOH official who was key in spearheading these reforms will soon retire.
Various training activities have been undertaken, but unless follow-up training is undertaken, their
effect will begin to be diluted over time. The overall strengthening of MOH's in-service training
capacity will have undoubtedly have long-term impact, however. Regarding the physical inputs
from the project, of which there were many in the health sector, maintenance has been a serious



- 9 -
problem from the beginning. The Bank pressed, not always successfully, for long-term
maintenance contracts (rather than procurement of stocks of vulnerable spare parts). While
vehicles and various equipment have frequently been out of order, MOH appears to be paying
somewhat more attention these days to their maintenance. An innovative scheme was proposed
to MOH regarding the maintenance of the mopeds supplied to the field staff, which would have
made it a personal responsibility in exchange for ownership rights in the vehicles (para. 14).
Various inflexibilities in regulations (and in their interpretation) have inhibited the
implementation of this scheme, however. The design of the Second Health and Population
Project has picked up on various of these sustainability issues.
H.    Bank Performance
26.   With a few exceptions, Government officials were pleased with the Bank's performance
during project implementation. Indeed, MOE requested more frequent supervision missions
during the early stages of implementation of Part B, to which the Bank was responsive, sending
four missions during the first 18 months of implementation. (On the other hand, just one PHN
supervision mission focussed on the larger Part A during this period of time.) Subsequently, to
support HERP and other projects under preparation in the education sector, the Bank posted a
senior educator to the resident mission in late 1987. As a result of the Bank's reorganization, he
also assumed primary responsibility for supervising the health component. As a result of his
presence the turn-around time on procurement and other matters was almost always just a matter
of a day or two. He also worked hard to encourage Government to pursue the most cost-
effective approaches to matters. By and large the Government also felt that the Bank was
reasonably flexible regarding such matters as the extension of the closing date and reallocation of
funds. In Part II of this report, MOH indicates, however, that the Bank should have been more
flexible, especially with regard to the proposed expansion in the scope and duration of fellowships
financed under the project.
27.   There were some obvious shortfalls in the Bank's performance, especially during the early
stages of project implementation. The combination of health and education in one project was
largely a "marriage of convenience." The project was developed and launched prior to the Bank's
1987 reorganization while the PHN sector was still under a different vice presidency from
education. Even during project processing, there seemed to be little genuine collaboration. Later
there was even less. For instance, the greater experience of the education staff in procurement
was not capitalized on through, for instance, a joint project launch. Neither were their skills in
training used to support the development of the training aspects of the health component.
Subsequently, when an education specialist took over as overall task manager and was deployed to
the resident mission (para. 26), there was a long period when no other specialists were involved in
supervision. Indeed, MOH has expressed concern about the Bank's not having fielded any public
health specialists during implementation.
28.   The Bank did not provide adequate support with regard to Bank procedures to the PHN
task manager who was new to the Bank when he took over at about the time of appraisal. As a
result the initial advice in procurement was not always adequate. For instance, the first PHN
supervision mission left an aide memoire that confused local competitive bidding with prudent
shopping. Indeed, the terms of reference for that mission were incomplete, omitting all reference
to basic launch matters, such as establishment of accounts and submission of withdrawal
applications, which would normally be priority matters in the case of a first time borrower. As
one result, the first withdrawal application had to be returned since an account had not yet been
established to receive the funds. Instead, the first mission's terms of reference focussed on the
studies and getting agreement on their detailed objectives and scope of work. Urgent launch
issues also seemed to get lower priority because Bank staff were pursuing more interesting



- 10-
substantive matters. The first communique after Board approval reminded Government of the
conditions of effectiveness, but also raised questions about the status of work on a specific
technique (a reproductive risk protocol).
29.   After initial inadequate support in procurement to Part A, things improved greatly with
the consolidation of the Bank's supervision under an experienced task manager. It is worth
considering, however, whether supervision of procurement eventually went too far in the other
direction. The close review of virtually all procurement documents, including those for actions
well below the threshold for prior Bank review established in the DCA, did provide focussed
guidance to Government. It also meant that at times savings occurred that might not have
otherwise. In the case of the health component, this extensive review was felt necessary because
MOH failed to appoint a procurement officer and because the PMU required the Bank's support
to help ensure adherence to the procurement guidelines (para. 15). In the end, this intensity of
involvement may, however, have militated against the development of an atmosphere of trust and
of evolution of skills in procurement since there was little opportunity for people to learn from
their mistakes. The Bank probably should have more actively encouraged the PMU gradually to
assume greater responsibility for following the guidelines on its own. (From MOH's comments on
Part I of this report, it also appears that PMU staff were not fully aware that the thresholds for
prior Bank review were as high as they in fact were [$200,000 and $500,000], thinking that they
were identical with the ceiling for prudent shopping [$10,000].)
30.   Part C (support for MDPI) was initially an orphan within the Bank. Due to its small size,
in some ways it is understandable that this component got little priority. Nonetheless the lack of
Bank responsiveness on a key matter was disgraceful. The preparation by MDPI of a two-year
work program was a condition of disbursement for Part C. This work plan was brought by the
MDPI participant to negotiations, but it took over six months and numerous follow-up
communiques from MDPI and the Resident Mission before the Bank signed off on the work
plan--with no comments!
I.    The Borroweres Performance
31.   The Borrower's performance led to a number of delays, but they were not unusual
compared to what is experienced elsewhere inasmuch as this was the first Bank-assisted operation
in the social sectors in Ghana. The main sources of these delays were the slow release of
counterpart funding, complex processes for approval of procurement, failure to set up the agreed
arrangements for project administration, lack of adherence to agreed activity plans after
implementation commenced, and the abysmal performance of two parastatal bodies involved in
construction.
32.   MOH received only one allocation of counterpart funds (totalling less than $200,000
equivalent) for the first three years of project implementation. Indeed, after MOH made a
nominal deposit to open the project account, two years passed without there being any
counterpart funds for Part A. The problem started when MOH, out of ignorance, failed to
include a request for counterpart funding in the estimates for the first year. In the absence of
clear plans of operation and budgets for its components, MOH, in contrast with MOE, was hard
pressed to estimate its requirements accurately and then to make a case for them. They appeared
to get no help from MFEP in this regard even though MFEP had taken the lead initially in
getting the Bank involved in the sector.
33.   Procurement approvals in Ghana turned out to be very complex and time consuming
(para. 18), although eventually much of the procurement under the project was undertaken by
GSC, which does not need to go through the standard approval layers. GSC initially had



- 11 -
difficulties understanding World Bank guidelines and devising adequate specifications for goods
not commonly procured by the GOG (e.g., solar refrigerators and computers). In addition, GSC
was initially very lax in enforcing penalty clauses in its contracts. The performance of GSC
improved considerably over time, although even as late as 1991 draft contracts prepared by GSC
sometimes omitted key items (e.g., delivery dates).
34.   MOH failed to set up or carry through with some of the agreed arrangements for
administering the project. The failure to appoint a procurement officer to PMU clearly
contributed to delays in procurement. GSC officials pointed out that many complaints about the
time-consuming procedures were unjustified since the user's procurement planning was inadequate
(e.g., not enough lead time was being allowed for), which would have been one of the main
functions of the procurement officer. To coordinate the complex set of activities under Part A,
MOH agreed in mid-1986 to set up a Project Implementation Committee and hold monthly
meetings. This mechanism, which was already somewhat deficient since it included no officials
from the administrative side of the ministry, soon ceased to function, however.
35.   Perhaps the most abysmal performance under the project was that of SCC, which
appeared never to honor its contractual obligations and delayed construction for years. In turn,
for various reasons, including its frequent inability to make timely payments of the counterpart
portion of contracts, MOH found it difficult to press for enforcement of penalty clauses or the
cancellation of contracts with SCC. The rehabilitation of the Kumasi South Health Center, a
five-week contract, extended over a year, and the six-month contract for rehabilitation of the
Princess Marie Louise Hospital took well over two years and was still not fully completed at
project closing.
J.    Lessons Learned
36.   A number of lessons for other projects and to some extent for the Bank's overall work in
Ghana can be extracted from the HERP experiences. First, with regard to project design and
preparation: (a) For a first time borrower, it is essential to examine closely the scope and
coverage of the project to ensure that it will not be unduly taxing on the borrower's
implementation capacity; and (b) Beginning with project identification and certainly during
preparation, every step should be taken with an eye to developing ownership and building
consensus. Second, with regard to project implementation and supervision: (a) Where a PMU is
felt to be required, strong efforts should be made to ensure that it is institutionally and physically
as closely integrated into the fabric of the host ministry as possible; (b) A launch workshop, which
was not held in this case, can be a key means for developing broad understanding of Bank
procedures and at the same time focus attention on key actions needed around the time of
effectiveness; (c) The Bank should ensure that adequate procurement training is provided to
newly recruited staff who become task managers, particularly if they assume responsibility when a
project is just beginning to take off; (d) During the early stages of project implementation,
especially in the case of first time borrowers, supervision missions should be mounted rather
frequently; (e) When supervision is undertaken by a task manager based in the field, there is a
tendency, which must be consciously countered, to rely too heavily on that one person and not to
mobilize the range of technical skills desirable; (f) More attention should be paid by the Bank,
e.g., in staff training, to effective means for dealing with maintenance problems throughout the
project cycle (although in HERP's case Bank staff actually addressed maintenance more often
than usual); (g) The perils of entering into contracts with parastatals, which have little need to be
competitive, should be obvious from SCC's performance. In the future, construction in the public
sector, certainly in Ghana, should be open to competitive bidding and while it may not be possible
or appropriate to exclude SCC, its performance record should be subject to scrutiny through pre-
or post-qualification; and (h) When public sector procurement is highly centralized, as in the case



- 12 -
of GSC, there is an ideal opportunity for a borrower and the Bank to engaged in focussed
procurement training and institutional development. The value of doing so was eventually
realized, but rather slower than it should have been. Third, with regard to project
conditionalities: (a) As suggested by MOH's PMU, the initial deposit of counterpart funds,
perhaps equivalent to half of the first year's requirement, should be made a condition of
effectiveness in future projects; and (b) The preparation of annual work plans acceptable to the
Bank should generally be a condition in legal agreements, with, perhaps, the first year's work
plans being discussed during negotiations.
K.    Project Relationships
37.   Throughout the project cycle, relationships between the Government and the Bank were
basically good. While there were no noticeable conflicts among ministries and Government
departments, one cannot help but wish that MFEP had done more to assist the rather
inexperienced staff involved in implementing HERP. MFEP could have done much more, for
instance, to help with the critical problem of counterpart funding. More vigilance on the part of
MFEP would also perhaps have prevented MOH and MOE from shifting foreign exchange from
the credit to local currency faster than required. With careful cash flow planning, some of the
losses at the early stages of the project (about 9 million cedes) could surely have been avoided.
38.   UNICEF's relationship with the project has been uneven. Initially UNICEF was closely
associated with HERP, helping with preparation of Part A and agreeing to assist with
implementation. The Bank agreed to help support in selected districts the five-year plan for PHC
worked out between UNICEF and MOH. Gradually, however, it appears that UNICEFs role
largely became that of a procurement agent (with regard to both Part A and Part B), which led to
several disappointments. UNICEF has a firm rule that it will conduct no procurement without an
advance deposit equivalent to 110% of the estimated cost of the goods, including freight and
insurance. After the delivery of goods, UNICEF was extremely slow in refunding the 10%
"returnable buffer." UNICEF also had difficulties at times in meeting delivery schedules,
requiring over 18 months to deliver some of the drugs and frequently changing prices and delivery
schedules.
L     Consulting Services
39.   Most of the consultants financed under the project were used by MOH. In many cases, it
appears that the performance of MOH's consultants would have improved if more attention had
been devoted to preparation of terms of reference and to subsequent screening of applicants.
MDPI found the assistance it received in preparing its long-term plan to be very helpful, as
validated by the fact that the plan attracted considerable external support.
M.   Project Documentation
40.   Preparation of this PCR was purposely assigned to a staff member who had not been
associated with the project at any stage of its development or implementation. This had some
drawbacks with regard to access to project documentation since the project had been supervised
from the resident mission for over two-thirds of the implementation period. While the Bank's
replies were generally available in the central files, some pieces of correspondence from
Government were not. In addition, project indicators were not formulated until the next to last
supervision report. Finally, it should be noted that the original cost tables in the President's
Report were difficult to use, perhaps because the project documentation was prepared hastily.
The tables are inconsistent with each other and do not adequately show the amounts intended for
some of the key project inputs on the health side, e.g., essential drugs.



- 13 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
GHANA
HEALTH AND EDUCATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1653-GH)
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
PART A: HEALTH COMPONENT
The impact of several years of economic decline in Ghana on the health sector
was very severe - Health institutions had deteriorated but could not be maintained. Broken-down
equipment could not be repaired because of lack of spare parts. Drugs and other essential
supplies were often in short supply. The minimum services provided were poor. Staff morale was
low and there was hardly any job satisfaction. All this contributed to the severe brain drain which
had peaked in the mid 1980s.
It was against this background that the Health component of the Health and
Education Rehabilitation Project was designed to address these deficiencies.
The objectives of the project were:
1.    To strengthen PHC service delivery;
2.    To strengthen priority programmes of the Ministry of Health; and
3.    To strengthen the overall capacity of the Ministry of Planning and management of
the health services.
Specifically, an inventory of all health care delivery facilities, training institutions
and storage facilities was to be taken, their state of disrepair was to be established and estimates
for their rehabilitation were to be prepared by the project architect. In addition prototype design
of urban and rural health centres was to be prepared to enable the Ministry to prepare a
programme for rehabilitation of existing facilities and the expansion of services.
It was further envisaged that 100 rural health centres would be reequipped and
essential supplies provided to both urban and rural health centres.
An urban nutrition rehabilitation programme for Accra and Kumasi was to be
supported through the completion of the new building and the rehabilitation of the old building
of the P.M.L. (Princess Marie-Louise Hospital), and the supply of logistic support to seven urban
polyclinics in Accra.
In Kumasi, the Child Welfare Centre and two Urban Health Centres were to be
rehabilitated and logistic support provided.
To support a weaning food production programme, 50 selected communities were
expected to be provided with corn-mills after a carefully planned survey to determine the most
needy areas.



- 14 -
In the area of Expanded Programme on Immunization, two large cold rooms and
30 solar-powered refrigerators were to be supplied.
Three studies on National Health Policies, Health Manpower and Health Care
Financing to support long term planning were to be undertaken.
The design of the project was very complex given the fact that the Ministry is not
used to operating projects. As implementation progressed, not without problems, it was felt that
the loose nature of the project could be used to our advantage especially because of the
persistent changes in the field. For example, out of ten Regional Directors, only five had
appropriate training. Health Managers at various levels were not available. Thus the training
needs of the Ministry were much greater at the time of implementation than were identified
during the planning stage.
IMPLEMENTATION
There is no doubt that implementation of the health component of the project was
fraught with numerous problems. In the first place, the P.M.U. was inadequately staffed.
Knowing that this was the first time the Ministry of Health was going to be involved in project
management, the Bank should have worked more closely with the M.O.H. in establishing a
functional P.M.U.
Secondly, the provision of counterpart funds was irregular. Even when this was
budgeted for, funds were not provided in the budget.
The procedure where the borrower has to seek approval from the lender in order
to use the money he has borrowed and is going to pay back defies natural logic.
ACHIEVEMENTS
1.          Strenythening PHC Service Delivery: This objective was achieved through the
delivery of 190 sets of equipment for midwifery services to health centres and health posts.
Seventy sets of equipment and essential supplies were also provided for a number of Level "C"
institutions. The seven polyclinics in Accra were supplied with their inputs of equipment and
vehicles and drugs.
The programme at the PML--completion of the new building, rehabilitation of the old building,
supply of equipment and other logistic support--has been completed. The programme in Kumasi--
rehabilitation of C.W.C. (Child Welfare Centre), rehabilitation of two urban health centres and
the supply of equipment, drugs and other logistic support--was completed by the time the project
terminated.
1000 mopeds have been distributed to staff in rural health centres throughout the country to carry
out their outreach and extended outreach services. The mopeds are the property of the health
centre but assigned to the health worker so long as he or she remains at post and works for the
institution. Each institution is responsible for the running and maintenance of the moped.
Unfortunately, the mopeds have been found to be unsuitable for our environment. They are too
fragile. Many of them have already broken down.
2.          Strengthening of M.O.H. Priority Programmes (E.P.I.): The two cold rooms were
supplied but both were installed in Accra instead of the original plan of one each in Accra and
Kumasi (for the Expanded Programme of Immunization). Thirty solar-powered fridges were



- 15 -
installed but have not worked because the panels were of poor quality. The company which
supplied the panels had, in the meantime, gone into liquidation.
Fifty corn-mills have been supplied and weaning food is being produced in various parts of the
country. Patronage by mothers is high.
Management of drugs supply including improvement to storage facilities was given an added
boost. The estimation of drug requirements on a national as well as scientific basis has been
institutionalized. Some rehabilitation of Regional Medical Stores has been carried out as part of
the health component of the project.
Radio-communication equipment has been installed at the M.O.H. Headquarters, Central and
Regional Medical Stores, the two Teaching Hospitals, the Rural Training School, Kintampo and
the offices of all Regional Directors of Health Services.
3.          Strengthening Overall M.O.H. Capacity: The three studies on National Health
Policies, Health Manpower and Health Care Financing were carried out but the final product of
the studies did not find ready application as had been envisaged. They had not served the
purpose for which they were intended.
4.          Provision of Training: In all, there were 17 fellowships of one year duration and
17 fellowships for short courses of duration ranging from 35 days to 6 months.
Out of the 17 fellows who pursued courses leading to an MPH (Master of Public Health) or
similar degree, only two persons can be said to be lost to the system. They are Dr. Baah Asante
and Dr. F.E.A. Martinson both of whom are still in the U.S.
Mr. Maaweh is due back in July, 1992. He has had to stay on because his wife who joined him
there fell ill and has been receiving treatment.
Mrs. Abigail Kyei completed her course in 1991 and retumed home. She is at post in Kumasi
Dr. Edith Clarke is also at post. So is Dr. E.A. Amuah. Dr. P.R Asman who was sponsored to
do a diploma course in Biomedical Engineering did so well that the School offered him a
fellowship to do a Masters in the subject. He is due back in August/September this year.
Perhaps the most successful part of the project as far as the impact is concemed is the training
component. Three of the doctors trained under the scheme namely Dr. D.Y. Dovlo, Dr. G.K
Amofah and Dr. Eric Amuah are now Regional Directors of Health Services for the Eastern,
Ashanti and Western Regions respectively.
The Rural Health Training Centre where Medical Assistants, Technical Officers-Nutrition and
Technical Officers-Disease Control and Field Technicians are trained is also being gradually
transformed by Dr. S.A. Akor, a beneficiary of the scheme. The rest of the staff who benefitted
from the programme are contributing immensely to the work of their various units. The
systematic progress being made at the regional level and below in the entire health services is to a
large extent a result of the training that most of the people in key positions now had under the
project.
It is most regrettable that the Bank Officials who worked on the project refused to see the need
for training of more doctors in public health to enable them to assume management positions in
the Ministry of Health.



- 16-
It is important for the Bank to ensure that their staff who work with us do not pretend to be
what they are not During the course of the project, Bank officials who are perhaps economists
suddenly turned into health managers and used these false pretenses to take decisions on mattes
they were not competent to address If this had not happened and more people had been trained
as the Ministry of Health found necessary, even greater success would have been achieved.
KLE.  ADIBO (DR.)
DIRECTOR OF MEDICAL
SERVICES
June 12, 1992                                MINISTRY OF HEALTH



- 17 -
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
HEALTH AND EDUCATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CR. 16S3-GH)
PART Bs EDUCATION COMPONENT
1.0 THE BACKGROUND SIMTUAlON
1.1   By 1985, there was an acute decline in the entire formal education delivery in Ghana, the
most critical area being the basic education sector. The following were in evidence:-
(i)   Serve shortages of textbooks to the extent that one textbook to a class was not
unknown;
(ii)   Stationery like pens, pencils and exercise books were scarce;
(iii)  In the absence of tools to work with, morale was low among teachers, many of
whom sought economic well-being out of the country which in turn worsened the
blight in schools.
1.2   It was in these circumstances that the Health and Education Rehabilitation Project was
initiated on 31 January 1986. The project was in principle targeted to:
(i)    Arrest the decline within the scope of HERP rehabilitatory support;
(ii)   Promote the development of educational materials for schools;
(iii)  Provide logistical aid for the improvement of educational management and
planning.
1.3   Thus the overall aim of the DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT signed between
the Ghana Ministry of Education (MOE) and the International Development Association (the
Association also referred to here as the World Bank) on 31 January 1986, in respect of the
Ghana education sector, was to prevent further deterioration in the education system and to
strengthen MOE's management and planning establishments (SCHEDULE 2 (i) and (iv).
1.4   Three organizations were involved in the Agreement. They were the Ministry of Health
(MOH) referred to as Part A, the Ministry of Education (MOE) referred to as Part B and the
Management Development and Productivity Institute (MDPI) referred to as Part C MOH had
its own Project Management Unit (PMU) and so did MOE provided accounting service for MDPI
in addition to its own.
2.0   EFFECTIVE OPERATIONAL DATES OF THE PROJECT
2.1   The MOE component of HERP became operational on 27 April 1986. It was expected to
finish implementation on 31 December 1990 unless there was need to extend completion date.
On 20 November 1990, the Ghana Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning applied for
extension for six months. Reasons provided on behalf of the MOE component was that there was
on-going commitment in the procurement of a number of core textbooks, whose production had
reached advanced stages. The World Bank, however, after considering the levels of



- 18 -
accomplishments of all the sectors of HERP at the time, extended the closing date of the Credit
to 31 December 1991.
3.0   DESCRIPTION OF THE EDUCATION COMPONENT OF THE PROJECT
3.1   According to SCHEDULE 2, Part B (i.e. Description of Project) of the Agreement, the
following were to be undertaken by HERP MOE PMU:-
(i)   Printing and distribution of English, Mathematics and Science Textbooks and
Teachers Guides for primary and junior secondary schools.
(ii)   Provision of basic instructional supplies (exercise books, pens and pencils) to cover
needs of primary and junior secondary schools for two years.
(iii)  Provision of textbooks for libraries of second cycle institutions.
(iv)   a. Strengthening of MOE in the preparation and execution of education projects.
b. Provision of basic equipment, supplies and training of MOE departments of
Planning and Statistics and of supplies to PMU; and minor repairs to MOE's
regional and district textbooks depots.
c. Provision of core journals, library books and periodicals for the universities.
4.0   SUPPLY OF STATIONERY: PENS. PENCILS AND EXERCISE BOOKS
4.1   The first salvage step was the procurement of pens, pencils and exercise books. The
orders were placed through HERP in 1986 and delivered the same year after some delay. The
suppliers were Unicef whose quotations were competitive. The consignments were paid for under
the Project Preparation Facility. Breakdown of the supplies are as follows:
(i)   Sq. Exercise Books              1,210,000
(ii)   Rule Exercise Books            6,256,000
(iii)  Pencils                        1,269,190
(iv)   Ball Point Pens                4,291,190
4.2   Total Cost Of The Four Items Is USD 716.028.00
5.0   LIBRARY BOOKS AND CORE JOURNALS TO THE THREE UNIVERSITIES
5.1   The procurement of library books and core journals/periodicals was carried out in three
phases:-
(i)    A limited quantity of books ordered in 1987, costing 60,206.45 UK pound.
(ii)   A core set of three hundred periodicals were subscribed to cover a three-year
period in 1988. The cost was 50,127.30 UK pound.
(iii)  Further journal subscription was undertaken in 1989 costing US$102,890.09.
(iv)   An amount of US$180,000 was disbursed for further subscription of core
journals/periodicals by the close of 1991.



- 19 -
6.0   SUPPLY OF TEXTBOOKS FOR LIBRARIES OF SECOND CYCLE INSTITUTIONS
6.1   These were procured in two batches as follows:-
(i)   1988:       48,120 volumes costing 132,988.59
(ii)   1991:      18,000 volumes costing 58,331.75
6.2   The first lot were textbooks on English and science ordered for Forms 4 and 5 of
secondary schools as well as a few quantities for Teacher Education Colleges and Vocational
Institutes. The second order was for libraries of Teacher Education Colleges and was delivered to
the Teacher Education Division of the Ghana Education Service (GES) for distribution to the 38
Teacher Training Colleges in October/November 1991.
7.0   PRINTING OF TEXTBOOKS
7.1   Introduction - The Co-publishing Project and MOE
Textbooks Printing:
At the time the Agreement came into force on 27 April 1986, MOE had already
organized, dating back to November 1984, a Co-publishing Project. The Co-publishing Project is
a textbooks publishing partnership between MOE/Ghana Education Service (GES) on one hand
and the Ghana Publishing Corporation, Sedco Publishing Limited, Afram Publications (Ghana)
Limited and Adwinsa Publications (Ghana) Limited on the other. It has undertaken the design
and publishing of basic education textbooks written by Ghanaian textbook writing panels
sponsored by GES and MOE. The purpose of the partnership has been: (i) to build up the Free
Textbooks Scheme; (ii) to develop the local book industry; and (iii) to liberalize the book
market.
7.2   Readiness of Manuscripts and Films:
Fortunately, at the commencement of the implementation of the Agreement, the Co-
publishing Project had been able to develop to film stage some forty-one manuscripts for basic
education textbooks and these were ready for printing. Subject areas included English, Maths,
Science, Social Studies, Music and Religion together with corresponding Workbooks on English
Course for Ghanaian Schools Books 3, 4, 5 and 6. But as SCHEDULE 2 Part B (1) of the
Agreement states, only English, Maths and Science texts and teachers' guides on them were
eligible for printing. This in effect excluded the printing of the English Workbooks and the titles
on Religion, Music and Ghana Social Studies series Primary 1, 2 and 3 and primary 5 and 6 for
the time being only. So between 1986 and 1989 only films for textbooks and teachers' guides for
the subjects specified in the Agreement were offered by MOE PMU for printing and Ghana
Social Studies Series Pupil's Book 4. The total number was thirty-five.
7.3   Textbooks Printing 1986 - 1989:
Copies
i.    Ghana Science Series: Junior Secondary Science
Pupil's Book 1                             230,000
ii.    Ghana Science Series: Junior Secondary Science
Pupil's Book 2                             230,000



- 20 -
iii.   Ghana Science Series: Junior Secondary Science
Pupil's Book 3                             230,000
iv.    Ghana Science Series: Junior Secondary Science
Teachers' Book 1                             10,000
v.    Ghana Science Series: Junior Secondary Science
Teachers' Book 2                             10,000
vi    Ghana Science Series: Junior Secondary Science
Teachers' Book 3                             10,000
vii.   An English Course for Ghanaian Schools
Pupil's Book 5                             250,000
viii.   An English Course for Ghanaian Schools
Teachers' Handbook 5                         8,000
ix    An English Course for Ghanian Schools
Pupil's Book 6                              150,000
xI    An English Course for Ghanaian Schools
Teachers' Handbook 6      -                  8,000
xi.    Ghana Social Studies Series:
Pupil's Book 4                             250,000
xii.   Ghana Mathematics Series:
Junior Sec. Sch. Pupil's Book. 1           230,000
xiii.   Ghana Mathematics Series:
Junior Sec. Sch. Teachers' Guide Book. 1    10,000
xiv.   An English Course for Ghanaian Schools
Pupil's Book 4                             250,000
xv.   An English Course for Ghanaian Schools
Teachers' Handbook 4                         8,000
xvi   Ghana Mathematics Series:
Pupils's Book 4                            250,000
xvii.  Ghana Mathematics Series:
Teachers' Handbook 4                         8,000
xviii.  Ghana Mathematics Series:
Pupil's Book 5                              95,000
xix.   Ghana Mathematics Series:
Teachers' Handbook 5                         8,000
xx    Ghana Mathematics Series:



-21 -
Pupil's Book 6                             260,734
xxi    Ghana Mathematics Senes:
Teachers' Handbook 6                         8,000
muL   Ghana Mathematics Series:
Jun. Sec. Schools Pupil's Book 2           230,000
iL.  Ghana Mathematics Series:
Jun. Sec. Schools Teachers' Guide 2          10,000
mv.  Ghana Science Series Pupil's Book 1          300,000
xxv.  Ghana Science Series Pupil's Book 2         300,000
xvi.  Ghana Science Series Pupil's Book 3         275,000
sViu. Ghana Science Series:
Teachers' Guide Vol. 1                      24,000
xvui. Ghana Mathematics Series:
Pupils Book 2                              300,000
xdL   Ghana Mathematics Series:
Teachers' Handbook 2                         8,000
OXC   Ghana Mathematics Series:
Pupil's Book 3                             275,000
miL  Ghana Mathematics Series
Teachers' Handbook 3                         8,000
xxxiL An English Course for Gbanaian Schools
Pupil's Book 3                             275,000
mi. An English Course For Ghanaian Schools
Teacher's Handbook 3                         8,000
xxxv. Ghana Mathematics Series:
Jun. Sec. Maths Pupil's Book 3             230,000
xxxv. Ghana Mathematics Series:
Jun. Sec. Maths Teachers' Guide 3            10,000
A Total Number of 4,727,884 copies of books were therefore printed and distributed at
basic education level in respect of these thirty-five dtl.es (Please see rearrangement of titles in
Annex 5)
7.4   Production of Ghana Social Studies Series Books 4. 5 and 6. 1989 -1991:
Prior to and in the coure of 1989-91, panels of GES textbooks writer had prepared
manuscripts for Ghana Social Studies Series Primay 1, 2, 3, 4, S and 6 togedier with Tecben



- 22 -
Manuals. These were sponsored by HERP MOE PMU under Part B, 4(a) of the Agreement.
MOE's effort was enhanced further when the World Bank was able to approve the printing of
Book 4, and thereafter Books 5 and 6. This ensured complete coverage of Upper Primary 4, 5
and 6 in Social Studies texts. Books 5 and 6 were written and printed in the course of 1989-91
and the two hundred and fifty thousand copies each of Books 5 and 6 were delivered to MOE by
the end of August 1991. Similarly, Teachers' Manuals Books 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6 were printed in
December 1991 and delivered on average 11,000 each and passed on to MOE Logistics Division
in January 1992.
7.5   Top-UR Printing:
As a result of increased enrollments in schools between 1986 and 1991, it was considered
necessary to bridge the gap in the supply of textbooks already printed and distributed to schools.
Accordingly, the following titles and numbers were printed and delivered to MOE August 1991:-
1.    Primary Mathematics Pupil's Book 2      60,000
2.    Primary Mathematics Pupil's Book 3      54,000
3.    An English Course for Ghanaian
Schools Pupil's Book 3                 54,000
4.    Primary Science Pupil's Book 1         114,000
5.    Primary Science Pupil's Book 2          60,000
6.    Primary Science Pupil's Book 3         103,000
7.6   Textbooks Printing Costs 1986 - 1991:
During the project period, therefore, total cost of textbooks, 1986 - 1991 is
US$3,334,449.71 and the breakdown year by year is as follows:-
1986                            US$  249,589.00
1987                                  517,472.29
1988                                  589,652.57
1989                                  829,101.01
1990                                  615,936.28
September   1991                                   442,734.33
Special Commitment/
Replenishment                                        89,964.23
3,334,449.71



- 23 -
During the entire project period, therefore, the total number of textbooks printed and delivered
to MOE was 6.086,179. Please see Annex 5.
7.7    Retrospective Assessment of Textbooks Printing:
(i)    Apart from Ghana Social Studies Series Books 4, 5 and 6, the provision of SCHEDULE 2
Part B (i) of the Agreement has been adhered to strictly. In the process, a total of 5,672,884
copies of titles on English, Mathematics and Science have been printed and handed over to the
Logistics Division of MOE for distribution.
According to the Division. percentage of coverage of the books in schools has in no instance of a
title been less than 63 percent. Average coverage has been 83.7 percent. Impact wise. therefore.
the alleviating effect of HERP achievement in the provision of textbooks to Ghanaian Primary
Schools has been tremendous over the six-year period. Please see Annex 5.
(ii)   The books were printed in the course of five years. Each copy was supposed to have a
life span of three years on average use. So books delivered in 1987/88 needed either substantial
replacements during the project period or perhaps rebinding by the beginning of the 1991/92
academic year, i.e., September 1991.
(iii)  Procurement procedures prescribed by the World Bank together with those in force locally
adversely affected timetable for supplies and production. While contract awards were
indeterminate and protracted, the school calendar year ticked away and book supplies to schools
were delayed long after school reopenings. Contract award procedures were: preparation of
bidding documents, approval of prepared bidding documents and preparation and presentation of
bids internationally; opening of bids and preparation of evaluation reports on bids; study and
consideration of evaluation reports by the Ghana Central Advisory Tender Board in its own time;
study and consideration of bidding documents, evaluation reports and the recommendations of the
Central Advisory Tender Board in its own time; study and consideration of bidding documents,
evaluation reports and the recommendations of the Central Advisory Tender Board by the Public
Agreements Board (PAB) in its own time; approval of the recommendations of the PAB by the
PNDC thereafter. All these steps could hold up award readiness for eight to twelve months or
more before the bid winner is notified to print the books in three or four months. The process
certainly required time-saving review.*
(iv)   There is equally the need to have spread evenly the printing of core textbooks over the
three main areas of basic education, namely literacy, numeric and socialization. By 1 January
1986, when the Agreement was signed, English, Science and Mathematics were probably
perceived as the most critical textbook shortage subject areas that required emergency supply
attention. Therefore printing of textbooks on these particular subjects were deemed more urgent
than any other subject area. Their production was accordingly provided for at the exclusion of
Music, Religion and Social Studies. Workbooks on English which were print-ready were not
considered vital and teachers' manuals for socialization subjects for lower and upper primary were
ignored.
8.0   STRENGTHENING OF MOE IN THE PREPARATION AND EXECUTION Of
EDUCATION PROJECTS
8.1   There were three main operational areas under this provision:-
(a)   Textbooks Writing
(b)   Training of Book Industry Personnel



- 24 -
(c)   Other Education Projects
8.2   Under the Textbooks Writing Programme, the following titles with teachers' manuals were
written, out of which, as can be seen, not all have been printed:-
Social Studies Series For Primary Schools:-
(i)   Pupil's Book I and Teachers'   -Written but only
Manual                         Teachers' Manual
printed
(ii)   Pupil's Book II and Teachers'  -Written but only
Manual                         Teachers' Manual
printed
(iii)  Pupils Book III and Teachers'  -Written but only
Manual III                     Teachers' Manual
printed
(iv)   Teachers' Manual for Book IV  -Written and printed
(v)   Pupil's Book V                 -Published
September 1991
(vi)  Teachers' Manual for Book V    -Written and printed
(vii)  Pupil's Book VI               -Published
September 1991
(viii)  Teachers' Manual for Book VI  -Written and printed
8.3   Total Amount Spent is US$70,351.59.
8.4   TRAINING OF BOOK INDUSTRY PERSONNEL:
A workshop was organized at the University of Science and Technology, Kumasi, for the
training of print personnel for the maintenance of printing machines. The training session lasted
February 4 to 19, 1991. There were twelve participants drawn from the public sector book
production presses. Certificates were awarded at the end of the training. Cost of the training
workshop was US$30,000.00.
8.5   STRENGTHENING THE CAPACITY OF MOE PMU
This entailed the provision of training courses for personnel of HERP PMU. They were
Lawrence Adama Clocuh and Mr. Robert Ansah. Mr. Clocuh did a one-month course in
procurement with the Crown Agents of Britain and Mr. Ansah took a refresher course in
Financial Management at the Ghana Management Development and Productivity Institute in
Accra. Cost: US$9,628.21



- 25 -
9.0   PROVISION OF BASIC EOUIPMENT, SUPPLIES AND TRAINING
9.1 These items were meant to strengthen MOE's Planning Division and Statistics as well as
supplies the PMU. MOE was expected to carry out minor repairs to MOE's regional and district
textbooks depots. On further consideration of the issue vis-a-vis existing facilities, it was decided
to abandon, with the World Bank's approval, the rehabilitation of these unserviceable outfits for
better located and properly designed ones put up by MOE itself. Please see section 10.1
9.2    However, a total of US$262,870.21 was expended on the purchase of five Nissan Patrol
vans, one Corona and one Corolla cars, three photocopiers, two electronic typewriters, four air
conditioners, a personal computer, sets of furniture, etc. to operate HERP PMU and to
strengthen the operations of other relevant sectors as provided for in the Agreement.
10.0 OVERALL RETROSPECTIVE ASSESSMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
EXPERIENCE
10.1  The Four Main Targets of the Agreement set for the Education Sector were most
successfully achieved with the only exception of 'minor repairs to MOE's regional and district
textbooks depots'. Indeed, a national survey was carried out to assess the status and condition of
depots and warehouses being held by the Ghana Education Service. A World Bank consultant
carried out the assessment and made recommendations which depots/warehouses should be
rehabilitated at Saltpond and Accra. However, rehabilitation could not be undertaken as the final
estimates were found prohibitive and uneconomic. Besides time was and is felt very much
needed. So the minor repairs items had to be abandoned and the money for them utilized on
other approved items.
10.2   Obviously a key word in the Agreement is rehabilitation. By 1985, the textbooks supply
situation to basic education institutions was so grave that the restriction of printing and
distribution of textbooks to three subjects only i.e. English, Maths and Science made
administrative sense perhaps; but it was educationally narrow as socialization in the curriculum
was overlooked. It is to the credit of the implementation process that this anomaly was
recognized and some allowance was made to address it. Credit should go to the World Bank and
to its Resident Representative, Mr. Nicholas Bennett, for this. It is, however, unfortunate that
the redress by the end of the implementation period could not cater for the publication of Social
Studies Series for lower primary Pupil's Books One, Two and Three.
10.3  The provision of textbooks for libraries of second cycle institutions was well conceived
when weighed against the paucity of good textbooks other than single prescribed core texts in
class use. Generally, however, secondary schools in Ghana are relatively better provided for in
library books than teacher education colleges. Towards the end of the implementation of the
Agreement, effort was made to refurnish and upgrade the book supply situation in teacher
education colleges. In this regard, books written by indigenes and non-nationals worldwide were
supplied to expose students to a universal book world beginning from their own environment. No
books were provided for primary school libraries in the Agreement. This is unsatisfactory as the
habit of voluntary reading is best inculcated at this stage.
11.0 RECOMMENDATIONS
11.1  (i)    HERP MOE PMU provided accounting service to MDPI. MDPI is not
accountable to MOE. Its sector Ministry is Mobilization and Social Welfare. This created
problems regarding policy and implementation. It is recommended that Sector Ministries be made
to provide and control accounting service.



- 26 -
(ii)   Fluctuations in dollar value in Ghana, usually on the depreciation side, created
problems of audit evaluation. It is hoped that this could be accorded easier World Bank
understanding in future.
(iii)  It is recommended that the World Bank would have greater flexibility in
accommodating moves in a project of this nature to ensure more rounded education. This would
have averted the inability to print Ghana Social Studies Series Pupil's Books 1, 2, and 3.
(iv)   A rehabilitation project of the HERP kind should have been flexible enough to
provide sustainable book printing capacities for local book printers. Print runs not more than
50,000 to 75,000 lots in four to six months would have been ideal if staggered in those lots to
keep the presses running all the time.
12.0 CONCLUSION
It must be placed on record that HERP, PMU has during the implementation period,
1986-1991, gratefully and generally enjoyed the co-operation and understanding of the World
Bank and in particular of the Resident Representative, Mr. Nicholas Bennett. There were no
hitches that throughout the implementation hindered eventual satisfactory achievement. All
concerned deserve congratulations including all our disbursement agencies, suppliers, and above
all, the World Bank itself; for given the facts of this report, HERP has had salutary impact,
whatever the difficulties or shortcomings, in helping to salvage a national education mishap.
S.A. AMU DJOLETO
MANAGER
HERP MOE PMU
20 MARCH 1992



- 27 -
MANAGEMENT DEVELOPMENT AND PRODUCTIVITY INSTITUTE
HEALTH AND EDUCATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CR. 16S3-GH)
PART C: MDPI COMPONENT
The Development Credit Agreement signed between the Government of the Republic of Ghana
and the International Development Association (IDA) of the World Bank on 31st January 1986,
specifically sought to rehabilitate Ghana's health and education services: in the latter case,
provision was made for the strengthening of the Management Development and Productivity
Institute (MDPI).
The MDPI Component of the Health and Education Rehabilitation Project (HERP) has, indeed,
enabled the Institute to offer improved management training, consultancy and research services
through, inter alia, the following activities: (a) Rehabilitation of classrooms and offices; (b)
provision of essential office equipments and supplies; (c) acquisition of vehicles; (d) strategic study
on the MDPI; and (e) construction of a multi-purpose hall at the MDPI.
In sum, the MDPI Component of HERP has had a significant impact on the Institute: it has not
only enhanced the performance of the Institute but also improved the infra-structural facilities at
the Institute for the benefit of its course participants and client organisations, as well as the staff
of the Institute. But more significantly, given the critical role that the MDPI plays in Ghana's
socio-economic development process (especially in the area of human resources development),
the Project's positive impact on the Institute has been of immense benefit to Ghana as a whole.
It is, therefore, the determination of the MDPI to ensure that its observed enhanced capacity and
enabling institutional environment, made possible through HERP and other projects, will be
sustained throughout the 1990s and beyond for the benefit of the Ghanaian economy.
Dr. H. Akuoko-Frimpong
Ag. Director
Management Development &
Productivity Institute
21st November 1991                           Accra, Ghana






- 29 -
PROJEC COMPLETION REPORT
GHANA
HEALTH AND EDUCATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
(gumDI 16SOGH
PART IM STATISTICAL lNFORMATION
1.    Related Bank Lo= and/or Credits
Credit Number and Title: Credit 1744-GH - Education Sector Adjustment Credit
Purpose:               To improve pedagogic effectiveness, and to recast the financing of
education so that public and private expenditures are cost effective
within modest growth expectations. Specifically, to reduce length of
pre-university education from 17 to 12 years, to expand access to
primary education and to introduce a practical orientation to basic
education.
Year of Approval:      1986
Status:                Closed in December 1991.
Credit Number and Title:  Credit 2140-GH - Second Education Sector Adjustment Credit.
Purpose:               To support the second three years of Government's education reform
efforts, which aim at increasing access, improving pedagogic
effectiveness and relevance, restructuring pre-university education and
ensuring financial sustainability. To help consolidate the reforms that
have already taken place at the primary and junior secondary levels,
and extend them to the senior secondary level (grades 10-12).
Year of Approval:      1990
Status:                On-going.
Credit Number and Title:  Credit 2193-GH - Second Health and Population Project.
Purpose:               In health: to bring about a progressive improvement in the quality
and coverage of the health services especially in terms of primary
health care (PHC). To improve equity through a focus on the
underserved three northern-most regions of Ghana. In population: to
bring about an increase in the availability and accessibility of family
planning services. To support the implementation of Government
sector priorities, involving important policy, institutional and program
changes, and improved public expenditures programs in the sectors.
To increase and further institutionalize the role of NGOs in health
and population.
Year of Approval:      1990



- 30 -
Credit Number ad Title: Credit 2278-GH - Community Secondary Schools Project.
Purpose:               To ensure that junior secondary school graduates from backward and
deprived areas of the country have opportunities to enter senior secondary
day schools in their neighborhoods; to ensure that essential physical
facilities are constructed at about 140 schools; to ensure that local
communities and district assemblies take responsibilities for the
development and running of the new secondary schools, and feel that the
schools are their schools; and to encourage schools to establish hygienic
toilet facilities.
Year of Approval:      1991
Stats:                 On-going
Credit Number and Title: Credit 2349-GH - Literacy and Functional Skills Project.
Purpose:               To support and consolidate, over the period FY1993-95, the Government's
program of functional literacy: (i) To assist in strengthening the
institutional capacity of the Non-formal Education Division (NFED) to
manage effectively the entire literacy program; (ii) to ensure that all
program aspects are subject to frequent evaluation and monitoring, and that
research and evaluation become key inputs in the development of any new
initiatives; (iii) to improve the existing literacy program so that a large
proportion of the 840,000 adults who will be allowed to participate become
fully literate; (iv) to ensure that all new literates, whether from the school
system or from the literacy program, have access to a range of reading
materials in Ghanaian languages; and (v) to help expand the coverage of
the FM broadcasting system to support the functional literacy program and
to increase the frequency of educational broadcasting in Ghanaian
languages.
Year of Approval:      1992
Status:                Not yet effective.



- 31-
2.    Project llmeabl
1im                Original Date       Revised D         Actud Dat
Identification                                             06/84
Preparation                                                11/84
Pre-appraisal                                              n.a.
Appraisal Mission                                          05/85
Credit Negotiations                                        12/85
Board Approval                                            01/23/86
Credit Signature                                          01/31/86
Credit Effectiveness                                      04/28/86
Credit Closing     12/31/90            12/31/91            12/31/91 I/
1/ Project closing date was extended on December 21, 1990, to allow Government to complete key
project activities.
3. Credit Disbursements
A. Cumulative Estimated and Actual DisburseMents
(USS million)
IDA  Fiscal Year    EY8    FY87   EY88   EY8          E        EY9   EY9
Appraisal Estimate     1.90    8.70    13.00    14.30    14.60   15.00
Actual 1/             2.17     3.21    4.41     8.17    13.19   14.41  17.94
Actual as % of Estimate 114.2%   36.9%   33.9%    57.1%   90.3%   96.1% 119.6%
1/ Because of the fluctuation of the US dollars against SDR, the project benefftted from additional
funds equivalent to about US$3.0 million. All funds under Credit 1653-GH were disbursed and
no cancellation was required.



- 32 -
B. TIME LINE OF APPRAISAL ESTIMATE AND
ACTUAL DISBURSEMENT
Us IMIIIIe Equivalent
1986       1987        1988        1989       1990        1991        1992
IDA Pleefl *arw
Appralsal Estimate   -   Actual



- 33 -
Table C: Allocation of Proceeds
. ...............................
.........................................  ............................  ................................  ................................
In SDR                           In US
.............................................. ...............
OrIginal         Actual
Category of Expenditures              Allocation   Disburoments 1/    Ealance          Baltnce 2/
......................................... .......... .................................... ...............
PAMT A: HEALTB COMPONENT
1-A  Civil Works: Construction mterilas,
rehabilitation                                740.000          732,327           7,673            9,974
2-A  Equipment  Furniture  haterials,
and Vehicles and Medical Suppltes           4,880,000        6,080,168      (1,200168)      (1,560,218)
3-A  Technical Assistance  nd Training:
Local/Foreign consultants; Overseas/
local training; fellowships; PHU
(1) Populatlon Studies and Training           460 000          117.570         342,430          45,159
(ii) Other Itoem                             1,565.000        1.359U867         205,133          266,673
S-A Project Operating Costs: Vehicles
(OIN); wages; local travel; supplies        1,015.000          535,542         479.458          623.296
6.  Refunding PPF Advance                                 0                0               0                0
7-A  Unallocated 3/                                430.000          211,071         218.929          284,608
Subtotal Part A:                     9.090.000        9,036,545          53,455           69,492
PARTS B AND C: EDUCATION COMPONENT & NDPI
1-U/C Civil Works: Minor repairs to
regional nd district textbook
depots nd renovation of NDPI                190.000           92,066          97,914          127.288
2-I/C Equipment Furniture, Naterials
ond Vehicte                                 190.000          183,384           6.616            8.601
3-3/C Technical Assistance nd Local
Training                                    145,000          135.291           9,709           12.621
4-A   Textbooks, Teachersc Guides and
School Suppties                            2,485.000        2,583,423         (98,423)        (127,949)
4-8   JournaLs. Periodicals mnd Library
Books                                        550.000          717.151        (167,151)        (217.297)
5-3/C Operating Costs: Vehicels (COM);
Office SuppLIes; Nfscellenaous               140,000          191,784         (51,784)         (67,319)
6.   Eefunding PPF Advance:
Instructional Materials nd School
Suppiles; Vehicles- Office
Equlpnent and Supplies; Technical
Assistance                                    930,000          780,494         149,506          194,358
7-8  Unallocated 3/                                  80,000           79,842             158              205
Subtotal Parts I and C:                 4,710,000       4*763,455          (53.455)         (69,492)
......................................... .................. ..................................... ..........................
TOTAL                        13,800,000       13.800,000               (0)              (0)
.........................................    ..............................................................................................................
.........................................
1/ Based on Loan Database of Nay 11, 1992.
2/ At exchange rate of USS1.30 * 1 SOR.
3/ Actual Disbursements Colun: amount is extracted from the disbursed coluan against
Speclal Account for Parts A, B and CM from Loan Database printout of May 11, 1992.



_ 34 -
4. Project Implementation
............ ..........................
SAR
Project Cowponents               Unit   Estimte.   Actuat                        Comments
............................................................................................................................
PART A: HEALTH COMPONENT
1. STRENGTHENING PHC SERVICE DELIVERY
1. Re-equipment and Provision of
Essential Suppties:
(a) Rural Health Stations                 Unit            100        100    190 sets of equipment for NIdwifery
services; 190 sets of equipment for Health
Centers and Health Posts; 70 sets of besic
supplies and equipment for leveL 'CI
institutIons.
(b) Urban Health Centers (Greater Accra)  Unit              7          7    The following centers were supplied:
MaNprobf PolycLinic; Labadi Polyclinic;
Kanerhle PoLycLinic; Ussher town Clinic;
Dansoman PolycLinic; Adbraka Polyclinic;
Kotobabf Polyclinic.
Cc) Urban Health Centers (Kumasf)         Unit              4          4    Drugs and medical equipment were supplied
to the following centers, including one
pick-up truck each: Manhyla, Suntresu,
Old Tafo, and South Kunasi (Chirapatre)
Health Centers
2. Rehabilitation of Urban Health
Centers In KUTaSi                      Unit              2          2   OLd Tafo Health Center and South Kumasi
(Chirapatre).
3. Management and Implementation of PHC
Program
(a) Fellowships for MON staff In          Manmonth        120        210    See Annex 2
Pl anning Management and Economics
(b) Short-term Overseas Observation
and Training for MOH Staff            Marnmonth      nas.         40    See Annex 3
(c) Installation of Radio Communication
System                                Unit             15         15   MOi Headquarter (1); Medical Store (1);
Regional Directors' Offices (10);
Teaching Hospitals (2); Rural Training
School, Kintampo (1).
II. STRENGTHENING OF MOH PRIORITY PROGRAMS
................. .............................. ......
A. Increasing Immunization Coverage
1. Provision of Cold Storage Facilities
for Vaccines
(a) Kotoka International Airport and      Unit              2          2    Two large cold room  were installed at the
Kumasi RegionaL Nedical Store                                           Regional Medical Stores, Greater Accra,
Instead of Kotoka International Airport
and Kumasi.
(b) Installation of Solar-Powered
Refrigerators                         Unit             30         30    Solar-powered refrigerators were installed
but ceased functioning after a few months.
B. Promotion of Family Planning
1. Workshop on:
(a) Safe Motherhood Initiative            Day              10         10    Five-day seminar and follow-up workshop
were undertaken by one MON staff.
(b) Pilot Study on testing of a
classification and referral system    Unit              1          1   Completed.
................
n.s. a not specified.



- 35 -
SAR
Project Components                Unit    Estimates    ActuaL                      Comments
C. Provision of NutrItion-related
Activities                              Unit               1           1    Nutrition surveillance activities have been
instituted in aLL the regions except
Upper East Region due to lack of transport
for the district officer to sup rvise
trained voLunteers. In Brong Ahafo
community participation in surveiltanrce
was very poor. In the Northern Region,
onLy two communities have started this
type of activity. It has also been very
difficult to Identify volunteers to be
trained to weigh and measure the height
of chiLdren.
1. Support for Weaning Food Production
(a) Transportation                         Unit               0         32    Motorcycles were supplied.
(b) Grinding Mils and Weighing             Unit               0         50    Grinding MiLLs installed In each of 50
Scales                                                                     commiunities and weighing scales supplied
(Annex 4)
(c) Rehabilitation of:
Princess Marie-Louis Hospitalt Accra   Unit                1        0.5    Internal work completed.
Child Welfare Center, Kumnasi           Unit               1          1
(d) Provision of:
P14L, Accra: Equipment, Vehicles,       Unit               1          1    Medical and technical equipment, furniture,
Furniture, Drugs                                                           drugs and hospital equipment, double cabin
pick-up (1), and large bus (1) supplied.
Child Welfare Center, KuT si:
Equipment, Vehicles, Furniture, Drugs  Unit                1           1    Medical and technical equipment, furniture,
drugs and hospital equipment double cabin
pick-up (1), and small bus (C) supplied.
III. STUDIES AND PLANNING SUPPORT
1. Analysis of health policies and
Studies on:
(a) National Health Policies               Unit               1           1
tb) Health Manpower                        Unit               1           1
(c) Health Care Financing (IncL. cost      Unit               1           1
recovery and insurance scheme)
2. Inventory of (in MOM):
(a) Health Delivery                        Unit               1          1
(b) Training                               Unit               1           1
(c) Storage Facilitites                    Unit               1           1
3. Design of a urban and rural health
centers prototypes                      Unit               1           1
4. Preparation of a long-term
investment plan for the health sector  Unit                1          1



- 36 -
.................................... ................................................................................. . .. .
SAR
Project Components                Unit    Estimates    Actual                       Comments
..............................................................................................................................
PART B: EDUCATION COMPONENT
1. Printing and distribution of
English mathematics wnd science
textbooks nd teachers' guides for
primary and middle schools               Unit               1           1    A total of 6,086,179 textbooks covering
these subjects were printed nd distributed
(Annex 5).
2. Provision of basic Instructional
supplies (exercises books, pane
and pencils) to cover needs of
primary and middle school pupils for
two years                                Unit               1          1
3. Provision of textbooks for libraries
of second cycte Institutions.            Unit               1           1
4. Strengthening of MOE in the
preparation and execution of education
projects                                 Unit               1          1
S. Provision of basic equipment, supplies
and training to MOEMs Departments
of Planning and Statistics and of
Supplies and to PHU; nd minor repairs
to MOE's regional and district
textbooks depots.                        Unit               1        0.8    Minor repairs on existing textbooks depots
were abandoned for better located and
properly designed ones; vehicles were
purchased (7); equipmnt (photocopiers
typewriters, airconditiormrs, persona(
computer, sets of furniture, etc.);
Training was provided to two PHU staff in
procurement nd financial management.
6. Provision of core journals, library
books and periodicals for the
universities                             Unit               1           1
PART C: MANAGEMENT DEVELOPMENT AND
PRODUCTIVITY INSTITUTE (MDPI)
1. Expansion and improvement of its
management training, consultancy
research services, office
rehabilitation and provision of
necessary office equipment and
supplies  nd vehicles                    Unit               1          1



- 37 -
5. Project Costs and Financing
Table A: Project Costs (USS '000)
Appraisal Estimate 1/                Actual 2/
..........................     .......................................... ..................
Foreign                         Foreign
Local   Exchange               LocaL    Exchange
Category              Costs   Costs       Total       Costs    Costs       Total
PART A: HEALTH COMPONENT
1.  CiviL Works                       480.2    588.9  1,069.1         238.0    714.0    952.0
2.  Equipment, Furniture,             726.4  4,828.4  5,554.8         456.8  7,447.5  7,904.3
materials and vehicLes
and medical suppLies
4.  Technical Assistance              922.8  1,261.9  2,184.7         810.6  1,110.2  1,920.8
and Training
5. Operating Costs                   981.9    871.2  1,853.1           69.6    626.5    696.2
6. Unallocated 3/                                                       0.0    274.4    274.4
7. Government of Ghana                                                 71.6       0.0     71.6
Total Part A: Health Component     3,111.3  7,550.4 10,661.7        1,646.5 10,172.7 11,819.2
PART B: EDUCATION COMPONENT
(INCL. MDPI--PART C)
1. Civil Works                        132.6    146.7    279.3          29.9      89.8    119.7
2. Equi pment, Furniture,             793.1 3,917.1 4,710.2           226.5  4,302.7  4,529.2
Text boks, JournaLs,
Materials and Vehicles
3. TechnicaL Assistance               234.7      0.0   234.7             0.0    175.9    175.9
and Training
4. Operating Costs                     78.6     98.3    176.9           24.9    224.4    249.3
5. Refunding of PPF                                                      0.0  1,014.7  1,014.7
6. Unallocated 3/                                                        0.0    103.7    103.7
7. Government of Ghana                                                  53.8      0.0     53.8
Total Part B: Education Component  1,239.0  4,162.1 5,401.1           335.1 5,911.2  6,246.4
(including MDPI--Part C)
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                4,350.3 11,712.5 16,062.8         1,981.7 16,083.9 18,065.5
1/ Based on the Report and Recommendation of the President (Report No. 4157-GH, December 24, 1985).
Government's contribution is within the amount against each category of expenditures, where
appropriate.
2/  Goverrment's contribution reflects data shown in Audit Report covering period ending
December 31, 1991, however amounts were not brokendown by category of expenditures.
Actual as of Loan Database of May 11, 1992. Exchange rate USS1.30 = 1 SDR.
3/  Amount is extracted from the disbursed column against "Special Account for Parts A, B, and C"
from Loan Database printout of May 11, 1992.



- 38 -
TabLe t: Project Financing (USS)
. ....................................................................................... .....
Source of Ffnancing/               ApprfsIal                   X of                 X of
Category of Expenditures             Estimate. 1/  Revised 2/  Total    Final 3/   Total        Balance
1. IDA:
... ............. ....................... .............
PART A: HEALTH COMPONENT
1-A Civil Works: Construction neterials,
rehabiLitation                                  957.5      962.0       5.1X    952.0         5.3X      10.0
2-A  Equipment  Furniture  Materials,
and Vehicles and Medical Suppile              5,514.8   6,344.0       33.4X  7,904.3       43.8X  (1,560.3)
3-A Technical Assistance and Training:
Local/Foreign consultants; Overseas/
local training; fellowships; PHU
(i) Population Studies and Training             500.0      598.0       3.2X    152.9         0.8K     445.1
C(1) Other items                               1,599.7   2,034.5        10.7K  1,767.9        9.8X     266.6
5-A Project Operating Costs: Vehicles
COLN); wages; local travel; supplies          1,325.7   1,319.5        7.0K    696.2        3.9X      623.3
6.  Refunding PPF Advance                             125.0       0.0        0.0K      0.0        0.0X        0.0
7-A  Unallocated 4/                                     0.0     559.0        2.9X    274.4        1.5K     284.6
Subtotal Part A:                      10,022.7  11,817.0       62.3K 11,747.7       65.0K       69.3
PARTS B AND C: EDUCATION COMPONENT & MDPI
1-B/C Civll Works: Minor repairs to
regional and district textbook
depots and renovation of MDPI
facilities                                    242.1      247.0       1.3K     119.7       0.7K      127.3
2-B/C Equipment Furniture, haterials
and Vehicles                                  223.5      247.0       1.3K    238.4         1.3K       8.6
3-B/C Technical Assistance and Local
Training                                      115.0      188.5       1.0X    175.9         1.0X      12.6
4-A   Textbooks, Teachers' Guides and
School Supplie                               2,774.4   3,230.5       17.0K  3,358.4        18.6K    (127.9)
4-B   Journals, Periodicals and Library
Books                                          605.9      715.0       3.8X    932.4         5.2K    (217.4)
5-B/C Operating Costs: Vehicels COLN);
Office Suppiles; Miscellanous                  166.3      182.0        1.0X    249.3        1.4K     (67.3)
6.   Refunding PPF Advance:
Instructional Materials and School
Supplies; Vehicles- Office
Equipment nd Suppties; Technical
Assistance                                      875.0   1,209.0        6.4K  1,014.6         5.6K     194.4
7-B  Unallocated                                       0.0      104.0        0.5K    103.7        0.6X       0.3
Subtotal Parts B and C:                   5,002.2   6,123.0       32.3K  6,192.4       34.3K      (69.4)
........ ................................. ..................................................................
TOTAL IDA                         15,024.9  17,940.0       94.5X 17,940.0       99.3X       (0.0)
....... ...----...--------.......    .....................-   ------------------------------------------------------------------........ ................



- 39 -
........................................  ......... .......................................................
Source of Financing/                 Appraisal                   X of                  X of
Category of Expenditures              Estimates 1/  Revised 2/  Total    Final 3/   TotaL
......................................... ........ ...............................................
11. GOVERNMENT OF GHANA:
.........................................
1.  Civil Works                                        111.6      111.6        0.6X                  0.0X
2. Operating Costs: Vehicles (OlN);
Local Wages; Office Suplies                        527.4      527.4        2.8X                  0.0X
Subtotal Part A:                          639.0      639.0        3.4X      71.6        0.4X
PARTS B AND C: EDUCATION COMPONENT AND
MANAGEMENT DEVELOPMENT AND
PRODUCTIVITY INSTITUTE (RDPI)
1.  CiviL Works                                         37.2       37.2        0.2X                  0.0X
2. Equipment Furniture, Materials
and Vehicles; Local Printing
(textbook production)                              331.5      331.5        1.7X                  0.0X
3.  LocaL Training                                      19.7       19.7        0.1X                  0.0X
4. Operating Costs: Vehicers CON);
Miscellaneous                                       10.6       10.6        0.1X                  0.0X
SubtotaL Parts B snd C:                      399.0      399.0        2.1X      53.8        0.3X
......................................... .................. ..............................................
TOTAL GOVERNMENT OF GHANA                   1,038.0   1,038.0         5.5X    125.4         0.7O
........................................ EUU:...U..E..................U....................... U
TOTAL FINANCING                       16,062.9  18,978.0       100.0K 18,065.4       100.0X
1/  Based on the Report and Recommendation of the President (Report No. P-4157-GH  December 24, 1985).
ALlocation to each category of expenditures is inclusive of price and physical contingencies.
2/ At exchange rate of USS1.30 * I SDR.
3/ For IDA: under Actual Disbursements Column: amount is extracted from the disbursed column against
"Special Account for Parts A B and C" from Loan Database printout of May 11 1992.
For Goverrment: based on Audit report covering period  nding December 31, 1941. However, amounts were
not brokendown by category of expenditures.



40
6. Conpliance with Covenants
........................
SECTION NO. OF
CREDIT AGREEMENT                       COVENANT                                            STATUS
ARTICLE Il: THE CREDIT
2.03               The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1990             Project closing date was extended to
or such later date as the Association shall            December 31, 1991. to allow Goverrnment
establish,                                             to complete key project activities.
ARTICLE III: EXECJTION OF THE PROJECT AND OTHER COVENANTS
*3.3u..EEEEEuEEEUU..uS=z=5= u===============
3.01 (b)           The Borrower shall open and maintain in a               In full compliance.
com nercial bank on terms and conditions
satisfactory to IDA two project accounts,
one for Part A of the Project and the other
for Parts B and C of the Project. The Project
Accounts shall be used exclusively for
payment for goods and services required
for the project.
3.01 (c)           The Borrower:  i) shall establish and maintain          In full compliance.
in MON and MOE two PMUs, each in a form and
with functions and staffing satisfactory
to IDA, and (Ii) shall appoint and assign:
(A) to each PMU a Project Manager and Project
Accountant, and (b) to MOH's PMU the Project
Architect.
3.03               The Borrower: (i) shall no later than                   Studies were completed in September
March 31, 1987, furnish to IDA a preliminary            1988. Long-term investment plan
long-term investment plan for the health               was never carried out as 3-year
sector inc. cost recovery measures                     public investment program became
satisfactory to IDA, and (ii) shall not Later          mandatory in all ministries.
than December 31, 1987, complete the studies
includes In Part A(9) of the Project and
the Long term Investment pLan for the health
sector.
3.04               The Borrower shall undertake a cost recovery            Partly complied.
program which will generate revenues equiv.             1986 (8.0X); 1987 (12.4X); 1988 (9.8X)
to at least 15X of total recurrent expenditures
of MOH in 1986, 1987 and 1988.
3.05               The Borrower: (i) shaLL review annually with            Carried out annually since 1986 as
IDA, (A) the investments made by the Borrower          a regular part of the Public
in the health sector during the 12 months              Expenditure Review process.
immedlately preceding the date of any such
review, and (B) the investments proposed to
be made by the Borrower in the health sector
during the 12 months immediately following
any such review; and
(ii) shall for the purposes of the said
review, provide data and other information
enabling the recurrent cost implicatlons
of the Borrower's Investments in the health
sector to be thoroughly considered and
determined by the Borrower and the Association.



- 41 -
................................... ................................................................................ ..... ................................
tECTION NO. OF
CREDIT AGREENENT                        COVENANT                                            STATUS
........................................... ........................................................................................................ .............
ARTICLE IV: OTHER COVENANTS
_-------.uuaaauu....
4.O1 (b)           Tho Borrower shill:                                      A final audit report covering
(f) havo the records and accounts roferred to           the period  nding December 31, 1991,
In pars. (a) of this sectfon Incl. the                  Is currently being prepared and
Project Accounts and the Special Accounts               should be sLbhitted to IDA before
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance              nd of June 1992.
with appropriate auditing principles
consistently appited, by independent auditors
acceptable to IDA;
(C1) furnish to IDA, as soon as available,              som  as above
but not later than nine months after the and
of each such year, a certified copy of the
report.
4.01 (c)           For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Credit Account were made
on the basis of Statements of Expenditures,
the Borrower shall:
(iv) ensure that such separate accounts are             same as above
included In the annual audit referred to In
pora. (b) of this Section and the report
contains, in respect of such separate accounts,
a separate opinion by said auditors as to
whether the proceeds of the Credit withdraun
in respect of such expenditures were used
for the purposes for which they were provided.



- 42 -
7. Project Results
.............. ............................ .... ...... ........... ...................... ................ ........................... 
COMPONENT                                         COMMENTS
.................. ...................................... ................ .................................. ................................. ........ ...................
DESCRIPTION OF THE PROJECT
Part A.            Heatth:
1. Strengthening of primary heelth care               Complied.
delivery and extension of community health
outreach activities to the villages nd to
satellite 'clinics" in Accr, nd  Kumasi
ncl.: i) requwipping of, nd provision
of essential supplies to, about 100 rural
heaLth stations, 7 urban health centers in
Greeter Accra nd 4 urban health centers
in Kumasi   nd (ii) rehabilitation of 2 of
the heaLth centers in Kumasi.
2. Rehabiliting the Princess Marie Louise             PHL: External work Is incompteted.
HospitaL in Accra end the Child Wetlfre
Center in Kumai, ncl. the provision of
medical and technical quipment, furniture,
supplies end vehicles.
3. Strengthening MOH's district heaLth                CompLied.
mnagement teams responsible for the training,
support and supervision of health station
personnel.
4. Improvement of MOH's program of training,          Surveys completed.
health and nutrition education in the rurel           The tatrines were never costed and
areas,  ncl. support for weaning food                 should not have been included in
production, water and sanitation surveys,             Pert A of the Project.
nd construction of latrines.
5. (a) Improvement of MON's family planning           Completed.
program through the design and testing of
a cLassification and referral system.
(b) Assessment, as necessary, of the impact           Completed, but was largely financed
of the Borrower's national population policy;         by UNFPA, UNDP and British ODA.
and implementation of supporting studies and
workshops leading to a multisectoral plan for
population, human resources and developm nt
planning.
6. Strengthening the UNICEF supported expanded        1. Sites of cold room changed to
immunizstion progrm, inc. the rehabilitation          Greater Accra.
of the cold rooms at the Kotoka Int'l  Airport        2. Solar powered refrigerators
and at the Kumasi regional medical stores             installed, but of poor quality.
and the rehabilitation of solar-powered               Largely non-operable.
refrigerators.
7. Supporting a program of improved nutrition         Complied.
surveillance and the establishment of benchmark
indicators to aid in long-term monitoring of
nutritional status.
8. Strengthening of MON's ability to manage           Compli ed.
nd execute primary health care programs               Plus provision of 1000 Mopeds.
through the provision of:
(C) fellowships for NON staff in pl aming,
menagement end economics; (ii) short-term
overseas observation training for MON staff;
and (Oii) the installation of a new radio
communications system covering MOH HOs, the
medical stores, the 10 regional heaLth offices,
two teaching hospitals and the rural training
school at Kintampo.



- 43 -
... ... ................ ......................................................... ... .... ............... .........
COMPONENT                                        COISIENTS
~~~~~~~~~~................................................................................................... ....................................
9. Supporting studies and planning through:          Complied.
(a) an anatysis of health policies and studies
on health manpower, health care financing (incl.
cost recovery and insurance schemes) and the
drug system;
(b) an inventory of health delivery, training
and storage facilities in NON;
(c) a design of prototype urban and rural
health centers; and
td) preparation of a long-term investment
plan for the health sector.
10. Financing of operating costs, such as            Complied.
equipment, supplies, consummabLes, drugs,
raw materials and other essential items
requiring foreign exchange.
Part B.           Education:
1. Printing and distribution of English,             Complied.
mathematics and science textbooks end teachers'      As well as social studies for
guides for primary and middle schools.               Grades 4, 5  nd 6.
2. Provision of basic instructional supplies         Complied.
(exercise books, pens and pencils) to cover
needs of primary and middle school pupils
for two years.
3. Provision of textbooks for libraries of           Complid.
second cycLe institutions.
4. Ca) Strengthening of MOE in the preparation       Largely supported by Cr. 1744-GH and
and execution of education projects.                 LNOP.
tb) Provision of basic equipment, supplies           No work has been done on textbook
and training to MOE's Departments of Planning        depots because of difficulty in
and Statistics and of Supplies and to PHU;           organizing rep ira to over 80 stores
and minor repairs to MOE's regionaL and              most of which do not belong to
district textbook depots.                            Goverrnennt, and each involving only
US#1 000-2, 000.
Cc) Provision of core journals, library books        Compiled.
and periodicals for the universities.
Part C.           MDPI:
Strengthening of NDPI, inc. the expansion            Complied.
and improvement of its management training,
consultancy and research services, office
rehabilitation and provision of necessary
office equipment and supplies and vehicles.



44
8. Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs
(Staffweeks)
----------------------------------- Fiscal Years---------------------------------
Project Stage       FY84 1/  FY85 1/   FY86      FY87      FY88     FY89      FY90     FY91      FY92       Total
AppraisaL                                    45.4                                                                45.4
Negotiations                                  6.8                                                                 6.8
Supervision                                  11.3     20.3      12.7      6.3      13.2      11.1      5.0       79.9
Coppletfon                                                                                             8.0        8.0
TOTAL                                 63.5     20.3      12.7      6.3      13.2     11.1      13.0     140.1
1/ Date are unvai lable In the NIS.



- 45 -
B. Mission Data
. .......................... .............................................................................
Performwnce
month/   No. of   Days In       Specializations             Status by
Project Stage           Year     Persons  Field         Represented  1/            Activity  2/
............................. .............................................................................
Reconnaissance -Health          04/84             1       10    p
Reconnaissance - Education    04/84               1        6    E
Identification - Health         06/84            3        15    P, CONS: P, A
Iden./Prep.    - Education    11/84               2       10    ED, CONS: TS
Appraisal       - Health        05/85             5        15    P1 OA, OA CONS: E, A
AppraisaL       - Education    05/85              4        15    ED, CONS: TS, E, E
Post-Appraisal - Health         08/85             2       10    E, CONS: A
Post-Appraisal - Education    07/85               2       12    PS, CONS: A
0   D   C   N   F
Supervision 3/
Supervision 1 - Education       02/86             1        8    ED                                Not rated
Supervision 2 - Health          07/86             2        7    PO, CONS: E                   2   1 n.a.  2   1
Supervision 3 - Education       01/87             1       12    ED                            3   2 na.  3   2
Supervision 4 - Education       03/87             2       12    ED, A                         3          n.a.   3   2
Supervision 5 - Education       06/87             2        5    ED, CONS: TS                  3   2 n.a.  3   2
Supervision 6 -HeaLth/Educ.  06/90                1        15    A                                Not rated
Supervision 7- Health/Educ.  03/91                1        10    RA                           2   2   2   3   3
Corpletion    -Health/Educ.  11/91                2         8    PH, RA                           Not Rated
...... .....................................................................................................
1/ A * Architect; E * Economist; ED * Educator; OA * Operations Analyst; P * Physician;
PH * Population and Health Specialist; PS * Public Sector Management Special at;
PO * Project Officer; RA * Research Analyst; TS a Textbook Specielist
2/ 0 * Overall Status; D * Project Development Objectives; C * Compliance with LEgal Covenants;
N * Project Management Performance; F * Aveilability of Funds.
3/ This project has received continuous supervision from the Task Manager Located in Ghana since late 1987.






- 47 -
Annex I
PROJECr COMPLEION REPORT
HEALMH AND EDUCATION REHABILIATION PROJECr
PARTICIPANTS IN COMPLETION MISSION
(NOVEMBER 1991)
World Bank
Mr. Nicholas Bennett     Principal Planner and Task Manager, AF4GA
Mr. David Radel          Sr. Population and Health Speciahlist, AF4PH
Ms. Johanne Angers       Research Analyst, AF4PH
MinistrY of Health
Dr. M. Adibo             Director of Medical Services and Director, Part A of HERP
Mr. J.A. Maafo           Project Manager, Health Component
Ministry of Education and Culture
Mr. Walter Blege         PNDC Deputy Secretary for Administration and Director,
Parts B and C of HERP
Mr. S.A. Amu Djoleto     Project Manager, Education Component
Mr. Robert F. Ansah      Project Accountant
Ministry of Mobilization and Productivity
Dr. H. Akuoko-Frimpong   Ag. Director, Management Development and Productivity
Institute (MDPI)
Mr. Marfoh               Project Accountant, MDPI






-49 -                         Annex 2
Page 1 of 2
PROJ'ECr COMEPLEllON REPORT
HELTH AND EDUCATION REHABILIATION PROJ'ECT
MINISTRY OF HEALTH STAFF GRANTED FELLOWSHIPS
Course/Location            Duration            Remarks
1. Dr. D.Y. Dovlo        Public Health (UK)             One Year       Completed-Returned
2. Dr. G.L. Amofah       Public Health (UK)             One Year       Completed-Returned
3. Dr. KA. Sarkodie      Public Health (USA)            One Year       Completed-Returned
4. Dr. Baah Asante       Public Health (USA)            One Year       Completed- Not Returned
5. Dr. F.EA Martinson    Public Health (USA)            One Year       Completed- Not Returned
6. Dr. EA Amuah          Public Health (UK)             One Year       Completed-Returned
7. kmr Juliana Owusu     Health Management (UK)         One Year       Completed-Returned
8. Mr. E. Maaweh         Health Management (USA)        One Year       Completed-Not Returned 1J/
9. Mr Abigail Kyei       Health Management (USA)        One Year       Completed-Returned
10. Dr. Dyna Arhin       Health Economics (UK)          One Year       Completed-Returned 2/
11. Dr. SA Akor          Policy Analysis and            One Year       Completed-Returned
Management (UK)
I2. Mr. F.K Dakpallah    Health Planning (UK)           One Year       Completed-Returned
13. Dr. Edith Clarke     Policy Analysis and            One Year       Completed-Returned
Management (UK)
14. Mr. Joseph Adusei    Policy Analysis and            One Year       Completed-Returned
Management (UK)
15. Dr. P.R. Asman       Hospital Equipment &
Maintenance (UK)              One Year       Completed-Not Returned ]/
iL/ Due back in July 1992.
2/ Returned, but shortly left after under a second scholarship at the London School of
Hygiene and Tropical Medicine.
I/ Due back in August/September 1992.



- 50 -
Annex 2
Page 2 of 2
Name                     Course/Locion                      Duration         Remarks
16. Mr. S. Gu Kwadwo Ntow Advanced Diploma in
Health Education (Nigeria)       One Year        Completed-Returned
17. Mr. Senyo Kakrada      Advanced Diploma in
Health Education (Nigeria)       One Year        Completed-Returned
18. Ms. Beatrice Atubra    Certificate in Tropical
Medicine and Hygiene
TPHC (UK)                        Six Months      Completed-Returned



-51 -                  _c 3
Page 1 of 2
PROJECT7 COMPLETION REPORT
GHANA
HEALTH AND EDUCATION REHABILIATION PRJC
MINISTY OF HEALTH STAFF GRANTED SHORT-TERM TRAINING
Course/Location           Duration             Remarks
1. Mr. Isaac Abasa       Certificate in Tropical
Medicine (UK)                 Three Months  Completed-Returned
2. Mr. Thomas Mensah     Financing Health Care in
Developing Countries (USA)    Three Months  Completed-Returned
3. Mr. Kwaku Asare-Bimpeh                              Financing Health Care in
Developing Countries (USA)    Three Months  Completed-Returned
4. Mr. M.S. Cofie        National Health Policies (UK)    Three Months  Completed-Returned
5. Mr. T.E. Tidakbi      Financing Health Care (USA)    Three Months  Completed-Returned
6. Mr. M. Apen           Financing Health Care (USA)    Three Months  Completed-Retumed
7. Mr. J.KY Sablah       Managing Drug Supply for
PHC (USA)                     35 Days        Completed-Returned
8. Mr. Daniel Darko      Health Administration (Canada)  Three Months  Completed-Returned
9. Mr. EA Abrokwa        Management Analysis of
Statistical Data (UK)        TIwo Months    Completed-Returned
10. Mr. F.G. Dakpallah   Health Sector, PHC Planning
and Management, Resource
Allocation and Fmance (UK)    Three Months  Completed-Returned
11. Mr. Abraham Ayivi    Health Management in the
Care of the Mentally
Retarded (USA)                Three Months  Completed-Returned



- 52 -
Annex 3^
Page 2 of 2
Name                      CawAi                                                kw umack
12. Mr. A. Asiedu-Ofei      Senior Hospital and Helth
Services Managemet (UK)          Two Months       Completed-Returned
13. Mr. Sam Anim-Addo       Equipment, Proment
Management (ILO, Itay)           Five Weeks       Completed-Returned
14. Mr. Asamani-Darko       Equipment, Procremen
Management (ILO, ItWy)           Five Weeb        Completed-Returned
15. Ms. Rosemary Adayfio
(Journalist)             Management for PHC (UK)          85 Days          Completed-Returned
16. Mr. Nana Yaa Agyeman
(Journalist)             Management for PHC (UK)          85 Days          Completed-Returned



-53-                         Annex4
Page 1 of 2
PROJECI COMPLETION REPORT
GHANA
HEALTH AND EDUCATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
COMMUNITIES WHICH BENEFITiED FROM THE WEANING
FOOD PRODUCI1ON PROGRAM
Region                                 Communities
1. Greater-Accra                       Adusa
Krokoswe
Twrebo
Gbawe
2. Eastern                             Domi
Agyeikrom
Anyinasin
Besea
Kabu
Ayesu-Yakpem
Bremposa
Odomeji
3. Central                             Agona-Abodom
Bobikuma Oguaa
Agona Adwakwaa
Mankrong Junction
4. Western                             Tandan
Kegyina
Yediyesele
Kamgbunli
5. Volta                                Fodome Anlo
Atabu
Alavanyo
Ve Gbodome
Wuinta-Logba



- 54-
Annex 4
Page 2 of 2
Renion                                 ~Comnuitiea
6. Ashanti                              Kobreso
Maase
Tanokwaem
Dumasua
Dwaaho
Twabedi
Pokukrom
Domeabra
7. Brong Ahafo                          Nsesereso
Kwameasua
Kofitinshed
Kuren
Tronang
S. Northern                             Puriya
Kuga
Gbetobu
Kunkong
9. Upper East                            Seniensi
Kunkwa
Yuasi
Ginieso
10. Upper West                          Sing
Ga
Ombo
Kunkong



LIST OF QUANTITIES OF BOOKS PRINTED BY MOE/PHU HERP
BOKm              BOOK 2            BOOK 3             BOOK 4            BOOK 5            BOOK 6
PUPIL'S TEACHER'S PUPIL'S TEACHER'S PUPIL'S TEACHER'S PUPIL'S TEACHER'S PUPIL'S TEACHER'S PUPIL'S TEACHER'S
PRIMARY
MATHEMAT ICS
150,000   11,000   300,000   8,000  275,000   8,000   250,000 , 8,000  250,000   8,000  260,734   8,000
BOOK I            BODK 2            BOOK 3             BOOK 4            BOOK 5            BOOK 6
AN ENGLISH
COURSE FOR   PUPIL'S TEACHER'S PUPIL'S  TEACHER'S PUPIL'S  TEACHER'S PLUPIL'S TEACHER'S PUPIL'S TEACHER'S PUPIL'S TEACHER'S
GHANAIAN     -
SCHOOLS
150,000   11,000   140,000  10,000   330,000   8,000   250,000   8,000  250,000   8,160   217,000   8,000
OOK I             GM  2             BOOK 3             BOOK 4            BOOK 5            BOOK 6                    o
_-----------------   ------------------     ------------------     ------------------     ------------------     ------------------  C0
PUPIL'S TEACHER'S PUPIL'S TEACHER'S PUPIL'S TEACHER'S PUPIL'S TEACHER'S PUPIL'S TEACHER'S PUPIL'S TEACHER'S
PR IMARY 
SCIENCE
402,000  24,000   360,000   NIL    330,000   NIL        NIL      NIL       NIL     NIL       NIL      NIL                  0
LOWER PRIMARY                                         UPPER PRIMARY                                     0
PUWIL'S TEACHER'           TEACHER'S PUPIL'S  TEACHER'S PUPIL'S  TEACHER'S PLIPIL'S TEACHER'S PUPIL'S  TEACHER'S            H
NEU GHANA                 -         -
SCIENCE
300,000   NIL    300,000   NIL    275,000  11,000   125,000   NIL    110,000   NIL    105,000   NIL ---
0
__       BOOK     BOOK2              OOK 3             BOOK4             BOOK S            BOOK 6                    0
PUPIL'S TEACHER'S PUPIL'S TEACHER'S PUPIL'S  TEACHER'S PUPIL'S  TEACHER'S PUPIL'S TEACHER'S PUPIL'S TEACHER'S              S: 
socIlALI 
STIDIES                                                                                                 I0.
NIL     10,985    NIL      11,440   NIL      11,340   250,000  11,250   250,000  11,000   250,000  11,270                  1
am 1              BOOK2             900K 3
Junior SeC.   PUPIL'S TEACHER'S PtUPIL'S  TEACHER'S PIPIL'S TEACHER'S
0
SCNOOL       230,000   10,000   230,000  10,090  230,000   10,000                        
NATHE4ATICS  II
900K 1            BOOK 2                   00S3
Junior Sec.   FUPIL'S  TEACHER'S PUPIL'S  TEACHER'S PUPIL'S TEACHER'S
SCROOL       230,000  10,000   230,000   10,000  520,000   10,000
SCIENCE
1     001         am 2              BOOK 3                                                                               lb
Junior Sec.   PUPIL'S  TEACHER'S PtPIL'S  TEACHER'S FUPIL'S  TEACHER'S
0
ENVIROINNTAL 230,000  10,000  52,000  10.000   230,000   10.000                       GRAIND TOTAL: 6,086,179
STWIES                                                                                                                                       w
_-- - -- -   -- - - - -- - - -   -- - - - -- - - -   ---- --- ---- ---



-56-
Annex 5
Page 2 of 3
PERCETAGE COVFgAGE OF TEXTBOOKS BROUGHT IN UNDER HBRP
1.    Ghana Science Series: JSS Pupil's Book 1                        100%
2.    Ghana Science Series: JSS Pupil's Book 2                        100%
3.     Ghana Science Series: JSS Pupil's Book 3                       100%
4.     Ghana Science Series: JSS Teacher's Book 1                     100%
5.     Ghana Science Series: JSS Teacher's Book 2                     100%
6.    Ghana Science Series: JSS Teacher's Book 3                      100%
7.    Ghana Science Series: Primary, Pupil's Book 1                    70%
8.     Ghana Science Series: Primary, Pupil's Book 2                   74%
9.     Ghana Science Series: Primary, Pupil's Book 3                   74%
10.   Ghana Science Series: Teacher's Guide Vol.1                      63%
11.   Ghana Maths Series: JSS Pupil's Book 1                          100%
12.   Ghana Maths Series: JSS Pupil's Book 2                          100%
13.   Ghana Maths Series: JSS Pupil's Book 3                          100%
14.   Ghana Maths Series: JSS Pupil's Book 1                          100%
15.   Ghana Maths Series: Teacher's Book 2                            100%
16.   Ghana Maths Series: Teacher's Book 3                            100%
17.   Ghana Maths Series: Primary, Pupil's Book 2                      74%
18.   Ghana Maths Series: Primary, Pupil's Book 3                      74%
19.   Ghana Maths Series: Primary, Pupil's Book 4                      75%
20.   Ghana Maths Series: Primary, Pupil's Book 5                      79%
21.   Ghana Maths Series: Primary, Pupil's Book 6                      87%
22.   Ghana Maths Series: Primary, Teacher's Book 2                    63%
23.   Ghana Maths Series: Primary, Teacher's Book 3                    65%



Annex 5
- 57                             Page 3 of 3
24.     hms M . Satis: Plmy, Tadha's Book 4                        67%
25.   as_ M)s Swd: Pimay, Tmcbar's Book 5                          70%
26.    Chm  M*si SwW: Pdrmy, TdWi's Dlok 6                         73%
27.   An DOlih Coue fot hMa Shools Pupil's ook 3                  74%
28.   As EgIs Cos= fwr Ohana  Shoo PUpil's BDOk 4                  75%
29.   An Englis Cour  fo Oma  Sdcoos PuPil's Bk 5                  80%
30.   An Enbish Com  Or Ohbaals  Scoos Pupil's Dock 6              73%
31.   As  gish Coum st foOal_ Sool Teadw's Dok 3                   65%
32.   As Engish Cr  foe Ohi  Schools Tachmr's BoOk 4               67%
33.   As Enl*ish Cor  fO  Oau_ Schoos TaCe's Dock 5                70%
34.   As E h COU    fo Oha            Schools TeCheras Bok 6       73%
35.   Ghbs SOCl Sdi Sri: Pupil's Dowk 4                            75%



